## Union of India - Act

## The Assam Rifles Rules, 2010

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Assam Rifles Rules, 2010

## Rule THE-ASSAM-RIFLES-RULES-2010 of 2010

  * Published on 25 August 2010 
  * Commenced on 25 August 2010 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 August 2010.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Assam Rifles Rules, 2010Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 701(E),
dated 25th August, 2010Ministry of Home AffairsG.S.R. 701(E). - In exercise of
the powers conferred by Section 165 of Assam Rifles Act, 2006 (47 of 2006),
the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely :-Chapter-I
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, commencement and application.

(1)These rules may be called the Assam Rifles Rules, 2010.(2)They shall come
into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.(3)These
rules shall apply to all persons subject to the Act.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Assam Rifles Act, 2006 (47 of 2006);(b)"Appendix" means any appendix annexed
to these rules;(c)"appointment" means appointment of a person to the Force
including enrolment;(d)"Court" means the Force Court;(e)"Detachment" includes
any part of a unit of the Force required or ordered to proceed on duty away
from headquarters;(f)"Force authority" when used in relation to any power,
duty, act or matter, means such Force authority as, in pursuance of these
rules, exercises, or performs that power or duty or is concerned with that
matter;(g)"section" means a section of the Act;(h)all other words and
expressions used in these rules and not defined but defined in the Act, shall
have the same meaning as respectively assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Reports and applications.

\- Any report or application required to be made under these rules to a
superior authority or to a Force authority shall be made in writing through
proper channel unless the said authority on account of exigencies of service
or otherwise, dispenses with writing.

### 4. Forms in appendices.

(1)The forms set forth in the appendices, with such variations as the
circumstances of each case may require for the respective purposes therein
mentioned, and if used shall be sufficient, but a deviation from such forms
shall not by reason only of such deviation, render invalid any charge,
warrant, order proceedings or any other document relevant to these
rules.(2)Any omission of any such Form shall not, by reason only of such
omission render any act or thing invalid.(3)The directions in the notes to,
and the instructions in the form shall be duly complied with in all cases to
which they relate but any omission to comply with any such direction in the
notes or instructions shall not, merely by reason of such omission, render any
act or thing invalid.

### 5. Exercise of power vested in holder of an office in the Force.

\- Any power or jurisdiction given to any person holding any office in the
Force to do any act or thing to, or before any person, may, for the purposes
of these rules, be exercised by any other person who may, for the time being,
be performing the functions of that office in accordance with the rules and
practice of the Force.

### 6. Cases not provided for.

\- In regard to any matter not specifically provided for in these rules, it
shall be lawful for the competent authority to do such thing or take such
action as it may deem fit and just in accordance with exigencies and
circumstances of the case.Chapter-II Organisation

### 7. Constitution of the Force.

\- The Assam Rifles shall consist of-(1)officers, subordinate officers and
enrolled persons appointed to or enrolled into the Assam Rifles who shall be
liable for continuous service for the term mentioned in their enrolment form,
letter of appointment or in the rules made in this behalf;(2)the officers on
deputation and other personnel appointed to the Assam Rifles who shall serve
for the term mentioned in their letter of appointment.

### 8. The task of the Force and command and control thereto.

(1)For the purpose of sub-section (1) of section 4, the Force
shall,-(i)safeguard the security of borders of India and promote sense of
security among the people living in border areas;(ii)prevent trans-border
crimes, smuggling, unauthorised entry into or exit from the territory of India
and any other illegal activity;(iii)provide security to sensitive
installations, banks, persons of security risk;(iv)restore and preserve order
in any area in the event of disturbance therein.(2)In discharging the
functions under sub-rule (1), the responsibility for the command, discipline,
administration, morale and training shall-(a)in the case of Additional
Director-General extend to all battalions, units headquarters, establishments
and Force personnel placed under him and within the area that may be assigned
to him;(b)in the case of Inspector-General extend to all battalions, units
headquarters, establishments and the Force personnel placed under him and
within the area that may be assigned to him;(c)in the case of Deputy
Inspector-General and Additional Deputy Inspector-General extend to
battalions, units and other personnel placed under him and within the area
that may be assigned to him.(d)in the case of Commandant extend to the
battalion or unit placed under him and within the area assigned to
him.(3)During hostilities, the Inspector-General, the Deputy Inspector-
General, Additional Deputy Inspector-General and the Commandant shall
discharge such, functions as may be assigned to them by their respective
superiors.(4)The command, discipline, administration, morale and training of
battalion units and establishment not placed under an Additional Deputy
Inspector-General, Deputy Inspector-General or an Inspector-General shall be
carried out by such officers and in such manner as may be laid down by the
Director-General from time to time.(5)Any member of the Force shall be liable
to perform any duties in connection with the task of the Force mentioned in
sub-rule (1), the administration, discipline, training and welfare of the
Force and such other duties as he may be called upon to perform in accordance
with any law for the time being in force. Any order given in this behalf by a
superior officer shall be lawful command for the purpose of the Act.

### 9. Command.

(1)An officer appointed to command shall have the power of command over all
officers and men, irrespective of seniority, placed under his command.(2)(a)In
the contingency of an officer being unable to exercise the command, to which
he has been appointed, due to any reason, the command shall devolve on the
second-in-command, if one has been so appointed.(b)If no second-in-command,
has been so appointed, it shall devolve on the officer who may be appointed to
officiate by the immediate superior of the officer unable to exercise
command.(c)If no such officer has been so appointed, command shall devolve on
the senior most officer present.(d)The inability of an officer to exercise
command and its assumption by any other officer in accordance with this sub-
rule shall be immediately reported to the next higher authority by the officer
who has assumed such command.(3)If persons belonging to different units are
working together-(i)in regard to the specific task on which they are engaged,
the officer appointed to command or in his absence the senior most officer
present shall exercise command over all such persons;(ii)in all other matters
the senior officer belonging to each unit shall exercise command over persons
belonging to his unit.(4)When officers and other persons belonging to the
Force are taken prisoner by an enemy the existing relations of superior and
subordinate and the duty of obedience shall remain unaltered and any person
guilty of indiscipline or insubordination in this behalf shall, after his
release be liable for punishment.(5)Subject to the provisions of the Act,
disciplinary powers over a person subject to the Act shall be exercised by the
officer not below the rank of Commandant of the battalion or unit to which
such a person belongs or the officer on whom command has devolved in
accordance with sub-rule (2).(6)Where such a person is doing detachment duty,
including attendance at a course of instruction, an officer not below the rank
of Commandant of the unit, centre or establishment with which he is doing such
duty shall also have all the disciplinary powers of a Commandant.(7)The
Director-General, the Additional Director-General, the Inspector-General, the
Deputy Inspector-General and the Additional Deputy Inspector-General may
specify one or more officers of the staff who shall exercise the powers of the
Commandant respectively in respect of persons belonging to or doing detachment
duty at his Headquarters.(8)The Director-General may also specify officers who
shall exercise the disciplinary powers of an Inspector-General, and Deputy
Inspector-General or Additional Deputy Inspector-General respectively in
respect of persons belonging to or doing detachment duty at his
Headquarters.(9)An Inspector-General may specify an officer who shall exercise
the disciplinary powers of a Deputy Inspector-General or Additional Deputy
Inspector General in respect of persons belonging to or doing detachment duty
at his Headquarters.Explanation. - For the purpose of sub-rules (1), (2) and
(3) the word "officer" shall include a subordinate officer and an under
officer.Chapter-III Recruitment

### 10. Ineligibility.

(1)No person, who has more than one wife living or who having a spouse living
marries in any case in which such marriage is void by reason of it taking
place during the life time of such spouse, shall be eligible for appointment,
enrolment, or employment in the Force.(2)Any person subject to the Act, who
contracts or enters into a second marriage during the life time of his first
spouse, shall render himself ineligible for retention in service and may be
dismissed, removed or retired from service on ground of unsuitability:Provided
that the Central Government may, if satisfied that there are sufficient
grounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the operation of this rule.

### 11. Ineligibility of aliens.

\- No person who is not a citizen of India shall, except with the consent of
the Central Government signified in writing, be appointed, enrolled or
employed in the Force:Provided that nothing contained in this rule shall bar
the appointment, enrolment or employment of a subject of Nepal or Bhutan in
the Force.

### 12. Appointment of officers.

\- The Central Government may appoint such persons as it considers to be
suitable as officers in the force in the following manner and their conditions
of service shall be such as may be provided in the rules made in this behalf
by the Central Government-(a)by direct recruitment;(b)by transfer on
deputation from the Defence Forces, any other armed forces of the Union or any
other department of the Central Government or of the State Government;(c)by
promotion as may be prescribed from time to time;(d)by transfer;(e)by
reemployment.

### 13. Appointment of subordinate officers and enrolled persons.

\- Appointment to the posts of Subedar-Majors or Subedars may be made by the
Inspector-General and Naib-Subedars or of under officers by the Deputy
Inspector General or Additional Deputy Inspector-General, and of enrolled
persons by the commandant or any other officer of the Force who may be
appointed as enrolling officer by Director-General respectively in the
following manner and their conditions of service shall be such as may be
provided in the rules by the Central Government in this behalf-(a)by direct
recruitment;(b)by transfer on deputation from the Defence Forces and other
armed forces of the Union, any other department of the Central Government or
of the State Government;(c)by promotion as may be prescribed from time to
time;(d)by transfer;(e)by re-employment.

### 14. Probation.

(1)A person appointed through direct recruitment as an officer, subordinate
officer, or enrolled person shall be on probation for a period of two
years.(2)The Central Government in the case of officers and the authority
prescribed in rule 13 in the case of subordinate officers and enrolled persons
may, for the reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the period of probation
for such further period or periods not exceeding two years or may during the
period of probation, terminate his services without assigning any
reasons.(3)The provision of sub-rules (1) and (2) shall also be applicable to
a person on his initial promotion as an officer. Persons who do not complete
the period of probation satisfactorily are liable to be reverted to their
former rank.

### 15. Procedure for enrolment, mode of enrolment and other matters connected
therewith.

(1)Before a person is enrolled as a member of the Force, the Commandant of a
unit or any other officer who may be appointed as an enrolling officer by the
Director-General, shall read and explain to him, or cause to be read and
explained to him in his presence, the conditions of service of the post to
which he is to be enrolled and shall put him the questions contained in the
form of enrolment as set out in Appendix-I and shall, after having cautioned
him that if he makes a false answer to any such question he shall be liable to
punishment under the Act, record or cause to be recorded his answer to each
such question.(2)If, after complying with the provisions of sub-rule (1) and
such other directions as may be issued in his behalf by the Director-General
from time to time, the enrolling officer is satisfied that the person desirous
of being enrolled, fully understands the questions put to him and consents to
the conditions of service, and if the said officer is satisfied that there is
no impediment, he shall sign and shall also cause such person to sign the
enrolment form and such person shall thereupon be deemed to be
enrolled.(3)(a)Every person enrolled as a member of the Force under sub-rule
(2) shall be administered an oath or affirmation in the form set out in
Appendix I.(b)The oath or affirmation shall as far as possible be administered
by an officer not below the rank of Commandant or an officer authorised in
writing by such officer in this behalf.(c)The oath or affirmation shall be
administered when the person to be attested has successfully completed his
training and found fit in all respect.

### 16. Liability of service.

(1)All officers are liable for service with any other Armed Force of the Union
as may be directed by the Central Government and the selecting officers for
such service preference may be given to volunteers but if the requisite number
of suitable volunteers is not forthcoming, officers may be sent on transfer on
deputation or detailed otherwise as considered necessary, by the Central
Government.(2)The provisions of this rule shall apply to and in relation to
subordinate officers and enrolled persons as they apply to and in relation to
any officer of the Force and the powers vested in the Central Government under
sub-rule (1) shall be exercised by the Director-General.Chapter-IV Termination
of Service

### 17. Termination of service.

\- Authorities specified in the heading of columns 3 to 6 of the table given
below shall be competent to dismiss, remove, discharge, retire or release a
member of the Force specified in the columns, on the grounds stated in the
corresponding entries in column 2, in accordance with the procedure laid down
in this Chapter and any power conferred by this rule or any provisions of this
Chapter on any of the aforesaid authorities may also be exercised by any other
authority superior to it :Provided that the provisions of this Chapter shall
not apply to the persons on deputation with the Force.Table

Sl.No. | Grounds on which service can be terminated | Central Government | Inspector General | DIG/ADIG | Commandant  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
(i) | Misconduct | Officers | Subedar-Major and Subedar | Naib-Subedar | Enrolled Person  
(ii) | Unsuitability | Officers | Subedar-Major and Subedar | Naib-Subedar | Enrolled Person.  
(iii) | Unsatisfactory progress in training | Officers | Subedar-Major and Subedar | Naib-Subedar | Enrolled Person  
(iv) |  Furnishing false/ wrong information at the time ofappointment/ enrolment | Officers | Subedar-Major and Subedar | Naib-Subedar | Enrolled Person  
(v) | Physical unfitness | Officers | Subedar-Major and Subedar | Naib-Subedar | Enrolled Person  
(vi) | On own request | Officers | Subedar-Major and Subedar | Naib-Subedar | Enrolled Person  
  
### 18. Termination of service of officers by the Central Government on
account of misconduct.

(1)When it is proposed to terminate the service of an officer under section 10
on account of misconduct, he shall be given an opportunity to show cause in
the manner specified in sub-rule (2) against such action:Provided that this
sub-rule shall not apply-(a)Where the service is terminated on the ground of
conduct which has led to his conviction by a criminal court or a Force Court;
or(b)Where the Central Government is satisfied that for reasons to be recorded
in writing, it is not expedient or reasonably practicable to give to the
officer an opportunity of showing cause.(2)When after considering the reports
on an officer's misconduct, the Central Government or Director-General is
satisfied that the trial of the officer by a Force Court is inexpedient or
impracticable, but is of the opinion, that the further retention of the said
officer in the service is undesirable, the Director-General shall so inform
the officer together with particulars of allegations and report of
investigation (including the statement of witnesses, if any, recorded and
copies of document, if any, intended to be used against him) in cases where
allegations have been investigated and he shall be called upon to submit in
writing, his explanation and defence:Provided that the Director-General may
withhold disclosure of such report or portion thereof if, in his opinion, its
disclosure is not in the interest of the security of the State.(3)In the event
of the explanation of the officer being considered unsatisfactory by the
Director-General, or when so directed by the Central Government, the case
shall be submitted to the Central Government with the officer's defence and
the recommendation of the Director-General as to the termination of the
officer's service in the manner specified in sub-rule (4).(4)When submitting a
case to the Central Government under the provisions of sub-rule (2) or sub-
rule (3), the Director-General shall give reasons for his recommendation
whether the officer's service should be terminated, and if so, whether the
officer should be-(a)dismissed from the service; or(b)removed from the
service; or(c)compulsorily retired from the service; or(d)called upon to
resign.(5)The Central Government, after considering the reports and the
officer's defence, if any, or the judgment of the criminal court or the
proceedings of the Force Court, as the case may be, and the recommendation of
the Director-General, may dismiss or remove the officer or retire or call upon
him to resign from service, and on his refusal to do so, the officer may be
compulsorily retired or removed from the service.

### 19. Termination of service of officers by the Central Government on
grounds of unsuitability.

(1)When the Director-General is satisfied that an officer is unsuitable to be
retained in service, the officer-(a)shall be so informed;(b)shall be furnished
with the particulars of all matters adverse to him; and(c)shall be called upon
to urge any reasons he may wish to put forward in favour of his retention in
the service:Provided that clauses (a), (b) and (c) shall not apply, if the
Central Government is satisfied that for reasons, to be recorded by it in
writing, it is not expedient or reasonably practicable to comply with the
provisions thereof:Provided further that the Director-General may not furnish
to the officer any matter adverse to him, if in his opinion, it is not in the
security of the State to do so.(2)In the event of the explanation being
considered by the Director-General unsatisfactory, the matter shall be
submitted to the Central Government for orders, together with the officer's
explanation and the recommendation of the Director General as to whether the
officer should be called upon to retire or resign.(3)The Central Government
after considering the reports, the explanation, if any, of the officer and the
recommendation of the Director-General, may call upon the officer to retire or
resign and on his refusing to do so, the officer may be compulsorily retired
from the service.

### 20. Termination of service of persons, other than officers on account of
misconduct.

(1)When it is proposed to terminate the service of a person subject to the Act
other than an officer, he shall be given an opportunity by the authority
competent to dismiss or remove him to show cause in the manner specified in
sub-rule (2) against such action:Provided that this sub-rule shall not
apply-(a)where the service is terminated on the ground of conduct which has
led to his conviction by a Criminal Court or a Force Court; or(b)where the
authority as specified in rule 17 is satisfied that, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, it is not expedient or reasonably practicable to give the
person concerned an opportunity of showing cause.(2)When after considering the
reports on the misconduct of the person concerned, the authority as specified
in rule 17 is satisfied that the trial of such a person by the Force Court is
inexpedient or impracticable, but is of the opinion, that his further
retention in the service is undesirable, it shall so inform him together with
all reports adverse to him and he shall be called upon to submit, in writing,
his explanation and defence:Provided that the authority as specified in rule
17 may withhold from disclosure any such report or portion thereof, if in his
opinion, its disclosure is not in the interest of security of the State.(3)The
authority as specified in rule 17 after considering his explanation and
defence, if any, or the judgment of the criminal court or the proceedings of
the Force Court, as the case may be, may dismiss or remove him from
service.(4)All cases of dismissal or removal, under this rule, shall be
reported to the Director-General.

### 21. Discharge from service on grounds of unsatisfactory progress in
training.

(1)When it is proposed to discharge a person subject to the Act from service
on account of unsatisfactory progress in training, the Commandant of training
establishment where the person is undergoing training, shall make
recommendation for suitable action to the Commandant of the battalion or unit
to which such person belongs for his discharge from service.(2)In all cases of
recommendations for discharge of a person, the Commandant of the training
establishment shall establish clearly the fact that the person has been given
suitable warning and sufficient time to show progress, documentary evidence to
this effect shall accompany the recommendation.(3)The Central Government or,
the authority as the case may be, as specified in rule 17, on receipt of
recommendation under sub-rule (1), may discharge or release the person
concerned from the service.

### 22. Termination of service on grounds of furnishing false or incorrect
information at the time of appointment or enrolment.

\- The Central Government or the authority as the case may be, as specified in
rule 17, may terminate the service of a person subject to the Act on grounds
of furnishing false or incorrect information at the time of appointment or
enrolment of that person in the service:Provided that action under this rule
shall not be taken without the competent authority giving the person concerned
a show cause notice giving one month time to urge grounds, if any, in his
defence, and his explanation being found unsatisfactory.

### 23. Retirement or discharge or release of officers on grounds of physical
unfitness.

(1)Where an officer not below the rank of Deputy Inspector-General considers
that an officer of the Force is unfit to perform his duties because of his
physical condition, the officer shall be brought before a medical board.(2)The
medical board shall consist of such officers and shall be constituted in such
manner as may, from time to time, be laid down by the Director-
General.(3)Where the officer is found to be unfit by the medical board for
further service, the Central Government shall, if it agrees with the findings
of the medical board, communicate to the said officer the findings of the
medical board and thereupon, within a period of thirty days of such
communication, the officer may make a representation against it to the Central
Government supported by a prima-facie evidence of error of judgment in the
opinion expressed by the medical board and such an evidence should be from a
Government doctor not below the status of civil surgeon and should contain
specific mention that he has taken into consideration the findings of the
medical board before giving his opinion.(4)The Central Government may, on
receiving the representation from the officer, refer the case to be reviewed
by a fresh medical board constituted for the purpose and order the retirement
or discharge or release of the said officer if the decision of the fresh
medical board is adverse to him.(5)Where no representation is made against the
decision of the medical board under sub-rule (3), the Central Government may,
if it agrees with the findings of the medical board, order the retirement or
discharge or release of the officer.

### 24. Termination of service of subordinate officers by the authorities as
specified in rule 17 on grounds of unsuitability.

(1)Where an officer not below the rank of Commandant is satisfied that a
subordinate officer is unsuitable to be retained in service, the subordinate
officer shall be-(a)so informed(b)furnished with the particulars of all
matters adverse to him; and(c)called upon to urge any reasons he may wish to
put forward in favour of his retention in the service:Provided that clauses
(a), (b) and (c) shall not apply, if the authority as specified in rule 17 is
satisfied that for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, it is not
expedient or reasonably practicable to comply with the provisions
thereof:Provided further that such competent authority may not furnish to the
subordinate officer any matter adverse to him, if in his opinion, it is not in
the interest of the security of the State to do so.(2)In the event of the
explanation being considered by the officer not below the rank of Commandant
unsatisfactory, the matter shall be submitted to the authority as specified in
rule 17 for orders together with the subordinate officer's explanation and the
recommendation of such officer.(3)The authority as prescribed in rule 17 after
considering the report and the explanation, if any, of the subordinate officer
and the recommendations of the officer not below the rank of Commandant, may
call upon the subordinate officer to retire or resign and on, his refusing to
do so, the subordinate officer may be compulsorily retired or discharged from
the service.

### 25. Termination of service of enrolled persons on grounds of
unsuitability.

(1)Where a Commandant is satisfied that an enrolled person is unsuitable to be
retained in the service, the enrolled person shall be-(a)so
informed;(b)furnished with the particulars of all matters adverse to him;
and(c)called upon to urge any reasons he may wish to put forward in favour of
his retention in the service:Provided that clauses (a), (b) and (c) shall not
apply, if the Commandant is satisfied that for reasons to be recorded in
writing, it is not expedient or reasonably practicable to comply with the
provisions thereof:Provided further that the Commandant may not furnish to the
enrolled person any matter adverse to him, if in his opinion, it is not in the
interest of the security of the State to do so.(2)After considering the
explanation, if any, the Commandant, may call upon the enrolled person to
retire or resign and on his refusing to do so, the enrolled person may be
compulsorily retired or discharged from the service.

### 26. Retirement or discharge of subordinate officers and enrolled persons
on grounds of physical unfitness.

(1)Where a Commandant is satisfied that a subordinate officer or an enrolled
person is unable to perform his duties by reason of his physical disability,
he may direct that the said subordinate officer or enrolled person, as the
case may be, be brought before a medical board.(2)The medical board shall
consist of such officers and shall be constituted in such manner as may, from
time to time, be laid down by the Director-General.(3)Where the said
subordinate officer or the enrolled person is found by the medical board to be
unfit for further service in the Force, as the case may be, the authority as
specified in rule 17 shall, if it agrees with the findings of the medical
board, communicate to the said person the findings of the medical board and
thereupon, within a period of thirty days of such communication, the person
may make a representation against it to the competent authority supported by a
prima-facie evidence of error of judgment in the opinion expressed by the
medical board such an evidence should be from a Government doctor not below
the status of civil surgeon and should contain specific mention that he has
taken into consideration the findings of the medical board before giving his
opinion.(4)Where the person declared to be unfit for further service makes
representation under sub-rule (3) the same shall be forwarded to the next
superior officer, who shall have the case reviewed by a fresh medical board
constituted for the purpose and order the retirement/discharge of the said
person, if the decision of the fresh medical board is adverse to him.(5)Where
no representation is made against the decision of the medical board under sub-
rule (3), the authority as specified in rule 17, as the case may be, may (if
he agrees with the findings of the medical board) order the retirement or
discharge of the person concerned.

### 27. Resignation.

(1)The Central Government may, having regard to the special circumstances of
any case, permit any officer of the Force to resign from the Force before
completing the term of engagement:Provided that before granting such
permission the Central Government may require the officer to refund to the
Government three months pay and allowances drawn by him or the cost of
training imparted to him, whichever is higher.(2)The Central Government may
accept the resignation under sub-rule (1) with effect from such date as it may
consider expedient.(3)The Central Government may refuse to permit an officer
to resign,-(a)if an emergency has been declared in the country either due to
internal disturbance or external aggression; or(b)if it considers it to be
inexpedient so to do in the interest of the discipline of the Force; or(c)if
the officer has specifically undertaken to serve for a specified period and
such period has not expired.(4)The provisions of this rule shall apply to and
in relation to subordinate officers and enrolled persons as they apply to and
in relation to any officer of the Force, and the powers vested in the Central
Government under sub-rules (1) and (2) shall be exercised in the case of a
Subedar-Major and Subedar by an Inspector-General, in the case of a Naib-
Subedar by an officer not below the rank of Additional Deputy Inspector-
General, and in the case of an enrolled person, by a Commandant.

### 28. Appeal against orders of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement.

\- A person subject to the Act other than an officer who has been dismissed,
removed or compulsorily retired from service, shall have the right to put in
an appeal against the termination of his service to any authority, higher than
the one who has passed the termination order within ninety days of the
termination of service.(2)In case of Officers, appeal shall lie to the Central
Government and such appeal shall be filed within ninety days of the
termination of service.(3)Where the appellate authority sets aside the order
of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement under this rule, such authority
shall pass such orders as may be necessary in respect of the period of absence
from duty of the person whose dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement has
been set aside.

### 29. Date of dismissal, removal, discharge or retirement.

(1)The effective date of dismissal, removal, discharge, retirement shall
be-(a)the date mentioned in the order of dismissal or removal or discharge or
retirement, or(b)if no such date is mentioned, the date on which the person
concerned is relieved from duties.(2)The dismissal, removal, discharge or
retirement of a person subject to the Act shall not be from retrospective
effect.Chapter-V Restriction on Fundamental Rights

### 30. Unauthorised organisation.

\- No person subject to the Act shall, without the express sanction of the
Central Government take official cognisance of, or assist or take any active
part in, any society, institution or organisation, not recognised as part of
the Armed Forces of the Union; unless it be of a recreational or religious
nature in which case prior sanction in writing of the superior officer shall
be obtained.

### 31. Political activities.

(1)No person subject to the Act shall attend, address, or take part in any
meeting or demonstration held for a party or political purposes, or belong to
or join or subscribe in the aid of, any political association or
movement.(2)No person subject to the Act shall issue an address to electors or
in any other manner publicly announce himself or allow himself to be publicly
announced as a candidate or as a prospective candidate for election to
Parliament, the legislature of a State or a local authority, or any way
actively promote or prosecute a candidate's interests.

### 32. Communications to the press, lectures, etc.

\- No person subject to the Act shall,-(a)publish in any form whatever or
communicate directly or indirectly to the press any matter in relation to a
political question or on a service subject or containing any service
information, or publish or cause to be published any book or letter or article
or other document on such question or matter or containing such information
without the prior sanction of the Central Government, or any officer specified
by the Central Government in this behalf;(b)deliver a lecture or wireless
address, on a matter relating to a political question or on a service subject
or containing any information or views on any service subject without the
prior sanction of the Central Government, or any officer specified by the
Central Government in this behalf.Explanation. - For the purposes of this
rule, the expression "service information" and "service subject" include
information or subject, as the case may be, concerning the Force, the defence
or the external relations of the Union.Chapter-VI Arrest and Suspension

### 33. Forms of arrest.

(1)Arrest may be either open or close arrest.(2)An arrest, unless otherwise
specified, shall mean an open arrest.(3)An order imposing arrest may be
communicated to the person to be arrested, either orally or in writing.

### 34. Authority to Order Arrest.

(1)No person subject to the Act shall be arrested on a charge under the Act
except under and in accordance with the orders of superior officer having
power of command over him.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule
(1) any person subject to the Act may be placed under arrest by any superior
officer-(a)if he commits an offence against such superior officer; or(b)if he
commits an offence in the view of such superior officer; or(c)if he is
behaving in a disorderly manner and the said superior officer considers it
necessary to place such a person under arrest with a view to stop such
disorderly behaviour.(3)A superior officer effecting arrest under sub-rule (2)
shall as soon as possible and in any case within twenty-four hours of such
arrest send a report to the Commandant of the battalion or unit of which the
person arrested is a member and in case of the arrest of an officer of and
above the rank of Commandant, to his immediate superior officer.

### 35. Arrest, how imposed.

\- (A) Close arrest. - (1) (a) Close arrest in the case of enrolled persons
shall be imposed by informing the person to be arrested and ordering him to be
marched to the place of confinement under an escort of another person of
similar or superior rank.(b)Where no such escort is available, the person
arrested shall be ordered to report himself immediately to the quarter-guard
or other place of confinement.(2)(a)Close arrest in the case of officers,
subordinate officers or under officers shall be imposed by placing such
officer, subordinate officer, or under officer under the custody of another
person of similar or superior rank and wherever considered necessary such
officer, subordinate officer, or under officer may be confined under charge of
a guard.(b)The person under arrest shall not leave the place of his
confinement without permission of the Commandant or a superior officer
designated by the Commandant.(B)Open arrest. - (3) (a) Open arrest shall be
imposed by informing the person to be arrested that he is under open arrest
and that he shall confine himself within such limits as may be specified in
this behalf by the concerned superior officer effecting such arrest.(b)The
Commandant may, from time to time, vary the limits referred to in clause (a)
above.

### 36. Release from arrest during investigation.

(1)Any person arrested under rule 34 may be released from arrest under the
order of an officer:Provided that in case of a person placed under arrest by
an officer, such person shall be released form arrest under the order of his
Commandant or any officer superior to such Commandant.

### 37. Release without prejudice to re-arrest.

\- Pending the completion of the investigation or convening of a court, any
person, who has been placed under arrest, may without prejudice to re-arrest
be released by his commandant or by any officer superior to such commandant.

### 38. Arrest, when to be imposed.

(1)Any person charged with:-(i)an offence under section 21 clause (a) or
clause (b) or section 23 or section 24 or section 27 or sub-section (1) of
section 28;(ii)a civil offence punishable with death or imprisonment for
life;(iii)any other offence under the Act-(a)if the interest of discipline so
require; or(b)if the person concerned deliberately undermines discipline;
or(c)if the person concerned is of violent disposition; or(d)if the person
concerned is likely to absent himself with a view to avoid trial; or(e)if the
person concerned is likely to interfere with witnesses or tamper with the
evidence;shall be placed under arrest.(2)Where any person arrested shows
symptoms of sickness, medical assistance shall be provided for such person.

### 39. Special provision in case of arrest of a drunken person.

(1)Where a drunken person has been arrested, he shall, as far as possible, be
confined separately and shall be visited by duty officer or duty subordinate
officer or duty under officer or under officer incharge of the guard, once
every two hours.(2)A drunken person shall not be taken before a superior
officer for investigation of his case until he has become sober.

### 40. Arrest in case of person whose trial has been ordered.

(1)Unless the convening authority has otherwise directed, on the commencement
of the trial of a person by the court, the said person shall be placed under
arrest by his Commandant and shall remain under arrest during the
trial.(2)Where a sentence lower than that of imprisonment is passed by a
court, the arrested person may be released by his Commandant pending
confirmation of the finding and sentence:Provided that the convening authority
may rescind, vary or modify the order passed by a Commandant under sub-rule
(1) or sub-rule (2) and where no such order is passed by a Commandant, the
convening authority may pass such order as it may deem proper:Provided further
that a person who has been sentenced to be dismissed shall not, except while
on active duty, be put on any duty.

### 41. Delay report.

(1)(a)The report on reason for delay as required under section 81 shall be in
the form set out in Appendix II and it shall be sent by the Commandant to the
Deputy Inspector-General or Additional Deputy Inspector-General under whom the
accused may be serving.(b)A copy of the eighth delay report and every
succeeding report thereof shall also be sent to the Inspector-General under
whom the accused may be serving, and to the Chief Law Officer.(2)Where the
accused is kept under arrest for a period exceeding three months without a
Force Court being ordered to assemble for his trial a special report regarding
the action taken and the reasons for the delay shall be sent by the Commandant
to the Director-General with a copy each to the Deputy Inspector General or
Additional Deputy Inspector-General and the Inspector-General concerned.

### 42. Rights of a person under arrest.

(1)(a)Any person placed under arrest shall, at the time of being placed under
arrest, be given in writing by the officer effecting the arrest of the
particulars of the charges against him.(b)Notwithstanding anything contained
in clause (a), where during the investigation other offences committed by the
accused are discovered, it shall be lawful to charge such person with those
offences.(2)(a)The duty officer or duty subordinate officer shall every day
make a visit to the person under arrest and take the orders of the Commandant
on any request or representation made by the person under arrest.(b)The
request or representation made by the person under arrest shall be entered in
the form set out in Appendix-III.

### 43. Suspension.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules the disciplinary or
appointing authority competent to convene general or petty Force Court may, at
its discretion, place a person serving under him, under suspension -(i)where
disciplinary action under the Act against him is contemplated or is pending;
or(ii)where in the opinion of the authority aforesaid, he has engaged himself
in activities prejudicial to the interest of the security of the State;
or(iii)where a case against him in respect of any civil offence is under
investigation, inquiry or trial.(2)A person subject to the Act shall be deemed
to have been placed under suspension by an order of the appointing
authority-(i)with effect from the date of his detention by civil police on a
criminal charge or otherwise for a period exceeding 48 hours; or(ii)with
effect from the date of his conviction by a criminal court on a criminal
charge, if the sentence awarded is imprisonment for a term exceeding forty
eight hours.(3)An order of suspension made or deemed to have been made under
this rule shall continue to remain in force until it is modified or revoked by
the authority competent to do so.(4)An order of suspension made or deemed to
have been made under this rule, may, at any time, be modified or revoked, by
the authority which made the order or by any authority to which that authority
is subordinate.(5)During the period of suspension of a person, powers vested
in him shall be in abeyance, but he shall be subject to same responsibilities,
discipline, penalties and all other conditions of service to which he would
have been subject if he were on duty and cannot leave headquarters declared by
the competent authority without prior permission.(6)When a person remains
under suspension for more than 90 days a report giving reasons for delay in
the finalisation of his case shall be submitted to the Director General by the
Commandant of the accused, and thereafter, subsequent reports shall be
submitted every month till the case is finalised or the order of suspension is
revoked whichever is earlier.Chapter-VII Choice of Jurisdiction between Force
Court and Criminal Court

### 44. Trial of cases either by Force Court or criminal court.

(1)where an offence is triable both by a criminal court and a Force Court, an
officer referred to in section 102 may, -(i)(a)where the offence is committed
by the accused in the course of performance of his duty as a member of the
Force; or(b)where the offence is committed in relation to property belonging
to the Government or the Force, or a person subject to the Act; or(c)where the
offence is committed against a person subject to the Act, direct that any
person subject to the Act who is alleged to have committed such an offence, be
tried by a Force Court; and(ii)in any other case, decide whether or not it
would be necessary in the interest of discipline to claim for trial by a Force
Court any person subject to the Act who is alleged to have committed such an
offence.(2)In taking a decision to claim an offender for trial by a Force
Court an officer referred to in section 102 may take into account all or any
of the following factors, namely,-(a)the offender is on active duty or has
been warned for active duty and it is felt that he is trying to avoid such
duty;(b)the offender is a young person undergoing training and the offence is
not a serious one and the trial of the offender by a criminal court would
materially affect his training;(c)the offender can, in view of the nature of
the case, be dealt with summarily under the Act.

### 45. Cases which may not be tried by Force Court.

\- Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-rule (1) of rule 44, an offender
may not ordinarily be claimed for trial by a Force Court-(i)where the offence
is committed by him along with any other person not subject to the Act whose
identity is known; or(ii)where the offence is committed by him while on leave
or during absence without leave.Chapter-VIII Investigation of Charges and
Summary Disposal Hearing of Charge

### 46. Tentative charge sheet.

\- Where it is alleged that a person subject to the Act has committed an
offence punishable under the Act, the allegation shall be reduced to writing
in the form set out in Appendix-IV.

### 47. Hearing of charge.

(1)Every charge against a person subject to the Act shall be heard by the
Commandant in the presence of the accused and the proceedings shall be reduced
to writing in the form set out in Appendix-V, and the accused shall have full
liberty to cross-examine any witness against him, and to call such witness and
make such statement as may be necessary for his defence:Provided that where
the charge against the accused arises as a result of investigation by a court
of inquiry, wherein the provisions of sub-rule (8) of rule 183 have been
complied with in respect of that accused, the Commandant may dispense with the
procedure in sub-rule (1).(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub rule
(1) above, a specified officer under section 62 may proceed against an
enrolled person if-(a)the charge can be summarily dealt with;(b)the case has
not been reserved by the Commandant for disposal by himself; and(c)the accused
is not under arrest;and after hearing the charge under sub-rule (1) above, the
specified officer may either award any of the punishments which he is
empowered to award in the form set out in Appendix-VI, or refer the case to
the Commandant for further disposal.(3)The Commandant shall dismiss a charge
brought before him if, in his opinion, the evidence does not show that an
offence under the Act has been committed, and may do so if, he is satisfied
that the charge ought not to be proceeded with:Provided that the Commandant
shall not dismiss a charge which he is debarred to try under sub-section (2)
of section 96 without reference to superior authority as specified
therein:Provided further that, in case of all offences punishable with death,
the Commandant shall remand the case for recording of summary of
evidence.(4)After compliance of sub-rule (1), if the Commandant is of opinion
that the charge ought to be proceeded with, he shall within a reasonable
time-(a)dispose of the case under section 62 in accordance with the manner and
form in Appendix-VI; or(b)refer the case to the proper superior authority;
or(c)adjourn the case for the purpose of having the evidence against the
accused, reduced to writing; or(d)order his trial by a Summary Assam Rifles
Court:Provided that the Commandant shall not order trial by a Summary Assam
Rifles Court without reference to the officer empowered to convene a petty
Assam Rifles Court for the trial of the alleged offender unless-(a)the offence
is one which he can try by a Summary Assam Rifles Court without any reference
to that officer; or(b)he considers that there is grave reason for immediate
action and such reference cannot be made without detriment to
discipline.(5)Where the evidence taken in accordance with sub-rule (4) of this
rule discloses an offence other than the offence which was the subject of the
investigation, the Commandant may frame suitable charge(s) on the basis of the
evidence so taken as well as the investigation of the original charge.

### 48. Charges not to be dealt with summarily.

\- Charges for an offences under sections 21, 22, 23, 24, clause (l) of
section 25, clause (a) of section 27 or 28, when on active duty, or sections
30, 31, clause (a) of section 33 (disgraceful conduct), clause (b) of section
36, 39, 46, 47 or section 55 (other than that for simple hurt or theft) or a
charge for abetment of or an attempt to commit any of these offences shall not
be dealt with summarily.

### 49. Summary of evidence.

(1)Where the case is adjourned for the purpose of having the evidence reduced
to writing, the officer ordering the same may either prepare the summary of
evidence himself or detail another officer to do so.(2)The witnesses shall
give their evidence in the presence of the accused and the accused shall have
right to cross-examine all witnesses who give evidence against him, and the
questions together with the answers thereto shall be added to the evidence
recorded.(3)After all the witnesses against the accused have been examined, he
shall be cautioned in the following terms:-(i)"Do you wish to make any
statement?(ii)You are not obliged to say anything unless you wish to do so,
but whatever you state shall be taken down in writing and may be given in
evidence."Any statement thereupon made by the accused shall be taken down and
read to over him, but he will not be cross-examined upon it and the accused
may then call his witnesses in defence and the officer recording the evidence
may ask any question that may be necessary to clarify the evidence given by
such witnesses.(4)The statements given by witnesses shall ordinarily be
recorded in narrative form in English or Hindi language and the officer
recording the evidence may, at the request of the accused, permit any portion
of the evidence to be recorded in the form of question and answer and the
witnesses shall sign their statements after the same have been read over and
explained to them, or if he cannot write his name his statement shall be
attested by his mark (thumb impression) and witnessed as a token of
correctness of the evidence recorded.(5)The provisions of section 111 of the
Act shall apply for procuring the attendance of the witnesses before the
officer recording the summary of evidence.(6)Where a witness cannot be
compelled to attend or is not available or his attendance cannot be procured
without an undue expenditure of time or money and after the officer recording
the evidence has given a certificate in this behalf, a written statement
signed by such witness may be read to the accused and included in the summary
of evidence.(7)After the recording of the evidence the officer who recorded
the evidence shall render a certificate in the following form-"Certified that
the record of evidence ordered by ..............was made in the presence and
hearing of the accused and the provisions of sub-rule (3) of 49 have been
complied with."(8)No counsel or legal practitioner shall be permitted to
appear before the officer recording the evidence.

### 50. Abstract of evidence.

(1)Where the Commandant of the accused is of the opinion that the charge
against an officer, subordinate officer or under officer is not of such a
nature so as to warrant his trial by a Force Court, he may, after hearing the
charge in accordance with sub-rule (1) of 47 order an abstract of evidence to
be prepared in the case.(2)An abstract of evidence shall be prepared either by
the Commandant or an officer detailed by him.(3)(a)The abstract of evidence,
shall include -(i)signed statements of witnesses wherever available or a
precis thereof; and(ii)copies of all documents intended to be produced at the
trial.(b)where signed statements of any witnesses are not available, a precis
of the evidence that the witnesses are likely to give shall be included.(4)A
copy of the abstract of evidence shall be given by the officer making the same
to the accused and the accused shall be given an opportunity to make a
statement if he so desires, after he has been cautioned in the manner laid
down in sub-rule (3) of rule 49 :Provided that the accused shall be given such
time as may be reasonable in the circumstances but in no case less than
twenty-four hours after receiving the abstract of evidence to make his
statement.

### 51. Disposal of case after recording summary or abstract of evidence.

(1)The evidence prepared in pursuance of rule 49 or 50 shall be considered by
the Commandant who thereupon shall either-(a)dismiss the charge; or(b)dispose
of the case summarily under section 62 or section 66 of the Act, as
applicable; or(c)refer the case to the competent superior officer for
disposal; or(d)remand the accused for trial by a Force Court.(2)If the accused
is remanded for trial by a Force Court, the Commandant shall without
unnecessary delay,(a)assemble a Summary Assam Rifles Court (after making
reference as per sub-section (2) of section 96, when such reference is
necessary), or(b)apply to the competent superior authority to convene a
general or petty Assam Rifles Court, as the case may be.

### 52. Application for a court.

\- An application for a petty Force Court or general Force Court shall be made
by the Commandant in the Form set out in Appendix-VII of these rules and shall
be accompanied by five copies of the summary or abstract of evidence and
charge sheet and such other documents as are mentioned in that application
form.

### 53. Summary disposal of charges against officer, subordinate officer or
warrant officer.

(1)Where an officer, a subordinate officer or a warrant officer is remanded
for the disposal of a charge against him by an authority empowered under
section 64, 65 and 66, to deal summarily with that charge, the summary or
abstract of evidence shall be delivered to him, free of charge, with a copy of
the charge as soon as practicable after its preparation and in any case not
less than twenty-four hours before the commencement of the
proceedings.(2)Where the authority empowered under sections 64, 65 and 66
decides to deal summarily with a charge against an officer, subordinate
officer or warrant officer, he shall unless he dismisses the charge, or unless
the accused has consented in writing to dispense with the attendance of the
witnesses, hear the evidence in the presence of the accused and the accused
shall have full liberty to cross-examine any witness against him, and to call
any witness and make a statement in his defence, and such statement or a gist
thereof shall be recorded and attached to the proceedings by the officer
disposing the case summarily.(3)The proceedings shall be recorded as far as
practicable in accordance with the form in Appendix-VIII, and in every case in
which punishment is awarded the proceedings together with the conduct sheet,
summary or abstract of evidence and written consent to dispense with the
attendance of witnesses to the accused, shall be forwarded through the proper
channel to the prescribed superior authority for review as provided under sub-
section (2) of section 64 and sub-section (2) of section 65.(4)In the case of
summary disposal order section 62 and 66, the proceedings shall be forwarded
to the officer superior command to the officer who awarded the punishment, and
if the punishment awarded appears to such superior officer to be illegal,
unjust or excessive, he may cancel, vary or remit the same and make such other
direction as may be appropriate in the circumstances of the case.(5)The
prescribed superior authority for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section
64 and sub-section (2) of section 65 shall be the Central Government the
Director-General or other officer specified by the Director-General.Chapter-IX
Charges

### 54. Charge and charge sheet.

(1)A charge means an accusation contained in the charge sheet that a person
subject to the Act has been guilty of an offence.(2)A charge sheet shall
contain the whole issue or issues to be tried at one time and may contain more
than one charge if the charges are founded on the same facts or form part of a
series of offences of same or similar character.Provided that a charge under
section 25, section 26, section 38, and section 41 may be included in any
charge sheet, notwithstanding that other charges in that charge sheet are not
founded on the same facts or do not form part of a series of offences of the
same or similar character.(3)Every charge sheet shall in its layout follow the
appropriate specimen set out in Appendix-IV to these rules.

### 55. Commencement of charge sheet.

\- Every charge sheet shall begin with the name and description of the person
charged and state his number rank name and unit to which he belongs.

### 56. Contents of charge.

(1)Each charge shall state one offence only and in no case shall an offence be
described in the alternative in the same charge.(2)(a)If a single act or
series of acts be of such a nature that it is doubtful which of several
offences the facts which can be proved will constitute, the accused may be
charged with having committed all or any of such offences, and any number of
such charges may be tried at once or he may be charged in the alternative with
having committed some one of the said offences.(b)The charge for more serious
offence shall precede the one for the less serious offence.(3)Each charge
shall be divided into two parts -(a)statement of the offence; and(b)statement
of the particulars of the act, neglect or omission constituting the
offence.(4)The offence shall be stated, if not a civil offence, as nearly as
practicable in the words of the Act, and if a civil offence, in such words as
would sufficiently describe that offence, in words as used to describe the
said offence in the relevant statutory provision.(5)The particulars shall
state such circumstances respecting the alleged offence as will enable the
accused to know what act, neglect or omission is intended to be proved against
him as constituting the offence.(6)The particulars in one charge may be framed
wholly or partly by a reference to the particulars in another charge, and in
that case so much of the latter particulars as are so referred to, shall be
deemed to form part of the first mentioned charge as well as of the other
charge.(7)Where it is intended to prove any facts in respect of which any
deduction from pay and allowances can be awarded as a consequence of the
offence charged, the particulars shall state those facts and the sum of the
loss or damage it is intended to charge.

### 57. Signature on charge sheet.

\- The charge sheet shall be signed by the Commandant of the accused and shall
contain the place and date of such signature.

### 58. Joint charges.

(1)Any number of accused may be charged jointly and tried together for an
offence averred to have been committed jointly by them.(2)Any number of
accused though not charged jointly may also be tried together for an offence
averred to have been committed by one or more of them and abetted by the other
or others.(3)Where the accused are so charged under sub-rule (1) or sub-rule
(2), any one or more of them may be charged with, and tried for any other
offence with which they could have been charged under sub-rule (2) of rule 54.

### 59. Validity of charge sheet.

(1)A charge-sheet shall not be invalid merely by reason of the fact that it
contains any mistake in the name or description of the person charged,
provided that he does not object to the charge sheet during the trial, and
that no substantial injustice has been done to the person charged.(2)In the
construction of a charge-sheet or charge, there shall be presumed in favour of
supporting the same every proposition which may reasonably be presumed to be
impliedly included, though not expressed therein.Preparation of Defence by
Accused Person

### 60. Right of accused to prepare defence.

(1)An accused, who has been remanded for trial, shall be afforded proper
opportunity for preparing his defence and shall be allowed proper
communication with his defending officer or counsel and with his
witnesses.(2)A defending officer shall be appointed to defend an accused who
has been remanded for trial unless the accused states in writing that he does
not wish such an appointment to be made.(3)If the prosecution is to be
undertaken by a legally qualified officer or by a counsel, the accused shall
be notified of this fact in sufficient time to enable him, if he so, desires,
to make arrangement for a legally qualified officer or counsel to defend
him.(4)The accused person shall have the right to address an application to
the Chief Law Officer or Law Officer, if he is kept under arrest for longer
than forty-eight days without being brought to trial or is not given full
liberty for preparing his defence.(5)As soon as practicable after an accused
has been remanded for trial and in any case no. less than four days before his
trial, he shall be given free of charge-(a)copy of the charge sheet(b)an
unexpurgate copy of summary or abstract of evidence showing passages within
which have been expurgated in the copy sent to the senior member; and(c)notice
of any additional evidence which the prosecution intends to adduce.(6)The
provisions of sub-rules (2) and (3) shall not apply to a trial before a
Summary Assam Rifles Court.

### 61. Warning of the accused for trial.

(1)When an accused is given a copy of the charge-sheet of the summary or
abstract of evidence in accordance with these rules, an officer
shall-(a)explain to him the charges brought against him, and if the accused
desires to have it in a language which he understands, a translation thereof
shall also be given to him; and(b)inform him that, upon his making a written
request to his Commandant not less than twenty-four hours before his trial
requiring the attendance at his trial of a witness (other than a witness for
the prosecution) whom he desires to call in his defence (such witness to be
named by him), reasonable steps will be taken in accordance with these rules
to procure the attendance of any such witness at his trial;(c)deliver to the
accused a list of the ranks, names and units of the members who are to form
the Court and of any waiting members.(2)If it appears to the Court that the
accused is liable to be prejudiced at his trial by any non-compliance with
this rule, the Court shall take steps and, if necessary, adjourn to avoid the
accused being so prejudiced.

### 62. Summoning of defence witnesses.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-rules (2) and (3) the Commandant shall, on
a request made in this behalf by the accused, summon such witnesses as are
specified by the accused.(2)Where the Commandant is satisfied that the
evidence to be given by any witness is not likely to be of material assistance
at the trial he may refuse to summon such witness.(3)The Commandant may before
summoning any witness, require the accused to defray or undertake to defray
the cost of attendance of such witness and if the accused refuses to defray or
undertake to defray the cost aforesaid, the Commandant may refuse to procure
the attendance of that witness.(4)Where the Commandant has refused to summon
the witness under sub-rule (2) or sub-rule (3), the accused may make an
application to the court for the summoning of such witness and the court may
if it considers it to be expedient, in the interest of justice, order the
summoning of such witness and, if necessary, adjourn the proceedings for the
attendance of such witness:Provided that it shall rest with the accused alone
to secure the attendance of any witness whose evidence is not contained in the
summary of evidence and for whose attendance the accused has not made a
request under sub-rule (1).Convening of General and Petty Assam Rifles Courts

### 63. Action by a superior authority on receiving an application for
convening court.

(1)As soon as a superior authority receives an application for convening a
court, he shall scrutinise the charge and the evidence against the accused,
where necessary in consultation with the Chief Law Officer or a Law Officer
designated by him and he,(a)shall direct the Commandant to dismiss the charge
where the evidence against the accused is insufficient and further evidence is
not likely to be available and may direct him to do so if he considers it
inadvisable to proceed with the trial; or(b)may return the case to the
Commandant for being tried by a Summary Assam Rifles Court or being dealt with
summarily if he considers that the same can be adequately so tried or dealt
with; or(c)may dispose of the case by administrative action, or if he is not
competent to take such action, forward the case to superior authority with his
recommendations for such action;(d)may return the case for recording further
evidence, if he considers the evidence recorded insufficient, but considers
that further evidence may be available.(2)(a)In any other case he may either
himself convene a court or if he considers that a higher type of court should
be convened and he is not empowered to convene such a court, forward the case
to the appropriate superior authority with recommendation that such court may
be convened.(b)The superior authority on receiving the case may exercise any
of the powers given in sub-rule (1) of this rule:Provided that the superior
authority before convening a general Assam Rifles Court or a petty Assam
Rifles Court shall take the advice of the Chief Law Officer or a Law Officer
(designated for this purpose by Chief Law Officer).Provided further that the
superior authority while convening a court may reframe the charge sheet on
which the accused is to be tried.

### 64. Disqualification of officers for serving on general and petty Assam
Rifles courts.

\- An officer shall be disqualified from serving on a court if he-(a)is an
officer who convened the Court; or(b)is the prosecutor or a witness for the
prosecution; or(c)has taken any part in the investigation of the case, which
would have necessitated his applying mind to any part of the evidence or to
the facts of the case; or(d)is the Commandant of the accused; or(e)has a
personal interest in the case; or(f)is a Force police officer appointed under
section 85 (1).

### 65. Adjournment for insufficient number of officers.

(1)If, before the accused is arraigned, the full number of officers detailed
are not available to serve, by reason of disqualification, challenge or
otherwise, and if there are not sufficient number of officers in waiting to
take the place of those unable to serve, the Court shall ordinarily adjourn
for purpose of fresh members being appointed, but if the Court is of opinion
that in the interests of justice, and for the good of service, it is
inexpedient so to adjourn, it may, if not reduced in number below the legal
minimum, proceed, after recording reasons for so doing.(2)If the Court
adjourns for the purpose of appointment of fresh members, whether under these
rules or otherwise, the convening officer may, if he thinks fit, convene
another Court.

### 66. Composition of general and petty Assam Rifles courts.

(1)A court shall consist, as far as practicable, of officers of different
battalions or units.(2)The members of a court for the trial of an officer
shall be of a rank not lower than the rank of that officer, unless in the
opinion of the convening officer, officers of such rank are not, having due
regard to the exigencies of public service, available and such opinion shall
be recorded in the convening order.(3)A court for the trial of a Commandant
shall as far as possible, consist of officers who are or have been Commandants
or who hold, or have held, a higher appointment.

### 67. Duties of convening officers when convening courts.

(1)An officer before convening a general or petty Assam Rifles Court shall
first satisfy himself that the charges to be tried by the court are for
offences within the meaning of the Act, and that the evidence justifies a
trial in those charges and the officer. If not so satisfied, he shall order
the release of the accused, or refer the case to superior authority,(2)He
shall also satisfy himself that the case is a proper one to be tried by the
kind of court which he proposes to convene.(3)When an officer convenes a
court, he shall(a)issue a convening order in the appropriate form set out in
Appendix-IX;(b)direct upon what charges the accused is to be tried and ensure
that the accused has been remanded for trial by a court upon these charges, by
his Commandant;(c)if he is of the opinion that charges shall be put in
separate charge-sheet, so direct and shall also direct the order in which they
are to be tried,(d)direct, if there is more than one accused whether the
accused are to be tried jointly or separately;(e)appoint members of the court
and any waiting members;(f)if convening-(i)a general Assam Rifles Court;
or(ii)a petty Assam Rifles Court which he considers should be attended by a
Law Officer, take necessary steps to procure the appointment of Law officer by
or on behalf of the Chief Law officer, and may also appoint an officer to be
under his instruction at the trial,(g)appoint an officer, subject to the Act
or a counsel assisted by such an officer to prosecute;(h)appoint an
interpreter wherever necessary;(i)forward to the senior member, the original
charge sheet, the convening order and a copy of the summary or abstract of
evidence from which any evidence which in his opinion would be inadmissible at
the trial, has been expurgated;(j)forward to each member of the court and to
each waiting member a copy of the charge sheet and convening order;(k)forward
to the Law Officer, a copy each of the charge sheet, the convening order and
an unexpurgated copy of the summary or abstract of evidence showing the
passages which have been expurgated in the copy sent to the senior
member;(l)forward to the prosecutor copies of the charge sheet and convening
order, and the original summary or abstract of evidence; together with an
unexpurgated copy thereof showing the passages which have been expurgated in
the copy sent to the senior member;(m)ensure that the Commandant has summoned
all the prosecution witnesses and such defence witnesses as the accused may
have requested to be summoned under rule 62.Chapter-X Procedure for General
and Petty Assam Rifles CourtsSection-1Procedure at Trial - Assembly, Challenge
and Swearing

### 68. Assembly of court and inquiry as to legal constitution.

(1)Upon a Force Court assembling, the convening order which includes ranks,
names and units of the officers appointed to serve on the court, shall be laid
before it together with the charge-sheet and copy of summary or abstract of
evidence, and the court shall, before beginning the trial, satisfy itself in
closed court-(a)that the court has been convened in accordance with the Act
and these rules;(b)that the court consists of not less than the minimum number
of officers required by law;(c)that the members are of the required
rank;(d)that members have been duly appointed and are not disqualified under
the Act;(e)that if there is a Law Officer and he has been duly appointed, is
of required rank, and is not disqualified from serving on that court;(f)that
the accused appears from the charge sheet, to be subject to the Act and to be
subject to the jurisdiction of the court; and(g)that each charge is correct in
law and framed in accordance with, these rules, and is so explicit as to
enable the accused readily to understand what he has to answer.(2)Where a
vacancy occurs through a member of the court being disqualified under the Act
or being absent when the court assembles, the presiding officer may appoint a
duly qualified waiting member to fill that vacancy.(3)If the court is not
satisfied on any of the matters mentioned in sub-rule (1) and is not competent
to rectify such matters itself under the Act or these rules, it shall before
commencing the trial, report thereon to the convening officer, and may adjourn
for that purpose.(4)When the court has complied with this rule and is ready to
proceed with the trial, the presiding officer shall open the court and the
trial shall begin.

### 69. Commencement of trial, appearance of prosecutor and accused.

\- When the court has satisfied itself that the provisions of rule 68 have
been compiled with, it shall cause the accused to be brought before the court,
and the prosecution, who must be a person subject to the Act, shall take his
due place in the court.

### 70. Proceedings for challenges of members of court.

(1)The order convening the court and the names of the officers appointed to
try the accused shall be read with in the hearing of the accused who shall be
given an opportunity to object to any of those officers accordance with
section 106.(2)When a court is to try more than one accused whether separately
or or jointly, each accused shall be given an opportunity to object to any
officer on the court in accordance with the foregoing sub-rule and shall be
asked separately whether he has any such objection.(3)The accused shall state
names of all the officers to whom he objects before any objection is disposed
of.(4)If more than one office is objected to the objection to each officer
shall be disposed of separately and the objection to the lowest in rank shall
be disposed of first.(5)An accused may make a statement and may call any
person to give evidence in support of his objection and such person may be
questioned by the accused and by the court.(6)An officer to whom the accused
has objected, may state in open court anything relevant to the objection of
the accused whether in support or in rebuttal thereof.(7)An objection to an
officer shall be considered in closed court by the remaining officers of the
court in the absence of the challenged officer, and they shall vote on the
disposal of such objection, notwithstanding that objections have been made to
any of those remaining officers.(8)When an objection to an officer is allowed
under sub-section (3) of section in that officer shall forthwith retire and
take no further part in the proceedings.(9)When an officer so retires or is
not available to serve owing to any cause which the court may deem to be
sufficient, and there are any officers in, waiting detailed as such, the
presiding officer shall appoint one of such officers to fill the vacancy and
if there is no officer in waiting available, the court shall proceed as
required by rule 65.(10)The court shall satisfy itself that a waiting member
who takes the place as a member of the court is of the required rank and not
disqualified under the Act and shall give the accused an opportunity to object
to him and shall deal with any such objection in accordance with the Act and
these rules.

### 71. Swearing or affirming of members.

\- As soon as the court is constituted with the proper number of officers who
are not objected to or objections in respect of whom have been overruled, an
oath or affirmation shall be administered to every member in presence of the
accused in one of the following forms or in such other form to the same
purport as the court ascertains to be according to his religion or otherwise
binding on his conscience.Form of Oath"I,..................... swear by
Almighty God, that I will, well and truly, try the accused (or accused
persons), before the court, according to the evidence, and that I will, duly
administer justice, according to the Assam Rifles Act, without partiality,
favour or affection; and I do further swear that I will not, on any account,
at any time, whatsoever, disclose or discover, the vote or opinion of any
particular member of this court unless required to give evidence there-of by a
court of law".Form of Affirmation"I,..................... do solemnly,
sincerely and truly, declare and affirm that I will, well and truly, try the
accused (or accused persons), before the court. According to the evidence, and
that I will, duly administer justice according to the Assam Rifles Act,
without partiality, favour or affection; and I do further solemnly, sincerely
and truly declare and affirm that I will not, on any account at any time
whatsoever, disclose or discover, the vote or opinion of any particular member
of this court unless required to give evidence there-of by a court of law.

### 72. Swearing or affirmation of Law Officers and others.

\- After the members of the court are all sworn or have made affirmation, an
oath or affirmation shall be administered to the following persons or such of
them as are present at the court in such of the following forms as shall be
appropriate, or in such other form to the same purport as the court ascertains
to be according to the religion or otherwise binding on the conscience of the
person to be sworn or affirmed-(A)Law Officer:Form of Oath"I,...............
swear by Almighty God that I will, to the best of my ability, carry out the
duties of Law Officer, in accordance with the Assam Rifles Act and the rules
made there-under without partiality, favour or affection, and I do further
swear that I will not, on any account at any time whatsoever, disclose or
discover the vote or opinion on any matter of any particular member of this
court, unless required to give evidence thereof by a court of law."Form of
Affirmation"I,............... do hereby, solemnly, sincerely and truly declare
and affirm that I will, to the best of my ability, carry out the duties of Law
Officer in accordance with the Assam Rifles Act and the rules made there-under
without partiality, favour or affection, and I do further solemnly, sincerely
and truly declare and affirm, that I will not, on any account, at any time,
whatsoever, disclose or discover the vote or opinion, on any matter of any
particular member of this court, unless required to give evidence thereof by a
court of law".(B)Officer Attending For The Purpose Of Instruction:Form of
Oath"I,....................... swear by Almighty God that I will not on any
account; at any time whatsoever, disclose or discover the vote or opinion of
any particular member of this court unless required to give evidence thereof
by a court of law".Form of Affirmation"I,..................... do solemnly,
sincerely and truly, declare and affirm that I will not on any account, at any
time whatsoever, disclose or discover the vote or opinion of any particular
member of this court unless required to give evidence thereof by a court of
law".(C)Shorthand Writer:Form of Oath"I,.................... swear by Almighty
God that I will truly take down to the best of my ability, the evidence to be
given before this court and such other matters as I may be required to take
down and will, when required, deliver to the court a true transcript of the
same".Form of Affirmation"I,...................... do solemnly, sincerely and
truly, declare and affirm that I will truly take down to the best of my
ability the evidence to be given before this court and such other matters as I
may be required to take down and will, when required, deliver to the court a
true transcript of the same".(D)Interpreter:Form of Oath"I,...................
swear by Almighty God that I will faithfully interpret and translate, as I
shall be required to do, touching the matter before this court".Form of
Affirmation"I,.................... do solemnly, sincerely and truly, declare
and affirm that I will faithfully interpret and translate, as I shall be
required to do, touching the matter before this court".

### 73. Objection to interpreter or shorthand writer.

\- A person shall not be sworn or affirmed as an interpreter or shorthand
writer, if he is objected to by the accused, unless the court after hearing
the accused and the prosecutor, disallows such objection as being
unreasonable.

### 74. Objection to Law Officer and prosecutor.

\- The accused shall not be permitted to object to the Law Officer or the
prosecutor.

### 75. Persons to administer oaths and affirmations.

\- All oaths and affirmations shall be administered by the Law Officer, a
member of the court, or some other person empowered by the court to administer
such oath or affirmation.Section-2Prosecution, Defence and Summing Up

### 76. Arraignment.

(1)When the court and the Law Officer have been sworn or affirmed, the accused
shall be arraigned on the charges against him, which includes reading out the
charges and asking the accused whether he pleads guilty or not guilty to the
charge or charges.(2)If there is more than one charge against the accused he
shall be required to plead separately to each charge.(3)If there is more than
one charge sheet, against the accused, before the court, the court shall
proceed with the charges in the first of such charge sheets and shall announce
its finding thereon and if the accused has pleaded guilty, comply with rule
93, before it arraigns him upon the charges in any subsequent charge sheet.

### 77. Plea to jurisdiction.

(1)The accused, before pleading to the charge, may offer a plea regarding the
jurisdiction of the court, and in such a case-(a)the accused may adduce
evidence in support of the plea and the prosecutor may adduce evidence in
answer thereto, and(b)the prosecutor may address the court in answer to the
plea and the accused may reply to the prosecutor's address.(2)If the court
allows the plea it shall record its decision, and the reasons for it, and
report it to the convening authority and adjourn.(3)When the court reports to
the convening authority under this rule, the convening authority shall,-(a)if
it approves the decision of the court to allow the plea, dissolve the
court;(b)if it disapproves the decision of the court; either(i)refer the
matter back to the court and direct them to proceed with the trial;
or(ii)convene a fresh court to try the accused,

### 78. Objection to the charge.

(1)An accused before pleading to a charge may object to it on the grounds that
it is not correct in law or is not framed in accordance with these rules and
if he does so, the prosecutor may address the court in answer to the objection
and the accused may reply to the prosecutor's address.(2)If the court upholds
the objection, it shall either amend the charge if permissible under rule 79
or adjourn and report to the convening authority:Provided that if there is
another charge or another charge sheet before the court, the court may, before
adjourning under this rule, proceed with the trial of the accused on such
other charge or other charge sheet.(3)When the court reports to the convening
authority under this rule, the convening authority shall-(a)if it approves the
decision of the court to allow the objection-(i)dissolve the court;
or(ii)where there is another charge or another charge sheet before the court
to which the objection does not relate and which the court has not tried,
direct the court to proceed with the trial of the accused on such other charge
or charge sheet only; or(iii)amend the charge to which the objection relates
if permissible under rule 77 and direct the court to try it as amended.(b)if
it disapproves the decision of the court to allow the objection-(i)direct the
court to try the charge, or(ii)convene a fresh court to try the accused.

### 79. Amendment of the charge by the court.

(1)At any time during trial, if it appears to the court that there is in the
charge sheet;(a)a mistake in the name or description of the accused; or(b)a
mistake which is attributable to a clerical error or omission, the court may
amend the charge sheet so as to correct the mistake.(2)If at any time during a
trial, at which there is a Law Officer, it appears to the court, before it
closes to deliberate on its findings, that it is desirable in the interests of
justice to make any addition to, omission from or alteration in the charge(s)
which cannot be made under sub-rule (1) of this rule, it may, if such
addition, omission, or alteration can be made without unfairness to the
accused, and with the concurrence of the Law Officer, so amend the
charge(s).(3)If at any time during trial, at which there is no Law Officer, it
appears to the court, before it closes to deliberate on its findings, that in
the interests of justice it is desirable to make any addition to, omission
from or alteration in a charge which cannot be made under sub-rule (1) of this
rule, it may adjourn and report its opinion to the convening authority, which
may-(a)amend the charge if permissible under rule 80 and direct the court to
try it as amended after due notice of the amendment has been given to the
accused; or(b)direct the court to proceed with the trial of the charge without
amending it; or(c)convene a fresh court to try the accused.

### 80. Amendment of charge by convening authority.

\- When, a court reports to the convening authority under either rule 78 or
rule 79, it may amend the charge which the court has reported to it by making
any addition to, omission from or alteration in the charge which, in its
opinion is desirable in the interests of justice and which it is satisfied can
be made without unfairness to the accused.

### 81. Plea in bar of trial.

(1)An accused before pleading to a charge may offer a plea that the trial is
barred under section 97 or section 98 or on the ground that-(a)a charge in
respect of the offence has been dismissed as provided in sub-rule (3) of rule
47; or(b)the offence has been pardoned or condoned by competent superior
authority.(2)If he offers such plea-(a)the accused may adduce evidence in
support of the plea and the prosecutor may adduce evidence in answer thereto;
and(b)the prosecutor may address the court in answer to the plea and the
accused may reply to the prosecutor's address.(3)If the court allows the plea
it shall record the same alongwith brief reasons in support thereof, and
adjourn and report to the convening authority:Provided that if there is
another charge or another charge-sheet before the court, the court may, before
adjourning under this rule, proceed with the trial of the accused on such
other charge or the other charge sheet.(4)When a court reports to the
convening authority under this rule, the convening authority shall-(a)if it
approves the decision of the court to allow the plea-(i)dissolve the court;
or(ii)where there is another charge or another charge-sheet before the court,
to which the plea does not relate and which the court has not tried, may
direct the court to proceed with the trial of the accused on such other charge
or charge-sheet only;(b)if it disapproves the decision of the court to allow
the plea-(i)direct the court to try the accused on the charge; or(ii)where
there is another charge or another charge-sheet before the court, to which the
plea does not relate and which the court has not tried, direct the court to
proceed with the trail of the accused on such, other charge or charge-sheet
only; or(iii)convene a fresh court to try the accused.

### 82. Application for separate trial.

(1)Where two or more accused are charged jointly, anyone of the accused may,
before pleading to the charge apply to the court to be tried separately on the
ground that he would be prejudiced in his defence if he were not tried
separately.(2)Where the accused makes such an application, the prosecutor may
address the court in answer thereto and the accused may reply to the
prosecutor's address.(3)Where the court is of the opinion that the interests
of justice so require, it shall allow the application and try separately the
accused who made it.

### 83. Application for trial on separate charge-sheet.

(1)Where a charge-sheet contains more than one charge, the accused may, before
pleading to the charges, apply to the court to be tried separately on any
charge in that charge-sheet on the ground that he would be prejudiced in his
defence if he were not tried separately on that charge.(2)Where the accused
makes such an application, the prosecutor may address the court in answer
thereto and the accused may reply to the prosecutor's address.(3)Where the
court is of the opinion that the interests of justice so require it shall
allow the application and try the accused separately on the charge to which it
relates as if that charge had been inserted in a separate charge-sheet.

### 84. Pleading to the charge.

(1)After any plea under rules 77 and 81 and any objection under rule 78 and
any applications under rules 82 and 83 have been dealt with, the accused shall
be required subject to sub-rule (2) to plead either guilty or not guilty to
each charge on which he is arraigned and the accused person's plea guilty or
not guilty shall be recorded on each charge.(2)Where a court is empowered by
section 115 to find an accused guilty of an offence other than that charged or
guilty of committing the offence in circumstances involving a less degree of
punishment or where it could after hearing the evidence, make a special
finding of guilty subject to exceptions or variations in accordance with rule
107, the accused may plead guilty to such other offence or to the offence
charged as having been committed in circumstances involving a less degree of
punishment or to the offence charged subject to such exceptions a variations.

### 85. Acceptance of plea of guilty.

(1)Where an accused pleads guilty to a charge under either sub-rule (1) or
sub-rule (2) of rule 84, the presiding officer or Law Officer shall, before
the court decides to accept the plea, explain to the accused the nature of the
charge and the general effect of his plea and in particular the difference in
procedure when an accused pleads guilty and when an accused pleads not
guilty.(2)Where an accused pleads guilty, such plea and the factum of
compliance of sub-rule (1) of this rule, shall be recorded by the court in the
following manner-"Before recording the plea of guilty of the accused, the
court explained to the accused the meaning of the charge(s) to which he had
pleaded guilty and ascertained that the accused had understood the nature of
the charge (s) to which he had pleaded guilty. The court also informed the
accused the general effect of the plea and the difference in procedure, which
will be followed consequent to the said plea. The court having satisfied
itself that the accused understands the charge (s) and the effect of his plea
of guilty accepts and records the same. The provisions of rule 85 (1) are thus
complied with."(3)A court shall not accept a plea of guilty under sub-rule (1)
or sub-rule (2) of rule 84, if-(a)the court is not satisfied that the accused
understands the nature of the charge or the effect of his plea; or(b)the
presiding officer having regard to all the circumstances, considers that the
accused should plead not guilty; or(c)the accused is liable, if convicted, to
be sentenced to death.(4)(a)In the case of plea of guilty under rule 86, the
court shall not accept the plea unless the convening authority concurs and it
is satisfied of the justice of such course.(b)The concurrence of the convening
authority may be signified by the prosecutor.(5)When a plea of guilty under
either sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) of rule 84 is not accepted by the court or
the accused either refuses to plead to the charge or does not plead to it
intelligibly, the court shall record a plea of not guilty.(6)When a court is
satisfied that it can properly accept the plea of guilty under either sub-rule
(1) or sub-rule (2) of rule 84, it shall record a finding of guilty in respect
thereof subject to compliance of provisions of rule 88.

### 86. Plea on alternative charge.

(1)When an accused pleads guilty to the first of two or more alternative
charges, the court, if it accepts the plea of guilty, shall record a finding
of guilty in respect of the first charge and the prosecutor shall, withdraw
any alternative charge before the accused is arraigned on it.(2)When an
accused pleads guilty to one of two or more charges which are laid in the
alternative other than the first of such charges, the court may-(a)proceed as
if the accused had pleaded not guilty to all the charges; or(b)(i)with the
concurrence of the convening authority (which may be signified by the
prosecutor) record a finding of guilty on the charge to which the accused has
pleaded guilty and a finding of not guilty on any alternative charge which is
placed before it in the charge sheet.(ii)where the court records such finding,
the prosecutor shall before the accused is arraigned on it withdraw any charge
which is alternative to the charge of which the court has found the accused
guilty and which is placed after it in the charge-sheet.

### 87. Order of trial where plea is guilty and not guilty.

(1)After the court has recorded a finding of guilty, if there is no other
charge in the same charge sheet to which the accused has pleaded not guilty
and no other accused who has pleaded not guilty to a charge in that charge-
sheet, it shall proceed with the trial as directed by rule 88.(2)Where there
is another charge in the charge-sheet to which the accused has pleaded not
guilty (or there is another accused who has pleaded not guilty) to a charge in
that charge-sheet, the court shall not comply with rule 85 until after it has
dealt with such other charge or tried such other accused and has announced and
recorded its finding in respect thereof.

### 88. Procedure on plea of guilty.

(1)When the court has recorded a plea of guilty in respect of the charge to
which an accused had pleaded guilty, the prosecutor shall read the summary or
abstract of evidence to the court and annex it to the proceedings or inform
the court of the facts contained therein :Provided that if an expurgated copy
of the summary or abstract of evidence was sent to the presiding officer, the
prosecutor shall not read to the court those parts of the summary or abstract
of evidence which have been expurgated or inform the court of the facts
contained in those parts, and shall not hand over the original summary or
abstract of evidence to the court until the trial is concluded.(2)After sub-
rule (1) has been complied with, the accused may-(a)adduce evidence of
character and in mitigation of punishment; and(b)address the court in
mitigation of punishment.(3)If from the statement of the accused or from the
summary or abstract of evidence, or otherwise, it appear to the court that the
accused did not understand the effect of his plea of guilty, the court shall
alter the record and enter a plea of not guilty and proceed with the trial
accordingly.(4)After sub-rules (2) and (3) have been complied with, the court
shall proceed as directed by sub-rule (6) of rule 85 and rule 109.

### 89. Change of plea.

(1)An accused who has pleaded not guilty may at any time before the court
closes to deliberate on its finding withdraw his plea of not guilty and enter
a plea of guilty (including a plea of guilty under rule 86) and in such case
the court shall, if it is satisfied that it can accept the accused's changed
plea under these rules, record a finding in accordance with the accused's
changed plea and so far as is necessary proceed as directed by rule
88.(2)Where at any time during the trial it appears to the court that an
accused who has pleaded guilty does not understand the effect of his plea or
the nature of the charge the court shall enter a plea of not guilty and
proceed with the trial accordingly.(3)When the court records a plea of not
guilty in respect of any charge under sub-rule (2) it shall, if there was a
charge laid in the alternative thereto which the prosecutor withdrew under
rule 86 reinstate such alternative charge, arraign the accused thereon and
proceed with the trial as if it had never been withdrawn.

### 90. Procedure on plea of not guilty.

\- After a plea of not guilty to any charge has been recorded-(a)the court
shall ask the accused whether he wishes to apply for an adjournment on the
ground that any of the rules relating to procedure before trial have not been
complied with and that he has been prejudiced thereby or on the ground that he
has not had sufficient opportunity for preparing his defence; and shall record
his answer;(b)where the accused applies for an adjournment;(i)the accused may
adduce evidence in support of his application and the prosecutor may adduce
evidence in answer thereto; and(ii)the prosecutor may address the court in
answer to the application and the accused may reply to the prosecutor's
address.(c)the court may grant an adjournment if it thinks the interests of
justice so require.

### 91. Opening address.

(1)The prosecutor may, if he so desires, and shall, if required by the court,
make an opening address explaining the charge and the nature and general
effect of the evidence which he proposes to adduce.(2)The witnesses for the
prosecution shall then be called and give their evidence.(3)If it should be
necessary for the prosecutor to give evidence for the prosecution on the facts
of the case, he shall give it after the delivery of his address, and he must
be sworn or affirmed, as the case may be, and give his evidence and he may be
cross-examined by or on behalf of the accused and afterwards may make any
statement which might be made by a witness on re-examination.

### 92. Additional witness.

\- Where the prosecutor intends to adduce evidence which is not contained in
the summary or abstract of evidence given to the accused, notice of such
intention together with the particulars of the proposed evidence shall when
practicable, be given to the accused a reasonable time before the evidence is
adduced and if such evidence is adduced without such notice or particulars
having been given, the court may, if the accused so desires, either adjourn
after receiving the evidence or allow any cross-examination arising out of
that evidence to be postponed, and the court shall inform the accused of his
right to apply for such an adjournment or postponement.

### 93. Dropping witnesses.

\- The prosecutor shall not be bound to call all the witnesses against the
accused whose evidence is contained in the summary of evidence, nor a witness
when he had notified the accused that he intends to call under rule 92, but if
the prosecutor does not intend to call such witness to give evidence, he shall
either tender him for cross-examination by the accused, or give the accused
reasonable notice that he does not intend to call the witness and that so far
as practicable, the accused will be allowed to communicate with him and to
call him as a witness for the defence, if he so desires and if the witness is
available.

### 94. Procedure when essential witness is absent.

\- If any witness whose attendance could not be reasonably procured before the
assembly of the court is essential to the prosecution or defence, the court
shall-(a)take steps to procure the issue of a commission for the examination
of such witness; or(b)if it is a general or petty Assam Rifles court adjourn
and report the circumstance to the convening authority; or(c)if it is a
Summary Assam Rifles court, adjourn to enable the witness to attend, or adopt
such other course as appears to the officer holding the trial best calculated
to do justice.

### 95. Withdrawal of witnesses.

\- During the trial a witness other than the prosecutor or accused shall not,
except by leave of the court, be in court while not under examination, and if
while he is under examination a discussion arises as to whether a question is
to be allowed or not with regard to his evidence, the court may direct the
witness to withdraw during such discussion.

### 96. Examination of witnesses.

(1)A witness may be examined by the person calling him and may be cross-
examined by the opposite party to the proceedings and on the conclusion of any
such cross-examination, may be re-examined by the person who called him on
matters arising out of the cross-examination.(2)(a)The person examining a
witness shall put his questions to the witness orally and unless an objection
is made by the witness, the court, the Law Officer, the prosecutor or by the
accused, the witness shall reply forthwith;(b)where such an objection is made,
the witness shall not reply until the objection has been disposed of.(3)The
court may allow the cross-examination or re-examination of a witness to be
postponed.(4)Before the examination of a witness, he shall be administered an
oath or affirmation in the following form or in such other form to the same
purport as the court ascertains to be in accordance with his religion or
otherwise binding on his conscience.Form of Oath"I,..........................
swear by Almighty God that whatever I shall state, shall be the truth, the
whole truth and nothing but the truth".Form of
Affirmation"I,....................... do solemnly, truly and sincerely declare
and affirm that whatever I shall state, shall be the truth the whole truth and
nothing but the truth."

### 97. Questions by the court.

(1)The presiding officer, the Law Officer and any member of the court through
the Law Officer if there is any or the presiding officer may put questions to
a witness.(2)Upon any such question being answered, the prosecutor and the
accused may put to the witness, through the court, such questions arising from
the answer which he has given as seem proper to the court.

### 98. Reading over of evidence.

(1)(a)The record which has been made of the evidence given by a witness shall
be read back to him before he leaves the court and when this is done, he may
ask for the record to be corrected or explain the evidence which he has
given.(b)where any such correction is made or explanation given, the
prosecutor and the accused may put such questions to the witness respecting
the correction or explanation as seem proper to the court.(2)When a short hand
writer is employed it shall not be necessary to comply with sub-rule (1), if
in the opinion of the court and the Law Officer it is unnecessary to do
so:Provided that if any witness so demands, sub-rule (1) shall be complied
with.

### 99. Calling or recalling of witnesses by the court.

(1)(a)The court may at any time before it closes to deliberate on its finding
or if there is a Law Officer, before he begins to sum up, call a witness or
recall a witness, if in the opinion of the court it is in the interest of
justice to do so;(b)where the court calls a witness or recalls a witness under
this rule, the prosecutor and the accused may put such questions to the
witness as seem proper to the court.(2)The prosecutor and the accused may, at
any time before the court closes to deliberate on its finding or if there is a
Law Officer before he begins to sum up, recall a witness by leave of the court
and the prosecutor and the accused may put such questions to the witness as
seem proper to the court.

### 100. Plea of no case.

(1)(a)After closure of the case for the prosecution, the accused may submit to
the court in respect of any charge that the prosecution has failed to
establish a prima facie case against him to answer and that he should not be
called upon to make his defence to that charge;(b)where the accused, makes
such submission, the prosecutor may address the court in answer thereto and
the accused may reply to the prosecutor's address.(2)The court shall not allow
the submission unless it is satisfied that-(a)the prosecution has not
established a prima facie case on the charge as laid; and(b)it is not open to
it on the evidence to make a special finding under either section 115 or sub-
rule (4) of rule 107.(3)(a)Where the Court allows the submission, it shall
find the accused not guilty of the charge to which it relates and the finding
shall forthwith be announced in open Court as subject to confirmation.(b)where
the court disallows the submission, it shall proceed with the trial of the
offence as charged.(4)The Court may, of its own motion, after the close of the
hearing of the case for the prosecution, and after hearing the prosecutor find
the accused not guilty of the charge and the finding shall forthwith be
announced in open court subject to confirmation.(5)The court shall record
brief reasons while arriving at the finding on the plea, in accordance with
sub-rule (1) of rule 107.

### 101. Case for the defence.

(1)(a)In every trial, for the purpose of enabling the accused personally to
explain any circumstances appearing in evidence against him, the Court or the
Law Officer-(i)may at any stage of the trial, without previously warning the
accused, put such questions to him as the Court considers necessary;
and(ii)shall for the purpose aforesaid, question him generally on the case
after the witnesses for the prosecution have been examined and before he is
called on for his defence;(b)no oath or affirmation shall be administered to
the accused when he is examined under clause (a).(c)the accused shall not
render himself liable to punishments by refusing to answer such questions, or
by giving false answers to them.(2)The answers given by the accused may be
taken into consideration in such trial and put in evidence for or against him
in any other inquiry into, or trial for, any other offence which such answers
may tend to show he has committed.(3)After the close of the case for the
prosecution, the presiding officer or the Law Officer shall explain to the
accused that-(a)if he wishes, he may give evidence on oath as a witness or
make a statement without being sworn or affirmed, but that he is not obliged
to do either.(b)if he gives evidence on oath, he shall be liable to be cross
examined by the prosecutor and to be questioned by the court.(4)If the accused
intends to call a witness to the facts of the case other than himself, he may
make an opening address outlining the case for the defence before the evidence
for the defence is given.

### 102. Witnesses for defence.

(1)After rule 101 has been complied with the witnesses for the defence,
including witnesses as to character, shall be called to give their
evidence.(2)The provisions of rule 96, 97 and 98 shall apply to the witnesses
for the defence as they apply to the evidence of witnesses for the
prosecution.

### 103. Witnesses in reply.

\- After the witnesses for the defence have given their evidence, the
prosecutor may, with the leave of the court call a witness or recall a witness
to give evidence on any matter raised by the accused in his defence which the
prosecution could not properly have mentioned to the court before the accused
disclosed his defence or which the prosecution could not reasonably have
foreseen,

### 104. Closing address.

(1)After all the evidence has been given, the prosecutor may make a closing
address and the accused or his counsel or the defending officer, as the case
may be, shall be entitled to reply:Provided that where any point of law is
raised by the accused, the prosecutor may with the permission of the court,
make the submission with regard to that point.(2)Where two or more accused are
represented by same defending officer or counsel he may make one closing
address only.

### 105. Summing up by Law Officer.

\- After the closing address, if there is a Law Officer, he shall sum up the
evidence and advise the court on the law relating to the case in open court.

### 106. Deliberation on finding.

(1)The court shall deliberate on its finding in closed court in the presence
of the Law Officer.(2)The opinion of each member of the court as to the
finding shall be given by word of mouth on each charge separately starting
with the junior most in rank.

### 107. Record and announcement of findings.

(1)The finding on every charge upon which the accused is arraigned shall be
recorded and, except as provided in these rules, shall be recorded as findings
of guilty or of not guilty.(2)After recording the findings on each charge, the
court shall give brief reasons in support thereof.(3)The Law officer or, if
there is none, the presiding officer shall record or cause to be recorded such
brief reasons in the proceedings and the said record shall be signed and dated
by the presiding officer and the Law Officer, if any.(4)Where the court is of
opinion as regards any charge that the facts proved do not disclose the
offence charged or any offence of which he might under the Act legally be
found guilty on the charge as laid, the court shall acquit the accused of that
charge.(5)If the court has doubts as regards any charge whether the facts
proved show the accused to be guilty on the charge as laid, it may, before
recording a finding on that charge, refer to the confirming authority for an
opinion, setting out the facts which it finds to be proved and may if
necessary adjourn for that purpose.(6)Where the court is of opinion as regards
any charge that the facts which finds to be proved in evidence differ
materially from the facts alleged in the statement of particulars in the
charge but are nevertheless sufficient to prove the offence stated in the
charge, and that the difference is not so material as to have prejudiced the
accused in his defence, it may, instead of a finding of not guilty record a
special finding.(7)The special finding may find the accused guilty on a charge
subject to the statement of exceptions or variations specified
therein.(8)Where there are alternative charges, and the facts proved appear to
the court not to constitute the offence mentioned in any of those alternative
charges, the court shall record a finding of not guilty on that charge.(9)The
court shall not find the accused guilty on more than one of two or more
charges laid in the alternative, even if conviction upon one charge
necessarily connotes guilty upon the alternative charge or charges.(10)If the
court thinks that the facts proved constitute one of the offences stated in
two or more of the alternative charges, but doubts which of those offences the
facts do at law constitute, it may, before recording a finding on those
charges, refer to the confirming authority for an opinion, setting out the
facts which it finds to be proven and stating that it doubts whether those
facts constitute in law the offence stated in such one or other of the charges
and may, if necessary, adjourn for that purpose.(11)The finding on each charge
shall be announced forthwith in open court as subject to confirmation.

### 108. Procedure on acquittal.

\- If the finding on all the charges is not guilty the presiding officer shall
affix his signature and date on the finding and such signature shall
authenticate the whole of the proceedings, and the proceedings upon being
signed by the Law Officer shall be at once transmitted for confirmation.

### 109. Procedure on conviction.

(1)If the finding on any charge is guilty, then, for the guidance of the court
in determining its sentence, and of the confirming authority in considering
the sentence, the court, before deliberating on the sentence shall, whenever
possible, take evidence of and record the general character, age, service,
rank, any recognised acts of gallantry or distinguished conduct of the
accused, any previous convictions of the accused either by Force Court or a
criminal court, any previous punishments awarded to him by an officer
exercising authority under sections 65, 67, 68 or 69, as the case may be; the
length of time he has been under arrest, or in confinement on any previous
sentence, and any decoration, or reward, of which he may be in possession or
to which he is entitled.(2)Evidence on the above matters may be given by a
witness verifying a statement which contains a summary of entries in the
service book respecting the accused and identifying the accused as the person
referred to in that summary.(3)The accused may cross-examine any such witness
and may call witness to rebut such evidence; and if the accused so requests,
the service books or a duly certified copy of the material entries therein,
shall be produced and if the accused alleges that the summary is in any
respect not in accordance with the service books or such certified copy, as
the case may be, the court shall compare the summary with those books or copy
and if it finds that it is not in accordance therewith, shall cause summary to
be corrected or the objection of the accused to be recorded.(4)When all the
evidence on the above matters has been given, the accused may address the
court thereon and in mitigation of punishment.

### 110. Sentence.

\- The court shall award a single sentence in respect of all the offences of
which the accused is found guilty, and such sentence shall be deemed to be
awarded in respect of which it can be legally given and an to be awarded in
respect of which it can not be legally given.

### 111. Recommendation for mercy.

(1)Where the court makes a recommendation to mercy it shall give its reasons
for its recommendation.(2)The number of opinions by which the recommendation
to mercy mentioned in this rule, or any question relating thereto, is adopted
or rejected, may be entered in the proceedings.

### 112. Announcement of the sentence and signing and transmission of
proceedings.

(1)The sentence together with any recommendation to mercy and the reasons for
any such recommendation shall be announced forthwith in open court and the
sentence will be announced as subject to confirmation.(2)Upon the court
awarding the sentence, the presiding officer shall affix his signature and
date to the sentence and such signature shall authenticate the whole of the
proceedings, and the proceedings upon being signed by the Law Officer. If any,
shall at once be transmitted for confirmation.Confirmation and Revision

### 113. Revision.

(1)(a)Where the finding is sent back for revision under section 135, the court
shall re-assemble in open court, the revision order shall be read and if the
court, is directed to take fresh evidence such evidence shall be taken in open
court;(b)except where the court is directed to take fresh evidence, no fresh
evidence shall be adduced;(c)where such fresh evidence is recorded otherwise
than at the instance of the accused, the accused shall be given a further
opportunity to lead evidence in respect of matters brought out in such fresh
evidence;(d)the court may, on a request from the prosecutor, in the interest
of justice, allow a witness to be called or re-called for the purpose of
rebutting any material statement made by a witness for the defence during
revision;(e)after the evidence, if any, in accordance with clauses (a), (b),
(c) and (d) above, have been taken, the prosecutor and the accused shall be
given a further opportunity to address the court in respect of the fresh
evidence led, in the order as laid down in rule 104;(f)Law Office, if any, may
sum up the additional evidence and advise the court upon the law relating to
the case.(2)Where the revision of finding does not involve taking of fresh
evidence, the accused shall be given an opportunity to address the court in
respect of matter raised in the revision order.(3)(a)The court shall then
deliberate on its finding in closed court and if the court does not adhere to
its former finding, it shall revoke the finding and sentence and record a new
finding in the manner laid down in rule 107 and if such new finding involves a
sentence, pass sentence afresh after complying with rule 109.(b)where the
original finding was one of not guilty, the court shall, before passing
sentence comply with rules 109 and 110.(4)(a)Where the sentence alone is sent
back for revision, the revision order shall be read in open court and the
accused be given an opportunity to address the court in regard to matters
referred to in the revision order.(b)the court shall then reconsider its
sentence in closed court and if it does not adhere to the sentence; revoke the
same and pass sentence afresh.(5)Where the sentence alone is sent for revision
the court shall not revise the finding.(6)After the revision, the presiding
officer shall date and sign the decision of the court, and the proceedings,
upon being signed by the Law Officer, if any, shall at once be transmitted for
confirmation.

### 114. Confirmation.

(1)When a confirming authority receives the record of the proceedings of a
court, it shall record its decision thereon and on any sentence and any order
which the court may have made under section 127 on the record of the
proceedings in the form set out in Appendix-X and such record of his decision
shall form part of the record of the proceedings.(2)When a court has accepted
a plea of guilty made under rule 85 the confirming authority may confirm its
finding notwithstanding that the court has accepted the plea without the
concurrence of the convening authority, if, in the opinion of the confirming
authority, it is in the interest of justice to do so.(3)(a)When a court has
rejected a plea to the jurisdiction of the court or a plea in bar of trial or
has over-ruled an objection to a charge, it shall not be necessary for the
confirming authority to approve specifically the decision of the court, but
its approval shall be implied from its confirming the finding on the charge to
which the plea or objection relates.(b)where it disapproves the decision of
the court to reject the plea or to over rule the objection it shall withhold
confirmation of the finding on the charge to which the plea or objection
relates.(4)A confirming authority may state its reasons for withholding
confirmation in any case, but if it withholds confirmation where a court has
rejected a plea to the jurisdiction or plea in bar of trial or has over ruled
an objection to the charges because it disapproves this decision of the court,
it shall record its decision under sub-rule (1) stating the reasons for
withholding its confirmation.(5)Where the sentence of court is improperly
expressed, the confirming authority may, in confirming the sentence, vary the
form thereof so that it shall be properly expressed; and if the punishment
awarded by the sentence is in excess of the punishment authorised by law, the
confirming authority may vary the sentence so that the sentence shall not be
in excess of the punishment authorised by law; and the confirming authority
may confirm the finding and the sentence, as so varied, of the
court.(6)Whenever it appears that there is sufficient evidence on a plea of
guilty under either sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) of rule 85 to justify the
finding of the court, such finding and any lawful sentence consequent thereon
may be confirmed and if confirmed shall be valid, notwithstanding any
deviation from these rules if the accused has not been prejudiced by such
deviation.(7)The confirming authority may reserve confirmation to superior
authority if so required owing to such restrictions, reservations or
conditions as contained in warrant issued under section 132.

### 115. Mitigation of sentence during confirmation.

(1)While confirming the finding, the confirming authority may either
unconditionally or subject to conditions which the accused accepts, reduce or
remit a portion of the sentence or commute the punishment to one given lower
in the scale of punishments in section 57.(2)Where a sentence has been awarded
by a court in respect of offences in several charges, and the confirming
authority confirms the finding on some but not on all of such charges, that
authority shall take into consideration the fact of such non-confirmation, and
shall, if it seems just, mitigate, remit, or commute the punishment awarded as
it seems just, having regard to the offences in the charges in respect of the
findings which are confirmed.(3)Where a sentence has been awarded by a court
in respect of offences in several charges and has been confirmed, and anyone
of such charges or the finding thereon is found to be invalid, the authority
having power to mitigate, remit or commute the punishment awarded by the
sentence shall take into consideration the fact of such invalidity, and if it
seems just, mitigate, remit or commute the punishment awarded as it seems
just, having regard to the offences in the charges which with the findings
thereon are not invalid, and the punishment as so modified shall be as valid
as if it had been originally awarded only in respect of those offences.

### 116. Promulgation.

(1)When a confirming authority has confirmed a finding and a sentence of a
court or has withheld confirmation thereof, it shall send the record of the
proceedings to the Commandant of the accused for promulgation to the accused
of the charge, finding, and sentence and any recommendation to mercy or the
fact that confirmation has been withheld, as the case may be.(2)The fact of
promulgation shall be recorded on the record of the proceedings in the form
set out in Appendix-XI.(3)Where confirmation has been withheld because the
confirming authority disapproves the court's decision to reject a plea to the
jurisdiction or a plea in bar of trial or to over rule an objection to the
charge, the accused shall be so informed.(4)Until promulgation has been
effected, confirmation is not complete and the finding and sentence shall not
be held to have been confirmed until they have been promulgated.Chapter-XI
Procedure of Force Courts and Incidental Matters

### 117. Seating of members.

\- The members of a court shall take their seats according to seniority.

### 118. Responsibility of presiding officer.

(1)The presiding officer is responsible for the trial being conducted in
proper order, and in accordance with the Act, rules made there-under and in a
manner befitting a court of justice.(2)It is the duty of the presiding officer
to see that the accused has a fair trial, and that he does not suffer any
disadvantage in consequence of his position as person under trial, or of his
ignorance, or of his incapacity to examine of cross-examine witnesses, or
otherwise.

### 119. Power of court over address of prosecutor and accused.

(1)It is the duty of the prosecutor to assist the court in the administration
of justice, to behave impartially, to bring the whole of the transaction
before the court and not to take any unfair advantage of or suppress any
evidence in favour of the accused.(2)The prosecutor may not refer to any
matter not relevant to the charge of charges then before the court and it is
the duty of the court to stop him from so doing and also to restrain any undue
violence of language or want of fairness or moderation on the part of the
prosecutor.(3)The court shall give reasonable facilities to the accused, in
making his defence; the accused must abstain from any remarks contemptuous or
disrespectful towards the court, and from coarse and insulting language
towards others, but he may for the purpose of his defence impeach the evidence
and the motives of the witnesses and the prosecutor, and charge other persons
with blame and even criminality, subject, if he does so, to any liability
which he may thereby incur and the court may caution the accused as to the
irrelevance of his defence, but shall not, unless in special cases, stop his
defence solely on ground of such irrelevance.

### 120. Sitting in closed court.

(1)A court shall, where it is so directed by these rules, and may in any other
case on any deliberation amongst the members, sit in closed court.(2)No person
shall be present in closed court except the members of the court the Law
Officer and any officers under instruction.(3)For the purpose of giving effect
to the foregoing provisions of this rule, the court may either retire or cause
the place where it sits to be cleared of all other persons not entitled to be
present.(4)Except as here-in-before mentioned, all proceedings including the
view of any place shall be in open court and in the presence of the accused
subject to sub-rule (5).(5)The court shall have the power to exclude from the
court any witness who is yet to give evidence or any other person, other than
the accused, who interferes with its proceedings.

### 121. Courts to be public.

\- Subject to rule 120, the place in which a court is held for the purpose of
trying an offence under the Act shall be deemed to be an open court to which
the public generally may have access, so far as the same can conveniently
contain them:Provided that if the court is satisfied that it is necessary or
expedient in the public interest or for the ends of justice so to do, the
court may at any stage of the trial of any particular case order that the
public generally or any portion thereof or any particular person shall not
have access to, or be or remain in, the place in which the court is held.

### 122. Continuity of trial and adjournment.

(1)Once the court is assembled and the accused has been arraigned the court
shall continue the trial from day-to-day unless it appears to the court that
an adjournment is necessary for the ends of justice or that such continuance
is impracticable.(2)(a)The court may from time to time adjourn its proceedings
and meet at such place as may be convenient; and(b)wherever necessary, visit
the scene of occurrence.(3)The senior officer on the spot may also, for
exigencies of service, adjourn or prolong the adjournment of the court.(4)The
court, in the absence of a Law Officer (if one has been appointed for that
court) shall not proceed, and shall adjourn.(5)If the time to which an
adjournment is made is not specified, the adjournment shall be until further
orders from the proper Force authority, and, if the place to which an
adjournment is made is not specified, the adjournment shall be to the same
place or to such other as may be specified in further orders from the proper
Force authority.

### 123. Suspension of trial.

(1)Where in consequence of anything arising while the court is sitting, the
court is unable by reason of dissolution as specified in section 93 or
otherwise, to continue the trial, the presiding officer or, in his absence the
senior member present, shall immediately report the facts to the convening
authority.(2)Where a court is dissolved before the finding, or, in case of a
finding of guilty, before award of sentence, the entire proceedings before the
court shall be null and the accused may be tried before another court.

### 124. Proceedings on death or illness of accused.

\- In case of the death of the accused or of such illness of the accused as
renders it impossible to continue the trial, the Court shall ascertain the
fact of the death or illness by evidence and record the same and adjourn and
transmit the proceedings to the convening authority.

### 125. Death, retirement or absence of presiding officer.

\- In the case of the death, retirement on challenge or unavoidable absence of
the presiding officer, the next senior officer shall take the place of the
presiding officer and the trial shall proceed if the court is still composed
of not less than the minimum number of officers of which it is required by law
to consist.

### 126. Presence of all members of court.

(1)All members of the court shall remain present during the trial of an
accused; any member of a court who has been absent while any part of the
evidence on the trial of an accused person is taken, shall take no further
part in the trial of that person, but the court will not be affected unless it
is reduced below the legal minimum.(2)Any officer shall not be added to the
court after the accused has been arraigned.

### 127. Taking of opinions of members of court.

(1)Every member of the court must give his opinion by word of mouth on every
question which the court has to decide, and must give his opinion as to the
sentence not-withstanding that he has given his opinion in favour of
acquittal.(2)The opinion of the members of the court shall be taken in
succession, beginning with the member lowest in seniority.

### 128. Procedure on incidental questions.

\- If any objection is raised on any matter of law, evidence or procedure, by
the prosecutor or by or on behalf of the accused during the trial, the
prosecutor or the accused or counsel or the defending officer, as the case may
be, shall have a right to answer the same and the person raising the objection
shall have a right to reply.

### 129. Evidence, when to be translated.

(1)When any evidence is given in a language, which any of the officers
comprising the court, the Law Officer, the prosecutor, the accused or his
defending officer or counsel does not understand, that evidence shall be
interpreted to such officer or person in a language which he does understand
and if an interpreter in such language has been appointed by the convening
authority, and duly sworn or affirmed, the evidence shall be interpreted by
him.(2)If no such interpreter has been appointed and sworn or affirmed, an
impartial person be sworn or affirmed by the court as interpreter.(3)Before a
person is sworn or affirmed as interpreter under this rule, the accused shall
be informed of the person who is proposed to be sworn or affirmed, and may
object to the person as not being impartial for any reasonable cause, and the
court, if it thinks that the objection is reasonable, shall not swear or
affirm that person as interpreter.(4)When documents are produced for the
purpose of formal proof, it shall be in the discretion of the court to ensure
as much to be interpreted as appears necessary.

### 130. Record in proceedings of transactions of a court.

(1)At a court, the Law Officer or; if there is none, the presiding officer
shall record or cause to be recorded in Hindi or English language all
transactions of the court, and shall be responsible for the accuracy of the
record (in these rules referred to as the proceedings), and if the Law Officer
is called as a witness by the accused, the presiding officer shall be
responsible for the accuracy of the record in the proceedings of the evidence
of the Law Officer.(2)The evidence shall be taken down in a narrative form in,
as nearly as possible, the words used and but in any case where the
prosecutor, the accused, the Law Officer or the court considers it material,
the question and answer shall be taken down verbatim.(3)Where an objection has
been taken to any question or to the admission of any evidence or to the
procedure of the court, such objection shall, if the prosecutor or accused so
requests, or the court thinks fit, be entered upon the proceedings together
with the grounds of the objection and the decision of the court
thereon.(4)Where any address by, or on behalf of the prosecutor or the
accused, is not in writing, it shall not be necessary to record the same in
the proceedings further or otherwise than the court thinks proper, except
that-(a)the court shall in every case make such record of the defence, made by
the accused as will enable the confirming authority to judge of the reply made
by, or on behalf of the accused to each charge against him; and(b)the court
shall also record any particular matters in the address by or on behalf of the
prosecutor or the accused which the prosecutor or the accused; as the case may
be, may require.(5)The court shall not enter in the proceedings any comment or
anything not before the court, or any report or any fact not forming part of
the trial, but if any such comment or report seems to the court necessary, the
court may forward it to the proper authority in a separate document, signed by
the presiding officer.

### 131. Custody and inspection of proceedings.

\- The proceedings shall be deemed to be in the custody of the Law Officer,
or, if there is none, of the presiding officer, but may with proper precaution
for their safety, be inspected by the members of the court, the prosecutor and
accused, at all reasonable time before the court is closed to consider the
findings.

### 132. Review of general or petty Assam Rifles court proceedings.

\- The proceedings of general Assam Rifles court and petty Assam Rifles court
shall be sent by the person having the custody thereof to the Chief Law
Officer or any Law Officer nominated by him for review, who shall then forward
the same to the confirming authority.

### 133. Defending officer, friend of accused and counsel.

(1)At any general or petty Assam Rifles court, an accused person may be
represented by a counsel or by any officer subject to the Act who shall be
called the defending officer or assisted by any person whose services he may
be able to procure and who shall be called "the friend of the accused".(2)The
defending officer shall have the same rights and duties as applicable to a
counsel under these rules and shall be under the like obligations.(3)The
friend of an accused may advise the accused on all points and suggest the
questions to be put to the witnesses, but he shall not examine or cross-
examine the witnesses or address the Court.

### 134. Requirement for appearance of counsel.

(1)An accused person intending to be represented by a counsel shall give to
his Commandant or to the convening officer, an earliest practicable notice of
such intention, and if no sufficient notice has been given, the court may, if
it thinks fit, on the application of the prosecutor, adjourn to enable him to
obtain a counsel on behalf of the prosecutor at the trial.(2)Where the
convening officer so directs, counsel may appear alongwi (1) has been given by
the accused, notice of the direction for counsel to appear shall be given to
the accused at such time, but in any case not less than seven days before the
trial, as would, in the opinion of the court, enable the accused to obtain
counsel to assist him at the trial.(3)The counsel, who appears before a court
on behalf of the prosecutor or accused, shall have the same rights as the
prosecutor or accused, for whom he appears, to call, and orally examine,
cross-examine and re-examine witnesses, to put in any plea, and to inspect the
proceedings, and shall have the right otherwise to act in the course of the
trial in place of the person on whose behalf he appears and he shall comply
with the provisions of these rules as if he were that person and in such a
case that person shall have no right himself to any of the aforesaid matters
except as regards the statement allowed under sub-rule (2) of rule 102 and
sub-rule (4) of rule 109 or except so far as the court permits him to do so.

### 135. Disqualification of Law Officer.

\- An officer who is disqualified for sitting on a court, shall be
disqualified for acting as a Law Officer at that court.

### 136. Substitution on death, illness or absence of Law Officer.

\- In the case of death or illness or any other case which makes the Law
Officer unable to attend in that case, the court shall adjourn, and the
presiding officer shall report accordingly to the convening officer and on
receipt of the report, the convening officer may appoint another person who
shall be sworn or affirmed, and act as Law Officer for the residue of the
trial, or until the Law Officer and on returns, as the case may be.

### 137. Power and duties of Law Officer.

(1)Where a Law Officer has been named to act on the court, he shall,-(a)give
his opinion on any question of law relating to the charge or trial whenever so
required by the court, prosecutor or the accused;(b)inform the court of any
irregularity or other infirmity in the proceedings;(c)inform the convening
officer and the court of any infirmity or defect in the charge or in the
constitution of the court;(d)sum up the evidence and give his opinion on any
question of law, before the Court proceeds to deliberate upon its
findings.(2)It shall be the duty of the Law Officer to ensure that the accused
does not suffer any disadvantage in consequence of his position as such, or
because of ignorance or incapacity to examine or cross-examine witnesses, or
otherwise and for this purpose the Law Officer may, with the permission of the
court, call witnesses and put questions to them which appear to him to be
necessary or desirable to elicit the truth.(3)In the discharge of his duties,
the Law Officer shall maintain an attitude of strict impartiality.(4)Where any
opinion has been given by the Law Officer to the court on any matter before
it, it may be entered in the proceedings, if the Law Officer or the court
desires it to be entered.(5)The Law Officer shall represent the Chief Law
Officer at a Force Court.

### 138. Finding of insanity.

\- Where the court finds either that an accused, by reasons of unsoundness of
mind, is incapable of making his defence, or that he committed the act alleged
but was by reason of unsoundness of mind incapable of knowing the nature of
the act or that it was wrong or contrary to law, the presiding officer or in
the case of Summary Assam Rifles Court, the officer holding the trial, shall
affix his signature and the date on the finding which shall also be signed by
the Law Officer and thereupon the proceedings, shall, at once, be transmitted
to the confirming authority or in the case of Summary Assam Rifles Court, to
the Deputy Inspector General or the Additional Deputy Inspector-General
empowered to countersign them.

### 139. Preservation of proceedings.

\- The proceedings of every Force Court shall, after promulgation, be
forwarded to the office of the Chief Law Officer and be preserved there for
not less than seven years, in the case of general and petty Assam Rifles court
and three years in the case of Summary Assam Rifles court, or until the
sentence awarded by the court has expired, whichever is later.

### 140. Right of person tried to copies of proceedings.

\- Every Assam Rifles person tried by a Assam Rifles Court shall be entitled
to obtain on demand, at anytime after the confirmation of the finding and
sentence, when such confirmation is required and in case of Summary Assam
Rifles Court after the same is signed by the officer holding the trial, and
before the proceedings are destroyed, from the Chief Law Officer or the Court,
a copy thereof within a reasonable time and free of cost, including the
proceedings upon revision, if any.

### 141. Copy of proceedings not to be given in certain cases.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 140, if the Central Government
is satisfied for reasons to be recorded that it is against the interest of the
security of the State or friendly relations with foreign States to supply a
copy of the proceedings or any part thereof under the said rule, he shall not
be furnished with such a copy:Provided that if the Central Government is
satisfied that the person demanding the copy is desirous of submitting a
petition in accordance with the Act or instituting any action in a court of
law in relation to the finding or sentence, it shall permit inspection of the
proceedings by such a person or his legal advisor, if any, on the following
conditions :-(a)the inspection shall be made at such times and such places as
the Central Government or any authority authorised by it may direct; and(b)the
person allowed to inspect the proceedings shall, before such inspection,
furnish -(i)an undertaking, in writing that he shall not make copies of the
proceedings or any part thereof and that the information or documents
contained in such proceedings shall not be used by him for any purpose
whatsoever, other than for the purpose of submitting a petition in accordance
with the Act or instituting an action in a court of law in relation to the
said finding or sentence; and(ii)a certificate that he is aware that he may
render himself liable to prosecution under section 3 and 5 of the Indian
Official Secrets Act, 1923 (19 of 1923) if he commits any act specified in the
said sections in relation to the documents or information contained in the
said proceedings.

### 142. Loss of proceedings.

(1)If, before confirmation, the original proceedings of a court which require
confirmation or any part thereof, are lost, a copy thereof, if any, certified
by the presiding officer or the Law Officer at the court, may be accepted in
lieu of the original.(2)If there is no such copy, and sufficient evidence of
the charge, finding, sentence and transactions of the court can be procured,
that evidence may with the assent of the accused, be accepted in lieu of the
original proceedings, or parts thereof, which have been lost.(3)In any case
mentioned above in this rule, the finding and sentence may be confirmed, and
shall be valid as if the original proceedings, or part thereof, had not been
lost.(4)If the accused refuses the assent referred to in sub-rule (2), he may
be tried again, and the finding and sentence of the previous court of which
the proceedings have been lost shall be void.(5)If, after confirmation or in
any case where confirmation is not required, the original proceedings or any
part thereof are lost, and there is sufficient evidence of the charge,
finding, sentence, and transactions of the court and of the confirmation (if
required) of the finding and sentence, that evidence shall be a valid and
sufficient record of the trial for all purposes.

### 143. Offences by witnesses and others.

\- When a court is of opinion that there is ground for inquiring into any
offence specified in sections 46 and 47 and committed before it or brought to
its notice in the course of its proceedings, which would, if done by a person
subject to the Act, have constituted such an offence, such court may proceed
as follows, that is to say-(a)if the person who appears to have committed the
offence is subject to the Act, the Court may bring his conduct to the notice
of his Commandant; and may also order him to be placed in Force custody with a
view to his punishment by an officer exercising authority under sections 61,
64, 65 or 66 or his trial by a Force Court.(b)if the person who appears to
have done the act is amenable to a law relating to the Armed Force of the
Union, the Court may bring his conduct to the notice of the proper authority
of the concerned Armed Force, as the case may be.(c)in other case the officer
who summoned the witness to appear or the presiding officer or officer holding
the court, as the case may be, may forward a written complaint to the nearest
Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction, and in the case of acts
which would, if done by a person subject to this Act have constituted an
offence under clause (e) of section 46 or section 47, the court, after making
any preliminary inquiry that may be necessary, may send the case to the
nearest Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction for inquiry or trial
in accordance with section 340 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974).Chapter-XII Summary Assam Rifles Courts

### 144. Proceedings.

(1)The officer holding the trial (here-in-after in this Chapter called the
court), shall record, or cause to be recorded in the Hindi or English
language, the transaction of every summary Assam Rifles court.(2)The evidence
shall be taken down in a narrative form in as nearly as possible the words
used; but in any case where the Court considers it material, the question and
answer shall be taken down verbatim.

### 145. Evidence when to be translated.

(1)When any evidence is given in a language which the court or the accused
does not understand, that evidence shall be translated to the court or accused
as the case may be in a language which it or he understands.(2)The court shall
for this purpose either appoint an interpreter, or shall itself take the oath
or affirmation prescribed for the interpreter at a summary Assam Rifles
court.(3)When the documents are produced for the purpose of formal proof, it
shall be in the discretion of the court to cause as much to be interpreted as
appears necessary.

### 146. Assembly.

\- When the court, the interpreter and the officers and subordinate officers
attending the trial are assembled, the accused shall be brought before the
court and the oath or affirmation prescribed in rule 147 shall be taken by the
persons therein mentioned.

### 147. Swearing or affirming of court and interpreter.

(1)The court shall take oath or affirmation in anyone of the following forms
or in such other form to the same purport which would, according to the
religion, or otherwise, be binding on the conscience of the officer
constituting the court.Form of Oath"I,............. swear by Almighty God that
I will duly administer justice, according to the Assam Rifles Act without
partiality, favour or affection".Form of Affirmation"I,............ do
solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm that I will duly administer
justice according to the Assam Rifles Act without partiality, favour or
affection".(2)The court, or any other person empowered by it in this behalf
shall administer to the interpreter an oath or affirmation in any of the
following forms, or in such other form to the same purport as the court
ascertains to be according to the religion, or otherwise, binding on the
conscience of the person who is to act as interpreter.Form of
Oath"I,............... swear by Almighty God that I will faithfully interpret
and translate as I shall be required to do, touching the matter before this
court".Form of Affirmation"I, ............. do solemnly, sincerely and truly
declare and affirm that I will faithfully interpret and translate, as I shall
be required to do, touching the matter before this court".(3)The witnesses
shall, after the administration of the oath and the affirmation, withdraw from
the court.

### 148. Swearing of court to try several accused persons.

(1)A summary Assam Rifles court may be sworn or affirmed at the same time to
try any number of accused persons then present before it whether those persons
are to be tried collectively or separately.(2)In the case of several accused
persons to be tried separately, the court, when sworn or affirmed, shall
proceed with one case, postponing the other cases and taking them afterwards
in succession.(3)Where several accused persons are tried separately upon
charges arising out of the same transaction, the court may, if it considers it
to be desirable in the interests of justice, postpone consideration of any
sentence to be awarded to any one or more such accused persons until the
trials of all such accused persons have been completed.

### 149. Arraignment of accused.

(1)After the court and interpreter are sworn or affirmed as above mentioned,
the accused shall be arraigned on the charges against him.(2)The charges on
which the accused is arraigned shall be read and, if necessary, translated to
him and explained, and he shall be required to plead separately to each
charge.

### 150. Objection by accused to charge.

\- The accused, when required to plead to any charge, may object to the charge
on the ground that it does not disclose an offence under the Act, or is not in
accordance with these rules.

### 151. Amendment of charge.

(1)At any time during the trial, if it appears to the Court that there is any
mistake in the name or description of the accused in the charge sheet, it
shall amend the charge sheet so as to correct that mistake.(2)If on trial of a
charge it appears to the court at any time before it has begun to examine the
witnesses, that in the interest of Justice in addition to, omission from or
alteration in, the charge is required, it may amend such charge and may, after
due notice to the accused, and with the sanction of the officer empowered to
convene a petty Assam Rifles court for the trial of the accused if the amended
charge requires such sanction, proceed with the trial on such amended charge.

### 152. Special pleas.

\- If a special plea to the general jurisdiction of the Court, or a plea in
bar of trial is offered by the accused, the procedure laid down for general
and petty Assam Rifles court when disposing of such pleas shall, so far as may
be applicable be followed, but no finding by a summary Assam Rifles court on
either of such pleas shall require approval or confirmation.

### 153. General plea of guilty or not guilty.

(1)The accused person's plea of guilty or not guilty or if he refuses to plead
or does not plead intelligibly, either one,or the other, a plea of not guilty
shall be recorded on each charge.(2)If an accused person pleads guilty, that
plea shall be recorded as the finding of the court but before it is recorded,
the court shall ascertain that the accused understands the nature of the
charge to which he has pleaded guilty and shall inform him of the general
effect of that plea, and in particular of the meaning of the charge to which
he has pleaded guilty, and of the difference in procedure which will be made
by the plea of guilty and shall advise him to withdraw that plea if it appears
from the summary or abstract of evidence or otherwise that the accused ought
to plead not guilty.(3)Where an accused pleads guilty, such plea and the
factum of compliance of sub-rule (2) of this rule, shall be recorded by the
court in the following manner-"Before recording the plea of guilty of the
accused, the court explained to the accused the meaning of the charge(s) to
which he had pleaded guilty and ascertained that the accused had understood
the nature of the charge(s) to which he had pleaded guilty. The court also
informed the accused the general effect of the plea and the difference in
procedure, which will be followed consequent to the said plea. The court
having satisfied itself that the accused understands the charge(s) and the
effect of his plea of guilty, accepts and records the same. The provisions of
rule 153 (2) are thus complied with."(4)Where an accused person pleads guilty
to the first of two or more charges laid in the alternative, the court may
after sub-rule (2) has been complied with and before the accused is arraigned
on the alternative charge or charges, withdraw such alternative charge or
charges which follows the charge to which the accused has pleaded guilty
without requiring the accused to plead thereto, and record to that effect
shall be made in the proceedings of the court.

### 154. Procedure after plea of guilty.

(1)Upon the record of the plea of guilty, if there are other charges in the
same charge sheet to which the plea is not guilty the trial shall first
proceed with respect to those other charges and after the finding on those
charges, shall proceed with the charges on which a plea of guilty, has been
entered; but if there are alternative charges, the court may either proceed
with respect to all the charges as if the accused had not pleaded guilty to
any charge or may, instead of trying him, record a finding of guilty upon
anyone of the alternative charges to which he had pleaded guilty and finding
of not guilty upon all the other alternative charges.(2)(a)After the record of
the plea of guilty on a charge (if trial does not proceed on any other
charges) the court shall read the summary or abstract of evidence and annex it
to the proceedings, or if there is no such record, shall take and record
sufficient evidence to enable it to determine the sentence, and for the
reviewing officer to know all the circumstances connected with the
offence.(b)The evidence shall be taken in like manner as is directed by these
rules in the case of plea of not guilty.(3)The accused may, after such
evidence has been taken or as the case may be, the summary or abstract of
evidence has been read, address the court with reference to the charge and in
mitigation of punishment and may call witnesses as to his character.(4)(a)If
from the statement of the accused, or from the summary of evidence, or
otherwise, it appears to the court that the accused did not understand the
effect of his plea of guilty, the court shall alter the record and enter a
plea of not guilty and proceed with the trial accordingly.(b)any alternative
charges withdrawn under sub-rule (1) shall be reinstated in the charge sheet
and the trial shall take place as if they had never been withdrawn.(5)If a
plea of guilty is recorded on some charges and the trial proceeds with respect
to other charges in the same charge sheet, the proceedings under sub-rules (2)
and (3) shall take place after the finding on the other charges in the same
charge sheet are recorded.(6)When the accused states anything in mitigation of
punishment which in the opinion of the court requires to be proved, and would,
if proved, affect the amount of punishment, the court may permit the accused
to call witnesses to prove the same.

### 155. Withdrawal of plea of not guilty.

\- The accused may, if he thinks fit at any time during the trial, withdraw
his plea of not guilty and plead guilty and in such case the court shall at
once, subject to compliance with sub-rule (2) of rule 153 record a plea and
finding of guilty and shall, so far as is necessary, proceed in the manner
directed by rule 154.

### 156. Procedure after plea of not guilty.

(1)After the plea of not guilty to any charge is recorded, the evidence for
the prosecution will be taken.(2)At the close of the evidence for the
prosecution, the accused shall be asked if he has anything to say in his
defence, and may address the court his defence, or may defer such address
until he has called his witnesses.(3)The court may question the accused on the
case for the purpose of enabling him to explain any circumstances appearing in
his statement or in the evidence against him and the accused shall not render
himself liable to any punishment by refusing to answer such questions, or by
giving answers to them which he knows not to be true.(4)No oath shall be
administered to the accused.(5)The accused may then call his witnesses,
including also witnesses to character.(6)The provisions of rules 96, 97 and 98
shall so far as may be, apply to the evidence of witnesses at a summary Assam
Rifles court as they apply to the evidence of witnesses at a general or petty
Assam Rifles court.

### 157. Witnesses in reply to defence.

\- The court may, if it thinks it necessary in the interests of justice, call
witnesses in reply to the defence.

### 158. Verdict.

\- The court shall after the evidence for prosecution and defence has been
heard, give its opinion as to whether the accused is guilty or not guilty of
the charge or charges.

### 159. Record of finding.

(1)The finding on every charge upon which the accused is arraigned shall be
recorded, and except as mentioned in these rules, shall be recorded as a
finding of guilty or of not guilty.(2)When the court is of opinion as regards
any charge that the facts proved do not disclose the offence charged or any
offence of which he might under the Act legally be found guilty on the charge
as laid, the court shall find the accused not guilty of that charge.(3)When
the court is of opinion as regards any charge that the facts found to be
proved in evidence differ materially from the facts alleged in the statement
of particulars in the charge, but are nevertheless sufficient to prove the
offence stated in the charge, and that the difference is not so material as to
have prejudiced the accused in his defence, it may, instead of recording a
finding of not guilty, record a special finding.(4)The special finding may
find the accused guilty on a charge subject to the statement of exceptions or
variations specified therein.(5)The court shall not find the accused guilty on
more than one of two or more charges laid in the alternative, even if
conviction upon one charge necessarily connotes guilty upon the alternative
charge or charges.

### 160. Procedure on acquittal.

\- Where the finding on each of the charges in a charge-sheet is not guilty,
the court shall affix its signature and date the proceedings and the findings
will be announced in open court, and the accused will be released if under
arrest, in respect of these charges.

### 161. Procedure on finding of guilty.

(1)Where the finding on any charge is guilty the court may record of its own
knowledge, or take evidence of any record, general character, age, service,
rank, and any recognised acts of gallantry, or distinguished conduct of the
accused, and previous convictions of the accused either by a Force Court, or a
criminal court, any previous punishment awarded to him by an officer
exercising authority under section 62, the length of time he has been under
arrest or in confinement of any previous sentence, and any decoration, or
reward of which he may be in possession or to which he may be
entitled.(2)Where the court does not record the matters mentioned in this rule
of its own knowledge, evidence on these matters may be taken in the manner
directed in rule 109 for similar evidence.

### 162. Sentence.

\- The court shall award one sentence in respect of all the offences of which
the accused is found guilty.

### 163. Signing proceedings.

\- The court shall affix its signature and the date to the sentence and such
signature shall authenticate the whole of the proceedings.

### 164. Charges in different charge-sheets.

(1)When the charges at a trial by summary Assam Rifles court are contained in
different charge-sheets, the accused shall be tried on each charge-sheet
separately up to and including the stage of finding.(2)The court shall,
thereafter, comply with rules 160 or 161, as the case may be.

### 165. Clearing the court.

(1)The officer holding the trial may clear the court to consider the evidence
or to consult with the officers, and subordinate officers, attending the
trial.(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (1), all the proceedings,
including the view of any place, shall be in open court, and in the presence
of the accused.

### 166. Adjournment.

(1)The court may-(a)from time to time adjourn its proceedings and meet at such
place as may be convenient; and(b)wherever necessary, visit the scene of
occurrence.

### 167. Friend of the accused.

\- During a trial at a summary Assam Rifles court, an accused may take
assistance of any person, including a legal practitioner as he may consider
necessary :Provided that such person shall not examine or cross-examine
witnesses or address the court.

### 168. Memorandum to be attached to proceedings.

\- Where a summary Assam Rifles court tries an offence which shall not
ordinarily be tried without reference to an authority mentioned in sub-section
(2) of section 96, an explanatory memorandum shall be attached to the
proceedings.

### 169. Promulgation.

\- The sentence of a summary Assam Rifles court shall be promulgated in the
manner usual in the service, at the earliest opportunity after it has been
pronounced and shall subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) of section
136 of the Act be carried out without delay after promulgation.

### 170. Review of proceedings.

\- The proceedings of a summary Assam Rifles court shall immediately on
promulgation be forwarded through the Chief Law Officer, or a Law Officer
nominated by him, to the Deputy Inspector-General or Inspector General under
whom the accused may have been serving.

### 171. Action by the Deputy Inspector-General or Inspector-General.

(1)Where the Deputy Inspector-General or Inspector-General to whom the
proceedings of a summary Assam Rifles court have been forwarded under rule
170, is satisfied that injustice has been done to the accused by reason of any
grave irregularity in the proceedings or otherwise, he may-(a)set aside the
proceedings of the court; or(b)reduce the sentence or commute the punishment
awarded to one lower in the scale of punishment given in section 57 and return
it to the unit of the accused for promulgation.(2)Where no action under sub-
rule (1) has been taken he shall countersign the proceedings.(3)The
proceedings shall, after its promulgation under sub-rule (1), or counter
signature under sub-rule (2), be forwarded to the Chief Law Officer for
custody.

### 172. Rules which shall not apply to trial by summary Assam Rifles court.

\- The provisions of Chapters-IX and X of the rules shall not apply to trials
by summary Assam Rifles court in so far as they are inconsistent with any of
the provisions contained in this Chapter pertaining to summary Assam Rifles
court.Chapter-XIII Execution of Sentence

### 173. Direction about sentence of imprisonment.

(1)A confirming authority or in the case of summary Assam Rifles court, the
court, shall direct that the sentence of imprisonment shall be undergone by
confinement either in a civil prison or in Force custody.(2)Such direction may
be varied by any superior officer.

### 174. Warrants.

\- Warrants for committing a person to a civil prison to undergo sentence of
imprisonment or to get such person back into Force custody if so required, or
to order the release of such a person from civil prison or any variation done
by any superior officer shall be in such form as may be appropriate to each
set out in Appendix-XII.(2)Such Warrants shall be signed by the Commandant of
the accused or by a staff officer on behalf of a Deputy Inspector-General,
Inspector-General or the Director-General.

### 175. Warrants in case of sentence of death.

(1)When a person is sentenced by a Force Court to suffer death, the Commandant
for the time being of such person may, if he thinks fit, by a warrant in one
of the forms in Appendix-XIII, commit the said person for safe custody in a
civil prison pending confirmation or carrying out of the sentence.(2)Where a
person is sentenced to death by hanging, a warrant in the form set out in
Appendix-XIII shall be sent by the Director-General to the Superintendent of
the Prison where facilities for carrying out such a sentence exist, after the
sentence has been confirmed by the Central Government, and the accused shall
be committed to the same prison by his Commandant on the appropriate
warrant.(3)Where an accused person is sentenced to death by being shot, a
warrant on the appropriate form set out in Appendix-XIII shall be issued by
the Director General, to Inspector-General or Deputy Inspector-General under
whom the accused may be serving, after the sentence has been confirmed by the
Central Government, and the Inspector-General or the Deputy Inspector-General
as the case may be, shall arrange for the execution of the sentence.(4)No
sentence of death shall be carried into effect until the death warrant has
been received by the authorities specified in sub-rules (1) or (2).(5)On
receipt of the death warrant, the authorities mentioned in sub-rule (1) or (2)
shall-(a)inform the person sentenced as soon as possible of the date on which
the sentence will be carried out;(b)if the person sentenced has been committed
to a civil prison under rule 175, obtain the custody of his person by issuing
a warrant in one of the forms in Appendix-XIII; and(c)proceed to carry out the
sentence as required by the death warrant and in accordance with any general
or special instructions which may from time to time by given by or under the
authority of the Director-General.(6)During the execution of a sentence death
passed under the Act, no person except those specified below, shall be present
without the authority of the officer who issued the death warrant and the
following persons shall attend the execution of the sentence of death-(a)the
authorities specified in sub-rules (1) or (2) who is responsible for the due
execution of the sentence in accordance with these rules;(b)a medical officer
of the armed forces of the Union;(c)an officer nominated by the officer who
issued the death warrant, who is able to identify the person under sentence as
the person described in the death warrant as the person who was tried and
sentenced by the Assam Rifles Court mentioned therein;(d)such under officers
as may be detailed by the authorities mentioned in sub-rules (1) and (2) for
escort and security purposes or to assist in the execution;(e)if the execution
is carried into effect in any Assam Rifles Unit, the Commandant of such
unit.(7)After the sentence of death has been carried into effect the
authorities mentioned in sub-rule (2) or the superintendent of the civil
prison, as the case may be, shall complete or cause to be completed parts II
and III of the death warrant, and shall, without unnecessary delay return the
completed death warrant to the officer who had issued the same.

### 176. Changes in sentence.

\- Where any change is made in the sentence of a person already committed to a
civil prison, such change shall be communicated to the Superintendent of the
Prison to which such person has been committed by the Commandant or such other
officer as is mentioned in rule 174 in the form set out in Appendix-XIV.

### 177. Sentence of dismissal.

(1)Sentence of dismissal shall take effect from the date of promulgation of
such sentence or from any subsequent date as may be specified at the time of
promulgation.(2)A sentence of dismissal combined with imprisonment to be
undergone in a civil prison shall not take effect until such person has been
committed to civil prison.Chapter-XIV Petitions

### 178. Petitions against finding and sentence of court.

(1)A person subject to the Act who has been tried by a court shall be allowed
to put in one petition before confirmation, to the confirming authority and
one petition after confirmation to any officer mentioned in section 139.(2)The
sentence of death shall not be carried into effect until the disposal of the
post confirmation petition submitted by the person sentenced within the period
specified in sub-rule (2) of rule 179, and the authority legally competent to
dispose of such petition finally, after considering the petition, orders that
the sentence of death may be carried into effect.(3)In the case of a summary
Assam Rifles court he shall be allowed to put in one petition only to any of
the officers mentioned in section 137.

### 179. Period of limitation.

(1)A petition, before confirmation, shall be submitted, within one month of
the conclusion of the trial.(2)A petition after confirmation shall be
submitted within 3 months of the date on which the sentence was
promulgated:Provided that the time taken by such person to obtain a copy of
the proceedings shall be excluded in calculating this period of 3 months.

### 180. Mode of submitting petitions.

(1)(a)A petition, by a person who is still a member of the Force shall be
submitted through his Commandant.(b)A petition, by a person who has ceased to
be a member of the Force shall be submitted to the Commandant of the unit in
which the trial was held.(2)An officer to whom a petition is submitted or to
whom a petition has been forwarded shall forward it to the next superior
authority within a period of one month alongwith his recommendations:Provided
that an officer may not forward a petition if he is competent to give the
redress asked for and decides to do so.(3)An officer receiving a petition may
send it to the Chief Law Officer or a Law Officer nominated by him, for
advice.Chapter-XV Courts of Inquiry

### 181. Composition.

(1)The court of inquiry may consist of two or more members one of whom shall
be an officer and the persons not subject to the Act may be appointed as
members when the court is to investigate matters of a specialised nature, and
when officers subject to the Act with specialist qualifications are not
available to be members.(2)When the character or conduct of an officer is
likely to be material in a court of inquiry, the presiding officer of the
court of inquiry, wherever possible, will be senior in rank and other members
at least equivalent in rank to such office.

### 182. Assembly.

(1)The court of inquiry may be assembled by order of a Commandant or any
officer or authority superior in command to the Commandant.(2)The order
assembling the court of inquiry shall state the composition of the court, the
time and place for its assembly and clearly state the matters which the court
will investigate and it will also provide for the administrative requirements
of the court.

### 183. Procedure of courts of inquiry.

(1)The proceedings of a court of inquiry shall not be open to the public and
only such persons may attend the proceedings as are permitted by the court to
do so.(2)The evidence of all witnesses shall be taken on oath or affirmation
and signed by them after the same has been read over and explained to
them.Explanation: The court shall administer the oath or affirmation to
witnesses as if the court were a Force Court.(3)Evidence given by witnesses
shall be recorded in narrative form unless the court considers that any
questions and answers may be recorded as such.(4)The court may take into
consideration any documents even though they are not formally proved.(5)The
court may ask witnesses any questions, in any form, that it considers
necessary to elicit the truth and may take into consideration any evidence the
same is admissible under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872) or
not.(6)No counsel or legal practitioner shall be permitted to appear before a
court of inquiry.(7)Provisions of section 111 shall apply for procuring the
attendance of witnesses before the court of inquiry.(8)(i)Save in the case of
a prisoner of war who is still absent whenever matter of inquiry is the
conduct, character or reputation of particular person, such person shall be
associated throughout with the inquiry and be given full opportunity of making
any statement, or giving any evidence he may wish to make or give, and of
cross-examination of any witness whose evidence, in his opinion affects his
character or reputation.(ii)in other cases, before giving opinion against any
person subject to the Act, the court shall afford that person the opportunity
to know all that has been stated against him, cross-examine any witness who
has given evidence against him, and make a statement and call witnesses in his
defence.(9)The court may be reassembled as often as the officer who assembled
the court may direct, for the purpose of examining additional witnesses, or
further examining any witness, or recording further information and in such a
case the court may record fresh opinion if considered necessary after
complying with the provisions of clause (ii) of sub rule (8).

### 184. Proceedings of court of inquiry not admissible in evidence.

\- The proceedings of a court of inquiry, or any confession, statement, or
answer to a question made or given at a court of inquiry, shall not be
admissible in evidence against a person subject to the Act, nor shall any
evidence respecting the proceedings of the court be given against any such
person except upon the trial of such person for will-fully giving false
evidence before that court :Provided that nothing in this rule shall prevent
the proceedings from being used by the prosecution or the defence for the
purpose of cross-examining any witness.

### 185. Courts of inquiry when to be held.

(1)A court of inquiry may be held to investigate into any disciplinary matter
or any other matter of importance.(2)In addition to a court of inquiry
required to be held under section 84, a court of inquiry shall be held in the
following cases-(a)(i)all unnatural deaths of persons subject to the Act or of
other persons within the Force lines, an immediate report shall be sent to the
officer-in-charge of the police station within whose jurisdiction such
unnatural death has occurred;(ii)in cases when such report cannot, for any
reason be delivered within a reasonable time, immediately on receipt of
information of an unnatural death, the Commandant or the senior most officer
of the unit present shall prepare a report on the proforma set out in
Appendix-XV;(b)all injuries sustained by persons subject to the Act which are
likely to cause full or partial disability and the court shall, in such cases,
determine whether such injuries were attributable to service or not;(c)all
financial irregularities, losses, theft and misappropriation of public or
Force property, where it is necessary to obtain the order of a superior
officer on such irregularities, loss, theft or misappropriation;(d)all losses
of secret documents and any other material of secret or above security
classification and such a court of inquiry shall be ordered by an officer or
authority superior to the unit Commandant having the lost document or material
on its charge.(e)all damage to private persons or property in respect of which
there is likely to be a claim against the Government or the Force.

### 186. Action on the proceedings of a court of inquiry.

\- The proceedings of a court of inquiry shall be submitted by the presiding
officer to the officer or authority who ordered the court and such officer or
authority on receiving the proceedings may either pass final orders on the
proceedings, if he is empowered to do so, or refer them to a superior
authority.

### 187. Copies of court of inquiry proceedings.

\- A person subject to the Act against whom the court of inquiry has given an
opinion or who is being tried by a Force Court on a charge relating to matter
investigated by the court of inquiry, shall be entitled to copies of the
proceedings of the court of inquiry except the findings and opinion thereon,
unless the Director-General for reasons recorded by him orders
otherwise.Losses or Theft of Arm

### 188. Court of inquiry when Rifles, etc, are lost or stolen.

(1)Whenever any weapon or part of a weapon, which forms part of the equipment
of a company or other similar unit, and in respect of the loss or theft of
which a fine may be imposed under rule 189 is lost or stolen, a court of
inquiry shall be assembled, under the orders of the Director-General,
Inspector-General or Deputy Inspector-General to investigate the circumstances
under which the loss or theft occurred.(2)The officer who assembled the court
shall direct it to record an opinion as to the circumstances of the loss or
theft.

### 189. Collective fines may be imposed.

(1)The Director-General, Inspector-General or Deputy Inspector-General shall
then record his opinion on the circumstances of the loss or theft, and may
impose for each weapon or part of a weapon lost or stolen, collective fines on
the subordinate officers, under officers, and men of such unit or upon so many
of them as he considers should be held responsible for the occurrence, to the
maximum extent of the rates approved by the Government for such weapon or part
of weapon.(2)Such fine will be assessed as a percentage on the pay of the
individuals on whom it falls,Chapter-XVI Miscellaneous

### 190. Authority prescribed for the purpose of sub-section (1) of section 13

(1)The authority for the purpose of sub-section (1) of section 13 shall be
-(a)Director-General in respect of all personnel subject to the Act other than
officers;(b)Central Government in respect of officers.(2)Any power conferred
under this rule on any of the aforesaid officer may also be exercised by any
officer superior to that officer.

### 191. Prescribed officer for the purpose of section 60.

\- The prescribed officer for the purpose of section 60 shall be the Director-
General, or the Inspector General or Deputy Inspector-General under whom the
trial was held, or the Commandant of the unit in which the trial was held.

### 192. Extent of punishment under section 62.

(1)If the Commandant is of or above the rank of a Deputy Commandant, he may
award to the full extent one or more of the punishments specified in section
62.(2)If the Commandant is below the rank of a Deputy Commandant, he may award
punishment specified-(a)in clauses (a) and (b) of section 62, up-to 14
days;(b)in other clauses of section 62, to the full extent.

### 193. Prescribed officer under clause (i) of section 69 and section 71.

(1)The following shall be the prescribed officers for the purpose of sections
clause (i) of section 69 and section 71-(a)Inspector-General in case of
subordinate officers, under officers and enrolled persons,(b)Director-General
in the case of officers.(2)Any power conferred under this rule on any of the
aforesaid officers may also be exercised by any officer superior to that
officer.

### 194. Prescribed authorities under section 75.

\- Any authority superior to the one awarding any deductions under Chapter-VI
of the Act shall be competent to remit the whole or part of the said
deductions.

### 195. Prescribed authorities under sections 76 and 77.

\- The prescribed authorities under sections 76 and 77 shall be-(a)in the case
of officers, the Director-General Assam Rifles or an officer specified by him;
and(b)in all other cases, the Commandant, training battalion, training centre,
or the unit to which the prisoner of war or missing personnel belonged, or any
superior authorities.

### 196. Prescribed officer under sub-section (i) of section 85.

\- The prescribed officer for the purpose of sub-section (1) of section 85
shall be the Inspector-General, Deputy Inspector-General, Range or Commandant
of a training institution.

### 197. Prescribed officer under section 118.

\- The prescribed officer for the purposes of sub-section (1) of section 118
shall be the Inspector-General, Deputy Inspector-General or Commandant of the
unit to which the person appears to have belonged or alleges that he belongs
or had belonged.Execution of Sentence

### 198. Prescribed manner of custody and prescribed officer under sections
121 and 122.

(1)The prescribed officer for the purpose of section 122 shall be-(a)in case
of trial by summary Assam Rifles court, the Commandant of the unit to which
the accused person belongs, or any authority superior to such Commandant;(b)in
the case of trial by any other court, the convening officer or any authority
superior to him.(2)When the officer who proposed to act as a prescribed
officer under sub-rule (1) is under the command of the officer who has taken
action in the case under sub-section (4) of section 121, he shall ordinarily
obtain the approval of such officer before he acts but if he is of opinion
that service exigencies, or the necessities of discipline render it impossible
or inexpedient to obtain such approval, he may act without obtaining such
approval, but shall report his action and the reasons thereof to such
officer.(3)For the purpose of sub-section (4) of section 121 the accused shall
be confined in such manner as may, in the opinion of the proper Force
authority, be best calculated to keep him securely without unnecessary
harshness, as he is not to be considered as a criminal but as a person
labouring under a disease.

### 199. Prescribed officer under section 140.

\- The prescribed officer for the purpose of section 140 shall be the
Additional Director-General, Inspector-General, Deputy Inspector-General Range
or training institution, in respect of proceedings confirmed by him or by a
person under his command.

### 200. Prescribed officer under section 143.

\- The prescribed officer under sub-section (1) of section 143, for the
purposes of directing whether the sentence shall be carried out by confinement
in a civil prison, in the case of a sentence which has been confirmed, shall
be any higher authority than the confirming officer, and in the case of a
sentence which does not require confirmation, shall be any higher authority to
the officer holding the trial.

### 201. Prescribed officer under section 150.

\- The prescribed officer for the purpose of section 150, as regards person
undergoing sentence in a civil prison or any other place, shall be the
Director-General or the inspector-General or Deputy Inspector General Range,
with in the area of whose command, the prisoner subject to such punishment may
for the time being be.

### 202. Authorised deductions.

\- The following deductions may be made from the pay and all other emoluments
payable to a person subject to the Act, namely-(a)upon the general or special
order of the Central Government, any sum required to meet any public claim
there may be against him,(b)any sum required to meet compulsory contributions
to any provident fund welfare fund or any other fund approved by the Central
Government or to meet any debt that may be due from him towards any Force
institutions such as messes, canteens and the like.Explanation - (i) Public
claim means any pubic debt or disallowances including over issue, or a
deficiency or irregular expenditure of public money or store of which after
due investigation, no explanation satisfactory to the Central Government is
given by the person who is responsible for the same.(ii)the aforesaid
deductions shall be in addition to those specified in the Act.

### 203. Repeal and savings.

(1)All rules and orders relating to the matters covered by these rules shall
stand repealed in so far as they are inconsistent with any of the provisions
of these rules.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal any thing done or any action
taken under the provisions of the rules or orders so repealed shall, in so far
as such thing or action is not inconsistent with the provisions of these
rules, be deemed to have been done or taken under the provisions of these
rules as if the said provisions were in force when such thing was done or such
action was taken and shall continue in force accordingly until superseded by
anything done or any action taken under these rules.

### 204. Transitory provision.

\- Any rule or order applicable to the Force on commencement of these rules
shall, unless repugnant to these rules, continue to apply unless and until
abrogated or modified by the Central Government or any other competent
authority.Part-I Appendix-I(See rule 15)(Assam Rifles recruiting form)

BloodGroup........................................................... | General No.............................................  
---|---  
Battalion.................................................................  
1. | Name............................................................... | 2. | Religion...........................................  
3. | Caste/Tribe*.................................................... | 4. | Father's name....................................  
| *(In case of Scheduled Castes and Tribes only).  
5. | Heir.................................................................  
6. | Date of Birth by Christian Era .......................  
| (As nearly as can be ascertained).  
7. | Height.......................................................cms | 8. | Chest. ...........................................cms  
9. |  Identification Marks.......................................................  
10. | Residence, Village ..................... | Thana................... |   
District..................... | State..................... |   
11. |  Character and antecedents verified by....................................  
12. |  Occupation prior toenlistment................................................  
13. |  Educational qualifications, ifany............................................  
14. |  Date ofenrolment...................................................................  
15. |  Enrolledas..............................................................................  
  
Photograph

|  
---|---  
  
Date of Photograph.....................Form of EnrolmentEnrolment of
No...................... Name (In Block
Letters)...................................... as
a.................................... in Assam Rifles.Part-I (Question to be
put before enrolment)You are warned that if after enrolment, it is found that
you have given a wilfully false answer to any of the first twelve of the
following questions you will be liable to be punished as provided in Assam
Rifles Act, 2006 (47 of 2006.(All the answers are to be written in block
letters)Question

### 1\. What is your Name?

(Underline Surname)

### 2\. (a) What is your place of birth?

State Village/Town, District and State of Birth(b)What is your date of
birth?(State in Christian era)N.B. - to support the date of birth the person
being enrolled will be required to produce in original, together with an
attested copy, one of the certificates specified in Government orders from
time to time.

### 3\. What is your permanent Home address?

(a)Village/Town(b)Thana(c)Pargana/Tehsil(d)District/Taluka(e)State

### 4\. (a) What is your religion?

(b)Are you a member of a Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe?If so state Caste
or Tribe?

### 5\. (a) Are you a citizen of India? If so, whether by birth or descent or
registration or naturalisation or otherwise?

(b)Are you a subject of Nepal or Bhutan? If so, state of which of the
two?(c)If you are not a citizen of India or a subject of Nepal or Bhutan, what
is your Nationality?N.B. - In the case of foreign nationals other than
subjects of Nepal or Bhutan, consent of the Central Government signified in
writing, if any, should be produced before a person is enrolled.(d)Have you
migrated from areas now in Pakistan? If so, State the date of your migration.

### 6\. What are your educational qualifications?

(Original Certificates, with one attested copy of each, are to be produced)

### 7\. Are you married?*

If so State(i)Date of marriage(s)(ii)Name(s) of wife/wives.(iii)Nationality of
wife/wives.*(This does not include widower/divorced).

### 8\. (a) What is your father's name and address? If dead, state last
address District and State.

(b)What is or was the nationality of your father? If he is or was an Indian
Citizen, state whether by birth, descent, registration, naturalisation or
otherwise.

### 9\. Are you or have you ever been a member of a party or organisation or a
political, communal or cultural nature? If so, state the name of the party or
organisation with the period/periods of your membership therein.

(a)Are you in Government Service or have you been a Government servant? If so,
state full particulars and the reason for discharge and confirm that you were
never dismissed from any Government service.(b)Are you in receipt of any
allowance from the Government? If so, on what account?

### 11\. (a) Do you now belong to any of the Armed Forces of India, the
Reserves of any of the three services, the Auxiliary Air Force, the
Territorial Army, any Police Force in India or the Nepal State Army or any of
the Forces of a Foreign Country?

(b)Have you ever served in any of the Armed Forces in India, the Reserves of
any of the three Services, the auxiliary Air Force, the Territorial Army, or
any Police Force in India or Nepal State Army or any of the Forces of a
Foreign Country? If so, state in which and the cause of discharge. If you have
served in more than one of the above named forces, or if you have served the
same Force in two or more distinct periods, state the cause of discharge
separately in each case.(c)Do you desire your former service in the Indian
Armed Force or any Police Force to count for the purpose of calculation of Pay
and/or Pension, if admissible? If so, do you agree to recovery being effected
of any gratuity you may have received for your former services in not more
than thirty six monthly instalments from your pay commencing from the date of
this enrolment and undertake to refund to the Government through such
recoveries or otherwise the above gratuity in full within thirty six months of
the date of your present enrolment?

### 12\. Have you ever been arrested, prosecuted, imprisoned, bound over,
interned, externed or otherwise dealt with under any law in force in India or
outside? If so, state particulars.

### 13\. Are you willing to be inoculated or re-inoculated and vaccinated?

### 14\. Are you willing to be enrolled as a combatant in the Assam Rifles?

### 15\. Are you willing to go wherever ordered by land, sea or air and not to
allow any caste or social usages to interfere with the duties for, which you
are enrolled?

### 16\. Are you willing to serve in the Assam Rifles until discharged, in
accordance with the conditions of service as specified in Part-II of this form
of enrolment?

### 17\. Do you have any objections to take the following or to make the
following affirmation at the time of your attestation?

Form of OathI, ......................... do swear in the name of God that I
will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law
established and that I will, as in duty bound, honestly and faithfully serve
in the Assam Rifles, and go wherever ordered, by air, land or sea and that I
will observe and obey all commands of the President of the Union of India and
the commands of any officer set over me even to the peril of my life.Form of
AffirmationI, ......................... do solemnly, sincerely and truly
declare and affirm that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the
Constitution of India by law established and that I will as in duty bound,
honestly and faithfully serve in the Assam Rifles and go wherever ordered by
air, land or sea and that I will observe and obey all commands of the
President of the Union of India and the commands of any officer set over me
even to the peril of my life.CertificateI, .............................. do
solemnly declare that the answers furnished by me above are true.Place
...................Date
.......................(_____________________)*Signature of the person
enrolledLeft thumb impression of the person enrolled taken in the presence of
the enrolling
officer.\---------------------------------Signature\-----------------------Name
of
witness\----------------------------------Address\----------------------------------------------\----------------------------------------------*Name
in Block LettersPart-II Conditions of Service*1. On enrolment, you shall be
subject to the Assam Rifles Act, 2006 and the rules made there under.*2. You
are liable to be discharged during the first two years of the service if you
are not likely to become an efficient member of the Force.*3. You will also be
liable to be discharged if the Central Government decides to disband the Force
or a portion of it.Certificate by the Person to be EnrolledI have understood
the above conditions and agree to abide by them( )Signature of the person
enrolledPlace ................Date .................The above conditions have
been read/explained to the person being enrolled by me.Place
.......................Date ........................( )Signature of the
Enrolling OfficerPart-III Health Certificate

### 1\. I do hereby certify that I have examined___________________ candidate
for employment in the Assam Rifles. He fulfils medical standards laid down for
the Assam Rifles and I cannot discover that he has any disease, constitutional
affliction or bodily infirmity. His age according to his own statement is
..................... years and by appearance is..........................
years.

Height................................cmsChest (a) Maximum ..............
cms(b)Minimum ............... cmsPlace ........................Date
.........................Signature of the Medical
OfficerDesignation.......................Appendix-IIForm of Delay
ReportConfidentialNo.________ Rank_________ Name________________Unit
address___________________________________Date_________________To_________________(Convening
Officer)Subject:- 1st (2nd), (3rd), (4th), etc. etc., eight-day delay report
pursuant to AR Act section 81 and AR rule 41.

### 1\. No. __________Rank________Name_________________________

### 2\. Offence ________________________________________________

### 3\. Date of offence __________________________________________

### 4\. Date offence was discovered _______________________________

### 5\. Date of (open/close) arrest _________________________________

### 6\. Date of release to open arrest/release______________ without prejudice
to re-arrest

(If not released, reasons) _____________________________________________

### 7\. Summary of Evidence recorded on______________________________________

(if not recorded, reasons) _____________________________________________

### 8\. Application for trial made
on___________________________________________

### 9\. Date due to be tried _________________________________________________

### 10\. Reason for delay __________________________________________________

(Commandant)Copy to:-

### 1\. Inspector General (in case of the 8th and subsequent reports).

### 2\. Chief Law Officer, DGAR (in case of the 8th and subsequent reports).

### 3\. Director General (Special report in case the accused is under close
arrest for more than 3 months without a trial).

Appendix-IIIForm of representation by person under arrest[See rule-42 (2)]

SI No. | Date | Name of the accused |  Name of the officer or subordinate officer to whom request orrepresentation mode | Particulars of the request or representation | Order of the commandant |  Signature with date of the officer or subordinate officer whoconveys the orders of the Commandant to the accused | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
  
Appendix-IV[See rules 46 and 54(3)](*Tentative) Charge SheetThe accused,
No.................. (if applicable) Rank........................... Name
................. ................ battalion or unit.................. is
charged with:-Disobeying the Lawful Command of his Superior OfficerAR ActSec
28(2)in that he,at........ on.......... disobeyed the lawful command of his
superior officer, Rank............... Name...................... of the same
battalion, to turn out for Commandant's parade, by not turning
out.Place....................Date.....................(Commandant)___xx_________battalion**(To
be tried by a general or petty Assam Rifles court)Place .............Date
..............Inspector-General or Dy Inspector-General* The word 'Tentative'
to be included only in cases of hearing of charge under AR rule 47, and not to
be included for charge sheets under AR rule 54 (3) which is prepared for trial
by Assam Rifles courts and summary trials of officers, subordinate officers
and warrant officers.** These entries are to be made in charge sheet specified
in AR rule 54 (3) when sanction is accorded for the trial of grave offences as
provided under AR Act section 96 (2).Appendix-V(Form of Hearing of the
Charge)(See rule-47)Appendix_________This form is to be filled by the
Commandant at the time of hearing of a charge against a person subject to the
Assam Rifles Act, 2006.Record of Proceedings before Commandant under Assam
Rifles Rule 47In the case of No. ______________ Rank_______ Name______________
of______ unit (parent unit), attached to_______________ (Unit to which
attached), vide_________ (quote authority).Proceedings-

### 1\. The charge(s) against the accused has/have been read out, explained to
him and attached as Annexure I.

or

### 2\. Calling and hearing of witness, in terms of AR rule 47 (1) have been
dispensed with, since provisions of AR rule 183 (8) have been dispensed with,
since provisions of AR rule 183 (8) have been complied with at the Court of
Inquiry, in respect of the accused.

Signature of accusedDate_____________(Note: Where the Commandant dispenses
with the calling and hearing of witnesses, in terms of Assam Rifles rule 47
(1), columns 4 to 6 of the Appendix, being inapplicable, may be scored out.
The Commandant will pass appropriate orders in column 7 of the Appendix).

### 3\. Hearing of the charge (s) commenced on___________(Date) at_______hrs.

### 4\. The following prosecution witnesses were heard by me, in the presence
of the accused who was given full liberty to cross-examine each of them-

(Date (s) on which the witness was heard orally by commandant | Personal particulars of prosecution witness (es) | Description of documentary evidence produced, if any |  Whether accused cross-examined the witness or declined tocross-examine (only state 'yes' or 'declined' before eachwitness, as applicable)  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
  
### 5\. The accused was informed by me that he was at liberty to make any
statement and call any witness in defence. A brief of the statement made by
the accused is attached as Annexure-II to this form.

orThe accused declines to make a statement.

### 6\. The following defence witnesses were heard/no witnesses were produced
by the accused-

Date(of) | Personal particulars of witnesses in defence | Description of documentary evidence, if any, produced  
---|---|---  
|  |   
  
### 7\. On conclusion of the hearing of the charges(s) or after going through
the whole of evidence in the court of inquiry and the statement of the
accused, I have given the following orders-

Date of order | Order  
---|---  
|  
  
### 8\. The above proceedings under Assam Rifles rule 47(1) were held by me in
the presence of the following independent witnesses: -

(a)(b)Signature(Name;)CommandantUnit:Place:Dated:Note: Strike out inapplicable
portion.Instructions-(a)It is the personal responsibility of the Commandant of
the accused to fill this form in every disciplinary case dealt with by him
including a summary trial under Assam Rifles Act, 2006.(b)Except as provided
in proviso to Assam Rifles rule 47 (1) hearing of prosecution witness(es) is
mandatory with due opportunity of cross-examination to the accused
notwithstanding his pleading guilty or accepting his complicity/guilt in, any
manner. Even in a case where prima facie case is made out by documentary
evidence, it is a legal necessity to examine the prosecution witness(es), may
be he/they produce only the relevant documents. The particulars of such
witness(es), must be recorded in column 4 of this form.(c)At the close of
hearing, orders of the Commandant will be conveyed to the accused in para 7 as
also recorded in Annexure-I to this form. Said orders may be recorded as
follows - "evidence to be reduced to writing", or "to be tried summarily" or
"I hereby dismiss the charge" etc.(d)This form, together with the original
charge(s) or accusation(s) bearing the orders of the Commandant will
invariably accompany the application for trial.(e)In the case of a trial by
summary Assam Rifles court, it will be ensured that the form is attached with
the proceedings while submitting the same to the Chief Law Officer for
review.(f)Similarly, in the case of summary trial of officers, subordinate
officers, warrant officers and under officers, this form will be attached to
the summary trial proceedings while forwarding the same for review by superior
authority,(g)A court of inquiry, except as provided by proviso to Assam Rifles
rule 47 (1) cannot be used for the purpose of preliminary hearing of the
charge.(h)The words, "and the statement of the accused", appearing in para 7
should be deleted where there is no such statement.Appendix-VI[See rule 47(2)
and (4)]Form for use at summary proceedings of under officers and other
enrolled persons under section 62 of the Assam Rifles Act.*Offence
Report_________________________________Company
__________________________Serial No __________________________For week ending
____________________Last report submitted on ______________Charge against
No._____________ Rank ______ Name________________

Place and date of offence | Offence | Plea | Name of witnesses | Findings | Punishment awarded |  Signature, rank and designation of the office by whom awardedand date of award | Date of entry in conduct sheet | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9)  
  
Signature of Commandant of the battalion_____________Instructions-

Col. |  In cases of absence without leave or desertion the date ofoffence will be the first day of absence.  
---|---  
Col. |  The section and sub-section of the Assam Rifles Act underwhich the charge is preferred will be inserted above thestatement of offence.  
Col. |  An officer cannot deal summarily with a case in which he isthe sole prosecution witness.  
Col. | Must be completed strictly in accordance with the heading.  
  
Note: - 1. *Offence report shall be as per the tentative charge sheet on which
hearing of charge will invariably be conducted.

### 2\. This will be prepared in duplicate. A copy alongwith a precis or
abstract of evidence where made shall be sent to the Deputy Inspector General.

Appendix-VII(See rule 52)Form of Application for a Force CourtBattalion or
unitStationDated ..............Application for a Force CourtSir,I have the
honour to submit charge(s) against No............ Rank.................. Name
................... of the .............. unit, under my command, and request
you to accord or obtain sanction, of ........... that a Force Court may be
assembled for his trial at ..............The case was investigated by
(a)...................................A court of inquiry was held on
(b)......... date .................. at................ (station).Presiding
officer......................... Rank, Name and unit.Members
..................................................The accused is now
at............... His general character is.............(c). I enclose the
following documents (d).

### 1\. Charge sheet (......................copies) (e).

### 2\. Summary of evidence (original) and 5 copies.

### 3\. Original exhibits.

### 4\. List of witnesses for the prosecution and defence (with their present
address).

### 5\. List of exhibits.

### 6\. Correspondence.

### 7\. Statement as to character and the conduct sheet of the accused.

### 8\. Statement by accused as to whether or not he desires to have an
officer assigned by the convening officer to represent him at the trial (rule
60).

Signature of CommandantInstructions(a)Here insert name of
.................................................. .(i)Officer who
investigated the charges.(ii)Company or equivalent Commander or Commandant who
made preliminary hearing into the case (rule 47).(iii)Officer who made the
record of summary of evidence (rule 49).(b)To be filled in if there has been a
court of inquiry respecting any matters connected with the charges; otherwise
to be struck out [rule 64 (c)].(c)To be filled in by the Commandant,
personally.(d)Any item not applicable to be struck out.(e)3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8
to be returned to the Commandant of the unit of the accused with the notice of
trial.Appendix-VIII(See rule 53(3))Form 1Form for use at summary trials of
officers, subordinate officers and warrant officers under sections 64 to 66 of
the Assam Rifles Act.Accused ...............................No., Rank and Name
..............................Unit
............................................When the authority dealing
summarily with the case decides (with the written consent of the accused) to
dispense with the attendance of witnesses.Questions to the accused -

1. |  Have you received a copy of the charge-sheet and summary ofevidence? | Answer..........  
---|---|---  
2. |  Have you had sufficient time to prepare your defence?Thecharge-sheet is read. | Answer.......  
3. |  Are you guilty or not guilty of the charge(s) against youwhich you heard read?The summary of evidence is read aloudor the authority dealing summarily with the case informs theaccused that he has already perused it. | Answer .........  
4. |  Do you wish to make a statement?If the accused desires tomake a statement, he should do so now. | Answer .......  
If at the conclusion of the hearing, the authority dealing summarily with the
case considers that the charge should not be dismissed, he is to examine the
accused's record of service or conduct sheet.  
If the authority dealing summarily with the case proposes to award punishment
other than a reprimand, severe reprimand, or penal deductions, in the case of
an officer, a subordinate officer or a warrant officer, he shall put the
following questions to the accused:-  
5. | Do you elect to be tried by an Assam Rifles court or will you accept my award? | Answer .......  
  
Finding........................Award
..........................Station..........................Date.............................Signed
.......................Note 1.- The oral statement of the accused made in
answer to question 4 will be either recorded or a gist thereof prepared and
attached.Note 2.- After disposal of a charge, the proceedings alongwith
relevant documents shall be forwarded for review in accordance with rule 53
(3) to (5).Form 2Form for use at summary trials of officers, subordinate
officers and warrant officers under sections 64 to 66 of the Assam Rifles
Act.Accused......................................Rank And Name
..........................Unit ..........................................When
the authority dealing summarily with the case does not decide to dispense with
the attendance of witnesses or when the accused requires their
attendance.Questions to the accused-

1. | Have you received a copy of the charge-sheet and summary of evidence? | Answer..........  
---|---|---  
2. | Have you had sufficient time to prepare your defence?The charge-sheet is read. | Answer.......  
3. | Are you guilty or not guilty of the charge(s) against you which you heard read?The witnesses give their evidence, accused being permitted to cross-examine. | Answer .........  
4. | Do you wish to make a statement? | Answer .......  
5. | Do you desire to call any witnesses? | Answer .......  
The accused makes a statement and his witnesses give evidence.If at the
conclusion of the hearing, the authority dealing summarily with the case
considers that the charge should not be dismissed, he is to examine the
accused's record of service or conduct sheet.  
If the authority dealing summarily with the case proposes to award a
punishment other than a reprimand. severe reprimand or penal deductions. In
the case of an officer, a Subordinate Officer or a Warrant Officer, he shall
put the following question to the accused-  
6. | Do you elect to be tried by an Assam Rifles Court will you accept my award? | Answer .......  
  
Finding ........................Award
..........................Station.........................Date:............................Signed..................Note
1.- The oral statement of the accused made in answer to question 4 will be
either recorded or a gist thereof prepared and attached.Note 2.- After
disposal of a charge, the proceedings alongwith relevant documents shall be
forwarded for review with rule 53 (3) to (5).Appendix - IX(See rule 67(3))Form
to Convene Force CourtForm of order for the assembly of a general or petty
Assam Rifles court under the Assam Rifles Act, 2006.Orders
by..............................(Place............... date............)

No ........... | The details of officers as mentioned below will assemble at  
---|---  
| on the ...................day of  
| ............for purpose of trying by a  
Rank ........ | .................Force Court,  
Name......... | the accused person (persons) named in the margin (and such  
Unit......... | other person or persons as may be brought before them)*  
| The senior officer to sit as presiding officer  
  
Members..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................Waiting
Members..........................................................................................................................................................................Law
Officer......................................................... is appointed
Law Officer.Interpreter.......................................................
is appointed
interpreter.Prosecutor..........................................................is
appointed prosecutor.@ The accused will be warned, and all witnesses duly
required to attend.The proceedings (of which only three copies are required)
will be forwarded through the Chief Law Officer
to.......................................................Signed this
.................... day of .......................... 20.............#(
)Convening officer* Any opinion of the convening officer with respect to the
composition of the court (see rule 66) should be added here, thus:-"In the
opinion of the convening officer it is not practicable to appoint officers of
different battalions or units"."In the opinion of the convening officer,
officers of equal or superior rank to the accused are not available, having
due regard to the exigencies of public service".@ Add here any order regarding
counsel. [See rule 67(g)].# The convening order must be sighed by the
convening officer personally. The date of the convening order must not be
prior to the date on which the order for trial was endorsed by the convening
officer on the charge sheet.Appendix - X[See rule 114 (1)][Order of disposal
of property regarding which offence is committed]In exercise of the powers
conferred on me by section 127 of the Assam Rifles Act, 2006,
I........................................ hereby order that .................
be delivered or paid to ........................... (be confiscated or
destroyed).Signature(Confirming authority)Date.................
.Place.............. ..Appendix - XI[See rule 116 (2)][Form for promulgation
of finding and sentence of Force Court]The finding(s) and sentence of the
general or petty Assam Rifles court held at........................ (place)
from .................. day of ........ to ...... day of .............. for
the trial of the accused (particulars) ..................... were promulgated
to the accused by me at ................ (place) on ........................
day of ........................................20.Extracts for battalion or
unit records have been taken or 'No record has been kept of the
finding(s).Signature(Commandant)Date .............Place ............* To be
used in case of acquittal on all charges.Appendix - XII[see rule 174]Warrants
under Sections 143 and 147 of the Assam Rifles Act, 2006Form AWarrant of
commitment for use when a prisoner is sentenced to imprisonment for life
(section 143)ToThe Superintendentof the (a)..........Prison.Whereas at a
general Assam Rifles court, held at.............. on the ............. day of
............ 20 (No.................... Rank ................. Name
............ Unit ................) was convicted of (the offence to be
briefly stated here, as "desertion on active duty", "correspondence with the
enemy" or as the case may be).And whereas the said general Assam Rifles court
on the.........day of....... 20......, passed the following sentence upon the
said (Name..........) that is to say............(Sentence to be entered in
full, but without signature).And whereas the said sentence had been duly
confirmed by (b).....as required by law (c).This is to require and authorise
you to receive the said (Name........) into your custody in the said prison as
by law is required, together with this warrant, until he shall be delivered
over by you with the said warrant to the proper authority and custody for the
purpose of undergoing the aforesaid sentence of imprisonment for life. The
aforesaid sentence has effect from the (d).The period spent by
(Name)............. in civil custody/Force custody during the investigation,
inquiry or tarial of the same case is (e)..... and the said period (e)
............... shall be set off against the aforesaid sentence of
imprisonment.Given under my hand at...........................this the
....................... day of............ 20 .....Signature (f)(a)Enter name
of civil prison.(b)Name and description of confirming authority.(c)Add if
necessary "with a remission of .............."(d)Enter date on which the
original sentence was signed.(e)Enter the exact period (years, months and
days) spent in civil/Force custody during investigation, inquiry or trial in
the same case.(f)Signature of Commandant of the prisoner or other prescribed
officer.Form BWarrants of commitment for use when a prisoner is sentenced to
imprisonment which is to be undergone in a civil prison (section 143)ToThe
Superintendentof the (a) .................... Prison.Whereas at a (b)
..................... Force Court held at ................on the
................................ day of ...................20 (No
.................... Rank ......................Name
............................ Unit..............) was duly convicted of
...................... (the offence to be briefly stated here as 'desertion',
'theft', 'receiving stolen goods', 'fraud' , 'disobedience of lawful command'
or as the case may be).And whereas the said (b) ..................... Force
Court on the ................day of...................... , 20., passed the
following sentence upon the said (Name .................. ) that is to say
.....................................(Sentence to be entered in full, but
without Signature).And whereas the said sentence (c)....has been duly
confirmed by (d)..... as required by law (e) or is by law valid without
confirmation.This is to required and authorise you to receive the said (Name
..................) into your custody together with the warrant and there
carry the aforesaid sentence of imprisonment into execution according to law.
The sentence has effect from the (f) ................................The
period spent by (Name) .................................. in civil custody or
Force custody during the investigation, inquiry or trial of the same case is
(g) ......... and the said period (g)................. ..... ... ... ......
shall be set off against the aforesaid sentence of imprisonment.Given under my
hand at ..........................this the ....................... day
of..................... 20.Signature (h)(a)Enter name of civil
prison.(b)General, petty or summary.(c)Strike out inapplicable words.(d)Name
and description of confirming authority.(e)Add if necessary "with a remission
of ................ ".(f)Enter date on which the original sentence was
signed.(g)Enter the exact period (years, months and days) spent in civil or
Force custody during investigation, inquiry or trial in the same
case.(h)Signature of Commandant of the prisoner or other prescribed
officer.Form CWarrant for use when a sentence of imprisonment for life is
reduced by superior authority to one of a shorter period (section 147).ToThe
Superintendentof the (a) .................... Prison.Whereas (No
............... Rank .......... Name ............ . of the................
unit is confined in the (a) ........... prison under a warrant issued by (b)
in pursuance of a sentence of (c) .............. passed upon him by a general
Assam Rifles court held at ............. on ................. and whereas
(d)..........has, in the exercise of the powers conferred upon him by the
Assam Rifles Act, passed the following order regarding the aforesaid sentence;
that is to say
:-(e)..........................................................................................................................................................................This
is to require and authorise you to keep the said (name) .................. in
your custody together with this warrant in the said prison as by law is
required until he shall be delivered over by you with the said warrant to the
proper authority and custody, for the purpose of his undergoing the punishment
of imprisonment for life under the said order. And this is further to require
and authorise you to return to me the original warrant of commitment in lieu
where of this warrant is issued.* The period of such imprisonment will reckon
from the (f).The period spent by (Name) .................................. in
civil custody or Force custody during the investigation, inquiry or trial of
the same case is (g) ......... and the said period (g)
................................. shall be set off against the aforesaid
sentence of imprisonment.Given under my hand at ................. this the
............ day of ......... 20Signature (h)(a)Enter name of civil
prison.(b)Enter name or designation of officer who signed original
warrant.(c)Enter original sentence (if this was reduced by the confirming
officer or other superior authority, the sentence should be entered thus-
"Life Imprisonment reduced by confirming officer to 10 years").(d)Name and
designation of authority varying the sentence.(e)Order to be set out in
full.(f)Enter date on which original sentence was signed.(g)Enter the exact
period (years, months and days) spent in civil or Force custody during
investigation, inquiry or trial in the same case.(h)Signature of prescribed
officer.Form DWarrant for use when prisoner is to be delivered into Force
custodyToThe Superintendent of the (a) .................... Prison.Whereas (No
............... Rank ............. Name .................of the...........
unit is confined in the (a) ........... prison under a warrant issued by (b)
in pursuance of a sentence of (c).............. passed upon him by a (d)
.......... Force Court held at ............. on ................. and
whereas(e) ................ has, in the exercise of the powers conferred upon
him by the Assam Rifles Act, passed the following order regarding the
aforesaid sentence; that is to say :-(f)................................ .This
is to require and authorize you to deliver forthwith the said (name) in your
custody to the officer or subordinate officer bringing this warrant.Given
under my hand at ......................this the .......................day
of...............................20Signature (g)(a)Enter name of civil
prison.(b)Enter name or designation of officer who signed original
warrant.(c)Enter original sentence (if this was reduced by the confirming
officer or other superior authority the sentence should be entered thus :- "2
years rigorous imprisonment reduced by confirming officer to 1 year rigorous
imprisonment").(d)General, petty or summary.(e)Name and designation of
authority issuing the order.(f)Order to be set out in full.(g)Signature of
prescribed officer.Appendix - XIII[See rule 175(1)]Form EWarrant committing to
civil prison custody a person sentenced to deathToThe Superintendentof the (a)
.................... Prison.Whereas a general Assam Rifles court held at.
............... on the .............. day of .................... 20 ,(No
............... Rank ..................Name
............................................ ) of the ....................
unit was convicted of...................... (Offence to be briefly stated).And
whereas the said general Assam Rifles court on the .................. day of
........................... 20 , passed sentence of death on the saidName-This
is to require and authorise you to receive and hold the said (Name)
.................. into your custody in the said prison as by law required,
together with this warrant, until such time as a further warrant in respect of
the said (Name) ............ shall be issued to you.Given under my hand
at....................... this the ................ day of...20Signature
(b)(a)Enter name of civil prison.(b)Signature of the Commandant.Form FWarrant
of execution of sentence of death in civil prisonPart - IToThe Superintendent
of the (a) .................... Prison. Whereas No .......... Rank ...........
Name ........... of .......... (unit) having been sentenced to suffer death on
the ................... day of ..............................20.............
by a General Assam Rifles Court held at...............(b), has been by a
warrant issued by(c) ............ committed to your custody;AND whereas, the
said sentence having been confirmed by the Central Government, a copy of the
order of the Central Government certifying the confirmation of the sentence of
death being annexed hereto;This is to authorise and require you to carry out
the said sentence into execution by causing the said
.........................................................(Name) To Be Hanged
By The Neck Until he be Dead at (d).........................and to return this
warrant to (e) .....................................with an endorsement
certifying that the sentence has been executed.Given under my hand at.
................ this ... day of .............. 20Signature (f)(a)Enter name
of civil prison.(b)Enter the place of trial.(c)Enter name and designation of
officer who signed the original warrant.(d)Time, date and place of
execution.(e)Director-General, Assam Rifles.(f)Signature of the Director-
General.Part-II Return of warrantThe above sentence passed on (No) .........
(Rank) ......... (Name) ................was carried into effect at (d)
...............hours on the ........................day of ..........
.SignatureSuperintendent of Prison.Form GWarrant to obtain person sentenced to
death from civil custody in order to carry out such sentenceToThe
Superintendentof the (a).................... Prison.Whereas,
No................Rank .................. Name .................. of
the.............................. unit having been sentenced to suffer death
on the............... day of ................. 20, by a general Assam Rifles
court held at...................... is held in the said prison under a warrant
issued by (b).And whereas, the said sentence having been duly confirmed
by(c)............... as by Law required, an orderto carry out the said
sentence has been issued to me (d) .................... (Name & Rank)
......................... .This is to require and authorize you to deliver
forthwith said (Name).................to the officer or subordinate officer
under officer bringing this warrant.Given under my hand at.
.................this ...day of.............. 20Signature (e)(a)Enter name of
civil prison.(b)Enter name or designation of officer who Signed original
warrant.(c)Name and description of confirming authority.(d)Name and
designation of the officer to whom the order is issued.(e)Signature of the
officer by whom the warrant is issued.Form HWarrant to carry out sentence of
death by Assam Rifles authoritiesPart - IToThe Inspector-General or Deputy
Inspector-General..................................................Whereas, No
............ Rank................. Name.................. of the............
battalion or unit having been sentenced to suffer death on the day of
.....20... by a general Assam Rifles court held at ......... (a), is held in
the (b) prison under a warrant issued by (c)And Whereas, the said sentence,
having been confirmed by the Central Govmnment, a copy of the order of the
confirming authority certifying the confinnatioi"' of the sentence being
annexed hereto, this is to authorise and require you to carry the said
sentence into execution by causing the said ....(person) to be shot to death
at (d)........and to return this warrant to (e) with an dorsement certifying
that the sentence has been executed.Given under my hand at............... this
the ......... day of ............... 20.Signature (f)Part - II Return of
warrantThe above sentence passed on
(Number)_________(Rank)________(Name)________was carried into effect at
(d)_______ hours on the_________ day of 20.Signature (g)Part -III Certificate
of Medical OfficerI, ______ (Number, Rank, Name) hereby certify that I have
examined the body of Number Rank, __ Name upon whom the sentence of death was
carried into effect at (d) and that on such examination I found that the said
person was dead.Signed at (Place),___________ this the______________ day
of______________20Signature(Rank and Unit)Medical Officer of ArmedForces of
the Union(a)Enter the place of trial.(b)Enter the name of the prison.(c)Enter
name and designation of officer who signed the original warrant.(d)Time, date
and place of execution.(e)Officer by whom the warrant is issued.(f)Signature
of the officer by whom the warrant is issued.(g)Signature of the officer
executing the sentence.Appendix - XIV(See rule 176)Form IWarrant for use when
the sentence of a person under sentence of death and committed to custody in a
civil prison is commuted to a sentence of imprisonment for life.ToThe
Superintendent of the(a)..................... PrisonWhereas No
................... Rank ............... Name ................... of the unit
is held in the (a) ............ prison under a warrant issued by (b)
................ in pursuance of a sentence of death passed upon him by
general Assam Rifles court held at. .................... on ...............
and whereas (c) .......... has, in exercise of the powers conferred upon him
by the Assam Rifles Act, passed the following order regarding the aforesaid
sentence; that is to say (d) .................This is to require and authorise
you to keep the said (Name ..........) in your custody together with this
warrant in the said prison as by law is required until he shall be delivered
over by you with the said warrant to the proper authority and custody for the
purpose of his undergoing the punishment of imprisonment for life, under the
said order. And this is further to require and authorise you to return to me
the original warrant of commitment in lieu whereof this warrant is issued. The
period of such imprisonment for life will reckon from the
(e)......................Given under my hand at ................. this the
............ day of .............. 20Signature (f)(a)Enter name of civil
prison.(b)Enter name or designation of the officer who signed original
warrant.(c)Name and designation of authority commuting the sentence.(d)Order
to be set out in full.(e)Enter date on which original sentence was
signed.(f)Signature of Commandant.Form JWarrant for use when the sentence of a
person under sentence of death and committed to custody in a civil prison is
commuted to a sentence of imprisonment to be served in the same prison.ToThe
Superintendent of the (a) .................Prison.Whereas (No .............
Rank ..........Name.................) of the ................unit is held in
the (a)prison under a warrant issued by (b)..........in pursuance of a
sentence of death passed upon him by a general Assam Rifles. court held
al.............on............,and whereas (c)...........has in exercise of the
powers conferred upon him by the Assam Rifles Act, passed the following order
regarding the aforesaid sentence, that is to say:- (d) ...............This is
to require and authorise you to keep the said (Name)........... in your
custody together with this warrant, and there to carry into execution the
punishment of imprisonment under the said order according to law.And this is
further to require and authorise you to return to me the original warrant of
commitment in lieu-where-of this warrant is issued. The period of such
imprisonment will reckon from the (e)...............The period spent by
(Name)..................................... in civil custody or Force custody
during the investigation, inquiry or trial of the same case is (f)
..............and the said period (f).............shall be set off against the
aforesaid sentence of imprisonment for life.Given under my hand
at...............this the ...............day of............20Signature
(G)(a)Enter name of civil prison.(b)Enter name or designation of the officer
who signed original warrant.(c)Name and designation of authority commuting the
sentence.(d)Order to be set out in full.(e)Enter date on which original
sentence was Signed.(f)Enter the exact period (years, months and days) spent
in civil or Force custody during investigation, inquiry or trial in the same
case.(g)Signature of Commandant.Form KWarrant for use when a person who, after
having been sentenced to death, has been committed to custody in a civil
prison, is to be delivered into Force custody fora purpose other than carrying
out the sentence of death.ToThe Superintendent of the (a) .................
Prison.Whereas (No ............. Rank ..........Name................) of the
................. Unit is held in the (a) .....Prison under a Warrant issued
by (b) ..........in pursuance of a sentence of death passed upon him by a
General Assam Rifles Court held at.............on............, and whereas
(c)........... has in exercise of the powers conferred upon him by the Assam
Rifles Act, passed the following order regarding the aforesaid sentence; that
is to say (d) .................This is to require and authorise you to
forthwith deliver the said (name) .........to the officer/subordinate officer
or under officer bringing this warrant.Given under my hand
at.................this the.............day of..............20Signature
(e)(a)Enter name of civil prison.(b)Enter name or designation of the officer
who signed original warrant.(c)Name and designation of authority issuing
order.(d)Order to be set out in full.(e)Signature of Commandant.Form LWarrant
for use when a prisoner is pardoned or his trial set aside, or when the whole
sentence or the unexpired portion is remitted (section 147),ToThe
Superintendentof the (a)......... Prison.Whereas,
(No........Rank.......Name...........) of the unit is confined in the (a)...,
prison under a warrant issued by (b)............in pursuance of a sentence of
(c)............... "passed upon him by a (d)............ Assam Rifles court
held at................on..............., and whereas
(e)........................has in exercise of the powers conferred upon him by
the Assam Rifles Act, passed the following order regarding the aforesaid
sentence; that is to say (f)..................This is to require and authorise
you to forthwith discharge the said (Name)......,from your custody unless he
is liable to be detained for some other cause, and for your so discharging him
this shall be your sufficient warrant.Given under my hand at
................,this the ............day of...............20Signature
(g)(a)Enter name of civil prison,(b)Enter name or designation of the officer
who signed original warrant.(c)Enter original sentence (if this was reduced by
the confirming officer or other superior authority, the sentence should be
entered thus: '2 years rigorous imprisonment reduced by confirming officer to
1 year').(d)General, petty and (or) summary,(e)Name and designation of
authority pardoning prisoner, mitigating sentence or setting aside
trial.(f)Order to be set out in full.(g)Signature of prescribed
officer.Appendix - XV[see rule 185 (2) (a)]Report on Unnatural Death

### 1\. Place of death, or the place where dead body was found (give details.)

### 2\. Date and time at which information of death was received.

### 3\. Name and description of two or more persons who identify the dead
body.

### 4\. Name and particulars of the deceased and his status.

### 5\. Condition of clothes worn by deceased.

Note:- In case, examination by Doctor is awaited, above details should be
collected without removing the clothes etc. of the deceased. The other details
should be completed after the Doctor's examination

### 6\. Condition of limbs, eyes and mouth.

### 7\. Expression of face.

### 8\. Marks of struggle on the dead body if any, injuries and abrasions
should be recorded showing their size and location.

Note:- Depth of injury should be recorded but injuries should not be touched.
If examination by Doctor is awaited the above information should be recorded
after his examination.

### 9\. Whether blood is fluid or coagulated. The place from which it came out
and its quantity.

### 10\. By which means, weapon or instrument, the injury or marks of struggle
appear to have been caused?

### 11\. Was any rope tied around the neck or is (here any marks of it being
head by anything?

### 12\. Was the rope or any other thing used to strangle or hang dead body,
was it strong enough to sustain the weight and whether its other end was tied
to anything?

### 13\. Was any external article like grass etc. sticking to hairs or held in
his hands or sticking to any other part of the body?

### 14\. Is the dead body that of a strong and well built man or is it that of
a weak or old man?

### 15\. Is the dead body strong or weak or is it in decomposed state?

### 16\. Length of the dead body from head to feet.

### 17\. Identification marks and location and appearance of the wound.

### 18\. Apparent cause of death.

### 19\. Is there any rumour or other circumstances showing that it is a case
of suicide. Details of articles found on the dead body or lying near it.

### 20\. Those found on the dead body (a slip will be affixed on each article
which will be stamped).

### 21\. Those found lying near the dead body (a slip duly stamped will be
affixed on each article).

Description of seal

### 22\. Map of the place where the dead body was found.

Brief history of the case |  Signatureof two or morerespectable witnesses of thelocality inwhose presenceinvestigation was carriedout.  
---|---  
Place........................... | Signature of the officerinvestigating the caseName  
Date........................ | Rank..............................  
  
Part-II (Specimens of Force Courts Proceedings)(Specimen - 1)Form of
Proceedings for General and Petty Assam Rifles Courts Under The Assam Rifles
Act, 2006AProceedings of a general Assam Rifles court held at _______ on
the_____ day of by order of Inspector-General or Deputy Inspector-General
Assam Rifles dated the______ day of ______Presiding officerNo
Rank.___________Name___________Unit_________________MembersNo.
Rank.___________ Name_________Unit________________No.
Rank.___________Name__________Unit____________No.
Rank.___________Name__________Unit___________No.
Rank.___________Name__________Unit___________Law
OfficerNo.___________Rank.___________Name___________UnitInterpreterNo.___________Rank.___________Name___________Unit.___________Trial
of No. Rank.___________ Name Unit_____ (attached to___________unit)The order
convening the court, the charge sheet and the summary of evidence are laid
before the court.The court satisfies itself that
No.___________Rank___________Name_______Unit_______is not available to serve
owing to (insert
reasons)___________.No.___________Rank___________Name___________Unit.___________Waiting
member takes his place as a member of the court.The court satisfies itself as
provided by Assam Rifles rule 68.Note. - Before satisfying that the court has
satisfied itself as provided by Assam Rifles rule 68, the presiding officer
will, in every case where a court of inquiry has been held respecting a matter
upon which a charge against the accused is founded, insert an asterisk after
the words "Assam Rifles rule 68" and sign a footnote at the bottom of the
first page of the proceedings, to the following effect:-"I have satisfied
myself that none of the officers detailed as members of this court has
previously served upon any court of inquiry respecting the matters forming the
subject of the charge (charges) before this court."Place:Date:(Signature of
presiding officer)The accused is brought before the
court.Prosecutor______________________________(legal qualification to be
stated)Prosecution counsel (if any)
Name...........(qualification).....advocate.......(court in which
practicing)Defending officer (legal qualification to be stated)Defence
counsel, if any, Name ......(qualification)......advocate.........(court in
which practicing).At_________hrs the trial commences.The order convening the
court is read and is marked signed by the Law Officer (residing officer) and
attached to the proceedings. The names of the presiding officer 2nd members of
the court are read over in the hearing of the accused, and they severally
answer to their names.$ Q-1 Do you object to be tried by me as presiding
officer, or any of the officers whose names you have heard/read
over?A-1_____________________________________________________________________Q-2
What is your objection to............(the junior most officer objected to)?The
accused in support of his objection to.........requests permission to call
.......... etc. No. _________Rank________Name________is called into court, and
is questioned by accused.The member (objected to) in reply states.The court is
closed to consider the objection in the absence of (the challenged
officer).The court decides to disallow/allow the objection,The court is re-
opened and the accused is again brought before it. The above decision is
announced in the open court.@ Waiting Member..............takes his place as a
member of the court.@ (This only applies in the case of there being a waiting
member of the court).The court satisfies itself that No ................. Rank
............Name............ Unit.................is eligible and not
disqualified to serve on this court.Q-3 Do you object to be tried by
..............(the waiting
member)?A-3______________________________________________________________________(If
he objects, the objection will be dealt with in the same manner as the former
objection.)Note-* All printed matter not applicable to the particular court
being held should be struck out and initialled by the officer responsible for
the record (rule 130).# All questions and answers will be numbered serially
through-out the proceedings.$ This question will be asked by the presiding
officer to the accused (rule 70).B (Fresh page)The presiding officer, members
and Law Officer are duly sworn or affirmed.Q-4 Do you object to Shri (or
No.________Rank________Name Unit________) as
interpreter?A-4____________________________________________________________________.No.
_____________________ Rank_____________________ Name, ____________Unit _______
is duly sworn or affirmed as interpreter.Q-5 Do you object to Shri________(or
No.________Rank________Name______ Unit________)as shorthand
writer?A-5___________________________________________________________________No.____________Rank
______________Name_____________Unit______________is duly sworn or affirmed as
shorthand writer.@charge SheetB-2 The charge sheet is signed by the Law
Officer (presiding officer marked B-2 and annexed to the proceedings. The
accused is arraingned ipon each charge in the above mentioned charge-sheet.Q-6
Are you guilty or not guilty of the (first) charge against you, which you have
heard or read?Q-7 Are you guilty or not guilty of the second charge against
you, which you have heard or readA-7
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________Note:
- 1. If the accused pleads guilty to the charge (s), the provisions of Assam
Rifles rule 85 are to be complied with

### 2\. If the trial proceeds on more than one charge sheet, the trial on each
charge sheet, from arraignment to finding, will be kept separate and distinct.

### 3\. If the trial proceeds upon any charge to which there is a plea of not
guilty the court will not proceed upon the record of plea of guilty until
after the finding on that other charge [rule-87 (2)].

VariationsObjection to Charge (Assam Rifles Rule 78)The accused objects to the
charge on the ground that (set out).(Instructions. - Provisions of Assam
Rifles rule 128 will be followed on all such incidental matters as shown
below)The prosecutor answers (set out).The accused (for defending officer
replies (set out.The court is closed to consider its decision.The court
decides to disallow the objection (or the objection (or the court decides to
allow the objection and agrrees to report to the Convening authority).The
court being re open the accused is again brought before it and the above
decision in the open court.The court proceeds with the trial (or
adjourns.Amendment To Charge (Assam Rifles Rules 79/80)The court, being
satisfied that the name (or description) of the accused is........... and not
as stated in the charge sheet, amend the charge sheet accordingly.The court,
before any witnesses are examined, considers that, in the interest of justice,
the following addition to (or omission from or alteration in) the charge is
required (set out), and adjourns to report its opinion to the convening
authority.Plea To The Jurisdiction (Assam Rifles Rule 77)The accused pleads to
the general jurisdiction of the court on the ground that (set out).Q-8 Do you
wish to produce any evidence in support of your plea? (Set out). Witness is
examined on oath (or affirmation), (Set out).(Instructions. - The examination,
etc, of the witnesses called by the accused and of any witness called by the
prosecutor in reply, will proceed as directed below in the case of witnesses
to the facts of the trial. Provisions of Assam Rifles rule 128 will be
complied with.)The prosecutor answers (set out).The accused (or defending
officer) replies (set out).The court is closed to consider its decision.The
court (a) decides to overrule the plea and to proceed with the
trial;or(b)decides to allow the plea and to report to the convening authority
and adjourn;The court is re opened, the accused is brought before it and the
above decision is announced in open court.The court proceeds with the trial
(or adjourns).Plea In Bar of Trial (Assam Rifles Rule 81)Accused besides the
plea of guilty (or, not guilty) offers a plea in bar of trial on the ground
that (set out).Q-9 Do you wish to produce evidence in support of your
plea?(Set out)(Instructions. - The examination, etc, of the witnesses called
by the accused, and of any witness called by the prosecutor in reply, will
proceed as directed below in the case of witnesses to the facts of the trial.
Provisions of Assam Rifles rule 128 will be complied with.)The prosecutor
answers (set out).The accused (or defending officer) replies (set out).The
court is closed to consider its decision.The court decides to allow the plea
and resolve to adjourn and report to the convening officer (or to proceed with
the trial on another charge,) or the court decides to overrule the plea).The
court is reopened, the accused is brought before it and the above decision is
announced in the open court, as being subject to the approval of the convening
officer.The court adjourns (or proceeds with the trial on another charge) (or
proceeds with the trial).Refusal To Plead [Rule 85 (5)]As the accused does not
plead intelligibly (or refuses to plead) to the above charge, the court enters
a plea of not
guilty___________________________________________________________________________________________The
accused having pleaded guilty to the .................. charge the provisions
of Assam Rifles rule 84 are here complied
with._____________________________________________________________________________________________@
C (Fresh page)Proceedings on Plea of Not GuiltyQ-10 *Do you wish to apply for
an adjournment on the ground that any of the (*rule 90) rules relating to
procedure before trial have not been complied with and that you have been
prejudiced thereby or on the ground that you have not had sufficient
opportunity for preparing your
defence?A-10____________________________________________________________________(Instruction.
- In case of request for an adjournment the accused's statement together with
the decision of the court is to be recorded).The prosecutor hands in a written
opening address which is read, marked"____________" signed by the Law Officer
(presiding officer) and attached to the proceedings.The prosecutor proceeds to
call witnesses.First witness for prosecutionPW-1 No.
__________Rank______________Name____________Unit_______being duly sworn or
affirmed is examined by the prosecutor (or prosecution counsel).Cross examined
by the accused (or defending officer or defence counsel)Re examined by the
prosecutor (or prosecution counsel)Questioned by the courtNotes: 1. At the end
of each witness's evidence, provisions of Assam Rifles rule 98 will be
complied with and a record made.

### 2\. In case the presiding officer, Law Officer or a member address any
question to the witness, Assam Rifles rule 97 should be complied with and the
fact recorded.

### 3\. For form of oath or affirmation see Assam Rifles rule 96 (4).

VariationsPostponement of Cross-Examination(Assam Rifles Rule 96)The court, at
the request of the accused, allows the cross examination of the witness to be
postponed.Objections To Evidence or Procedure(Assam Rifles rule 128)The
accused (or counselor defending officer, or the prosecutor) objects to the
following question on the ground that (set out).The prosecutor (or counselor
defending officer, or accused, as the case may be) answers that (set out).The
accused (or counselor defending officer or the prosecutor) in reply states
that (set out).The court is closed to consider its decision.The court decides
to over rule (allow) the objection.The court is re opened, the accused is
brought before it and the above decision is announced in open court.The court
proceeds with the trial.Explanation or Correction of Evidence(Assam Rifles
rule 98)The witness, on his evidence being read to him, makes the following
explanation or correction (set out).Examined by the prosecutor as to the above
explanation or correction.Examined by (or on behalf of) the accused as to the
above explanation or correction.The prosecutor and accused (or counselor
defending officer) decline to examine him respecting the above explanation or
correction.PW-2 Second witness for prosecution ...........*being duly sworn
(or affirmed) is examined by the prosecutor. (The examination, etc., of this
and every other witness proceeds as in the case of the first
witness)._______________________________________________________________*Here
insert his No, Rank, Name, unit and appointment or any other
description.VariationsAdjournmentAt........hrs, on................the court
adjourn until.......hrs. on ............At............hrs, on
.................the court re assemble, pursuant to the adjournment; present
the same members and the Law Officer as on .................[Instructions. -
(1) If upon re-assemblya member is absent and his absence will reduce the
court below the legal minimum and, it appears to the members present that the
absent member cannot attend within a reasonable time, the presiding officer or
senior member present will thereupon report the case to the convening
authority (Assam Rifles rule 123).(2)If the Law Officer is absent, and cannot
attend within a reasonable time, the court will adjourn and the presiding
officer will thereupon report the case to the convening authority (Assam
Rifles rule 136)].Absence of Member(No ............Rank ............Name
..........................unit...........) being absent, a medical certificate
(or letter, or as the case may be) is produced, read marked ........... and
attached to the proceedings.The court adjourns until
.........................................................orThere being
present................................ (not less than the legal minimum)
members, the trial is proceeded with.Examination (cross-examination)
of.......................................continued.@ D (Fresh page)The
prosecution is closed.DefenceQuestions To The Accused[Rule 101 (1)]The Law
Officer (presiding officer) reads and explains the provisions of Assam Rifles
rule 101. Having ascertained that the accused understands the provisions read
over to him, the court (Law Officer) proceed-(s) to ask the following
questions.Q-11 It has been stated in the evidence of_____ that_______ Do you
wish to say anything about the same?A-11
________________________________________________________________Q-12
_________________________________________________________________A-12
__________________________________________________________________Q-13
__________________________________________________________________A-13
__________________________________________________________________Instructions
to the court

### 1\. The accused must be questioned only to afford an opportunity of
offering an explanation, if he so wishes, where absence of such explanation,
would affect him adversely.

### 2\. Questions put to him should be such as will enable him to explain any
circumstances appearing against him, which if unexplained, may lead to
conviction.

### 3\. Questions must not be put to the accused in order to supplement the
case for the prosecution.

### 4\. Questions to the accused and his answers will be recorded verbatim as
far as possible.

[Rule-101 (3)]Q-14 Do you intend to give evidence on oath as a witness or make
a statement without being
sworn?A-14__________________________________________________________________________________*The
accused in his defence says....................or hands in a written address
which is read, marked.................signed by the Law Officer (presiding
officer) and attached to the proceedings or the accused declines to make any
statement._______________________________________________________________Note:
- *In case the accused wishes to give evidence on oath, he will be examined as
any other witness.[Rule-101 (4)]Q-15 Do you intend to call any witness in your
defence?A-15 ___________________________________________________Q-16 Is he a
witness to character only?A-16
____________________________________________________Instructions to the
courtWhen the answers to the above questions have been recorded, the court
shall comply with the provisions of Assam Rifles rule 101.The evidence of the
witnesses for the defence (including witnesses as to character) will be taken
after the questions, if any, to the accused have been addressed.@ D2 (Fresh
page)The accused (counselor defending officer) makes an opening address, or
hands in a written opening address which is read, marked
..........................signed by the Law Officer (presiding officer) and
attached to the proceedings.The accused calls the following witness' (as to
character).* DW-IFirst witness for the defence (as to character)*Shri
No...........Rank.............Name............unit... _____ being duly sworn
(or affirmed), is examined by the accused (or by counselor defending
officer)._______________________________________________________________Note.
At the end of each witness's evidence, provisions of Assam Rifles rules 97 and
98 as applicable will be complied with and the fact recorded.*If witnesses are
called excepting as to character, these words are to be struck out.Recalling
Witness(Assam Rifles rule 99)(1)At the request of the prosecutor (or the
accused)........... is recalled and examined on his former oath or affirmation
through the presiding officer (or Law Officer) and states as follows-(set
out).or(2)The prosecutor with leave of the court, calls (or recalls)
............ for the purpose of rebutting material statement made by a witness
for the defence. The witness being duly sworn (or affirmed) is (or on his
former oath or affirmation) being examined by the prosecutor states as
follows-(Set out with any cross-examination, re examination etc) or(3)The
prosecutor calls (or recalls)............In reply to the witness (es) as to
character called by the accused. The witness being duly sworn (or affirmed) is
(or on his former oath/affirmation) being examined by the prosecutor states as
follows - (Set out any cross-examination, re-examination etc.) or(4)The court
in accordance with Assam Rifles rule 99 calls (or recalls)____ who being duly
sworn (or affinned), (or his former oath/affirmation) states in reply to the
questions by presiding officer (or law Officer) as follows-(set
out)[Instructions. - In (1), (2) and (3) witnesses must be called or recalled
before the closing address of or on behalf of the accused. In (4) witnesses
may be called or recalled by the court at any time before the finding. In this
case the accused or counsel or defending officer and the prosecutor should be
given the opportunity of asking further question through the
court.](Adjournment To Prepare Addresses, Etc)The court, at the request of the
accused (counsel or defending officer) adjourn until .......................
to enable him to prepare his address.The court at the request of the
prosecutor adjourn until .................to enable him to prepare his
reply.The court at the request of law Officer adjourn until..........to enable
him to prepare his summing up.The prosecutor makes the following reply (or
hands in a written reply) which is read (orally translated) marked
........signed by the presiding officer (or law Officer) and attached to the
proceedings.The accused (counsel or defending officer) makes the following
closing address (or hands in a written closing address) which is read (orally
translated) marked .......... signed by the presiding officer (or law Officer)
and attached to the proceedings.Summing UpThe Law Officer hands in a written
summing up which is read (orally translated) marked ...............signed by
the presiding officer and attached to the proceedings.Note: 1. All addresses
by prosecutor, accused, counsel, or defending officer, whether recorded by the
court or handed in writing (and written slimming up by Law Officer) will be
attached tc tile proceedings in the order in which they are made. Written
addresses (and summing up) will be read to the court, marked and signed by the
presiding officer (Law Officer except summing up).

### 2\. If any person who is entitled to make an address, declines to do so, a
record will be made to that effect.

### 3\. For order of addresses see Assam Rifles rule 104 and 105.

@ CC (Fresh page)Proceedings on Plea of Guilty*(The court having been re-
opened, the accused is again brought before it, and the charge(s) to which the
accused pleaded guilty is or are read to him
again)._____________________________________________________________________________________*
to be struck out in case no plea of not guilty has been proceeded
with.______________________________________________________________________________________The
accused
No_____________Rank.____________Name_______________Unit________________is
found guilty of the charge (all the charges) or is found guilty of the is
found guilty of the charge (all the charges) or is found guilty :)/ the
_____Charge and not guilty of the________ charge.Announcement of Finding(s)The
finding (s) is or are read in open court and is or are announced as being
subject to confirmation.** The summary of evidence is read, marked
______________ signed by the
Law_______________________________________________________________________________________Officer
(presiding officer) and attachea to the proceedings.** (If there is no summary
of evidence, the court shall record sufficient evidence to enable it to
determine the
sentence._______________________________________________________________________________________Q-17
Do you wish to make any statement in mitigation of punishment?A-17 The
accused, in mitigation of punishment, says (or hands in a written statement
which is read, marked signed by the Law Officer (presiding officer) and
attached to the proceedings.(Instructions. - If counselor defending officer
addresses the court on behalf of the accused the material portions of his
address should be recorded.)VariationsAlteration of Plea (Assam Rifles rule
89)#. The court being satisfied from the statement of the accused or summary
of evidence or otherwise that the accused did not understand the effect of the
plea of guilty, alters the same and enters a plea of not
guilty._______________________________________________________________________________________#.
Instructions. - (1) To be struck out if not applicable [rule 89 (2)].(2)The
court will then proceed in respect of the charge as on a plea of not guilty.@
DD (Fresh page)Witnesses For Defence on Plea of GuiltyThe court permits the
accused to call witnesses to prove his above statement that (set out the
statement which is to be proved).(Instructions. - The examination, etc, of
witnesses called in pursuance of this permission will proceed in the same
manner as on a plea of not guilty.)Q-18 Do you wish to call any witness as to
character?A-18
____________________________________________________________________________Q-19
Do you wish to call any witness in mitigation of punishment?A-19
_____________________________________________________________________________Evidence
as to character and or in mitigation of punishment.Shri
No.........Rank.........Name........unit.....being duly sworn or affirmed is
examined by the accused or by counselor defending officer.Note: - At the end
of each witness's evidence, provisions of Assam Rifles rules 97 and 98, as
applicable, be complied with and the fact recorded.@ E (Fresh
page)*Finding(s)The court is closed for the consideration of the
finding.______________________________________________________________________________________*
to be omitted except in case of a plea of not guilty having been
proceeded______________________________________________________________________________________(1)Acquittal
on all charges.The court find that the accused (No._______ Rank____Name
_________unit ______) is not guilty of the charge (or, of all the
charges).Announcement of Finding(s)The court being reopened the accused is
again brought before it. The finding(s) is or are read in open court, and
is/are announced as being subject to confirmation.Signed at
_________this________day of_______________.

(Signature) | (Signature)  
---|---  
Law Officer | Presiding officer  
  
(2)Acquittal on some but not all charges. Presiding officer is not guilty of
the ________charge(s) but guilty of the________ charge(s).(3)Conviction on all
charges is guilty of the charge (or all the charges).(4)Special finding.(a)is
guilty of the________________charge(s) and guilty of the____________ charge
with the exception of the words (set out) (or, with the exception of the words
that (set out).or(b)is not guilty of deserting the service but is guilty of
absenting himself without leave.or(c)is guilty of the charge with the
variation that figures and words "Rs. 4200.00 (Rupees four thousand two
hundred only)" shall read as "Rs. 3200.00 (Rupees three thousand two hundred
only)".[Instructions. - Any special finding permitted by Assam Rifles rule 107
(4) and (5) will be recorded as far as possible in accordance with (a) or (c).
Any special finding allowed by Assam Rifles Act section 107 may be expressed
in accordance with (b).]Insanity (Assam Rifles rule 138)The court find that
the accused (No,_______________Rank Name unit__________) is of unsound mind
and consequently incapable of making his defence.or,committed the act (acts)
alleged as constituting the offence (offences) specified in the charge
(charges) but was by reason of unsoundness of mind incapable of knowing the
nature of that act (or those acts) (or) but was by reason of unsoundness of
mind incapable of knowing that the act was wrong (or those acts were wrong)
(or contrary to law).Announcement of Finding(s)The court being reopened, the
accused is again brought before it. The finding(s) is or are read in open
court, and is or are announced as being subject to confirmation.Signed
at__________this____________day of_________.

(Signature) | (Signature)  
---|---  
Law Officer | Presiding officer  
  
@ F (Fresh page)Proceedings on ConvictionNo. __________Rank__________Name
__________Unit or battalion ___________is duly sworn or affirmed.Q-20 What
records have you to produce in proof of former convictions against the accused
and his character?A-20 I produce a statement certified under the hand of the
officer having custody of the battalion or unit records.The statement is read,
marked signed by the Law Officer (presiding officer) and attached to the
proceedings.Q-21 Is the accused, the person named in the statement you have,
heard or read?A-21
___________________________________________________________________________Q-22
Have you compared the contents of the above statement with the battalion or
unit records?A-22
____________________________________________________________________________Q-23
Are they true extracts from the battalion or unit records, and is the
statement of entries in the defaulter sheet, a fair and true summary of these
entries?A-24
_______________________________________________________________________________Cross
examined by the accused (or by counsel or defending officer). Re examined.
orThe accused declined to cross examine the witnesses.Note:- Provisions of
Assam Rifles rule 97 and 98, as applicable, will be complied with and the fact
recorded.Q-25 Do you wish to address the court in mitigation of sentence?A-25
_________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________The
court is closed for the consideration of the sentence.SentenceThe court
sentence the accused________No._________Rank___________Name __________unit or
battalion _____________________[Instructions. - The sentence is to be
marginally noted in every case.)(a)to suffer death by being hanged by the neck
until he be dead (or to suffer death by being shot to death).(b)to suffer
imprisonment for life.(c)to suffer rigorous (or simple) imprisonment for
_________________________(Note. - Sentences of imprisonment, unless for one or
more years exactly, should, if for one month or upwards, be recorded in
months. Sentences consisting partly of months and partly of days should be
recorded in months and days).(d)to be dismissed from service.(e)(in case of an
officer, subordinate officer or under officer) to take rank and precedence as
if his appointment as* _________bore date the_____________day of orto take
precedence in the rank of________held by him, as if his name had appeared (to
specified number of places) lower in the Assam Rifles list in case of officers
and subordinate officers and list of his rank in the case of under
officers.orto forfeit ____ service for the purpose of promotion.(Instructions.
- This applies, only in case of a person whose promotion depends upon length
of service and a sentence can be inflicted in respect of all or any part of
his service.)(f)to forfeit (all or year's or__________ months) past service
for the purpose of increased pay (or pension).(g)(In case of an officer,
subordinate officer and under officer) to be severely reprimanded (or
reprimanded).(h)to forfeit pay and allowances for a period of (not exceeding
three months for an offence committed on active duty).(i)to forfeit all
arrears of pay and allowances and other public money due to him at the time of
his dismissal.(j)to be put under stoppage of pay and allowances until he has
made good the sum of _____ in respect of or (and) until he has made good the
value of the following articles, viz-Recommendations To MercyThe court
recommend the accused to mercy on the ground that (set out).Announcement of
SentenceThe court being reopened, the accused is brought before it. The
sentence is announced in open court as being subject to confirmation.Signed
at_________this________day of__________Law OfficerPresiding officerRevisionAt
________on the________ day of________ at________hrs the court re assembles by
order of______for the purpose of reconsidering its______________Present the
same members and the Law Officer as on the_____________[Instructions. - If a
member is absent and the absence will reduce the court below the legal
minimum, and it appears to the members present that such absent member cannot
attend within a reasonable time, the presiding officer, or in his absence, the
senior member present shall thereupon report the case to the convening
authority.The order directing the reassembly of the court for the revision,
and giving reasons of the confirming authority for requiring a revision is
read, marked .........,signed by the presiding officer (or Law Officer) and
attached to the proceedings.][Instruction. - (1) If the confirming authority
so orders, additional evidence may be taken on revision.(2)If a new Law
Officer has been appointed, he should be sworn or affirmed and a record to
that effect made before the revision order is read.(3)If the accused or
counselor defending officer wishes to address the court, gist of his address
should be taken down or his written address be read, marked and attached to
the proceedings as usual (Assam Rifles rule 113 refers.)(4)If the Law Officer
wishes to clear any points, he may make an additional summing-up which should
be read, marked and attached to the proceedings as usual.]The court is closed
to reconsider its finding (s) and sentence.The court having attentively
considered the observations of the confirming authority and the whole of the
proceedings-(a)do now revoke its finding and sentence and find the accused
guilty and guilty of the charge(s) and sentence him to....or(b)do now revoke
its sentence and now sentence the accused to ..or(c)do now respectfully adhere
to its earlier sentence (or finding and sentence) or (finding).[Instructions.
- (1) In case the revision pertains to court's finding on some of the charges
only record at (a) above should be made accordingly. If the court does not
adhere to its former finding (s) it must revoke its former finding (5) and the
sentence, and pass a fresh sentence if revised finding (s) involve (s) a
sentence.(2)If the new finding entails sentence, normal proceedings on
conviction should be followed, if necessary and form at (a) above amended
accordingly.(3)All the decisions of the court with respect to the finding and
sentence should be announced in open court as being subject to confirmation
and a record made to that effect in normal manner.]Signed
at................this............day of................20........

(Signature) | (Signature)  
---|---  
Law Officer | Presiding officer  
  
G (Fresh Page)Confirmation

### 1\. Confirmed.

* I direct that the sentence of (rigorous or simple) imprisonment shall be carried out by confinement in Force custody (or in civil prison).The accused is recommended division A or C (or III) while undergoing sentence in the civil prison. If there are only two divisions of prisoners, the accused is recommended division A (or I) or B (or II). (In cases of imprisonment in civil prison).or

### 2\. I vary the sentence (s) so that it shall be as follows and confirm the
finding and the sentence as so varied.

or

### 3\. I confirm the finding and sentence of the court, but mitigate (or
remit or commute).

or

### 4\. (Where the finding is not confirmed).

Not confirmed.

### 5\. Where the court finds that the accused is of unsound mind and
consequently incapable of making his defence or that he committed the act
alleged but was by reason of unsoundness of mind incapable of knowing the
nature of the act or that it was wrong or contrary to law.

"Confirmed (or not confirmed)". or

### 6\. "I confirm the finding of the court on the first charge but do not
confirm the finding on the second charge."

I confirm the sentence but mitigate (remit or commute).Signed
at_________this__________day of_____________(Signature of confirming
authority)(Instructions. - Any remark of the confirming authority should be
separate and form no part of proceedings.)Promulgation(Rule 116)The finding
(s) and sentence of the general or petty Assam Rifles court held at (place)
from day to_______day of________for the trial of the accused (particulars)
were promulgated to the accused by me at_________(place) on day of Extracts
for battalion or Unit records have been taken or *No record has been kept of
the
findings.Place____________________Date______________________Signature(Commandant)_________________________________________________________________________________*To
be used in case of acquittal on all charges.(Specimen - 2)Form of Proceedings
for Summary Assam Rifles Court Under The Assam Rifles Act, 2006AProceedings of
a summary Assam Rifles court held at _________on the________________day
of_______________________by___________________________Commandant______________battalion
or unit for the trial of all such accused persons as he may duly have brought
before-
him.Present___________________________________________________________________________________Commandant
______________________________Attending The
Trial__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________Interpreter______________________________________________________________________________________Friend
Of The
Accused______________________________________________________________________________________The
officers assemble at the_______________and the trial commences at
________hrs.The accused No._________Rank_________Name__________________of
_________is brought (called if an under officer) into court.* the court, is
duly sworn or affirmed__________ is swom or affirmed as
interpreter.(Instructions. - If the Commandant of the accused (i.e. the court)
acts as interpreter, he must take the interpreter's oath in addition to the
oath prescribed for the court.)All witnesses are directed to withdraw from the
court._____________________________________________________________________________________*1.
Enter rank and name of the officer holding the trial.

### 2\. Throughout these proceedings he is referred to as the court.

### 3\. Inapplicable portions be deleted and initialled by the court.

B (Fresh page)The charge sheet is read (translated) and explained to the
accused, marked B-2, signed by the court and attached to the
proceedings.[Instructions. - The sanction of superior authority for trial by
summary Assam Rifles court should be entered with the date and signature of
that authority, at the foot of the charge sheet (Assam Rifles rule 95
(2).]Arraignment*Q-1 How say you No._______ Rank _______Name________Unit are
you guilty or not guilty of the first charge
or___________________charge?Ans-1____________________________________________________________________________Note.
- If the accused pleads guilty to any charge the provisions of Assam Rifles
rule 153 (2) must be complied with.**The accused having pleaded guilty
to____________________charge, the court explains to the accused the meaning of
the charge (s) to which he has pleaded guilty and ascertains that the accused
understands the nature of the charge (s) to which he has pleaded guilty. The
court also informs the accused the general effect of that plea and the
difference in procedure which will be followed consequent to the said plea.
The court having satisfied itself that the accused understands the charge (s)
and the effect of his plea of guilty accepts and records the same. The
provisions of rule 161 (2) are complied with.*In case of more than one charge
accused should be questioned separately.**In cases where on arraignment, an
accused pleads guilty to a charge, rule 153 (2) should be explained to the
accused and the above minute should be recorded in the proceedings before
recording a finding of guilty.C (Fresh page)Proceedings on Plea of GuiltyThe
accused No_____________Rank____________ Name____________of________is found
guilty of the charge (all the charges).The summary of evidence is read
(translated), explained, marked____________signed by the court and attached to
the Proceedings.*Question to the accused.*Q- Do you wish to make any statement
in reference to the charge or in mitigation of punishment?Ans-
______________________________________________________________________________Q-
Do you wish to call any witness as to character?Ans-
________________________________________________________________________________[Instructions.
- If the trial proceeds upon any charge to which there is a plea of not
guilty, the court will not proceed upon the record of the plea of guilty until
after the finding on those other charges; and in that case the charge on which
the record is guilty must be read to the accused again. Assam Rifles rule 153
(1) refers.)]$VariationsThe court being satisfied from the statement of the
accused (or the summary of evidence, or otherwise) that the accused did not
understand the effect of the plea of guilty alters the record and enters a
plea of not guilty.$ Applicable in cases where a plea of guilty offered by the
accused is negated by his statement in S of E or by other circumstances as
mentioned in Assam Rifles rule 154 (4) (a).D (Fresh page)Proceedings on A Plea
of Not Guilty ProsecutionFirst witness for prosecutionPW-1
No__________Rank_______Name of being duly sworn or affirmed is examined by the
Court. Cross examined by the accused. Re examined by the
Court._____________________________________________________________________________________Note:-
If the accused declines to cross examine witness for the prosecution, the fact
must be recorded. The fact that the provisions of Assam Rifles rule 106 have
been complied with must be recorded at the conclusion of the evidence of each
witness.D-2 (Fresh page)Second witness for prosecutionPW-2 No ______ Rank
_____ Name of_________ being duly sworn or affirmed is examined by the
court.Cross examined by the accused.Re examined by the
court._______________________________________________________________________________________Note:-
If the accused declines to cross examine a witness for the prosecution, the
fact must be recorded. The fact that the provisions of Assam Rifles rule 98
have been complied with, must be recorded at the conclusion of the evidence of
each witness.E (Fresh page)The prosecution is closed:DefenceQuestions To The
Accused[Rule 156 (3)]The court reads and explains the provisions of Assam
Rifles rule 156 (3). Having ascertained that the accused understands the
provisions read over to him, the court proceed (s) to ask the following
questions to the accused.Q- It has been stated in the evidence
of_________that________Do you wish to say anything about the same?A-
____________________________________________________________________________________Q-
____________________________________________________________________________________A-
____________________________________________________________________________________(Instructions
to the court)

### 1\. The accused must be questioned only to afford an opportunity of
offering an explanation, if he so wishes, where absence of such explanation,
would affect him adversely.

### 2\. Questions put to him should be such as will enable him to explain any
circumstances appearing against him, which if unexplained, may lead to
conviction.

### 3\. Questions must not be put to the accused in order to supplement the
case for the prosecution.

### 4\. Questions to the accused and his answers will be recorded verbatim as
far as possible.)

### 5\. No oath shall be administered to the accused.

[Question to the accused under AR rule 156 (2)]Q. Do you wish to say anything
in your defence?A.
_______________________________________________________________[Question to
the accused under AR rule 156 (2)]Q. Do you intend to call any witness in your
defence?A. ______________________________________________________F (Fresh
page)First witness for defenceDW-1
No_________Rank___________Name___________________of________________being duly
sworn or affirmed is examined by the court. Cross examined by the court.Re
examined by the
accused.______________________________________________________________________________________Notes:-
1. The fact that the provisions of Assam Rifles rule 98 have been complied
with must be recorded at the conclusion of the evidence of each witness.

### 2\. If there are more than one defence witness, their statements shall be
recorded on subsequent pages as F-2, F-3 etc.

Defence is closed.G (Fresh page)Reply (Rule
157)No______________Rank_______________Name___________of_______________being
duly sworn or affirmed is examined by the court.H (Fresh page)Verdict of The
Court(Acquittal on all charges)I am of the opinion on the evidence before me
that the accusedNo_________Rank____________Name___________of_________is not
guilty of the charge (all the charges) and acquit him of the same.The verdict
is read out and the accused released_________Signed at_______this______day of
___________________________(Commandant)Officer holding the
trial___________________________________________________________________________________The
trial closes
at___________________________________________hrs.______________________________________________________________________________________Note:-
This page is to be used only in cases where the accused is found "not guilty"
of all the charges.I (Fresh page)Verdict of CourtI am of the opinion on the
evidence before me that the
accusedNo__________________Rank__________________Name_______________of______________
is (guilty of the charge or not guilty of the first charge and guilty of the
second charge or or is guilty of all the charges).(Special finding)(a)is
guilty of the________________charge (s) and guilty of the______charge with the
exception of the words (set out) or, with the exception of the words that (set
out).or(b)is not guilty of deserting the service but is guilty of absenting
himself without leave.or(c)is guilty of the charge with the variation that
figures and words Rs.4200.00 (Rupees four thousand two hundred only) shall
read as Rs. 3200.00 (Rupees three thousand two hundred only).[Instructions. -
Any special finding permitted by Assam Rifles rule 159 (3) will be recorded as
far as possible in accordance with (a) or (c). Any special finding allowed by
Assam Rifles Act section 115 may be expressed in accordance with
(b).]Proceedings Before SentenceThe following minutes by the court are read
and explained.[Instruction. - If the court does not record the accused
person's convictions and character of its own knowledge, evidence as to these
matters will be taken.)It is within my own knowledge from the records of
the___________________that the accused has______________________________been
previously convicted by Force Court or criminal court (a separate statement
giving full particulars of any previous conviction to be annexed when
necessary).That the following is a fair and true summary of entries in his
defaulter sheet exclusive of convictions by a Force Court or a criminal court.

Within last 12 months | Since enrolment  
---|---  
  
For__________________times__________________times__________________For__________________times__________________times_________________For__________________times__________________times_________________That
he is at present undergoing_________________sentence. That, irrespective of
this trial, his general character has been . That his age
is____________________. His service is and his rank is since held).That he has
been in arrest/confinement for______________days.* That he is in possession of
the following decorations and rewards-
_______________________________________________________________* Any
recognized acts of gallantry or distinguished conduct should also be entered
here.J (Fresh page)Sentence By The CourtTaking all these matters into
consideration, I now sentence the accused
No_____________________Rank__________________Name___________________of__________to
_________________________.(for format of sentence refer specimen of general or
petty Assam Rifles court at page F).Signed
at______________this_____________day of_________(Commandant)Officer holding
the trialThe trial closes at__________________ hrs.Remarks by the reviewing
officer (Assam Rifles Act section 137)No____________of_______________Trial by
summary Assam Rifles court under the Assam Rifles
Act.No_______________of_______________at______________________________on
the________________________day of_______________________________.Registered
No. __________________________of_________________________Chief Law
OfficerProforma for The Statement of Previous Convictions and General
Character of The Accused Person as Required Under Assam Rifles Rule 109

### 1\. Name and number of the accused :

### 2\. Present rank :

### 3\. Date of enrolment or appointment in Assam Rifles

### 4\. Date of promotion in the present rank

### 5\. Total length of service

### 6\. Date of birth and age

### 7\. The period of arrest or confinement till the date of commencement of
trial

### 8\. The decorations and awards (any recognised act of gallantry or
distinguished conduct should also be entered here)

### 9\. The details of convictions by Assam Rifles Court and Criminal Court as
per annexure

### 10\. Punishment awarded by an officer exercising authority under section
62, 64, 65 or 66 of the Assam Rifles Act

Within last 12 months | Since enrolment or appointment  
---|---  
(a) u/s______for________times | (a) u/s______for________times  
(b) u/s______for________times | (b) u/s______for________times  
(c) u/s______for________times | (c) u/s______for________times  
  
### 11\. That he is at present undergoing____________________sentence.

### 12\. That irrespective of this trial, his general character has
been________________.

(It should be assessed on the basis of his record as it stood prior to the
present trial).(Signature)Commandant or the officerHaving the custody of
serviceRecords or confidential dossiersAnnexureStatement of Convictions By
Assam Rifles Court or Criminal Court

Verdict of the Court  
---  
SI No | Date of trial | Particulars of the charge | By Force Court of criminal court | Finding | Sentence | Remarks  
  
Part-III Forms of Summons to Witness(a)In the case of summary of
evidenceTo,Whereas a charge of having committed an offence triable by Force
Court has been preferred before me, against
(No_______________Rank___________________
Name__________________unit_______________), and whereas I have directed a
summary of the evidence to be taken in writing at (place) on the day
of____________at__________ hrs; I do hereby summon and require you
(name)__________________ to attend as a witness at the said place and hour and
to bring with you the documents hereinafter mentioned, namely
________________.Whereof you shall fail at your peril.Given under my hand
at___________________on the day_____________of__________________Commandant of
the accused.(Signature)(b)In the case of a trial by Force CourtTo,Whereas an
Force Court has been ordered to assemble at______________on the___________ day
of______________ for trial of_______________ of the battalion, I do hereby
summon and require you A_______B________to attend, as a witness at the sitting
of the said court at___________(place) on the_____________ day
of__________________ hrs. (and to bring with you the documents hereinafter
mentioned, namely__________________), and so to attend from day to day until
you shall be duly discharged, whereof you shall fail at your peril.Given under
my hand at____________on the_____________day
of__________________(Signature)Convening officer or Law Officer orpresiding
officer of the court orCommandant of the accused.(c)In the case of a court of
inquiryTo,Whereas a court of inquiry has been ordered to assemble
at__________on the________day for investigating into. I do hereby summon and
require you A___________ B____________ to attend as a witness at the sitting
of the said court at_____________(place) on the________(day) of___________hrs
and to bring with you the documents hereinafter mentioned,
namely_____________and so to attend from day to day until you shall be duly
discharged, whereof you shall fail at your peril.Given under my hand
at_________on the_____________day of_______________.(Signature)Officer
assembling the court of inquiryPart - IV WarrantsWarrants for convening
general Assam Rifles court under the Assam Rifles Act, 2006To,The (Inspector-
General or Additional Director-General) Assam RiflesIn pursuance of the
provisions of the AR Act, 2006, I do hereby empower you, or the officer on
whom your command may devolve during your absence, not under the rank of
Commandant, from time to time, as occasion may require, to convene general
Assam Rifles court for the trial, in accordance with the said Act and the
rules made thereunder, of any person under your command who is subject to AR
Act and is charged with any offence mentioned in the said Act, and is liable
to be tried by a general Assam Rifles court.And for so doing, this shall be,
as well to you as to all others whom it may concern, a sufficient
warrant.Given under my hand at________this________day of_____________Director-
General Assam RiflesWarrant for confirming findings and sentences of general
Assam Rifles courts under the Assam Rifles Act, 2006To,The Director-General
Assam RiflesIn pursuance of the provisions of the AR Act 2006, the Central
Government is pleased to hereby empower you, or the officer on whom your
command may devolve during your absence, not under the rank of Commandant, to
receive the proceedings of general Assam Rifles courts held for the trial, in
accordance with the said Act and the rules made thereunder, of any person
subject to AR Act, and confirm the findings and sentences thereof, and to
exercise, as respects these courts and the persons tried by them, the powers
vested by the said Act in the confirming officer, in such manner as may be
best for the good of the Force;Provided always that if by the sentence of any
general Assam Rifles court, a person subject to AR Act has been sentenced to
suffer death, you shall in such case, as also in the case of any other general
Assam Rifles court in which you shall think fit so to do, reserve confirmation
and transmit the proceedings to the Central Government.And for so doing, this
shall be, as well to you as to all others whom it may concern, a sufficient
warrant.Given under my hand at__________this___________day of_____________.By
order of the Central GovernmentSecretary, Ministry of Home AffairsWarrant for
confirming findings and sentences of general Assam Rifles courts under the
Assam Rifles Act, 2006To,The (Inspector-General or Additional Director-
General) Assam RiflesIn pursuance of the provisions of the AR Act, 2006, the
Central Government is pleased to hereby empower you, or the officer on whom
your command may devolve during your absence, not under the rank of
Commandant, to receive the proceedings of general Assam Rifles court held for
trial, in accordance with the said Act and the rules made thereunder, of any
person under your command who is subject to AR Act, and confirm the findings
and sentences thereof, and to exercise, as respects these courts and the
persons tried by them, the powers created by the said Act in the confirming
officer, in such manner as may be best for the good of the Force.Provided
always that if by the sentence of any general Assam Rifles court a person
subject to AR Act has been sentenced to suffer death, you shall in such case,
as also in the such cases as specified in annexure attached herewith, reserve
confirmation and transmit the proceedings to superior authority.And for so
doing, this shall be, as well to you as to all others whom it may concern, a
sufficient warrant.Given under my hand at_________this__________day
of_________By order of the Central GovernmentSecretary, Ministry of Home
AffairsAnnexure

### 1\. The proceedings of general Assam Rifles courts where any of the
sentences specified under column I below, is passed, will be reserved for
confirmation by the authority specified opposite under column II below:-

I | II  
---|---  
(i) Death Sentences | Central Government  
(ii) All sentences passed on officers. | DGAR  
  
### 2\. In the event of finding of not guilty by a general Assam Rifles court,
in all cases of officers, powers to confirm or non confirm the proceedings
will be with the DGAR.

Warrant for convening and confirming petty Assam Rifles courts under the Assam
Rifles Act, 2006ToThe (Deputy Inspector-General) Assam RiflesWhereas I have
power to convene general Assam Rifles courts under the AR Act, 2006, and
whereas under that Act, any officer having power to convene general Assam
Rifles courts may, empower any officer to convene a petty Assam Rifles court
for the trial under that Act of any person subject to AR Act under the command
of such last mentioned officer and to confirm the findings and sentence
thereof.By virtue of the power vested in me under the said Act, I do hereby
empower you, or the officer on whom your command may devolve during your
absence, not under the rank of Commandant, from time to time, as occasion may
require, to convene petty Assam Rifles courts for the trial, in accordance
with the said Act and the rules made thereunder, of any person under your
command, who is subject to AR Act and is charged with any offence mentioned in
the said Act, and is liable to be tried by a petty Assam Rifles court.And I do
hereby further empower you, or the officer on whom your command may devolve
during your absence, not under the rank of Commandant, to receive the
proceedings of such courts, and the person tried by them, the powers created
by the said Act in the confirming officer, in such manner as may be best for
the good of the Force.And for so doing, this shall be, as well to you as to
all others whom it may concern, a sufficient warrant.Given under my hand
at___________this__________day of__________Signature of the Staff
OfficerSignature of officer having power toConvene general Assam Rifles
CourtsPart - V Specimen ChargesNo.1

Assam Rifles Act Section 21(a) |  Shamefully Abandoning A Post Committed to hisCharge,  
---|---  
| in that he,  
|  at............on.........when in charge of postNo............. in
Sector.............and attacked by the enemy,shamefully abandoned the said
post. without any attempt to resistthe enemy.  
| No.2  
Assam Rifles Act Section 21(b) |  Intentionally Using Means To Induce A PersonSubject To Assam Rifles Act To Abstain From Acting Against TheEnemy.  
| in that he,  
|  at.......on..........when both he and No.........Rank........Name........of
his battalion were on duty atthe forward post No.......of his unit, under
enemy fire, said tothe said No........Rank........Name.......  
|  *"Appendix - XVkilled. Think of yourwife and children. Let us run away from
the post and hide in thenallah nearby", or words to that effect.  
|  Note*- Insert actual words spoken or words to thateffect.  
| No.3  
Assam Rifles Act Section 21 (c) |  In The Presence of The Enemy Misbehaving In SuchManner As To Show Cowardice,  
| in that he,  
|  at............on........... when Rfn ......... of......, one of the
sentries at the battalion quarter guard, hadmortally wounded one sepoy of the
said guard and seriouslywounded another and was firing his rifle in all
directions,showed cowardice by abandoning the said quarter guard and
hidinghimself.  
| No.4  
Assam Rifles Act Section 21(d) |  Treacherously Communicating Intelligence To TheEnemy,  
| in that he,  
|  at ............. on .......... with intent toassist the enemy, communicated
with the enemy (specify enemyagency) by letter dated ......concerning the
deployment of troopsof B company of 3 AR battalion at___________.  
| No.5  
Assam Rifles Act Section 21 (e) read with Section34 of Indian Penal Code | Assisting The Enemy With Ammunition,  
| in that together,  
|  while on active duty,at.............on............., in pursuance of a
commonintention, Sold........rounds of 303 ball ammunition, theproperty of the
Government, to the enemy, to wit,......hostilesup in arms against the Union
through two persons, namely.....and.....  
| No.6  
Assam Rifles Act Section 21 (g) |  In Time of Action Leaving His Picket WithoutLeave,  
| in that he,  
|  at........,on.......,in time of action, between2000 hrs and 2200 hrs, being
on duty at picket. ....., left thesaid picket without leave.  
| No. 7  
Assam Rifles Act Section 21(g) | In Time of Action Leaving His Post, Without Leave,  
| in that he,  
|  at field, on ............., when Second-in-Command...........company
......., while his company was in contact withand under fire of the enemy in
the area of....., left his postwithout leave from about 0900 hrs till about
2000 hrs the sameday.  
| No.8  
Assam Rifles Act Section 21(j) |  When A Sentry, In time of War, Sleeping Upon HisPost,  
| in that he,  
|  at ........on ........ between.......and.....hrswhen sentry, in time of war
on No .....(post of magazine guard)was found sleeping.  
| No.9  
Assam Rifles Act Section 23 (a) | Forcing A Sentry,  
| in that he,  
|  when on active duty, at.....,on ........ afterbeing warned by No
........Rank ...... Name ...... of .....regiment, a sentry on post No..... not
to pass, passed the saidsentry.  
| No. 10  
Assam Rifles Act Section 23 (b) | Breaking Into A House In Search of Plunder,  
| in that he,  
|  when on active duty, at......., on....... broke into the house of Shri
......of..... in search ofplunder.  
| No. 11  
Assam Rifles Act Section 23 (c) | When A Sentry, Sleeping Upon His Post,  
| in that he,  
|  when on active duty, at......on........between0200 and 0300 hrs when sentry
on No ......post of......guard, wasasleep.  
| No. 12  
Assam Rifles Act Section 23 (d) |  Leaving His Guard Without Orders From His SuperiorOfficer,  
| in that he,  
|  at....... when sentry of the Assam Rifles guard on...... between 0500 and
0600 hrs, quit the said guard withoutorders from his superior officer.  
| No. 13  
Assam Rifles Act Section 23 (e) | Intentionally Occasioning A False Alarm In Camp,  
| in that they  
|  when on active duty, at camp.......on ......byintentionally exploding two
grenades 36 HE, caused a false alarmin the said camp.  
| No. 14  
Assam Rifles Act Section 24 (a) |  Conspiring With Other Persons To Cause A Mutiny InThe Assam Rifles,  
| in that they together,  
|  at......on........agreed together to cause amutiny in.......company
............. battalion to wit, to causethe said company to refuse to march on
the date to .........(place), to which place the said company was under orders
tomarch.  
| No. 15  
Assam Rifles Act Section 24 (b) | Joining In A Mutiny In The Assam Rifles,  
| in that they together,  
|  at........., on..............., in company with anumber of other sepoys of
the .......company,.........(unit), ina mutinous spirit entered the premises
of quarter guard forremoval of kote keys from the battalion key box, fired a
roundfrom a rifle in the unit ground and shouted".........."or words to that
effect.  
| No. 16  
Assam Rifles Act Section 24 (b) | Joining In A Mutiny In The Assam Rifles,  
| in that they together,  
|  at.......... on the night. ......when servingwith......,in company with a
number of other personnel of thesaid unit, left the unit in a mutinous spirit,
with arms andammunition belonging to the Government.  
| No.17  
Assam Rifles Act Section 24 (c) |  Being Present At A Mutiny In The Assam Rifles NotUsing His Utmost Endeavours To Suppress The Same,  
| in that he,  
|  at...........on....... being present when sepoy......, sepoy ....... and
other soldiers of the same battaliontogether refused to go on a route march
when ordered to do so bythe Company Commander, failed to use his utmost
endeavours tosuppress the said mutiny.  
| No. 18  
First Charge Assam Rifles Act Section 25 (1) | Deserting The Service,  
| in that he,  
|  at...........on .......absented himself from thebattalion until apprehended
by the civil police, at ....on ....  
Second Charge Assam Rifles Act Section 39 (a) |  Committing Theft In Respect of Property BelongingTo The Government,  
| in that he,  
|  when absenting himself from his battalion at theplace and on the day
aforesaid, committed theft by dishonestlytaking with him one rifle (give
description) value ...... andtwenty rounds of 303 ball ammunition value ....,
the Propertybelonging to the Government.  
|  (Note 1.- As a rule, proof of the date andcircumstances in which the period
of absence terminated isnecessary to enable the court to decide whether the
absenceconstituted desertion or merely absence without leave.Occasionally
however, these facts are not material, and proof ofthem cannot be obtained
without inconvenience to the publicservice and great delay. In such cases,
they need not be proved,and Should, therefore, not be averred in the
particulars of thecharge.  
|  Note.2- It is immaterial whether the rifle is theone issued to the accused
or to a comrade. See IPC S-27 andillustration (d) to IPC.S. 378.)  
| No. 19  
Assam Rifles Act Section 25(1) | Deserting The Service,  
| in that he,  
|  at... ........ on ....... , deserted from thebattalion.  
|  (Note. - This form may be used when the date andcircumstances of the
termination of the absence are not materialfacts, and proof of them cannot be
obtained without anunreasonable amount of delay or expense.)  
| No. 20  
Assam Rifles Act Section 25( 1) | Deserting The Service,  
| in that he,  
|  at...........on......., having been placed underorders for active duty and
having been granted leave of absencefrom........to........to proceed
to......., did not rejoinat........on the expiry of the said leave but
absented himselfwith intent to avoid such active duty.  
|  (Note. - It will often be advisable to frame analternate charge for without
sufficient cause overstaying leavegranted to him.)  
| No.21  
Assam Rifles Act Section 25(1) | Attempting To Desert The Service,  
| in that he,  
|  at........on......., attempted to quit the linesof his battalion disguised
as a woman, with the intention todesert the service.  
| No. 22  
Assam Rifles Act Section 25(2) |  Harbouring A Person Subject To The Assam RiflesAct Knowing Him To Be A Deserter,  
| in that he,  
|  at..........on.......,concealed in his house, No.......Rank .......,
Name......, Battalion whom he knew to be adeserter from the said .......
Battalion.  
| No. 23  
Assam Rifles Act Section 25(3) |  Being Cognizant of The Desertion of A PersonSubject To The Assam Rifles Act Not Giving Notice Forthwith ToHis Own Or Other Superior Officer,  
| in that he,  
|  at..........on.......,when cognizant of thedesertion of No......,
Rank......,name ......., of the same unit,did not give notice thereof
forthwith to his own or othersuperior officer.  
| No.24  
Assam Rifles Act Section 26(a) | Absenting Himself Without Leave,  
| in that he,  
|  at..........absented himself without leave fromthe unit lines
from........,to........  
| No. 25  
Assam Rifles Act Section 26(b) |  Without Sufficient Cause Overstaying Leave GrantedTo Him,  
| in that he,  
|  at.......on......,having been granted leave ofabsence
from..........to.......to proceed to ......., failedwithout sufficient cause,
to rejoin at......, on........, on theexpiry of the said leave.  
| No. 26  
Assam Rifles Act Section 26(c) |  Being on Leave of Absence Having ReceivedInformation From Proper Authority That Battalion To Which HeBelongs Has Been Ordered on Active Duty, Failing WithoutSufficient Cause To Rejoin Without Delay,  
| in that he,  
|  on .......,while on leave of absence at......,having received information
from .......that the........battalionhad been ordered on active duty, failed,
without sufficientcause, to rejoin the said battalion without delay.  
| No. 27  
Assam Rifles Act Section 26(d) |  Without Sufficient Cause Failing To Appear, At TheTime Fixed, At The Place Appointed For Duty,  
| in that he,  
|  at...........on ...... ,failed without sufficientcause to appear at
........ hrs at ....... the place appointed for PT (Commandant's) Parade.  
| No. 28  
Assam Rifles Act Section 26(e) |  Quiting The Line of March Without Leave From HisSuperior Officer.  
| in that he  
|  at.........on.....when on the line of marchfrom.......to....... fell out
without leave from the OfficerCommanding his Company.  
| No. 29  
Assam Rifles Act Section 27(a) | Using Criminal Force To His Superior Officer.  
| in that he.  
|  at.........on........struck with a stick on thehead of No......,
Rank......name....... of the same battalion.  
| No. 30  
Assam Rifles Act Section 27(a) | Assaulting His Superior Officer,  
| in that he,  
|  while on active duty, at..... , on...... , whenordered by his superior
officer No....... Rank ...... ,Name......of the same unit to report to him at
....... hrs that day, pickedup a stone and threatened to throw it at the said
........  
| No. 31  
Assam Rifles Act Section 27(c) |  Using Insubordinate Language To His SuperiorOfficer,  
| in that he  
|  at....., on....., said to his superior officer, No......,Rank .....,
Name......, of the same unit, "You knowonly how to get drunk everyday. You are
good for nothing",or words to that effect.  
| No. 32  
Assam Rifles Act Section 28(1) |  Disobeying In Such Manner As To Show WilfulDefiance of Authority, A Lawful Command Given Personally By HisSuperior Officer In The Execution Of His Office,  
| in that he,  
|  at.....,on ....., when ordered by No ............,Rank ......, Name ......,
the guard commander to proceed tosentry post, said "I shall not go, do what
you feel like"and did not proceed to the sentry post from the guard room.  
| No. 33  
Assam Rifles Act Section 28(2) |  Disobeying A Lawful Command Given By His SuperiorOfficer,  
| in that he,  
|  at......., on......, when ordered by No ......,Rank ..........,Name .......
of the same Battalion to eat hisfood did not do so.  
| No. 34  
Assam Rifles Act Section 28(2) |  Disobeying A Lawful Command Given By His SuperiorOfficer.  
| in that he  
|  at... ......, on ...........when ordered byNo........,
Rank......Name.......of the same battalion to fall infor PT parade, did not do
so.  
| No. 35  
Assam Rifles Act Section 29(b) |  Using Criminal Force To A Person In Whose CustodyHe Was Lawfully Placed.  
| in that he  
|  at .........,on .......... when placed by No.........Rank .......... Name
....... unit. .... with custody ofNo.........Rank*...........Name.....of the
same unit struck withhis web belt, on the head, the said*..................  
| No. 36  
Assam Rifles Act Section 29(b) |  Using Criminal Force To A Person In Whose CustodyHe Was Lawfully Placed.  
| in that he,  
|  at.........on.........struck on the head CivilPolice Constable No
.............Name...........of..........Police Station, in whose custody hewas
lawfully placed.  
| No. 37  
Assam Rifles Act Section 29(e) | Neglecting To Obey Battalion Orders.  
| in that he  
|  at....... on............ neglected to obeybattalion daily order Part I
No...... dated .....by enteringMeena Bezar which had been placed out of bounds
by the saidorder.  
| No.38  
Assam Rifles Act Section 29(f) |  When Called Upon Refusing To Assist The ForcePolice, In The Execution of His Duty.  
| in that he  
|  at ........., on...........when called upon byNo......Rank ........... Name
.........Assistant Force Police ofHQ....... to assist him in arresting
No.......Rank .......Name.........unit, an offender, refused to do so.  
| No. 39  
Assam Rifles Act Section 31 |  Making At The Time of Enrolment A Wilfully FalseAnswer To A Question Set Forth In The Prescribed Form ofEnRolment Which Was Put To Him By The Enrolling Officer BeforeWhom He Appeared For The Purpose of Being Enrolled,  
| in that he,  
|  at.. ......., on .........., when appeared beforeNo.............Rank......
Name ........., an enrolling officer,for the purpose of being enrolled for
service in the AssamRifles, to the question put to him "Have you ever
beenconvicted by a criminal court" answered "No",whereas he well knew that he
had been convicted by Chief JudicialMagistrate, Imphal West on......... for
committing an offenceunder Sec _________of IPC.  
| No. 40  
Assam Rifles Act Section 32 |  Being An Officer Behaving In A Manner UnbecomingHis Position And The Character Expected of Him,  
| in that he,  
|  at......., on .........., when answering 'TACTICS'paper at promotion
examination Part 'Z' was improperly foundreading a precis on the subject
"Mountains favour thedefender" for the purpose of answering question No.1  
| No.41  
Assam Rifles Act Section 32 |  Being An Officer Behaving In A Manner UnbecomingHis Position And The Character Expected of Him,  
| in that he,  
|  at.......,on.........., in payment of his outstanding dues towards
theCSD(I) Canteen of his unit, gave to Capt..., the Canteen Officer,a cheque
for Rs ..... (Rupees....... and..... only) drawn on theState bank of India
................,which was dishonoured when presented, well knowingthat he did
not have sufficient funds in the said bank to meetthe said cheque.  
| No. 42  
Assam Rifles Act Section 33(a) | Disgraceful Conduct Of An Indecent Kind,  
| in that he,  
|  at......, on.........., at about...... 2330 hrs,with indecent intent got
into bed with No.....,Rank.....Name........, of the same battalion.  
| No. 43  
Assam Rifles Act Section 33(b) | Malingering,  
| in that he,  
|  at.. .......... , on .........., falsely pretendedto Capt .........,
Medical Officer, that he (the accused) wassuffering from a sprained ankle.  
| No. 44  
Assam Rifles Act Section 33(b) | Malingering,  
| in that he,  
|  at........, on .........., between ...... and...... hrs, with the intention
of evading his duties as a memberof the Quarter Guard counterfeited dumbness.  
| No. 45  
Assam Rifles Act Section 33(b) | Feigning Disease In Himself,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., pretended to.........,Medical Officer, that he
was suffering violent pain in the headand down his back, whereas he was not so
suffering.  
| No. 46  
Assam Rifles Act Section 33(b) | Intentionally Delaying His Cure,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., when under medicaltreatment for a wound in his
leg removed the bandages from thesaid wound with intent thereby to delay his
cure and did therebydelay his cure.  
| No. 47  
Assam Rifles Act Section 33 (c) |  Voluntarily Causing Hurt To A Person With IntentTo Render That Person Unfit For Service,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., at the request ofNo......, Rank....,Name.....,
cut off the trigger finger of thesaid .......with intent to render him unfit
for service.  
| No. 48  
Assam Rifles Act Section 34 |  Using Criminal Force To A Person Subject To TheAssam Rifles Act Being His Subordinate In Rank,  
| in that he,  
|  at........, on.........., when drilling a squad ofSepoys, struck
Sepoy....... of the same unit on the shoulder witha pacestick.  
| No. 49  
Assam Rifles Act Section 34 |  Ill-Treating A Person Subject To The Assam RiflesAct Being His Subordinate In Rank  
|  
| in that he,  
|  at....., on ......., ill-treated, Rank.... Name......., of the same unit,
by making him stand in the sun between10 a.m. and 3 p.m. and not allowing him
to drink water during thesaid period.  
| No 50  
Assam Rifles Act Section 35 | Intoxication  
| in that he,  
|  at...........on............. when on duty (specifyduty), was in
Intoxication.  
| No. 51  
Assam Rifles Act Section 36(a) |  When In Command Of A Guard Wilfully ReleasingWithout Proper Authority A Person Committed To His Charge,  
| in that he,  
|  at.............,on........, when in command on theQuarter Guard on the
......Battalion, will-fully increasedwithout proper authority,
No....Rank....Name......unit.......whowas confined in the said Quarter Guard
and committed to hischarge.  
| No. 52  
Assam Rifles Act Section 36(b) |  Without Reasonable Excuse Allowing To Escape APerson Whom It Was His Duty To Guard.  
| in that he,  
|  at....., on........., when posted as sentry overNo..........Rank.....,
Name.......of.......Unit, allowed the said......to escape without reasonable
excuse.  
| No. 53  
Assam Rifles Act Section 37(a) |  Unnecessarily Detaining Person in Confident WithoutBringing Him To Trial  
| in that he,  
|  at.....on.....when officiating CommandantBattalion unnecessarily detained
to ......Rank......name....ofthe same Union in Confidant from.........to
without of bringingthe said .........to trial.  
| No. 54  
Assam Rifles Act Section 38 | When In Lawful Custody Escaping  
| in that he,  
|  at.........,on .........., when under close arrestin the unit Quarter Guard
escaped there from.  
| No 55  
Assam Rifles Act Section 39(a) |  Commiting Theft Of Property Belonging To TheGovernment,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on .........., committed then inrespect of one rifle 7.62 SLR
Registered No....., value....., theproperty of the Government.  
| No. 56  
Assam Rifles Act Section 39(a) |  Commiting Theft Of Property Belonging To A PersonSubject To Assam Rifles Act  
| in that he,  
|  at. ......,on...........committed theft respect ofa watch, the property of
No ....... ,Rank..........Name of thesame Battalion.  
| No. 57  
Assam Rifles Act Section 39(b) |  Dishonestly Misappropriating Property Belonging ToThe Government  
| in that he,  
|  at........., between........and .......dishonestymisappropriated
______rounds of 7.62 the SLR ammunition propertyof the Government value
.......which had been entrusted to hischarge to, his charge for the target
practiceof..........company.  
| No. 58  
Assam Rifles Act Section 39(c) |  Commiting Criminal Breach Of Trust In Respect OfProperty Belonging To The Government,  
| in that he,  
|  at........, on .........., dishonestlymisappropriated a sum of Rs ........
the property belonging tothe Government, which was entrusted to him as OC
Field Workshop.  
| No. 59  
First Charge Assam Rifles Act Section 39 (d) |  Dishonestly Receiving The Property Belonging ToThe Government Knowing That Theft Had Been Committed In RespectOf The Same By A Person Subject To Assam Rifles Act,  
| in that he,  
|  at ........., on ..........,dishonestly received 2 jerricans of 70 MT, the
property belongingto the Government, which he knew to have been stolen by
No........, Rank ......., Name ......, of .......Unit.  
Second Charge Assam Rifles Act Section 49(Alternative to the first charge) |  An Act Prejudicial To Good Order And Discipline OfThe Force,  
| in that he,  
|  at........, on......, was in unauthorizedpossession of 2 jerricans of 70
MT, the property belonging to theGovernment  
| No. 60  
Assam Rifles Act Section 39(e) |  Wilfully Destroying Property Of The GovernmentEntrusted To Him,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., wilfully destroyed oneprismatic compass valued
......, the property of the Government,which had been entrusted to him.  
| No. 61  
Assam Rifles Act Section 39(f) |  Such An Offence As Is Mentioned In Clause (F) OfSection 39 Of The Assam Rifles Act, With Intent To Defraud,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on..........., with intent todefraud, obtained from
Shri......, a shopkeeper, three packets ofGold Flake Cigarettes valued at
Rs......by falsely pretendingthat he, the accused, was an orderly to
Capt...of....unit, andthat he had been sent by the said Capt......for the
saidcigarettes.  
| No. 62  
Assam Rifles Act Section 39(f) |  Such An Offence As Is Mentioned In Clause (F) OfSection 39 Of The Assam Rifles Act, With Intent To CauseWrong-Full Loss To A Person,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on .........., with intent to causewrongful loss to No......
Rank*...... Name......, debited thesaid*...... in the acquittance roll for
Rs....... of ......Coy...... Battalion, with a deduction of Rs ....... on
account ofclothing, which deduction he did not credit to the
said*......clothing account.  
| No. 63  
Assam Rifles Act Section 39(f) |  Such An Offence As Is Mentioned In Clause (F) OfSection 39 Of The Assam Rifles Act, With Intent To CauseWrong-Full Gain To A Person,  
| in that he,  
|  at........, on.........., while being theDetachment Clerk of 'B' and 'C'
Coys of his unit, with intent tocause wrongful gain to himself, altered the
entries of payment inthe Acquittance Roll Serial No.....for April 20- against
his namefrom figure Rs.3000/- (Rupees three thousand only) to figure Rs.2000/-
(Rupees two thousand only).  
| No. 64  
Assam Rifles Act Section 40 (a) | Committing Extortion  
| in that he,  
|  at..........on.........., by threatening to make afalse report to the
Officer Commanding their copy to the effectthe....No...Rank...., Name........,
andNo........the........Name.........had committed anunnaturaloffence
together, extorted Rs......... from each of thesaid ..........persons.  
| No. 65  
Assam Rifles Act Section 40 (b) |  Extracting Without Proper Authority Money From APerson,  
| in that he,  
|  at........on..........,extracted without properauthority Rs........from
No........Rank......., Name ..........ofthe same unit.  
| No. 66  
Assam Rifles Act Section 41 (a) |  Missing Away With Clothing, The Property Of TheGovernment Issued To Him For His Use,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on..........., sold his coat combat(Value Rs.........)
property of the Government, issued to him forhis use, to Shri..........for
Rupees...........  
| No. 67  
Assam Rifles Act Section 41 (b) |  Losing By Neglect Identity Card, The Property OfThe Government Issued To Him For His Use,  
| in that he,  
|  at....., on........., lost by neglect IdentityCard No........., the
property of the Government Issued To HimFor His Use,  
| No. 68  
Assam Rifles Act Section 41 (b) |  Losing By Neglect Identity Card The Property OfThe Govenment Issued To Him For His Use.  
| in that he,  
|  at...., on..........., was deficient of IdentityCard No ......., the
property of title Government, issued to himfor his use.(Note:- Ordinarily
proof of the date andcircumstances of the loss of the property is
necessary.Occasionally. proof of them cannet be obtained. In such cases
theparticulars of the charge need to aver that the accused wasdeficient of
title property in question on a specific date.)  
| No. 69  
Assam Rifles Act Section 42(a) |  Without Reasonable Excuse Destroying Ammunition,The Property Of The Government Entrusted To Him,  
| in that he,  
|  at......... on .......... when i/c of theammunition dump, without
reasonable excuse, destroyed 1000 roundsof 7.62 SLR ammunition, the property
of the Government entrustedto him.  
| No. 70  
Assam Rifles Act Section 43(a) |  Making False Accusation Against A Person SubjectTo The Assam Rifles Act Knowing Such Accusation To Be False,  
| in that he,  
|  at .........on.........., when appearing beforeCommandant
A......B....Commanding the...Battalion to answer foran offence, used language
to the foliowing effect, that is tosay, "Assistant Commandant... the Coy
Commander takes nointerest in his work and is entirely in the hands of the
PlatoonCommanders, who in their turn, take bribes all round and allow noone
without a bribe is approach the Assistant Commandant Sahib",well knowing the
said statement to be false.  
| No. 71  
Assam Rifles Act Section 43 (b) |  In Making A Complaint Under Section 16 Of TheAssam Rifles Act, Making A Statement Affecting The Character Of APerson Subject To The Said Act Knowing Such Statement To BeFalse,  
| in that he,  
|  at............, on.........., in a complaint underSection 16 of the Assam
Rifles Act addressed to the CentralGovernment, made the following statement
"The Commandant isindulging in all sorts of malpractices in spending the
moneyreceived by the unit out of the Annual Training Grant," wellknowing the
said statement to be false.  
| No. 72  
Assam Rifles Act Section 44 (a) |  In A Certificate Signed By Him Knowingly Making AFalse Statement,  
| in that he,  
|  at ........, on ........, in a certificate signedby him in the TA/DA claim
for his temporary duty from his unitto......for the duration from......to
......, stated that he wasnot provided with free messing at the outstation
well knowing thesaid statement to be false.  
| No. 73  
Assam Rifles Act Section 44 (c) |  Knowingly And With Intent To Defraud Destroying ADocument Which It Was His Duty To Preserve,  
| in that he,  
|  at.......on.........., when accounts officer ofhis unit, knowingly and with
intent to defraud destroyed the cashbook pert to the Regimental Accounts of
the unit, a documentwhich it was his duty to preserve.  
| No. 74  
Assam Rifles Act Section 44(d) |  Where It Was His Official Duty To Make ADeclaration Respecting A Maner, Knowingly Making A FalseDeclaration,  
| in that he,  
|  at........, on.........., when being the custodianof classified documents
of his unit, rendered a quarterlycertificate that he checked and found correct
all the saiddocuments, well knowing that a secret document No .........hadbeen
lost by him.  
| No. 75  
Assam Rifles Act Section 44(e) |  Obtaining For A Person A Pension By Making A FalseStatement Which He Knew To Be False,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., when examined by DeputyCommandant
AB...of.....Unit who was investigating a claim tofamily pension preferred by
Shri C, inhabitant of...., statedthat he knew the said Shri C to be the father
of lateRfn......of.....Battalion well knowing such statement to befalse, and
consequent to which a family pension of Rs......p.m.was sanctioned to the said
Shri C.  
| No. 76  
Assam Rifles Act Section 45(a) |  When Signing A Document Relating To Supplies,Fraudulently Leaving In Blank A Material Part For Which HisSignature Is A Voucher,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on........., when Officer Commanding4 MGAR......and when
signing the Receipt of articles supplied bycontractor for the month of.....,
fraudulently left in blank thecolumns wherein the total quantity of fresh
rations received fromthe contractor were to be shown.  
| No. 77  
Assam Rifles Act Section 46(c) |  Refusing To Produce A Document In His ControlLegally Required By An Assam Rifles Court To Be Produced By Him,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., when a witness, refusedto produce a letter
dated...... in his control written to him byNo...Rank...Name......unit, when
legally required by the SummaryAssam Rifles Court trying the said...... to be
produced by him(accused).  
| No. 78  
Assam Rifles Act Section 46(e) | Contempt Of Court By Using Insulting Language,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., when being tried by aGeneral Assam Rifles Court,
said in a loud tone "It is nouse my making any defence, the Court has been
told by theconvening officer to convict me and of course they will" orwords to
that effect.  
| No. 79  
Assam Rifles Act Section 47 |  Having Been Duly Affirmed Before An Assam RiflesCourt, Making A False Statement Which He Knew To Be False,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., when examined as awitness before a Petty Assam
Rifles Court stated on solemnaffirmation that Rfn ........... unit, the person
charged beforethe said Court was in his (the witness's) company in the
linesat.......between 0200 hrs and 0500 hrs on......, which statementwas, as
he well knew, false.  
| No. 80  
Assam Rifles Act Section 48 |  Having Received The Pay of A Person Subject To TheAssam Rifles Act, Unlawfully Refusing To Pay The Same When Due,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., having receivedRs......... as an advance of pay
for the month of ...... inrespect of No ........, Rank......, Name......of the
same unit, unlawfully refused to pay the same to the said on........  
|  
| No. 81  
Assam Rifles Act Section 49 |  An Act Prejudicial To Good Order And Discipline OfThe Force,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., improperly wrote andsent to his Commandant No
......., Rank .......Name...........,an anonymous letter in which he made use
of the following words"........... ".  
| No. 82  
Assam Rifles Act Section 49 |  An Act Prejudicial To Good Order And Discipline OfThe Force,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., so negligently drovevehicle No.__________ 3 X
Ton, the property of the Government, asto cause the said vehicle to be damaged
to the amount ofRs.___________.  
| No. 83  
Assam Rifles Act Section 49 |  An Act Prejudicial To Good Order And Discipline OfThe Force,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., while concerned wittlthe care of public money,
so negligently performed his duties asto be unable to account for
Rs.__________ part of the said money.  
| No. 84  
Assam Rifles Act Section 49 |  An-Omission Prejudicial To Good Order AndDiscipline Of The Force,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., so negligently handleda rifle as to cause it to
be discharged and thereby injuringNo__________Rank__________ Name________ of
the same Unit.  
| No. 85  
Assam Rifles Act Section 49 |  An Act Prejudicial To Good Order And Discipline OfThe Force,  
| in that he,  
|  at........, on.........., when appearing at part Zpromotion examination for
paper II-Tactics, was in improperpossession of a precis on Tactics.  
| No. 86  
Assam Rifles Act Section 50 (b) |  By Defiling A Place Of Worship IntentionallyWounding The Religious Feelings Of A Person,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., entered the Mandir at____village with his boots
on, and spat around, therebyintentionally wounding the religious feelings of
the persons ofthe said village.  
| No. 87  
Assam Rifles Act Section 50 (c) |  Attempting To Commit Suicide And In Such AttemptDoing An Act Towards The Commission Of The Same,  
| in that he,  
|  at........, on.........., attempted to commitsuicide by drinking a bottle
of TIK-20.  
| No. 88  
Assam Rifles Act Section 50 (e) |  Obtaining For Himself A Gratification As A RewardFor Procuring Leave Of Aesence For A Person In The Service,  
| in that he,  
|  at........, on.........., while performing theduties at CHM of 'A Coy',
obtained for himself Rs.500/- fromNo_____, Rank_______Name________of his Coy,
a gratification, as areward for having procured leave of absence for
thesaid*_____________from________to_____________.  
| No. 89  
Assam Rifles Act Section 50 (e) |  Atiempting To Obtain For Himself A GratificationAs A Motive For Procuring The Enrolment Of A Person,  
| in that he,  
|  at........, on.........., while working as a clerkin the recruitment rally
of Assam Rifles, attempted to obtain Rs.2000/-, a gratification, as a motive
for procuring the enrolmentof Shri A B, by demanding the said sum from the
said Shri AB,  
| No. 90  
Assam Rifle Act Section 50 (f) |  Commitiing An Offence Against The Property Of AResident In The Country In Which He Was Serving,  
| in that he,  
|  at........, on.........., maliciously damaged amotor car belonging
to________ of________, a residentin_________by thrusting a knife into one of
the tyres.  
| No. 91  
Assam Rifles Act Section 51 |  Atiempting To Incite A Mutiny In The Force And InSuch Attempt Doing An Act Towards The Commission Of The Same,  
| in that he,  
|  at....., on.........., attempted to incite theunder officers and men of his
Company to combine together andrefuse to eat their rations next day and to
demand from No. ___,Rank Name _____, commanding the said unit that No. ____,
Rank_____Name_______be removed from his employment as_____i/c ofration issue,
and to this end addressed the Company personnel inthe following
words_________"(set out the language used).  
| No. 92  
Assam Rifles Act Section 52 |  Abetment Of An Offence Specified In Sestion 27 OfThe Assam Rifles Act, In Consequence Of Which Abetment SuchOffence Was Committed,  
| in that he,  
|  at......., on.........., abetted by
instigatingNo._________Rank_______Name_____of the same Unit to strike of
thesame Unit, in consequence of which the said, struck the saidsubordinate
officer on the head with a stick.  
| No. 93  
Assam Rifles Act Section 53 |  Abetment Of An Offence Punishable With Death UnderSection 25 Of The Assam Rifles Act, In Consequence Of WhichAbetment Such Offence Was Not Committed.  
| in that he,  
|  at......., on......., when on active duty,instigated No.______,
Rank______,Name_____ of the same Unit todesert the service which offence was
not committed by thesaid_____.  
| No. 94  
Assam Rifles Act Section 54 |  Abetment Of An Offence Specified In Section 39 OfThe Assam Rifles Act, And Punishable With Imprisonment InConsequence Of Which Abetment, Such Offence Was Not Committed,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.......... , instigatedNo.________Rank__________Name________
who was working as a batmento No.________Rank__________ Name________of the
same unit tocommit theft of the Transistor belonging to the said*_______which
offence was not committed by the said Rifleman.  
| No. 95  
Assam Rifles Act Section 55 |  Committing A Civil Offence, That Is To Say,Causing Death By A Rash Or Negligent Act Not Amounting ToCulpable Homicide Punishable Under Section 304-A Of The IndianPenal Code,  
| in that he,  
|  at........, on.........., by rashly or negligentlydriving vehicle
No._________ caused the death ofShri_______________, a civilian.  
| No. 96  
Assam Rifles Act Section 55 |  Committing A Civil Offence, That Is To Say, Murder, Punishable Under Section 302 Of The Indian Penal Code,  
| in that he,  
|  at........, on.........., by causing the death ofNo._________Rank_______
Name_____ of his unit committed murder.  
| No. 97  
Assam Rifles Act Section 55 |  Committing A Civil Offence, That Is To Say,Rioting, Punishable Under Section 147 Of The Indian Penal Code,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., was a member of anunlawful assembly, which, in
prosecution of the common object ofsuch assembly to use criminal force to the
Civil Police, beat theCivil Police with lath is, thereby committing the
offence ofrioting.  
| No. 98  
Assam Rifles Act Section 55 |  Committing A Civil Offence, That Is To Say,Attempt To Murder, Punishable Under Section 307 Of The IndianPenal Code,  
| in that he,  
|  at......., on .........., fired two shots from arifle at
No_______Rank______ Name*_____, of the same unit withintent to murder him and
thereby wounded the said* ___________inthe right ear and left thigh.  
| No. 99  
Assam Rifles Act Section 55 |  Committing A Civil Offence, That Is To Say,Voluntarily Causing Grievous Hurt, Punishable Under Section 325Of The Indian Penal Code,  
| in that he,  
|  at....., on.........., voluntarily caused grievoushurt to No________,
Rank______ Name______________, of the sameunit by fracturing his left arm with
an iron rod.  
| No. 100  
Assam Rifles Act Section 55 |  Committing A Civil Offence, That Is To Say, Theft,Punishbale Under Section 379 Of The Indian Penal Code,  
| in that he,  
|  at........, on.........., committed theft of a tinof ghee, of value of
Rs._______ from the shop ofShri_____________in the Sadar Bazar, the property)
of the saidShri______________.  
| No. 101  
Assam Rifles Act Section 55 |  Committing A Civil Offence, That Is To Say, UsingCriminal Force To A Woman With Intent To Outrage Her Modesty,Punishable Under Section 354 Of The Indian Penal Code,  
| in that he,  
|  at........., on.........., used criminal force toSmt________________wife of
Shri____________, by putting his righthand on her thigh intending thereby to
outrage her modesty.

