## Union of India - Act

## The All India Services Act, 1951

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The All India Services Act, 1951

## Act 61 of 1951

  * Published on 29 October 1951 
  * Commenced on 29 October 1951 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 October 1951.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The All India Services Act, 1951(61 of 1951)

### 259.

Article 312 of the Constitution provides that Parliament may by law regulate
the recruitment, and the conditions of service of persons appointed to the All
India Services common to the Union and the States. At present there are two
such All India Services, namely, the Indian Administrative Service and the
Indian Police Service. In the absence of any proviso to Article 312 similar to
that included in Article 309, the Government of India is now compelled to deal
with many of these matters by means of non-statutory executive orders. This is
neither satisfactory nor quite justifiable.2\. Before the commencement of the
Constitution, the Government of India issued the Indian Civil Administrative
Cadre Rules and the Indian Police Service Cadre Rules. Although these Rules,
in so far as they are not inconsistent with the Constitution, are continued in
force by Article 313 of the Constitution, they authorise the regulation of
only such items relating to the conditions of service as had already been
settled. Emergency recruitment to these services to fill the gaps left by the
departure of the British element in the I.C.S. and the Indian Police was still
in progress at that time. Many matters relating to the conditions of service
of such officers were only decided after the Constitution had come into force.
Other very important matters such as the fixation of retirement benefits have
yet to be settled. Arrangements have also been completed recently to extend
the Indian Administrative Service and the Indian Police Service schemes to the
Part B States.3\. It is necessary that Parliament should provide the requisite
statutory authority to enable the Government of India to carry on the day-to-
day management of the two All India Services and also to take and promulgate
deri,ion, on matters relating to the recruitment and the condition of service
from time to time.(1) the Indian Service of Engineers (Irrigation, Power,
Buildings and Roads),(2) the Indian Forest Service, and(3) the Indian Medical
and Health Service.The present Bill seeks to create the aforesaid services by
amending the All India Services Act, 1951, Under section 3 of the Act, the
Central Government would be empowered to make rules for the regulation of
recruitment, and conditions of service of persons appointed, to these
services. - Gazette of India, 19-11-1962, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p. 1012.4\.
The present Bill seeks to fill a constitutional lacuna without proceeding to
incorporate any detailed provisions. This course is necessitated, among other
things, by the shortness of time available to Parliament this year. After the
necessary transitional period is passed through, it will be possible to
incorporate the major provisions in an Act of Parliament. The present Bill
provides that recruitment and conditions of service of officers of the two All
India services shall be regulated by rules to be made by the Central
Government in consultation with the Governments of the participating States.
The Bill, however, provides that all the rules so made shall be laid before
Parliament and shall be subject to such modifications as Parliament may make".
- Gazette of India, 1951, Part II - Section 2, page 748.Act 25 of 1958.- The
Government of Jammu and Kashmir have agreed to participate in the scheme of
All India Services and this has necessitated the constitution of the Indian
Administrative Service and Indian Police Service Cadres in that State. Section
3 of the All India Services Act, 1951, empowers the Central Government, in
consultation with the States concerned, to make rules for the regulation of
recruitment, etc., to an All India Service. The object of this Bill is to make
it clear that the expression "State concerned" in that Act includes the State
of Jammu and Kashmir. - Gazette of India, 9-5-1958, Pt. II - Section 2, Ext.,
p. 710.Act 27 of 1963.- Under Article 312(1) of the Constitution, the Rajya
Sabha passed a resolution on 6th December. 1961, by the prescribed majority,
declaring that it is necessary to provide, in the national interest, for the
creation of the following All India Services, namely :Act 23 of 1975.- In
service matters occasions arise when it becomes an inescapable necessity to
amend or make rules with retrospective effect. An instance in point is the
implementation of the decisions of the Government on the recommendations of
the Third Central Pay Commission.2\. Section 3 of the All India Services Act,
1951 which empowers the Central Government to make rules for the regulation of
recruitment and the conditions of service of persons appointed to an All India
Service does not in terms permit the making of the rules with retrospective
effect. In view of the opinion tendered by the Attorney-General in 1969 in
connection with a point raised by the Public Accounts Committee regarding an
exemption notification issued with retrospective effect under the Central
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 and the subsequent decisions of the Supreme Court,
particularly the decision in Hukum Chand v. Union of India [(1973) II S.C.W.R.
129], unless the section is suitably amended, it would not be permissible to
make any rules thereunder with retrospective effect. It is, therefore,
proposed to amend the section so as to empower the Central Government to make
rules with retrospective effect subject to the safe-guard that no rules shall
be made retrospectively so as to prejudicially affect the interests of any
person who may be governed by such rules. This safeguard is in accordance with
the directions of the Committee on Subordinate Legislation. It is also
proposed to validate the rules which have been made in the past with
retrospective of feet.3\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects. -
Gazette of India, 21-12-1974, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p. 1232.[29th October,
1951]An Act to regulate the recruitment, and the conditions of service of
persons appointed, to the All-India Services common to the Union and the
States.Be it enacted by Parliament as follows :-

### 1. Short title .-This Act may be called the All-India Services Act, 1951.

### 2. Definition .-In this Act, the expression " an all-India Service " means
the service known as the Indian Administrative Service or the service known as
the Indian Police Service [or any other service specified in section 2-A.]

[2-A. Other All-India Services.-With effect from such date as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint in this
behalf, there shall be constituted the following All-India Services and
different dates may be appointed for different services, namely:-

### 1\. The Indian Service of Engineers (Irrigation, Power, Buildings and
Roads);

### 2\. The Indian Forest Service;

### 3. The Indian Medical and Health Service.]

### 3\. [ Regulation of recruitment and conditions of service

.-(1) The Central Government may, after consultation with the Governments of
the States concerned including the State of Jammu and Kashmir [and by
notification in the Official Gazette] make rules.[(1-A) The power to make
rules conferred by this section shall include the power to give retrospective
effect from a date not earlier than the date of commencement of this Act, to
the rules or any of them but no retrospective effect shall be given to any
rule so as to prejudicially affect the interests of any person to whom such
rule may be applicable.] [Inserted by Act 23 of 1975, Section 2. ](2)[ Every
rule made by the Central Government under this section and every regulation
made under or in pursuance of any such rule, shall be laid, as soon as may be
after such rule or regulation is made, before each House of Parliament while
it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in
one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry
of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in such rule or
regulation or both Houses agree that such rule or regulation should not be
made, the rule or regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or regulation.] [Substituted by Act
19 of 1975, Section 3, for sub-Section (2). ]

### 4. Continuance of existing rules .-All rules in force immediately before
the commencement of this Act and applicable to an all-India Service shall
continue to be in force and shall be deemed to be rules made under this Act.

