## Union of India - Act

## The Architects Act, 1972

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Architects Act, 1972

## Act 20 of 1972

  * Published in Gazette 20 on 31 May 1972 
  * Assented to on 31 May 1972 
  * Commenced on 31 May 1972 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 May 1972.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Architects Act, 1972[Act, No. 20 OF 1972][31st May, 1972]An Act to provide
for the registration of architects and for matters connected therewith.BE it
enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-third Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement .-

(1)This Act may be called the Architects Act, 1972.(2)It extends to the whole
of India .(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.-

In this, Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"architect" means a
person whose name is for the time being entered in the register;(b)"Council"
means the Council of Architecture constituted under section 3;(c)"Indian
Institute of Architects" means the Indian Institute of Architects registered
under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860);(d)"recognized
qualification" means any qualification in architecture for the time being
included in the Schedule or notified under section 15;(e)"register" means the
register of architects maintained under section 23;(f)"regulation" means a
regulation made under this Act by the Council;(g)"rule" means a rule made
under this Act by the Central Government.

### 3. Constitution of Council of Architecture.-

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute, with effect from such date as may be specified in the
notification, a Council to be known as the Council of Architecture, which
shall be a body corporate, having perpetual succession and a common seal, with
power to acquire, hold and dispose of property, both movable and immovable,
and to contract, and may by that name sue or be sued.(2)The Head Officer of
the Council shall be at Delhi or at such other place as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify.(3)The Council shall
consist of the following members, namely :-(a)five architects possessing
recognized qualifications elected by the Indian Institute of Architects from
among its members :(b)two persons nominated by the All India Council for
Technical Education established by the Resolution of the Government of India
in the late Ministry of Education No.F.16-10/44-E.III, dated the 30th
November, 1945;(c)five person selected from among themselves by heads of
architectural institutions in India imparting full-time instruction for
recognized qualifications;(d)the Chief Architects in the Ministries of the
Central Government to which the Government business relating to defense and
railways has been allotted and the head of the Architectural Organization in
the Central Public Works Department, ex officio;(e)one person nominated by the
Central Government;(f)an architect from each State nominated by the Government
of that State(g)two person nominated by the Institution of Engineers (India)
from among its members; and(h)one person nominated by the Institution of
Surveyors of India from among its members.Explanation.- For the purposes of
this sub-section,-(a)" Institution of Engineers (India)" means the Institution
of Engineers (India first registered in 1920 under the India Companies Act,
1913 (7 of 1913) and subsequently incorporated by a Royal Charter in
1935.(b)"Institution of Surveyors of India" means the Institution of Surveyors
registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of
1860).(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (a) of sub-section (3),
the Central Government may, pending the preparation of the register, nominate
to the first Council, in consultation with the Indian Institution of
Architects, persons referred to in the said clause (a) who are qualified for
registration under section 25, and the persons so nominated shall hold officer
for such period as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (f) of sub-
section (3), the Central Government may, pending the preparation of the
register, nominate to the first Council, in consultation with the State
Governments concerned, persons referred to in the said clause (f), who are
qualified for registration under section 25, and the person so nominated shall
hold officer for such period as the Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, specify.

### 4. President and Vice-President of Council.-

(1)The President and the Vice-President of the Council shall be elected by the
members of the Council from among themselves :Provided that on the first
constitution of the Council and until the President is elected, a member of
the Council nominated by the Central Government in this behalf shall discharge
the functions of the President.(2)An elected President or Vice-President of
the Council shall hold officer for a term of three years or till he ceases to
be a member of the Council, whichever is earlier, but subject to his being a
member of the Council, he shall be eligible for re-election :Provided
that-(a)the President or the Vice-President may, by writing under his hand
addressed to the Vice-president or the President, as the case may be resign
his office;(b)the President or the Vice-President shall, notwithstanding the
expiry of this term of three years, continue to hold officer until his
successor enters upon office.(3)The President and the Vice-president of the
Council shall exercise such powers and discharge such duties as may be
prescribed by regulations.

### 5. Mode of elections.-

(1)Elections under this Chapter shall be conducted in such manner as may be
prescribed by rules.(2)Where any dispute arises regarding any such election,
the matter shall be referred by the Council to a Tribunal appointed by the
Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette in this behalf, and
the decision of the Tribunal shall be final :Provided that no such reference
shall be made except on an application made to the Council by an aggrieved
party within thirty days from the date of the declaration of the result of the
election.(3)The expenses of the Tribunal shall be borne by the Council.

### 6. Terms of office and casual vacancies.-

(1)Subject to the provision s of this section, an elected or nominated member
shall hold officer for a term of three years from the date of his election or
nomination or until his successor has been duly elected or nominated,
whichever is later.(2)An elected or nominated member may, at any time, resign
his membership by writing under his hand addressed to the President, or in his
absence, to the Vice-President, and the seat of such member shall thereupon
become vacant.(3)A member shall be deemed to have vacated his seat-(i)if he is
absent without excuse, sufficient in the opinion of the Council, from three
consecutive ordinary meetings of the Council; or(ii)if he ceases to be a
member of the body referred to in clause (a), clause (g) or clause (h) of sub-
section (3) of section 3 by which he was elected or nominated, as the case may
be; or(iii)in the case where he has been elected under clause (c) of sub-
section (3) of section 3, if the ceases to hold his appointment as the head of
an institution referred to in the said clause.(4)casual vacancy in the Council
shall be filled by fresh election or nomination, as the case may be, and the
person so elected or nominated to fill the vacancy shall hold office only for
the remainder of the term for which the member whose place he takes was
elected or nominated.(5)Members of the Council shall be eligible for re-
election or re-nomination, but not exceeding three consecutive terms.

### 7. Validity of act or proceeding of Council, Executive Committee or other
committees not to be invalidated by reason of vacancy, etc.-

No act or proceeding of the Council or the Executive Committee or any other
committee shall be invalid merely by reason of-(a)any vacancy in, or defect in
the constitution of, the Council, the Executive committee or any other
committee, or(b)any defect in the election or nomination of a person acting as
a member there of, or(c)any irregularity in procedure not affecting the merits
of the case.

### 8. Disabilities.-

A person shall not be eligible for election or nomination as a member of the
Council, if he-(a)is an undischarged insolvent; or(b)has been convicted by a
court in India for any offence and sentenced to imprisonment for not less than
two years, and shall continue to be ineligible for a further period of five
years since his release.

### 9. Meetings of Council.-

(1)The Council shall meet at least once in every six months at such time and
place and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction
of business at its meetings as may be prescribed by regulations.(2)Unless
otherwise prescribed by regulations, nine members of the Council shall form a
quorum, and all the acts of the Council shall be decided by a majority of the
members present and voting.(3)In the case of an equal division of votes, the
President, or in his absence, the Vice-President or, in the absence of both ,
the member presiding over the meeting, shall have and exercise a second or
casting vote.

### 10. Executive Committee and other committees.-

(1)The Council shall constitute from among its members an Executive Committee,
and may also constitute other committees for such general or special purposes
as the Council deems necessary to carry out its functions under this
Act.(2)The Executive Committee shall consist of the President and the Vice-
President of the Council who shall be member ex-officio and five other members
who shall be elected by the Council from among its members.(3)The President
and the Vice-president of the Council shall be the Chairman and Vice-Chairman
respectively of the Executive Committee.(4)A member of the Executive Committee
shall hold office as such until the expiry of his term as a member of the
Council but subject to his being a member of the Council, he shall be eligible
for re-election.(5)In addition to the powers and duties conferred and imposed
on it by this Act, the Executive committee shall exercise such powers and
discharge such duties as may be prescribed by regulations.

### 11. Fees and allowances to President, Vice President and members.-

The President, the Vice-President and other members of the Council shall be
entitled to such fees and allowances as the Council may, with the previous
sanction of the Central Government fix, in this behalf.

### 12. Officers and other employees.-

(1)The Council shall-(a)appoint a Registrar who shall act as its Secretary and
who may also act, if so decided by the Council, as its treasurer;(b)appoint
such other officers and employees as the Council deems necessary to enable it
to carry out its functions under this Act;(c)with the previous sanction of the
Central Government, fix the pay and allowances and other conditions of service
of officers and other employees of the Council.(2)Notwithstanding anything
contained in clause (a) of sub-section (1), for the first three years from the
first constitution of the Council, the Registrar of the Council shall be a
person appointed by the Central Government, who shall hold office during the
pleasure of the Central Government.(3)All the persons appointed under this
section shall be the employees of the Council.

### 13. Finances of Council.-

(1)There shall be established a Fund under the management and control of the
Council in to which shall be paid all moneys received by the Council and out
of which shall be met all expenses and liabilities properly incurred by the
Council.(2)The Council may invest any money for the time being standing to the
credit of the Fund in any Government security or in any other security
approved by the Central Government.(3)The Council shall keep proper accounts
of the Fund distinguishing capital from revenue.(4)The annual accounts of the
Council shall be subject to audit by an auditor to be appointed annually by
the Council.(5)As soon as may be practicable at the end of each year, but no
later than the thirtieth day of September of the year next following, the
Council shall cause to be published in the Official Gazette a copy of the
audited accounts and the report of the Council for that year and copies of the
said accounts and report shall be forwarded to the Central Government.(6)The
Fund shall consist of-(a)all moneys received from the Central Government by
way of grant, gift or deposit;(b)any sums received under this Act whether by
way of fee or otherwise.(7)All moneys standing at the credit of the Council
which cannot immediately be applied shall be deposited in the State Bank of
India or in any other bank specified in column 2 of the First Schedule to the
Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of
1970)

### 14. Recognition qualifications granted by authorities in India.-

(1)The qualifications included in the Schedule or notified under section 15
shall be recognized qualifications for the purposes of this Act.(2)Any
authority in India which grants an architectural qualification not included in
the Schedule may apply to the Central Government to have such qualification
recognized, and the Central Government, after consultation with the Council,
may, by notification in the Official Gazette. Amend the Schedule so as to
include such qualification therein, and any such notification may also direct
that an entry shall be made in the Schedule against such architectural
qualification declaring that it shall be a recognized qualification only when
granted after a specified date :Provided that until the first Council is
constituted, the Central Government shall, before issuing any notification as
aforesaid, consult an expert committee consisting of three members to be
appointed by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette.

### 15. Recognition of architectural qualifications granted by authorities in
foreign countries.-

(1)The Central Government may, after consultation with the Council, direct, by
notification in the Official Gazette, that an architectural qualification
granted by any university or other institution in any country outside India in
respect of which a scheme of reciprocity for the recognition of architectural
qualification is not in force, shall be a recognized qualification for the
purposes of this Act or, shall be so only when granted after a specified date
or before a specified date :Provided that until the first Council is
constituted the Central Government shall, before issuing any notification as
aforesaid, consult the expert committee set up under the proviso to sub-
section (2) of section 14.(2)The Council may enter into negotiations with the
authority in any State or country outside India, which by the law of such
State or country is entrusted with the maintenance of a register of
architects, for settling of a scheme of reciprocity for the recognition of
architectural qualifications, and in pursuance of any such scheme, the central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that such
architectural qualification as the Council has decided should be recognized,
shall be deemed to be a recognized qualification for the purposes of this Act,
any such notification may also direct that such architectural qualification
shall be so recognized only when granted after a specified date or before a
specified date.

### 16. Power of Central Government to amend Schedule.-

Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2) of section 14, the
Central Government, after consultation with the Council, may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, amend the Schedule by directing that an entry be made
therein in respect of any architectural qualification.

### 17. Effect of recognition.-

Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, but subject to the
provisions of this Act, any recognized qualification shall be a sufficient
qualification for enrolment in the register.

### 18. Power require information as to courses of study and examinations.-

Every authority in India which grants a recognized qualification shall furnish
such information as the Council may, from time to time, require as to the
courses of study and examinations to be undergone in order to obtain such
qualification, as to the ages at which such courses of study and examinations
are required to be undergone and such qualification is conferred and generally
as to the requisites for obtaining such qualification.

### 19. Inspections of examinations.-

(1)The Executive Committee shall, subject to regulations, if any, made by the
Council, appoint such number of inspectors as it may deem requisite to inspect
any college or institution where architectural education is given or to attend
any examination held by any college or institution for the purpose of
recommending to the Central Government recognition of architectural
qualifications granted by that college or institution.(2)The inspector shall
not interfere with the conduct of any training or examination, but shall
report to the Executive Committee on the adequacy of the standards of
architectural education including staff, equipment, accommodation, training
and such other facilities as may be prescribed by regulations for giving such
education or on the sufficiency of every examination which they attend.(3)The
Executive committee shall forward a copy of such report to the College or
institution and shall also forward copies with remarks, if any, of the college
or institution thereon, to the Central Government.

### 20. Withdrawal of recognition.-

(1)When upon report by the Executive Committee it appears to the
Council-(a)that the courses of study and examination to be undergone in, or
the proficiency required from the candidates at any examination held by, any
college or institution, or(b)that the staff, equipment, accommodation,
training and other facilities for staff and training provided in such college
or institution, do not conform to the standards prescribed by regulations, the
council shall make a representation to that effect to the appropriate
Government.(2)After considering such representation the appropriate Government
shall forward it along with such remarks as it may choose to make to the
college or institution concerned, with an intimation of the period within
which the college or institution, as the case may be, may submit its
explanation to the appropriate Government.(3)On receipt of the explanation or
where no explanation is submitted within the period fixed, then on the expiry
of that period, the State Government, in respect of the college or institution
referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (5), shall make its recommendations
to the Central Government.(4)The Central Government-(a)after making such
further enquiry, if any, as it may think fit, in respect of the college or
institution referred to in sub-section (3), or(b)on receipt of the explanation
from a college or institution referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (5), or
where no explanation is submitted within the period fixed, then on the expiry
of that period, may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that an
entry shall be made in the Schedule against the architectural qualification
awarded by such college or institution, as the case may be, l declaring that
it shall be a recognized qualification only when granted before a specified
date and the Schedule shall be deemed to be amended accordingly.(5)For the
purposes of this section, "appropriate government" means-(a)in relation to any
college or institution established by an Act of Parliament or managed ,
controlled or financed by the Central Government, the Central Government,
and(b)in any other case the State Government.

### 21. Minimum standard of architectural education.-

The Council may prescribe the minimum standards of architectural education
required for granting recognized qualifications by colleges or institutions in
India.

### 22. Professional conduct.-

(1)The Council may by regulations prescribe standards of professional conduct
and etiquette and a code of ethics for architects.(2)Regulations made by the
Council under sub-section (1) may specify which violations thereof shall
constitute infamous conduct in any professional respect, that is to say,
professional misconduct, and such provision shall have effect notwithstanding
anything contained in any law for the time being in force.

### 23. Preparation and maintenance of register.-

(1)The Central Government shall, as soon as may be, cause to be prepared in
the manner hereinafter provided a register of architects for India.(2)The
Council shall upon its constitution assume the duty of maintaining the
register in accordance with the provisions of this Act.(3)The register shall
include the following particulars, namely:-(a)the full name with date of
birth, nationality and residential address of the architect;(b)his
qualification for registration, and the date on which he obtained that
qualification and the authority which conferred it;(c)the date of this first
admission to the register;(d)his professional address; and(e)such further
particulars as may be prescribed by rules.

### 24. First preparation of register.-

(1)For the purposes of preparing the register of architects for the first
time, the Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute a Registration Tribunal consisting of three persons who have, in
the opinion of the Central Government, the knowledge of, or experience in,
architecture; and the Registrar appointed under section 12 shall act as
Secretary of the Tribunal.(2)The Central Government shall, by the same or a
like notification, appoint a date on or before which application for
registration, which shall be accompanied by such fee as may be prescribe by
rules, shall be made to the Registration Tribunal.(3)The Registration Tribunal
shall examine every application received on or before the appointed day and if
it is satisfied that the applicant is qualified for registration under section
25, shall direct the entry of the name of the applicant in the register.(4)The
first register so prepared shall thereafter be published in such manner as the
Central Government may direct and any person aggrieved by a decision of the
Registration Tribunal expressed or implied in the register so published may,
within thirty days from the date of such publication, appeal against such
decision to an authority appointed by the Central Government in this behalf by
notification in the Official Gazette.(5)The authority appointed under sub-
section (4) shall, after giving the person affected an opportunity of being
heard and after calling for relevant records, make such order as it may deem
fit.(6)The Registrar shall amend, where necessary, the register in accordance
with the decisions of the authority appointed under sub-section (4).(7)Every
person whose name is entered in the register shall be issued a certificate of
registration in such form as may be prescribed by rules.(8)Upon the
constitution of the Council, the register shall be given into its custody, and
the Central Government may direct that the whole or any specified part of the
application fees for registration in the first register shall be paid to the
credit of the Council.

### 25. Qualification for entry in register.-

A person shall be entitled on payment of such fee as may be prescribed by
rules to have his name entered in the register, if he resides or carries on
the profession of architect in India and-(a)holds a recognized qualification,
or(b)does not hold such a qualification but, being a citizen of India, has
been engaged in practice as an architect for a period of not less than five
years prior to the date appointed under sub-section (2) of section 24,
or(c)possesses such other qualifications as may be prescribed by rules
:Provided that no person other than a citizen of India shall be entitled to
registration by virtue of a qualification-(a)recognized under sub-section (1)
of section 15 unless by the law and practice of a country outside India to
which such person belongs, citizens of India holding architectural
qualification registrable in that country are permitted to enter and practice
the profession of architect in such country, or(b)unless the Central
Government has, in pursuance of a scheme of reciprocity or otherwise, declared
that qualification to be a recognized qualification under sub-section (2) of
section 15.

### 26. Procedure for subsequent registration.-

(1)After the date appointed for the receipt of applications for registration
in the first register of architects, all applications of registration shall be
addressed to the Registrar of the Council and shall be accompanied by such
fees as may be prescribed by rules.(2)If upon such application the Register is
of opinion that the applicant is entitled to have his name entered in the
register he shall enter thereon the name of the applicant :Provided that no
person, whose name has under the provisions of this Act been removed from the
register, shall be entitled to have his name re-entered in the register except
with the approval of the Council.(3)Any person whose application for
registration is rejected by the Registrar may, within three months of the date
of such rejection, appeal to the Council.(4)Upon entry in the register of a
name under this section, the Registrar shall issue a certificate of
registration in such form as may be prescribed by rules.

### 27. Renewal fees.-

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct
that for the retention of a name in the register after the 31st day of
December of the year following the year in which the name is first entered in
the register, there shall be paid annually to the Council such renewal fee as
may be prescribed by rules and where such direction has been made, such
renewal fee shall be due to be paid before the first day of April of the year
to which it relates.(2)Where the renewal fee is not paid before the due date,
the Registrar shall remove the name of the defaulter from the register
:Provided that a name so removed may be restored to the register on, such
conditions as may be prescribed by rules.(3)On payment of the renewal fee the
Registrar shall, in such manner as may be prescribed by rules, endorse the
certificate of registration accordingly.

### 28. Entry of additional qualification.-

An architect shall, on payment of such fee as may be prescribed by rules, be
entitled to have entered in the register any further recognized qualification
which he may obtain.

### 29. Removal from register.-

(1)The Council may, by order, removing from the register the name of any
architect-(a)from whom a request has been received to that effect, or(b)who
has died since the last publication of the register.(2)Subject to the
provisions of this section, the Council may order that the name of any
architect shall be removed from the register where it is satisfied, after
giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard and after such further
inquiry, if any, as it may think fit to make,-(a)that his name has been
entered in the register by error or on account of misrepresentation or
suppression of a material fact; or(b)that he has been convicted of any offence
which, in the opinion of the Council, involves moral turpitude; or(c)that he
is an undischarged insolvent; or(d)that he has been adjudged by a competent
court to be of unsound mind.(3)An order under sub-section (2) may direct that
any architect whose name is ordered to be removed from a register shall be
ineligible for registration under this Act for such period as may be
specified.(4)An order under sub-section 92) shall not take effect until the
expiry of three months from the date thereof.

### 30. Procedure in inquiries relating to misconduct.-

(1)When on receipt of a complain made to it, the Council is of opinion that
any architect has been guilty of professional misconduct which, if proved,
will render him unfit to practice as an architect, the Council may hold an
inquiry in such manner as may be prescribed by rules.(2)After holding the
inquiry under sub-section (1) and after hearing the architect, the Council
may, by order, reprimand the said architect or suspend him from practice as an
architect or remove his name from the register or pass such other order as it
thinks fit.

### 31. Surrender of certificates.-

A person whose name has been removed from the register under sub-section (2)
of section 27, sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 29 of sub-section
(2) of section 30, or where such person is dead, his legal representative, as
defined in clause (11) of section 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, (5
of 1908) shall forthwith surrender his certificate of registration to the
Registrar, and the name so removed shall be published in the Official Gazette.

### 32. Restoration to register .-

The Council may, at any time, for reasons appearing to it to be sufficient and
subject to the approval of the Central Government, order that upon payment of
such fee as may be prescribed by rules, the name of the person removed from
the register shall be restored thereto.

### 33. Issue of duplicate certificates.-

Where it is shown to the satisfaction of the Registrar that a certificate of
registration has been lost or destroyed, the Registrar may, on payment of such
fee as may be prescribed by rules, issue a duplicate certificate in the form
prescribed by rules.

### 34. Printing of register.-

As soon as may be after the 1st day of April in each year, the Registrar shall
cause to be printed copies of the register as it stood on the said date and
such copies shall be made available to person applying therefor on payment of
such fees as may be prescribed by rules and shall be evidence that on the said
date the person whose names are entered therein were architects.

### 35. Effect of registration.-

(1)Any reference in any law for the time being in force to an architect shall
be deemed to be a reference to an architect registered under this Act.(2)After
the expiry of two years from the date appointed under sub-section (2) of
section 24, a person who is registered in the register shall get preference
for appointment as an architect under the Central or State Government or in
any other local body or institution which is supported or aided from the
public or local funds or in any institution recognized by the Central of State
Government.

### 36. Penalty for falsely claiming to be registered.-

If any person whose name is not for the time being entered in the register
falsely represents that it so entered, or uses in connection with his name or
title any words or letters reasonably calculated to suggest that his name is
so entered, he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees.

### 37. Prohibition against use of title.-

(1)After the expiry of one year from the date appointed under sub-section (2)
of section 24, no person other than a registered architect, or a firm of
architects shall use the title and style of architect:Provided that the
provisions of this section shall not apply to-(a)practice of the profession of
an architect by a person designated as a "landscape architect" or "naval
architect";(b)a person who, carrying on the profession of an architect in any
country outside India, undertakes the function as a consultant or designer in
India for a specific project with the prior permission of the Central
Government.(i)"landscape architect" means a person who deals with the design
of open spaces relating to plants trees and landscape;(ii)"naval architect"
means an architect who deals with design and construction of ships.(2)If any
person contravenes the provision s of sub-section (1), he shall be punishable
on first conviction with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees and on
any subsequent conviction with imprisonment which may extend to six months or
with fine not exceeding one thousand rupees or with both.

### 38. Failure to surrender certificate of registration.-

If any person whose name has been removed from the register fails without
sufficient cause forthwith to surrender his certificate of registration, he
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees, and, in
the case of a continuing failure, with an additional fine which may extend to
ten rupees for each day after the first during which he has persisted in the
failure.

### 39. Cognizance of offences.-

(1)No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act,
except upon complaint made by order of the Council or a person authorized in
this behalf by the Council.(2)No Magistrate other than a Presidency Magistrate
or a Magistrate of the first class shall try and offence punishable under this
Act.

### 40. Information to furnished by Council and publication thereof.-

(1)The Council shall furnish such reports, copies of its minutes, and other
information to the Central Government as that Government may require.(2)The
Central Government may publish, in such manner as it may think fit, any
report, copy or other information furnished to it under this section.

### 41. Protection of action taken in good faith.-

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government, the Council or any member of the Council, the Executive Committee
or any other committee or officers and other employees of the Council for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act or
any rule or regulation made thereunder.

### 42. Members of Council and officers and employees to be public servants.-

The members of the Council and officers and other employees of the Council
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section 21(45 of
1860) of the Indian Penal Code.

### 43. Power to remove difficulties.-

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order published in the Official to Gazette,
make such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as
appear to it to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty:Provided
that no such order shall be made under this section after the expiry of two
years from the date of commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this
section shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid before each House
of Parliament and the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 44 shall apply
in respect of such order as it applies in respect of a rule made under this
Act.

### 44. Power of Central Government to make rules.-

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following maters, namely:-(a)the manner in which elections
under Chapter II shall be conducted, the terms and conditions of service of
the member of the Tribunal appointed under sub-section (2) of section 5 and
the procedure to be followed by the Tribunal;(b)the procedure to be followed
by the expert committee constituted under the proviso to sub-section (2) of
section 14 in the transaction of its business and the powers and duties of the
expert committee and the traveling and daily allowances payable to the members
thereof;(c)the particulars to be included in the register of architects under
sub-section (3) of section 23;(d)the form in which a certificate of
registration is to be issued under sub-section (7) of Section 24, sub-section
(4) of section 26 and section 33;(e)the fee to be paid under section 24, 25,
26, 27, 28, 32 and 33;(f)the conditions on which name may be restored to the
register under the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 27;(g)the manner of
endorsement under sub-section (3) of section 27;(h)the manner in which the
Council shall hold an enquiry under section 30;(3)Every rule made under this
section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House
of parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification to
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 45. Power of Council to make regulations.-

(1)The Council may, with the approval of the Central Government, by
notification in the Official Gazette make regulations not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act, or the rules made thereunder to carry out the
purpose of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the foregoing power, such regulations may provide for-(a)the management of
the property of the Council;(b)the power and duties of the President and the
Vice-President of the Council;(c)the summoning and holding of meetings of the
Council and the Executive Committee or any other committee constituted under
section 10, the time and places at which such meetings shall be held, the
conduct of business thereat and the number of person necessary to constitute a
quorum;(d)the functions of the Executive Committee or of any other committee
constituted under section 10;(e)the courses and periods of study and of
practical training, if any, to be undertaken, the subjects of examinations and
standards of proficiency therein to be obtained in any college or institution
for grant of recognized qualifications;(f)the appointment, powers and duties
of inspector;(g)the standards of staff, equipment, accommodation, training and
other facilities for architectural education;(h)the conduct of professional
examinations, qualifications of examiners and the conditions of admission to
such examinations;(i)the standards of professional conduct and etiquette and
code of ethics to be observed by architects;(j)any other mater which is to be
or may be provided by regulations under this Act and in respect of which no
rules have been made.(3)Every regulation made under this section shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament,
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be
comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before
the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive
sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the
regulation or both Houses agree that the regulation should not be made, the
regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no
effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that regulation.

## (See section 14)

QUALIFICATIONS(1)Bachelor Degree in Architecture awarded by Indian
Universities established by an Act of the Central or State
Legislature.(2)National Diploma (formerly All Indian Diploma) in Architecture
awarded by the All India Council for Technical Education.(3)Degree of Bachelor
of Architecture (B.Arch.) awarded by the Indian Institute of Technology,
Kharagpur.(4)Five-Year full-time diploma in Architecture of the Sir J. J.
School of Art, Bombay, awarded after 1941.(5)Diploma in Architecture awarded
by the State Board of Technical Education and Training of the Government of
Andhra Pradesh with effect from 1960 (for the students trained at the
Government College of Arts and Architecture, Hyderabad).(6)Diploma in
Architecture awarded by the Government College of Arts and Architecture,
Hyderabad till 1959, subject to the condition that the candidates concerned
have subsequently passed a special final examination in architecture held by
the State Board of Technical Education, Andhra Pradesh and obtained a special
certificate.(7)Diploma in Architecture awarded by the University of Nagpur
with effect from 1965 to the students trained at the Government Polytechnic,
Nagpur .(8)Government Diploma in Architecture awarded by the Government of
Maharashtra (or the former Government of Bombay).(9)Diploma in Architecture of
Kalabhavan Technical Institute, Baroda.(10)Diploma in Architecture awarded by
the School of Architecture, Ahmedabad.(11)Membership of the Indian Institute
of Architects.(13)Bachelor Degree in Architecture awarded by the School of
Planning and Architecture, New Delhi (an institution deemed to be a
University) with effect from 3-12-1979.(14)Diploma in Architecture awarded by
the Center for Environmental Planning and Technology (CEPT), Ahmedabad, with
effect from 16-10-1980.

