## Union of India - Act

## The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Of India Act, 2008

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Of India Act, 2008

## Act 27 of 2008

  * Published on 5 December 2008 
  * Commenced on 5 December 2008 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 August 2021.] 

  1. [Amended by THE AIRPORTS ECONOMIC REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF INDIA (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2019 (Act 27 of 2019) on 6 August 2019] 
  2. [Amended by THE AIRPORTS ECONOMIC REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF INDIA (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2021 (MINISTRYOFLAWANDJUSTICE 28 of 2021) on 12 August 2021] 

The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Of India Act, 2008(27. of 2008)Last
Updated 7th August, 2019Statement of Objects and Reasons. - Most of the civil
airports, including civil enclaves at Defence Airports, are presently
controlled by the Airports Authority of India (the Airports Authority) in the
Ministry of Civil Aviation. The Airports Authority, with the approval of the
Central Government, fixes the aeronautical charges for the airports under its
control and prescribes the performance standards to all airports and monitor
the same. Airport infrastructure Policy formulated in 1997 provides for the
private sector participation for improving quality, efficiency and increasing
competition. As a result of this initiative, Greenfield airports are now
coming up at Bangalore and Hyderabad in Public-Private-Partnership. A private
airport is already fully operational at Cochin. Delhi and Mumbai Airports have
also been restructured through the joint Venture route for modernization and
development. The trends indicate growing competition and a requirement of
level playing field amongst different categories of airports in future.2\. At
present, the Airports Authority performs the role of airport operator as well
as the regulator, which results in conflict of interest. This situation has
often led to complaints of a mis-match between the aeronautical charges levied
by the Airports Authority and the quality of services rendered at airports
which are controlled by the Airports Authority. The Naresh Chandra Committee,
set up by the Central Government to prepare the road map for civil aviation
sector has recommended for setting up of an independent regulatory
authority.3\. In the above background, it is felt that an independent economic
regulator, namely, the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (the Regulatory
Authority), may be established so as to create a level playing field and
foster healthy competition amongst all major airports to encourage investment
in airport facilities to regulate tariffs for aeronautical services, etc. It
is, therefore, considered necessary to enact a law for the establishment of
the Regulatory Authority to regulate tariff and other charges for the
aeronautical services rendered at airports and to monitor performance
standards of airports and also to establish Appellate Tribunal to adjudicate
disputes and dispose of appeals.4\. The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority
of India Bill, 2007, inter alia, seeks to provide for-(i) establishment of
Regulatory Authority which shall consist of a Chairperson and two Members to
be appointed by the Central Government;(ii) laying down the powers and
functions of the Regulatory Authority to determine the tariff structure for
aeronautical services; to determine the amount of development fees in respect
of major airports; to determine the amount of passenger service fee; to
monitor the performance standards relating to quality, continuity and
reliability of service;(iii) establishment of an Appellate Tribunal consisting
of a Chairperson and not more than two Members to be appointed by the Central
Government;(iv) laying down the functions of the Appellate Tribunal to
adjudicate disputes between two or more service providers or between a service
provider and a group of consumers, and to hear and dispose of appeals against
any direction, decision or order of the Regulatory Authority under this
Act;(v) imposing penalties in cases of wilful non-compliance of the orders or
directions given under the Act;(vi) the powers of the Central Government to
issue directions in the matter of policy involving public interest.5\. The
Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives.[5th December, 2008]An Act to
provide for the establishment of an Airports Economic Regulatory Authority to
regulate tariff and other charges for the aeronautical services rendered at
airports and to monitor performance standards of airports and also to
establish Appellate Tribunal to adjudicate disputes and dispose of appeals and
for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by
Parliament in the Fifty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-{||-|Brought into force on 1.1.2009 (except Chapter III and Chapter
VI) vide G.S.R. 894(E), dated 30.12.2008 and published in the Gazette of
India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(i), dated 30.12.2008.|}[The Indian
Express discussed on how Parliament passed this bill to amend THE AIRPORTS
ECONOMIC REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF INDIA (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2021]BODY

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, commencement and application. - (1) This Act may be called
The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India Act, 2008.

(2)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.(3)It applies to-(a)all airports
whereat air transport services are operated or are intended to be operated,
other than airports and airfields belonging to or subject to the control of
the Armed Forces or paramilitary Forces of the Union;(b)all private airports
and leased airports;(c)all civil enclaves;(d)all major airports.

### 2. Definitions. - In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"aeronautical service" means any service provided-(i)for navigation,
surveillance and supportive communication thereto for air traffic
management;(ii)for the landing, housing or parking of an aircraft or any other
ground facility offered in connection with aircraft operations at an
airport;(iii)for ground safety services at an airport;(iv)for ground handling
services relating to aircraft, passengers and cargo at an airport;(v)for the
cargo facility at an airport;(vi)for supplying fuel to the aircraft at an
airport; and(vii)for a stakeholder at an airport, for which the charges, in
the opinion of the Central Government for the reasons to be recorded in
writing, may be determined by the Authority;(b)"airport" means a landing and
taking off area for aircrafts, usually with runways and aircraft maintenance
and passenger facilities and includes an aerodrome as defined in clause (2) of
section 2 of the Aircraft Act, 1934 (22 of 1934);(c)"airport user" means any
person availing of passenger or cargo facilities at an airport;(d)"Appellate
Tribunal" means the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Appellate Tribunal
established under section 17;(e)"Authority" means the Airports Economic
Regulatory Authority established under sub-section (1) of section 3;(f)"civil
enclave" means an area, if any, allotted at an airport belonging to any armed
force of the Union, for use by persons availing of any air transport services
from such airport or for the handling of baggage or cargo by such service, and
includes land comprising of any building and structure on such
area;(g)"Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the Authority appointed under
sub-section (2) of section 4;(h)"leased airport" means an airport in respect
of which a lease has been made under section 12-A of the Airports Authority of
India Act, 1994 (55 of 1994);(i)"major airport" means any airport which has,
or is designated to have, annual passenger throughout in excess of [three and
a half million] or a group of airports as the Central Government may, by
notification, specify as such;(j)"Member" means a Member of the Authority and
includes the Chairperson;(k)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under
this Act;(l)"private airport" has the same meaning as assigned to it in clause
(nn) of section 2 of the Airports Authority of India Act, 1994 (55 of
1994);(m)"regulations" means regulations made by the Authority under this
Act;(n)"service provider" means any person who provides aeronautical services
and is eligible to levy and charge user development fees from the embarking
passengers at any airport and includes the authority which manages the
airport;(o)"stakeholder" includes a licensee of an airport, airlines operating
thereat, a person who provides aeronautical services, and any association of
individuals, which in the opinion of the Authority, represents the passenger
or cargo facility user;(p)words and expressions used but not defined in this
Act and defined in the Airports Authority of India Act, 1994 (55 of 1994)
shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.

## Chapter II  
THE AIRPORTS ECONOMIC REGULATORY AUTHORITY

### 3. Establishment of Authority. - (1) The Central Government shall, within
three months from the date of commencement of this Act, by notification in the
Official Gazette, establish an Authority, to be known as the Airports Economic
Regulatory Authority, to exercise the powers conferred on, and the functions
assigned to it, by or under this Act.

(2)The Authority shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid, having
perpetual succession and a common seal, with power to acquire, hold and
dispose of property, both movable and immovable, and to contract and shall, by
the said name, sue or be sued.(3)The head office of the Authority shall be at
such place as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify.

### 4. Composition of Authority. - (1) The Authority shall consist of a
Chairperson and two other Members to be appointed by the Central Government:

Provided that whenever the Authority is deciding a matter involving a civil
enclave in a defence airfield, there shall be an additional Member, not below
the rank of Additional Secretary to the Government of India, to be nominated
by the Ministry of Defence.(2)The Chairperson and Members of the Authority
shall be appointed by the Central Government from amongst persons of ability
and integrity having adequate knowledge of, and professional experience in,
aviation, economics, law, commerce or consumer affairs:Provided that a person
who is or has been in the service of Government shall not be appointed as a
Member unless such person has held the post of Secretary or Additional
Secretary to the Government of India or any equivalent post in the Central or
State Government for a total period of not less than three years.(3)The
Chairperson and other Members shall be whole-time Members.(4)The Chairperson
or other Members shall not hold any other office.(5)The Chairperson shall be
the Chief Executive of the Authority.(6)The Chairperson and other Members of
the Authority shall be appointed by the Central Government on the
recommendation of Selection Committee referred to in section 5.

### 5. Constitution of Selection Committee to recommend Members. - (1) The
Central Government shall, for the purpose of sub-section (6) of section 4
constitute a Selection Committee consisting of the following, namely:-

(a) Cabinet Secretary | -Chairman;  
---|---  
(b) Secretary, in the Ministry of Civil Aviations|-Member;  
(c) Secretary, Department of Legal Affairs in the Ministry of Law and Justice | -Member;  
(d) Secretary, in the Ministry of Defence | -Member;  
(e) One expert to be nominated by the Ministry of Civil Aviation | -Member.  
  
(2)The Central Government shall within one month from the date of occurrence
of any vacancy by reason of death, resignation or removal of the Chairperson
or a Member and six months before the superannuation or end of tenure of the
Chairperson or any Member, make a reference to the Selection Committee for
filling up of the vacancy"> (2) The Central Government shall within one month
from the date of occurrence of any vacancy by reason of death, resignation or
removal of the Chairperson or a Member and six months before the
superannuation or end of tenure of the Chairperson or any Member, make a
reference to the Selection Committee for filling up of the vacancy.(3)The
Selection Committee shall finalise the selection of the Chairperson and
Members within one month from the date on which the reference is made to
it.(4)The Selection Committee shall recommend a panel of two names for every
vacancy referred to it.(5)Before recommending any person for appointment as a
Chairperson or other Member of the Authority, the Selection Committee shall
satisfy itself that such person does not have any financial or other interest
which is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as a Member.(6)No
appointment of the Chairperson or other Member shall be invalid merely by
reason of any vacancy in the Selection Committee.

### 6. Terms of office and other conditions of service, etc., of Chairperson
and Members. - (1) The Chairperson and other Members, shall hold office, as
such, for a term of five years from the date on which he enters upon his
office, but shall not be eligible for re-appointment:

Provided that no Chairperson or other Member shall hold office, as such, after
he attains-(a)in the case of the Chairperson, the age of sixty-five years;
and(b)in the case of any other Member, the age of sixty-two years.Explanation.
- For the purposes of this sub-section, a Member may be appointed as
Chairperson of the Authority, but a person who has been the Chairperson shall
not be eligible for appointment as a Member.(2)The salary and allowances
payable to, and the other terms and conditions of service of, the Chairperson
and other Members shall be such as may be prescribed.(3)The salary, allowances
and other conditions of service of the Chairperson and other Members shall not
be varied to their disadvantage after their appointment.(4)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1), the Chairperson or any Member
may,-(a)relinquish his office by giving, in writing to the Central Government,
a notice of not less than three months; or(b)be removed from his office in
accordance with the provisions of section 8.(5)The Chairperson or any Member
ceasing to hold office, as such, shall-(a)be ineligible for further employment
under the Central Government or any State Government for a period of two years
from the date he ceases to hold such office;(b)not accept any commercial
employment including private for a period of two years from the date he ceases
to hold such office; or(c)not represent any person before the Authority in any
other manner.Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-
section,-(a)"employment under the Central Government or State Government"
includes employment under any local or other authority within the territory of
India or under the control of the Central Government or State Government or
under any corporation or society owned or controlled by the
Government.(b)"commercial employment" means employment in any capacity under,
or agency of, a person engaged in trading, commercial, industrial or financial
business in any field and includes also a director of a company or partner of
a firm and it also includes setting up practice either independently or as
partner of a firm or as an adviser or a consultant.

### 7. Power of Chairperson. - The Chairperson shall have powers of general
superintendence and directions in the conduct of the affairs of the Authority
and he shall, in addition to presiding over the meetings of the Authority,
exercise and discharge such powers and functions of the Authority and shall
discharge such other powers and functions as may be prescribed.

### 8. Removal and suspension of Members. - (1) The Central Government may, by
order, remove from office the Chairperson or other Member, if the Chairperson
or such other Member, as the case may be,-

(a)has been adjudged an insolvent; or(b)has been convicted of an offence
which, in the opinion of the Central Government, involves moral turpitude;
or(c)has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a Member;
or(d)has acquired such financial or other interest, as is likely to affect
prejudicially his functions as a Member; or(e)has so abused his position, as
to render his continuance in office prejudicial to the public interest;
or(f)has engaged at any time during his term of office in any other
employment.(2)The Chairperson or any other Member shall not be removed from
his office except by an order of the Central Government on the ground of his
proved misbehaviour or incapacity after the Central Government, has, on an
inquiry, held in accordance with the procedure prescribed in this behalf by
the Central Government, come to the conclusion that the Member ought on any
such ground to be removed.(3)The Central Government may suspend any Member in
respect of whom an inquiry under sub-section (2) is being initiated or pending
until the Central Government has passed an order on receipt of the report of
the inquiry.

### 9. Appointment of Secretary, experts, professionals and officers and other
employees of Authority. - (1) The Central Government may appoint a Secretary
to discharge his functions under this Act.

(2)The Authority may appoint such officers and other employees as it considers
necessary for the efficient discharge of its functions under this Act.(3)The
salaries and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service
of the Secretary and officers and other employees of the Authority and the
number of such officers and other employees shall be such as may be
prescribed.(4)The Authority may engage, in accordance with the procedure
specified by regulations such number of experts and professionals of integrity
and outstanding ability, who have special knowledge of, and experience in,
economics, law, business or such other disciplines related to aviation as it
deems necessary to assist the Authority in the discharge of its functions
under this Act.

### 10. Meetings. - (1) The Authority shall meet at such places and times and
shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business
at its meetings (including the quorum at its meetings), as may be determined
by regulations.

(2)The Chairperson shall preside at the meeting of the Authority and if for
any reason the Chairperson is unable to attend a meeting of the Authority, any
other Member chosen by the Members present from amongst themselves at the
meeting shall preside at the meeting.(3)All questions which come up before any
meeting of the Authority shall be decided by a majority of votes of the
Members present and voting and, in the event of an equality of votes, the
Chairperson or the Member presiding shall have the right to exercise a second
or casting vote.(4)Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (1), every Member
shall have one vote.

### 11. Authentication. - All orders and decisions of the Authority shall be
authenticated by signatures of the Secretary or any other officer of the
Authority, duly authorised by the Authority in this behalf.

### 12. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate proceedings of Authority. - No act
or proceedings of the Authority shall be invalid merely by reason of-

(a)any vacancy in, or any defect in, the constitution of the Authority;
or(b)any defect in the appointment of a person acting as a Member of the
Authority; or(c)any irregularity in the procedure of the Authority not
affecting the merits of the case.

## Chapter III  
Powers And Functions Of The Authority

### 13. Functions of Authority. - (1) The Authority shall perform the
following functions in respect of major airports, namely:-

(a)to determine the tariff for the aeronautical services taking into
consideration-(i)the capital expenditure incurred and timely investment in
improvement of airport facilities;(ii)the service provided, its quality and
other relevant factors;(iii)the cost for improving efficiency;(iv)economic and
viable operation of major airports;(v)revenue received from services other
than the aeronautical services;(vi)the concession offered by the Central
Government in any agreement or memorandum of understanding or
otherwise;(vii)any other factor which may be relevant for the purposes of this
Act:Provided that different tariff structures may be determined for different
airports having regard to all or any of the above considerations specified at
sub-clauses (i) to (vii);(b)to determine the amount of the development fees in
respect of major airports;(c)to determine the amount of the passengers service
fee levied under rule 88 of the Aircraft Rules, 1937 made under the Aircraft
Act, 1934 (22 of 1934);(d)to monitor the set performance standards relating to
quality, continuity and reliability of service as may be specified by the
Central Government or any authority authorised by it in this behalf;(e)to call
for such information as may be necessary to determine the tariff under clause
(a);(f)to perform such other functions relating to tariff, as may be entrusted
to it by the Central Government or as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of this Act.(1A)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
sections (1) and (2), the Authority shall not determine the tariff or tariff
structures or the amount of development fees in respect of an airport or part
thereof, if such tariff or tariff structures or the amount of development fees
has been incorporated in the bidding document, which is the basis for award of
operatorship of that airport:Provided that the Authority shall be consulted in
advance regarding the tariff, tariff structures or the amount of development
fees which is proposed to be incorporated in the said bidding document and
such tariff, tariff structures or the amount of development fees shall be
notified in the Official Gazette.](2)The Authority shall determine the tariff
once in five years and may if so considered appropriate and in public
interest, amend, from time to time during the said period of five years, the
tariff so determined.(3)While discharging its functions under sub-section (1)
the Authority shall not act against the interest of the sovereignty and
integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign
States, public order, decency or morality.(4)The Authority shall ensure
transparency while exercising its powers and discharging its functions, inter
alia. -(a)by holding due consultations with all stake-holders with the
airport;(b)by allowing all stake-holders to make their submissions to the
authority; and(c)by making all decisions of the authority fully documented and
explained.

### 14. Powers of Authority to call for information, conduct investigations,
etc. - (1) Where the Authority considers it expedient so to do, it may by
order in writing-

(a)call upon any service provider at any time to furnish in writing such
information or explanation relating to its functions as the Authority may
require to access the performance of the service provider; or(b)appoint one or
more persons to make an inquiry in relation to the affairs of any service
provider; and(c)direct any of its officers or employees to inspect the books
of account or other documents of any service provider.(2)Where any inquiry in
relation to the affairs of a service provider has been undertaken under sub-
section (1)-(a)every office of the Government department, if such service
provider is a department of the Government; or(b)every director, manager,
secretary or other officer, if such service provider is a company; or(c)every
partner, manager, secretary or other officer, if such service provider is a
firm; or(d)every other person or body of persons who has had dealings in the
course of business with any of the persons mentioned in clauses (b) or (c),
shall be bound to produce before the Authority making the inquiry, all such
books of account or other documents in his custody or power relating to, or
having a bearing on the subject-matter of such inquiry and also to furnish to
the Authority with any such statement or information relating thereto, as the
case may be, required of him, within such time as may be specified.(3)Every
service provider shall maintain such books of account or other documents as
may be prescribed.(4)The Authority shall have the power to issue such
directions to monitor the performance of the service providers as it may
consider necessary for proper functioning by service providers.

### 15. Power of Authority to issue certain directions. - The Authority may,
for the purpose of discharge of its functions under this Act, issue, from time
to time to the service providers, such directions, as it may consider
necessary.

### 16. Power of seizure. - The Authority or any other officer specially
authorised by it in this behalf may enter any building or place where the
Authority has reason to believe that any document relating to the subject
matter of the inquiry may be found, and may seize any such document or take
extracts or copies therefrom subject to the provisions of section 100 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) in so far as they may be
applicable.

## Chapter IV  
Appellate Tribunal

### 17. Establishment of Appellate Tribunal. - The Central Government shall,
by notification in the Official Gazette, establish an Appellate Tribunal to be
known as the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Appellate Tribunal to-

(a)adjudicate any dispute-(i)between two or more service providers;(ii)between
a service provider and a group of consumer:Provided that the Appellate
Tribunal may, if considers appropriate, obtain the opinion of the Authority on
any matter relating to such dispute:Provided further that nothing in this
clause shall apply in respect of matters-(i)relating to the monopolistic trade
practice, restrictive trade practice and unfair trade practice which are
subject to the jurisdiction of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices
Commission established under sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Monopolies
and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969);(ii)relating to the
complaint of an individual consumer maintainable before a Consumer Disputes
Redressal Forum or a Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission or the National
Consumer Redressal Commission established under section 9 of the Consumer
Protection Act, 1986 (68 of 1986);(iii)which are within the purview of the
Competition Act, 2002 (12 of 2003);(iv)relating to an order of eviction which
is appealable under section 28-K of the Airports Authority of India Act, 1994
(55 of 1994);(b)hear and dispose of appeal against any direction, decision or
order of the Authority under this Act.

### 18. Application for settlement of disputes and appeals to Appellate
Tribunal. - (1) The Central Government or a State Government or a local
authority or any person may make an application to the Appellate Tribunal for
adjudication of any dispute as referred to in clause (a) of section 17.

(2)The Central Government or a State Government or a local authority or any
person aggrieved by any direction, decision or order made by the Authority may
prefer an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal.(3)Every appeal under sub-section
(2) shall be preferred within a period of thirty days from the date on which a
copy of the direction or order or decision made by the Authority is received
by the Central Government or the State Government or the local authority or
the aggrieved person and it shall be in such form, verified in such manner and
be accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed:Provided that the Appellate
Tribunal may entertain any appeal after the expiry of the said period of
thirty days if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing
it within that period.(4)On receipt of an application under sub-section (1) or
an appeal under sub-section (2), the Appellate Tribunal may, after giving the
parties to the dispute or the appeal an opportunity of being heard, pass such
orders thereon as it thinks fit.(5)The Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of
every order made by it to the parties to the dispute or the appeal and to the
Authority, as the case may be.(6)The application made under sub-section (1) or
the appeal preferred under sub-section (2) shall be dealt with by it as
expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made by it to dispose of the
application or appeal finally within ninety days from the date of receipt of
application or appeal, as the case may be:Provided that where any such
application or appeal could not be disposed of within the said period of
ninety days, the Appellate Tribunal shall record its reasons in writing for
not disposing of the application or appeal within that period.(7)The Appellate
Tribunal may, for the purpose of examining the legality or propriety or
correctness, of any dispute made in any application under sub-section (1), or
of any direction or order or decision of the Authority referred to in the
appeal preferred under sub-section (2), on its own motion or otherwise, call
for the records relevant to deposing of such application or appeal and make
such orders as it thinks fit.

### 19. Composition of Appellate Tribunal. - (1) The Appellate Tribunal shall
consist of a Chairperson and not more than two Members to be appointed, by
notification in the Official Gazette, by the Central Government:

Provided that the Chairperson or a Member holding a post as such in any other
Tribunal, established under any law for the time being in force, in addition
to his being the Chairperson or a Member of that Tribunal, may be appointed as
the Chairperson or a Member, as the case may be, of the Appellate Tribunal
under this Act.(2)The selection of Chairperson and Members of the Appellate
Tribunal shall be made by the Central Government in consultation with the
Chief Justice of India or his nominee.

### 20. Qualifications for appointment of Chairperson and Members. - A person
shall not be qualified for appointment as the Chairperson or a Member of the
Appellate Tribunal unless he-

(a)in the case of Chairperson, is, or has been, a Judge of the Supreme Court
or the Chief Justice of a High Court;(b)in the case of a Member, has held the
post of Secretary to the Government of India or any equivalent post in the
Central Government or the State Government for a total period of not less than
two years in the Ministries or Departments dealing with aviation or economics
or law or a person who is well-versed in the field of aviation or economics or
law.

### 21. Term of office. - The Chairperson and every other Member of the
Appellate Tribunal shall hold office as such for a term not exceeding three
years from the date on which he enters upon his office:

Provided that no Chairperson or other Member shall hold office as such after
he has attained,-(a)in the case of Chairperson, the age of seventy years;(b)in
the case of any other Member, the age of sixty-five years.

### 22. Terms and conditions of service. - The salary and allowances payable
to and the other terms and conditions of service of the Chairperson and other
Members of the Appellate Tribunal shall be such as may be prescribed:

Provided that neither the salary and allowances nor the other terms and
conditions of service of the Chairperson or a Member of the Appellate Tribunal
shall be varied to his disadvantage after appointment.

### 23. Vacancies. - If, for reason other than temporary absence, any vacancy
occurs in the office of the Chairperson or a Member of the Appellate Tribunal,
the Central Government shall appoint another person in accordance with the
provisions of this Act to fill the vacancy and the proceedings may be
continued before the Appellate Tribunal from the stage at which the vacancy is
filled.

### 24. Removal and resignation. - (1) The Central Government may remove from
office, the Chairperson or any Member of the Appellate Tribunal, who-

(a)has been adjudged an insolvent; or(b)has been convicted of an offence
which, in the opinion of the Central Government, involves moral turpitude;
or(c)has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as the Chairperson
or a Member; or(d)has acquired such financial or other interest as is likely
to affect prejudicially his functions as the Chairperson or a Member; or(e)has
so abused his position as to render his continuance in office prejudicial to
the public interest.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1),
the Chairperson or a Member of the Appellate Tribunal shall not be removed
from his office on the ground specified in clause (d) or clause (e) of that
sub-section unless the Supreme Court on a reference being made to it in this
behalf by the Central Government, has, on an enquiry, held by it in accordance
with such procedure as it may specify in this behalf, reported that the
Chairperson or a Member ought, on such grounds, to be removed.(3)The Central
Government may suspend from office, the Chairperson or a Member of the
Appellate Tribunal in respect of whom a reference has been made to the Supreme
Court under sub-section (2), until the Central Government has passed an order
on receipt of the report of the Supreme Court on such reference.

### 25. Staff of Appellate Tribunal. - (1) The Central Government shall
provide the Appellate Tribunal with such officers and employees as it may deem
fit.

(2)The officers and employees of the Appellate Tribunal shall discharge their
functions under the general superintendence of its Chairperson.(3)The salaries
and allowances and other conditions of service of such officers and employees
of the Appellate Tribunal shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 26. Decision to be by majority. - If the Chairperson and other Members
differ in opinion on any matter, such matter shall be decided according to the
opinion of the majority.

### 27. Members, etc., to be public servants. - The Chairperson, Members and
other officers and employees of the Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to be
public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45
of 1860).

### 28. Civil Court not to have jurisdiction. - No Civil Court shall have
jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in respect of any matter
which the Appellate Tribunal is empowered by or under this Act to determine
and no injunction shall be granted by any Court or other authority in respect
of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or
under this Act.

### 29. Procedure and powers of Appellate Tribunal. - (1) The Appellate
Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down by the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), but shall be guided by the principles of natural
justice and, subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Appellate
Tribunal shall have powers to regulate its own procedure.

(2)The Appellate Tribunal shall have, for the purposes of discharging its
functions under this Act, the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit, in respect
of the following matters, namely:-(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of
any person and examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production
of documents;(c)receiving evidence on affidavits;(d)subject to the provisions
of sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872),
requisitioning any public record or document or a copy of such record or
document, from any office;(e)issuing commissions for the examination of
witnesses or documents;(f)reviewing its decisions;(g)dismissing an application
for default or deciding it, ex parte ;(h)setting aside any order of dismissal
of any application for default or any order passed by it, ex parte ; and(i)any
other matter which may be prescribed.(3)Every proceeding before the Appellate
Tribunal shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of
sections 193 and 228, and for the purposes of section 196 of the Indian Penal
Code (45 of 1860) and the Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to be a Civil
Court for the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).

### 30. Right to legal representation. - The applicant or appellant may either
appear in person or authorises one or more chartered accountants or company
secretaries or cost accountants or legal practitioners or any of its officers
to present his or its case before the Appellate Tribunal.

Explanation. - For the purposes of this section,-(a)"chartered accountant"
means a chartered accountant as defined in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of
section 2 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949) and who has
obtained a certificate of practice under sub-section (1) of section 6 of that
Act;(b)"company secretary" means a company secretary as defined in clause (c)
of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Company Secretaries Act, 1980 (56 of
1980) and who has obtained a certificate of practice under sub-section (1) of
section 6 of that Act;(c)"cost accountant" means a cost accountant as defined
in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Cost and Works
Accountants Act, 1959 (23 of 1959), and who has obtained a certificate of
practice under sub-section (1) of section 6 of that Act;(d)"legal
practitioner" means an advocate, vakil or an attorney of any High Court, and
includes a pleader in practice.

### 31. Appeal to Supreme Court. - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) or in any other law, an appeal
shall lie against any order, not being an interlocutory order, of the
Appellate Tribunal to the Supreme Court on one or more of the grounds
specified in section 100 of that Code.

(2)No appeal shall lie against any decision or order made by the Appellate
Tribunal with the consent of the parties.(3)Every appeal under this section
shall be preferred within a period of ninety days from the date of the
decision or order appealed against:Provided that the Supreme Court may
entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said period of ninety days, if it
is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from
preferring the appeal in time.

### 32. Orders passed by Appellate Tribunal to be executable as a decree. -
(1) An order passed by the Appellate Tribunal under this Act shall be
executable by the Appellate Tribunal as a decree of Civil Court, and for this
purpose, the Appellate Tribunal shall have all the powers of a Civil Court.

(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the Appellate
Tribunal may transmit any order made by it to a Civil Court having local
jurisdiction and such Civil Court shall execute the order as if it were a
decree made by that Court.

## Chapter V  
Finance, Accounts And Audit

### 33. Budget. - The Authority shall prepare, in such form and at such time
in each financial year as may be prescribed, its budget for the next financial
year, showing the estimated receipts and expenditure of the Authority and
forward the same to the Central Government, for information.

### 34. Grants by Central Government. - The Central Government may, after due
appropriation made by Parliament by law in this behalf, make to the Authority
grants of such sums of money as are required to be paid for the salaries and
allowances payable to the Chairperson and other Members and the administrative
expenses, including the salaries and allowances and pension payable to or in
respect of officers and other employees of the Authority.

### 35. Annual statement of accounts. - (1) The Authority shall maintain
proper accounts and other relevant records and prepare an annual statement of
accounts in such form as may be prescribed by the Central Government in
consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.

(2)The accounts of the Authority shall be audited by the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India at such intervals as may be specified by him.(3)The
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and any person appointed by him in
connection with the audit of the accounts of the Authority under this Act
shall have the same rights, privileges and authority in connection with such
audit, as the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India generally has, in
connection with the audit of the Government accounts and, in particular, shall
have the right to demand the production of books, accounts, connected vouchers
and other documents and papers and to inspect any of the offices of the
Authority.(4)The accounts of the Authority, as certified by Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India or any other person appointed by him in this behalf,
together with the audit report thereon, shall be forwarded annually to the
Central Government and the Central Government shall cause the same to be laid
before each House of Parliament.

### 36. Furnishing of returns, etc., to Central Government. - (1) The
Authority shall furnish to the Central Government, at such time and in such
form and manner as may be prescribed or as the Central Government may direct,
such returns and statements and such particulars in regard to any matter under
the jurisdiction of the Authority, as the Central Government may, from time to
time, require.

(2)The Authority shall prepare, once every year, in such form and at such time
as may be prescribed, an annual report, giving a summary of its activities
during the previous year and copies of the report shall be forwarded to the
Central Government.(3)A copy of the report received under sub-section (2)
shall be laid by the Central Government, as soon as may be after it is
received, before each House of Parliament.

## Chapter VI  
Offences And Penalties

### 37. Penalty for wilful failure to comply with orders of Appellate
Tribunal. - If any person wilfully fails to comply with the order of the
Appellate Tribunal, he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one
lakh rupees and in case of a second or subsequent offence with fine which may
extend to two lakh rupees and in the case of continuing contravention with
additional fine which may extend to two lakh rupees for every day during which
such default continues.

### 38. Punishment for non-compliance of orders and directions of this Act. -
Whoever fails to comply with any order or direction given under this Act, or
contravenes, or attempts to contravene or abets the contravention of the
provisions of this Act or of any rules or regulations made thereunder shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees and in the case of a
second or subsequent offence with fine which may extend to two lakh rupees and
in the case of a continuing contravention with an additional fine which may
extend to four thousand rupees for every day during which the default
continues.

### 39. Punishment for non-compliance with order of the Authority or Appellate
Tribunal. - If any person wilfully fails to comply with an order of the
Authority or of the Appellate Tribunal, passed under Chapter IV, he shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees and, in the case of a
second or subsequent offence, with fine which may extend to two lakh rupees
and in the case of a continuing failure, with an additional fine which may
extend to four thousand rupees for every day during which such failure
continues.

### 40. Offences by companies. - (1) Where an offence under this Act has been
committed by a company, every person who, at the time the offence was
committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to the company for the
conduct of, the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be
deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly:

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such
person liable to any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the
offence was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due
diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Act has
been committed by a company, and it is proved that the offence has been
committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect
on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the
company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be
deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For the purposes of this
section-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other
association of individuals; and(b)"director" means a whole-time director in
the company and in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 41. Offences by Government Departments. - (1) Where an offence under this
Act has been committed by any Department of Government or any of its
undertakings, the Head of the Department or its undertakings shall be deemed
to be guilty of an offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly unless he proves that the offence was committed without
his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of such offence.

(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence
under this Act has been committed by any Department of Government or its
undertakings and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the
consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of any
officer, other than the Head of the Department, or its undertakings, such
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 42. Directions by Central Government. - (1) The Central Government may,
from time to time, issue to the Authority such directions as it may think
necessary in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the
security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order,
decency or morality.

(2)Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions, the Authority shall, in
exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions, be bound by such
directions on questions of policy as the Central Government may give in
writing to it from time to time:Provided that the Authority shall, as far as
practicable, be given an opportunity to express its views before any direction
is given under this sub-section.(3)The decision of the Central Government
whether a question is one of policy or not shall be final.

### 43. Members, officers and employees of Authority to be public servants. -
The Chairperson, Members, officers and other employees of the Authority shall
be deemed, when acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the
provisions of this Act, to be public servants within the meaning of section 21
of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 44. Bar of jurisdiction. - No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction in
respect of any matter which the Authority is empowered by or under this Act to
determine.

### 45. Protection of action taken in good faith. - No suit, prosecution or
other legal proceedings shall lie against the Central Government or the
Authority or any Member, officer or other employees thereof for anything which
is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act or the rules and
regulations made thereunder.

### 46. Exemption from tax on wealth and income. - Notwithstanding anything
contained in the Wealth-tax Act, 1957 (27 of 1957), the Income-tax Act, 1961
(43 of 1961), or any other enactment for the time being in force relating to
tax on wealth, income, profits or gains, the Authority shall not be liable to
pay wealth-tax, income-tax or any other tax in respect of their wealth,
income, profits or gains derived.

### 47. Cognizance of offences. - No Court shall take cognizance of an offence
punishable under this Act, except upon a complaint in writing made by the
Authority or by any officer of the Authority duly authorised by the Authority
for this purpose.

### 48. Delegation of powers. - The Authority may, by general or special order
in writing, delegate to the Chairperson or any Member or officer of the
Authority, subject to such conditions and limitations, if any, as may be
specified in the order, such of its powers and functions under this Act
(except the power to settle disputes and the power to make regulations), as it
may deem necessary.

### 49. Power of Central Government to supersede Authority. - (1) If, at any
time, the Central Government is of opinion-

(a)that on account of a grave emergency, the Authority is unable to discharge
the functions and duties imposed on it by or under the provisions of this Act;
or(b)that the Authority has persistently made default in complying with any
direction issued by the Central Government under this Act or in the discharge
of the functions and duties imposed on it by or under the provisions of this
Act and as a result of which default, the financial position of the Authority
or the administration of any airport, heliport, airstrip, civil enclave or
aeronautical communication station has deteriorated; or(c)that circumstances
exist which render it necessary in the public interest so to do, the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, supersede the
Authority for such period, not exceeding six months, as may be specified in
the notification:Provided that before issuing a notification under this sub-
section for the reasons mentioned in clause (b), the Central Government shall
give a reasonable opportunity to the Authority to show cause as to why it
should not be superseded and shall consider the explanations and objections,
if any, of the Authority.(2)Upon the publication of a notification under sub-
section (1) superseding the Authority,-(a)all the Members shall, as from the
date of supersession, vacate their offices as such;(b)all the powers,
functions and duties which may, by or under the provisions of this Act, be
exercised or discharged by or on behalf of the Authority, shall until the
Authority is re-constituted under sub-section (3), be exercised and discharged
by such person or persons as the Central Government may direct;(c)all property
owned or controlled by the Authority shall, until the Authority is re-
constituted under sub-section (3), vest in the Central Government.(3)On the
expiration of the period of supersession specified in the notification issued
under sub-section (1), the Central Government may,-(a)extend the period of
supersession for such further term not exceeding six months, as it may
consider necessary; or(b)re-constitute the Authority by fresh appointment and
in such case the Members who vacated their offices under clause (a) of sub-
section (2) shall not be deemed disqualified for appointment:Provided that the
Central Government may, at any time before the expiration of the period of
supersession, whether as originally specified under sub-section (1) or as
extended under this sub-section, take action under clause (b) of this sub-
section.(4)The Central Government shall cause a notification issued under sub-
section (1) and a full report of any action taken under this section and the
circumstances leading to such action to be laid before both Houses of
Parliament at the earliest opportunity.

### 50. Application of other laws not barred. - The provisions of this Act
shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the provisions of any other
law for the time being in force.

### 51. Power to make rules. - (1) The Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the provisions of this
Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the salary and allowances payable to, and the other conditions of
service of, the Chairperson and other Members under sub-section (2) of section
6;(b)the form and manner in which and the Authority before whom the oath of
office and secrecy shall be made and subscribed under sub-section (4) of
section 6;(c)the powers and functions to be exercised or discharged by the
Chairperson under section 7;(d)the procedure for conducting any inquiry made
under sub-section (2) of section 8;(e)the salaries and allowances payable to,
and the other terms and conditions of service of the Secretary, officers and
other employees of the Authority under sub-section (3) of section 9;(f)the
performance standards relating to the quality, continuity and reliability of
service to be monitored under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section
13;(g)the books of account or other documents which are required to be
maintained by the service provider under sub-section (3) of section 14;(h)the
form and manner in which the form shall be verified and fee to be accompanied
by the form under sub-section (3) of section 18;(i)the salary and allowances
payable to, and the other terms and conditions of service of, the Chairperson
and other Members of the Appellate Tribunal under section 22;(j)the salaries
and allowances and other conditions of service of such officers and employees
of the Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (3) of section 25;(k)the matters
in respect of which the Authority will have the powers of a Civil Court under
clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 29;(l)the form in which the Authority
shall prepare, and at such time in each financial year, its budget and the
time at which such budget shall be prepared under section 33;(m)the form in
which proper accounts and other relevant records shall be maintained and the
annual statement of accounts shall be prepared by the Authority under sub-
section (1) of section 35;(n)the form, manner and the time in which the
returns and statements shall be furnished by the Authority under sub-section
(1) of section 36;(o)the form and time at which the annual report shall be
prepared by the Authority under sub-section (2) of section 36;(p)any other
matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed, or in respect of which provision
is to be made by rules.

### 52. Power to make regulations. - (1) The Authority may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, and with the previous approval of the Central
Government, make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, and the rules
made thereunder, to carry out the purposes of this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the procedure in accordance with which the experts and
professionals may be engaged under sub-section (4) of section 9;(b)the places
and time of meetings of the Authority and the procedure to be followed at such
meetings, (including the quorum at its meetings) under sub-section (1) of
section 10;(c)any other matter which is required to be, or may be, specified
by regulations.

### 53. Rules and regulations to be laid before Parliament. - Every rule made
by the Central Government, and every regulation made by the Authority, under
this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House
of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days,
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions,
and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or
the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the rule or regulation or both Houses agree that the rule or
regulation should not be made, the rule or regulation shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule or regulation.

### 54. Amendment of certain enactments. - The enactments specified in the
Schedule to this Act shall be amended in the manner specified therein and such
amendments shall take effect on the date of establishment of the Authority.

### 55. Power to remove difficulties. - (1) If any difficulty arises in giving
effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, by order
published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions, not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act, as may appear to it to be necessary for removing
the difficulty:

Provided that no order shall be made under this section after the expiry of
two years from the date of commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under
this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each
House of Parliament.THE SCHEDULE[See section 54]AMENDMENT TO THE AIRCRAFT ACT,
1934(22 or 1934)Section 5, sub-section (2), clause (ab) for "or revision on
tariff of operators of air transport services", substitute "or revision on
tariff of operators of air transport services [other than the tariff referred
to in clause (a) of sub-section (I) of section 13 of the Airports Economic
Regulatory Authority of India Act, 2008]"AMENDMENT T0 THE AIRPORTS AUTHORITY
OF INDIA ACT, 1994(55 or 1994)

### 1\. Section 22A, for the portion beginning with the words "The Authority
may" and ending with the words "for the purposes of--" substitute the
following :-

"The Authority may,-(i)after the previous approval of the Central Government
in this behalf, levy on, and collect from, the embarking passengers at an
airport other than the major airports referred to in clause (Pa) of section 2
of the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India Act, 2008 the
development fees at the rate as may be prescribed;(ii)levy on, and collect
from, the embarking passengers at major airport referred to in clause (h) of
section 2 of the Airports Economic Regulatory Anthority of India Act, 2008 the
development fees at the rate as may be determined under clause (b) of sub-
section (1) of section 13 of the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of
India Act, 2008.and such fees shall be credited to the Authority and shall be
regulated and utilised in the prescribed manner, for the purposes of-".

### 2\. Section 41, in sub-section (2), clause (ea), for "the rate of
development fees and", substitute-

"the rate of development fees in respect of airports other than major airports
and".

