## Union of India - Act

## The Alcock Ashdown Company Limited (Acquisition Of Undertakings) Act,1973

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Alcock Ashdown Company Limited (Acquisition Of Undertakings) Act,1973

## Act 56 of 1973

  * Published on 14 December 1973 
  * Commenced on 14 December 1973 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 December 1973.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Alcock Ashdown Company Limited (Acquisition Of Undertakings) Act,1973ACT
NO. 56 OF 1973

### 1269.

Messrs. Alcock Ashdown and Company Limited was incorporated on 17-3-1884 at
Bombay. The Company owns two plants, one at Bombay and the other at Bhavnagar.
Its activities which are included in the list of priority industries, comprise
of Light and Heavy Structurals, Transmission Line Towers. Railway Points and
Crossings, Ship Repairs, Boat Building, Marine Diesel Engines. etc.2\. The
Company which was making substantial profits till 1965 started declining from
1969 onwards and came to a close in January, 1971. The affairs of the Company
were subsequently investigated by the Government through an Investigation
Committee and the report revealed that while the deterioration in the
performance of the Company was caused by a number of factors, the primary
cause was the serious lapse on the part of the management in running the
Company.3\. After the closure of the Company, on the application of one of its
unsecured creditors an order for the winding up of the Company was made by the
Bombay High Court on 13-1-1972. After the winding up order, on the application
of the Bank of Maharashtra one of the secured creditors of the Company, a
Receiver was appointed by the High Court for looking after the interests of
the secured creditors. The Official Receiver has now invited tenders regarding
the auctioning of the properties of the Company at Bombay and Bhavnagar.4\. As
the Company was formerly engaged in the boat building, ship repairs and the
production of marine diesel engines, and was also engaged in the production of
goods which are essential to the needs of the country in general and defence
departments in particular, the necessity to revive the activities of the
Company for the production of goods for the various strategic use was
carefully considered. After considering all the aspects of the matter, it is
felt that it is expedient, in public interest, to acquire, on payment of a sum
of rupees one crore, the undertakings of Messrs. Alcock Ashdown and Company
Limited at Bombay and Bhavnagar. The Bill seeks to achieve the said object. -
Gazette of India, 28-11-1973, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p. 968.Ad 33 of 1974.-
Section 4 (1) of the AlcockAshdown Company Limited (Acquisition of
Undertakings) Act, 1973, specifies the properties which are deemed to be
included within the ambit of the expression "undertakings of the company". A
doubt has been expressed as to whether book debts due to the company and loans
and advances made by the company, and moneys recoverable by the company from
its directors or shareholders by way of misfeasance or other proceedings
arealso included within the ambit of the expression "undertakings of the
company". The Central Government has been advised that by way of abundant
caution, a clarificatory amendment should be made to make it clear that the
expression "undertakings of the company" does not include book debts due to
the company and loans and advances made by the company and any amounts
recoverable by the company from its shareholders or directors. Accordingly the
Act was amended by an Ordinance promulgated by the President to make explicit
what was already implicit in section 4(1) of the Act.2\. The Bill seeks to
replace the Alcock Ashdown Company Limited (Acquisition of Undertakings)
Amendment Ordinance, 1974. - Gazette of India, 1-8-1974, Pt-II. Section 2.
Ext., p. 792.Act 38 of 1988.- The undertakings of the Alcock Ashdown Company
Limited comprised of two units, one in Bombay and the other in Bhavnagar,
Gujarat which were acquired by the Central Government through the Alcock
Ashdown Company Limited (Acquisition of Undertakings) Act, 1973. Immediately
after the acquisition of the undertakings, the Central Government, in exercise
of powers under section 8 of the Act entrusted the management, and
administration of the two units viz.; (1) Bombay unit and (2) Bhavnagar unit
to (1) Mazgaon Dock Limited, a Government of India undertaking under the
Ministry of Defence and (2) Industries Commissioner, Government of Gujarat,
respectively. Since then, the respective managements of Mazgaon Dock Limited
and Government of Gujarat have been running the units.2\. Prior to the
acquisition of the undertakings of the company both the Mazgaon Dock Limited
and the Government of Gujarat had expressed their keen interest in ultimately
owning the respective units in public interest. While acquiring the
undertakings of the company, the Central Government was also of the view that
the ownership of the two units would in due course be transferred to them who
had been managing these units.3\. While the Central Government was actively
considering the transfer of the two units, a question arose whether under the
existing provisions of the Act, the units could be transferred. After
examining the provisions of the Act, it however appeared that in the absence
of specific provisions in the Act, the Central Government cannot transfer the
right, title and interest vested in it to any other Government or
organisation.4\. The Bill seeks to revest the property of the Bhavnagar and
Bombay units of the undertakings of the Alcock Ashdown Company Limited in the
State Government of Gujarat and Mazgaon Dock Limited, respectively. The Bill
also seeks to safeguard the interests of the existing employees of Bhavnagar
unit by continuing their employment, provide for the transfer of Provident
fund and other funds to the State Government and for the saving of all
contracts, deeds and bonds, to which the Central Government is a party in
relation to the said unit. - Gazette of India, 14-12-1987, Pt. II, Section 2,
Ext., P. 5 (No. 65).[14th December, 1973]An Act to provide for the acquisition
of the undertakings of the Alcock Ashdown Company Limited for the purpose of
ensuring rational and co-ordinated development and production of goods
essential to the needs of the country in general, and defence department in
particular and for maters connected therewith or incidental thereto.

### 1. Short title.

This Act may be called the Alcock Ashdown Company Limited (Acquisition of
Undertakings) Act, 1973.

### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--(a)"appointed day" means
the date on which this Act comes into force;(b)"company" means the Alcock
Ashdown Company Limited, being a company as defined in the Companies Act, 1956
(1 of 1956), and having its registered office in the State of
Maharashtra;(c)"Court" means the High Court at Bombay;(ca)[ "notification"
means a notification published in the Official Gazette; [Inserted by Act 38 of
1988, Section 2.](i)the industrial unit owned by the company and located at
Bhavnagar in the State of Gujarat (hereinafter referred to as the Bhavnagar
unit); and(ii)the industrial unit owned by the company and located at Bombay
in the State of Maharashtra (hereinafter referred to as the Bombay
unit);](cb)"undertakings of the company" means--(d)words and expressions used
herein and not defined but defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956),
have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.

### 3. Undertakings of the company to vest in the Central Government.

On and from the appointed day, the undertakings of the company shall, by
virtue of this Act, be transferred to, and shall vest in, the Central
Government.

### 4. General effect of vesting.

(1)The undertakings of the company shall be deemed to include all assets,
rights, powers, authorities and privileges and all property, movable and
immovable, cash balances, reserve funds, investments and all other rights and
interests in, or arising out of, such property as were immediately before the
appointed day in the ownership, possession, power or control of the company,
[in relation to the undertakings] [ Inserted by Act 33 of 1974, Section 2
(w.e.f. 14-12-1973)] whether within or outside India, and all books of
account, registers and all other documents of whatever nature relating
thereto.[Explanation. [Inserted by Act 33 of 1974, Section 2 (w.e.f.
14-12-1973) ]\--For the avoidance of doubts, it is hereby declared that the
expression "undertakings of the company" does not include--(a)any debts due to
the company; and(b)any amounts recoverable by the company from its
shareholders or directors.](2)All property included as aforesaid in the
undertakings which have vested in the Central Government under section 3
shall, by force of such vesting, be freed and discharged from any trusts,
obligations, mortgages, charges, liens and other incumbrances affecting it,
and any attachment, injunction or any decree or order of any court restricting
the use of such property in any manner shall be deemed to have been
withdrawn.(3)If, on the appointed day, any suit, appeal or other proceeding of
whatever nature in relation to any business of the undertakings of the company
is pending by or against the company, the same shall not abate, be
discontinued or be, in any way, prejudicially affected by reason of the
transfer of the undertakings of the company or of any thing contained in this
Act but the suit, appeal or other proceeding may be continued, prosecuted and
enforced by or against the company.

### 5. Duty to deliver possession of the undertaking and documents relating
thereto.

(1)Notwithstanding any decree, judgment or order of any court or anything
contained in any other law for the time being in force, the Receiver, Official
Liquidator of the company or any other person, in whose possession or custody
or under whose control the undertakings of the company or any part thereof may
be, shall deliver possession of the undertakings of the company or such part
thereof as may be in his possession, custody or control to the Central
Government forthwith.(2)The Receiver, Official Liquidator or any other person
who has, on the appointed day, in his possession or under his custody or
control any books, documents or other papers relating to the undertakings of
the company which have vested, under section 3, in the Central Government,
shall be liable to account for the said books, document or other papers to the
Central Government or to such person as the Central Government may specify in
this behalf.(3)The Central Government may take, or cause to be taken, all
necessary steps for securing possession of the undertakings which have vested
in it under section 3.

### 6. Duty to furnish particulars.

(1)The company shall, within such period as the Central Government may allow
in this behalf, furnish to that Government a complete inventory of all the
properties and assets of the company, as on the appointed day, pertaining to
the undertakings which have vested in the Central Government under section
3.(2)So much of the obligation of the company under sub-section (1) as relates
to the properties and assets of the company in the possession, custody or
control of the Receiver shall be discharged by him and so much of that
obligation as relates to the properties and assets in the possession, custody
or control of the Official Liquidator shall be discharged by the Official
Liquidator.

### 7. Payment of amount.

(1)The Central Government shall deposit, in cash, in Court, to the credit of
the company, an amount equal to the sum of rupees one crore for the transfer
to, and vesting in, the Central Government, under section 3, of the
undertakings of the company.(2)For the avoidance of doubts, it is hereby
declared that the liabilities of the company in relation to the undertakings
which have vested in the Central Government under section 3, shall be met from
the amount referred to in sub-section (1).(3)In meeting the liabilities of the
company in relation to the undertakings which have vested in the Central
Government under section 3, the Court shall distribute the amount referred to
in sub-section (1) amongst the creditors of the company, whether secured or
unsecured, in accordance with their rights and interests, and if there is any
surplus left after such distribution, amongst the contributories of the
company in accordance with the rights and interests of such contributories.

### 8. Management and administration of the undertakings.

The undertakings, which have vested in the Central Government under section 3,
shall be managed on behalf of the Central Government by such person or body of
persons (including one or more Government companies, whether in existence at
the commencement of this Act or incorporated thereafter) as may be nominated
by the Central Government in this behalf, and such person or body of persons
shall carry on the management in accordance with such regulations as may be
made by the Central Government in this behalf.

### 8A. [ Vesting of the Bhavnagar unit in the State Government. [ Inserted by
Act 38 of 1988, Section 3.]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 3 and 4 the Central
Government shall direct by notification that all assets, rights, powers,
authorities and privileges and all property, movable and immovable, cash
balances, reserve funds, investments and all other rights and interests in, or
arising out of, such property of the Bhavnagar unit which have vested in the
Central Government under section 3, shall, instead of continuing to vest in
the Central Government, vest in the State Government of Gujarat (hereinafter
referred to as the State Government), either on the date of publication of the
notification or on such later date as may be specified in the
notification.(2)Where the assets, rights, powers, authorities and privileges
and all property, movable and immovable, cash balances, reserve funds,
investments and all other rights and interests in, or arising out of, such
property of the Bhavnagar unit vest, under sub-section (1), in the State
Government that Government shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be
deemed to have become the owner of such unit and rights and liabilities of the
Central Government in relation to that unit shall, on and from the date of
such vesting, be deemed to have become the rights and liabilities of the State
Government.

### 8B. Vesting of Bombay unit in Government company. [ Inserted by Act 38 of
1988, Section 3.]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 3 and 4, the Central
Government shall direct by notification that all assets, rights, powers,
authorities and privileges and all property, movable and immovable, cash
balances, reserve funds, investments and all other rights and interests in, or
arising out of, such property of the Bombay unit which have vested in the
Central Government under section 3, shall, instead of continuing to vest in
the Central Government, vest in the Mazagon Dock Limited, a Government company
having its registered office in the State of Maharashtra (hereinafter referred
to as the Government company), either on the date of publication of the
notification or on such later date as may be specified in the
notification.(2)Where the assets, rights, powers, authorities and privileges
and all property, movable and immovable, cash balances, reserve funds,
investments and all other rights and interests in, or arising out of, such
property of the Bombay unit vest, under sub-section (1), the Government
company, that company shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed
to have become the owner of such unit and the rights and liabilities of the
Central Government in relation to that unit shall, on and from the date of
such vesting, be deemed to have become the rights and liabilities of the
Government company.

### 8C. Employment of certain employees to continue when Bhavnagar unit vests
under section 8A. [ Inserted by Act 38 of 1988, Section 3.]

(1)Where the assets, rights, powers, authorities and privileges and all
property, movable and immovable, cash balances, reserve funds, investments and
other rights and interests in, or arising out of such property of the
Bhavnagar unit vest, under section 8A in the State Government, every person
who has been, immediately before the date of such vesting, employed in that
unit shall become, on and from the date of such vesting, an employee of the
State Government, and shall hold office or service under that State Government
with the same rights and privileges as to pension, gratuity and other matters
as would have been admissible to him if there had been no such vesting and
shall continue to do so unless and until his employment under the State
Government is duly terminated or until his remuneration and other conditions
of service are duly altered by the State Government.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) or in any
other law for the time being in force, the transfer of the services of any
officer or other person employed in the Bhavnagar unit to the State
Government, shall not entitle such officer or other employee to any
compensation under this Act or under any other law for the time being in force
and no such claim shall be entertained by any court, tribunal or other
authority.(3)Where under the terms of any contract of service otherwise, any
person, whose services become transferred to the State Government by reason of
the provisions of this Act, is entitled to any arrears of salary or wages or
any payments for any leave not availed of or any other payment, not being
payment by way of gratuity or pension, such person may enforce his claim
against the Central Government, but not against the State Government.

### 8D. Transfer of provident fund and other fund when undertakings vest under
section 8A. [ Inserted by Act 38 of 1988, Section 3.]

(1)Where a provident fund, superannuation fund, welfare fund or any other fund
has been established for the benefit of the persons employed in the Bhavnagar
unit, the monies relatable to the officers or other employees, whose services
have become transferred by or under this Act to the State Government shall
stand transferred to, and vest in, the State Government.(2)The monies which
stand transferred under sub-section (1) to the State Government shall be dealt
with by that Government for the benefit of the officers and employees so
transferred in such manner as the State Government may decide from time to
time.

### 8E. Saving of contracts, etc. [ Inserted by Act 38 of 1988, Section 3.]

All contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements and other instruments of whatever
nature to which the Central Government is a party in relation to the Bhavnagar
unit vested in the State Government under section 8A subsisting or having
effect immediately before the date of vesting of the said unit in the State
Government shall, as from that day, be of full force and effect against, or in
the State Government and may be enforced fully and effectual if, instead of
the Central Government, the State Government been a party thereto.

### 8F. Power to remove difficulties. [ Inserted by Act 38 of 1988, Section
3.]

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of sections 8A,
8B, 8C, 8D and 8E, the Central Government may, by the order published in the
Official Gazette, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, remove the
difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a
period of two years from the coming into force of the Alcock Ashdown Company
Limited (Acquisition of Undertakings) Amendment Act, 1988.(2)Every order made
under sub-section (1) shall be laid before each House of Parliament.]

### 9. Penalties.

(1)Any person who--(a)having in his possession, custody or control any
property forming part of the undertakings of the company, wrongfully withholds
such property from the Central Government; or(b)wrongfully obtains possession
of any property forming part of the undertakings of the company which have
vested in the Central Government under this Act; or(c)wilfully withholds or
fails to furnish to the Central Government as required by sub-section (2) of
section 5 any document which may be in his possession, custody or control;
or(d)wilfully fails to furnish an inventory as required under section 6;
or(e)when required to furnish such inventory, furnishes any particulars
therein which are false and which he either knows or believes to be false or
does not believe to be true, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both:Provided that the
court trying any offence under clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) of this
sub-section may, at the time of convicting the accused person, order him to
deliver up or refund within a time to be fixed by the court any property
wrongfully withheld or wrongfully obtained or any document wilfully withheld
or not furnished.(2)No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable
under this section except with the previous sanction of the Central Government
or of an officer authorised by that Government in this behalf.

### 10. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or
other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation.--For the purposes of
this section,--(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or
other association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a firm,
means a partner in the firm.

### 11. Protection of action taken in good faith.

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government or an officer or other employee serving in connection with the
affairs of the undertakings of the company for anything which is in good faith
done or intended to be done under this Act.

### 12. Power to make regulations.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
regulations with regard to the matters specified in section 8.(2)Every
regulation made by the Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as
soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is
in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the regulation or
both Houses agree that the regulation should not be made, the regulation shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
regulation.

