## Union of India - Act

## The Anti-Corruption Laws (Amendment) Act, 1967

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Anti-Corruption Laws (Amendment) Act, 1967

## Act 16 of 1967

  * Published in Gazette 16 on 20 June 1967 
  * Assented to on 20 June 1967 
  * Commenced on 20 June 1967 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 June 1967.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Anti-Corruption Laws (Amendment) Act, 1967Act No. 16 of 1967[20th June,
1967]An Act further to amend the anti-corruption laws.Be it enacted by
Parliament in the Eighteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1. Short title and commencement.—

(1)This Act may be called the Anti-Corruption Laws (Amendment) Act, 1967.(2)It
shall be deemed to have come into force on the 5th day of May, 1967.

### 2. Amendment of anti-corruption law in relation to certain pending
trials.—

(1)Notwithstanding —(a)the substitution of new provisions for sub-section (3)
of section 5 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (2 of 1947),
(hereinafter referred to as the 1947 Act) by section 6(2) (c) of the Anti-
Corruption Laws (Amendment) Act, 1964 (40 of 1964), (hereinafter referred to
as the 1964 Act); and(b)any judgment or order of any court,the said sub-
section (3) as it stood immediately before the commencement of the 1964 Act,
shall apply and shall be deemed always to have applied to and in relation to
trials of offences punishable under sub-section (2) of section 5 of the 1947
Act pending before any court immediately before such commencement as if no
such new provisions had been substituted for the said sub-section (3).(2)The
accused person in any trial to and in relation to which sub-section (1)
applies may, at the earliest opportunity available to him after the
commencement of this. Act, demand that the trial of the offence should proceed
from the stage at which it was immediately before the commencement of the 1964
Act and on any such demand being made the court shall proceed with the trial
from that stage.(3)For the removal of doubt it is hereby provided that any
court—(i)before which an appeal or application for revision against any
judgment, order or sentence passed or made in any trial to which sub-section
(1) applies is pending immediately before the commencement of this Act,
or(ii)before which an appeal or application for revision against any judgment,
order or sentence passed or made before the commencement of this Act in any
such trial, is filed after such commencement,shall remand the case for trial
in conformity with the provisions of this section.

### 3. Repeal and saving.—

(1)The Anti-Corruption Laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 1967 (3 of 1967), is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken
under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under this
Act.

