## Union of India - Act

## The Anti-Apartheid (United Nations Convention) Act, 1981

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Anti-Apartheid (United Nations Convention) Act, 1981

## Act 48 of 1981

  * Published on 18 December 1981 
  * Commenced on 18 December 1981 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 December 1981.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Anti-Apartheid (United Nations Convention) Act, 1981(48 of 1981)

### 264.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The object of the Bill is to give effect to
the provisions of the International Convention on the suppression and
punishment of the crime of apartheid, which was adopted by the General
Assembly of the United Nations on the 30th November, 1973, and to which India
became a party on the 22nd October, 1977. The purpose of the said Convention
is to declare that apartheid is a crime against humanity and that inhuman acts
resulting from the policies and practices of apartheid and similar policies
and practices of racial segregation and discrimination constitute a serious
threat to international peace and security and to make it possible for the
States Parties to the Convention to take more effective measures at the
national and international levels with a view to the suppression and
punishment of the crime of apartheid.2\. The Bill gives effect to the
Convention, in particular to Articles II and III thereof as set out in the
Schedule to the Bill which, respectively, define the crime of apartheid and
apply international criminal responsibility irrespective of the motives
involved, to individuals, members of organizations, institutions, etc., who
commit the said crime. The Bill also seeks to make the commission of the said
crime punishable with death or imprisonment and fine.[18th December, 1981]An
Act to give effect to the International Convention on the suppression and
punishment of the crime of apartheid.Whereas an International Convention on
the suppression and punishment of the crime of apartheid was adopted by the
General Assembly of the United Nations on the Thirtieth day of November,
1973;And whereas India, having acceded to the said Convention, should make
provisions for giving effect to it;Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-
second Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent .-(1) This Act may be called the Anti-Apartheid
(United Nations Convention) Act, 1981.

(2)It extends to the whole of India.

### 2. Application of the International Convention on the suppression and
punishment of the crime of apartheid .-(1) Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in any other law, such of the provisions of the
International Convention on the suppression and punishment of the crime of
apartheid as are set out in the Schedule shall have the force of law in India.

(2)The Central Government may, from time to time, by notification in the
Official Gazette, amend the Schedule in conformity with any amendments, duly
made and adopted, of the provisions of the said Convention set out
therein.(3)Every notification issued under sub-section (2) shall be laid, as
soon as may be after it is issued, before each House of Parliament.

### 3. Punishment for international criminal responsibility .-Every person to
whom international criminal responsibility applies under Article III of the
said Convention, as set out in the Schedule, shall be punished with death, or
imprisonment for life, or imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten
years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Explanation .-For the purposes of this section, the reference in clause (a) of
Article III of the said Convention to "Article II" shall be construed as a
reference to the provisions of Article II of that Convention as set out in the
Schedule.

### 4. Offences by companies, organisations or institutions .-Where an offence
under this Act has been committed by a company or an organisation or an
institution, every person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in
charge of, and was responsible to, the company, organisation or institution,
as the case may be, for the conduct of its business or affairs, shall be
deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly:

Provided that nothing contained in this section shall render any such person
liable to any punishment provided in this Act if he proves that the offence
was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.Explanation .-For the purposes of this
section, "company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other
association of individuals.

### 5. Place of trial .-Any person committing an offence under section 3 may
be tried for the offence in any place in which he may be found or in such
other place as the Central Government may, by general or special order,
published in the Official Gazette, direct in this behalf.

### 6. Previous sanction of the Central Government for arrest or prosecution
.-No person shall be arrested or prosecuted in respect of any offence under
section 3 except with the previous sanction of the Central Government or such
officer or authority as may be authorised by that Government by order in
writing in this behalf.

### 7. Provisions as to Extradition Act .-For the purposes of Extradition Act,
1962 (34 of 1962), the offence under section 3 shall not be considered to be
an offence of a political character.

THE SCHEDULE(See sections 2 and 3)PROVISIONS OF THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION
ON THE SUPPRESSION AND PUNISHMENT OF THE CRIME OF APARTHEID WHICH SHALL HAVE
FORCE OF LAWArticle IIFor the purpose of the present Convention, the term "the
crime of apartheid," which shall include similar policies and practices of
racial segregation and discrimination as practised in Southern Africa, shall
apply to the following inhuman acts committed for the purpose of establishing
and maintaing domination by one racial group of persons over any other racial
groups of persons and systematically oppressing them:(a)Denial to a member or
members of a racial group or groups of the right to life and liberty of
person:(i)By muder of members of a racial group or groups;(ii)By the infiction
upon the members of a racial group or groups of serious bodily or mental harm,
by the infringement of their freedom or dignity or by subjecting them to
torture or to cruel, in human or degrading treatment or punishment;(iii)By
arbitrary arrest and illegal imprisonment of the members of a racial group or
groups;(b)Delibrate imposition on a racial group or groups of living
conditions calculated to cause its or their physical destruction in whole or
in part;(c)Exploitation of the labour of the members of a racial group or
groups, in particular by submitting them to forced labour;(d)Persecution of
organisations and persons, by depriving them of fundamentals rights and
freedoms, because they oppose apartheid.Article IIIInternational criminal
responsibility shall apply, irrespectively of the motive involved, to
individuals, members of organizations and institutions and representative of
the State, whether residing in the territory of the State in which the acts
are prepetrated or in some other State, whenever they:(a)Commit, participate
in, directly incite or conspire in the commission of the acts mentioned in
Article II of the present Convention;(b)Directly abet, encourage or co-
oprative in the commission of the crime of apartheid.

