## Union of India - Act

## The Atomic Energy Act, 1962

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Atomic Energy Act, 1962

## Act 33 of 1962

  * Published on 15 September 1962 
  * Commenced on 15 September 1962 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 December 2015.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE ATOMIC ENERGY (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2015 (Act 05 of 2016) on 31 December 2015] 

The Atomic Energy Act, 1962(33 OF 1962)

### 286.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-At present control over the development of
atomic energy and matters connected therewith is exercised under the Atomic
Energy Act, 1948 (29 of 1948). Having regard to the developments in the field
of atomic energy since the enactment of that legislation and with a view to
the implementation of the future programme of expansion in the field, it has
become necessary to revise that Act extensively. It is accordingly proposed to
repeal the existing Act and to replace it by a comprehensive measure. The
Notes on Clauses explain the important provision of the Bill.Amendment Act 59
of 1986-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-Clause 2 of the Bill seeks to amend
section 6 of the Atomic Energy Act, 1962 retrospectively so as to provide that
payment of compensation for compulsory acquisition of minerals, concentrates
and other materials under that section should, instead of being a condition
precedent to their acquisition, be a condition to be given effect to after
such minerals, concentrates or other materials become the property of the
Central Government, so as to repel any doubt that compulsory acquisition of
such minerals, concentrates and other materials under that section will amount
to sale. A new section 11-A is also proposed to be inserted retrospectively so
as to make it clear beyond doubt that the compulsory acquisition under
sections 6 and 11 shall not be deemed to be a sale for any purpose
whatsoever.Amendment Act 29 of 1987-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The
Atomic Energy Act, 1962 inter alia empowers the Central Government to produce
and supply electricity from atomic energy. It is felt that in order to achieve
the envisaged target of nuclear power generation of 10,000 MW of installed
generating capacity by the year 2000 AD, a nuclear power corporation or a
Government company should be set up which would design, construct and operate
nuclear power stations. This corporation or company would also be in a
position to raise resources other than what is actually available from
Government for this programme and also provide greater operational
flexibility. To enable the Government to entrust its power to own, establish
and operate nuclear power stations to a Corporation or Government Company and
to enable such Corporation or Government Company to perform such other
functions incidental to such powers, it is necessary to amend the Atomic
Energy Act.[15th September, 1962]An Act to provide for the development,
control and use of atomic energy for the welfare of the people of India and
for other peaceful purposes and for matters connected therewith.Be it enacted
by Parliament in the Thirteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

Brought into force on 21.9.1962 vide G.S.R. 1254, dated 18.9.1962. The Act has
been extended to Sikkim, see S.O. 6(E), Gazette of India 6.1.1987 and brought
into force on 1.4.1987, see S.O. 1028, Gazette on India, dated 18.4.1987.  
---  
  
### 1. Short title, extent and commencement .-

(1)This Act may be called The Atomic Energy Act, 1962.(2)It extends to the
whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions and interpretation.-

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"atomic energy"
means energy released from atomic nuclei as a result of any process, including
the fission and fusion processes;(b)"fissile material" means uranium-233,
uranium-235, plutonium or any material containing these substances or any
other material that may be declared as such by notification by the Central
Government;(bb)[ "Government company" means a company in which-(i)not less
than fifty-one per cent. of the paid-up share capital is held by the Central
Government; or(ii)the whole of the paid-up share capital is held by one or
more of the companies specified in sub-clause (i) and which, by its articles
of association, empowers the Central Government to constitute and reconstitute
its Board of Directors;](c)"minerals" include all substances obtained or
obtainable from the soil (including alluvium or rocks) by underground or
surface working;(d)"notification" means notification published in the Official
Gazette;(e)"plant" includes machinery, equipment or appliance whether affixed
to land or not;(f)"prescribed equipment" means any property which the Central
Government may, by notification, prescribe, being a property which in its
opinion is specially designed or adapted or which is used or intended to be
used for the production or utilisation of any prescribed substance, or for the
production or utilisation of atomic energy, radioactive substances, or
radiation, but does not include mining, milling, laboratory and other
equipment not so specially designed or adapted and not incorporated in
equipment used or intended to be used for any of the purposes
aforesaid;(g)"prescribed substance" means any substance including any mineral
which the Central Government may, by notification, prescribe, being a
substance which in its opinion is or may be used for the production or use of
atomic energy or research into matters connected therewith and includes
uranium, plutonium, thorium, beryllium, deuterium or any of their respective
derivatives or compounds or any other materials containing any of the
aforesaid substances;(h)"radiation" means gamma rays, X-rays, and rays
consisting of alpha particles, beta particles, neutrons, protons and other
nuclear and sub-atomic particles, but not sound or radiowaves, or visible,
infra-red or ultra-violet light;(i)"radioactive substance" or "radioactive
material" means any substance or material which spontaneously emits radiation
in excess of the levels prescribed by notification by the Central
Government.(2)Any reference in this Act to the working of minerals shall be
construed as including a reference to the mining, getting, carrying away,
transporting, sorting, extracting or otherwise treating of minerals.(3)Any
reference in this Act to the production or use of atomic energy shall be
construed as including a reference to the carrying out of any process,
preparatory or ancillary to such production or use.

### 3. General powers of the Central Government .-

Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government shall have
power-(a)to produce, develop, use and dispose of atomic energy [either by
itself or through any authority or corporation established by it or a
Government company] and carry out research into any matters connected
therewith;(b)[ to manufacture or otherwise produce any prescribed or
radioactive substance and any articles which in its opinion are, or are likely
to be, required for, or in connection with, the production, development or use
of atomic energy or such research as aforesaid and to dispose of such
prescribed or radioactive substance or any articles manufactured or otherwise
produced; [Substituted by Act 29 of 1987, Section 3, for sub-Section (b)
(w.e.f. 8.9.1987). ](bb)(i)to buy or otherwise acquire, store and transport
any prescribed or radioactive substance and any articles which in its opinion
are, or are likely to be, required for, or in connection with, the production,
development or use of atomic energy; and(ii)to dispose of such prescribed or
radioactive substance or any articles bought or otherwise acquired by it,
either by itself or through any authority or corporation established by it, or
a Government company;](c)to declare as "restricted information" any
information not so far published or otherwise made public relating to-(i)the
location, quality and quantity of prescribed substances and transactions for
their acquisition, whether by purchase or otherwise, or disposal, whether by
sale or otherwise;(ii)the processing of prescribed substances and the
extraction or production of fissile materials from them;(iii)the theory,
design, construction and operation of plants for the treatment and production
of any of the prescribed substances and for the separation of isotopes;(iv)the
theory, design, construction and operation of nuclear reactors;(v)research and
technological work on materials and processes involved in or derived from
items (i) to (iv);(d)to declare as "prohibited area" any area or premises
where work including research, design or development is carried on in respect
of the production, treatment, use, application or disposal of atomic energy or
of any prescribed substance;(e)to provide for control over radioactive
substances or radiation generating plant in order to-(i)prevent radiation
hazards;(ii)secure public safety and safety of persons handling radioactive
substances or radiation generating plant; and(iii)ensure safe disposal of
radioactive wastes;(f)to provide for the production and supply of electricity
from atomic energy and for taking measures conducive to such production and
supply and for all matters incidental thereto [either by itself or through any
authority or corporation established by it or a Government company] [Inserted
by Act 29 of 1987, Section 3 (w.e.f. 8.9.1987). ]; and(g)to do all such things
(including the erection of buildings and execution of works and the working of
minerals) as the Central Government considers necessary or expedient for the
exercise of the foregoing powers.

### 4. Notification of discovery of uranium or thorium .-

(1)Every person who, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, has
discovered or discovers that uranium or thorium occurs at any place in India
shall, within three months after the date of commencement of this Act or after
the discovery, whichever is later, report the discovery in writing to the
Central Government or to any person or authority authorised by the Central
Government in this behalf.(2)Every person who has reason to believe that
uranium or thorium occurs at any place in India, shall without delay, send
intimation of such belief and the reasons therefor to the Central Government
or to any such person or authority as aforesaid.

### 5. Control over mining or concentration of substances containing uranium
.-

(1)If the Central Government is satisfied that any person is mining or is
about to mine any substance from which, in the opinion of the Central
Government, uranium can be or may reasonably be expected to be, isolated or
extracted, or is engaged or is about to be engaged in treating or
concentrating by any physical, chemical or metallurgical process any substance
from which, in the opinion of the Central Government, uranium can be or may
reasonably be expected to be, isolated or extracted, the Central Government
may by notice in writing given to that person either-(a)require him in
conducting the mining operations or in treating or concentrating the substance
aforesaid to comply with such terms and conditions and adopt such processes as
the Central Government may in the notice, or from time to time thereafter,
think fit to specify, or(b)totally prohibit him from conducting the mining
operations or treating or concentrating the substance aforesaid.(2)Where any
terms and conditions are imposed on any person conducting any mining
operations or treating or concentrating any substance under clause (a) of sub-
section (1), the Central Government may, having regard to the nature of the
terms and conditions, decide as to whether or not to pay any compensation to
that person and the decision of the Central Government shall be final:Provided
that where the Central Government decides not to pay any compensation, it
shall record in writing a brief statement giving the reasons for such
decision.(3)Where the Central Government decides to pay any compensation under
sub-section (2), the amount thereof shall be determined in accordance with
section 21 but in calculating the compensation payable, no account shall be
taken of the value of any uranium contained in the substance referred to in
sub-section (1).(4)Where any mining operation or any process of treatment or
concentration of any substance is prohibited under clause (b) of sub-section
(1), the Central Government shall pay compensation to the person conducting
the mining operations or using the process of treatment or concentration and
the amount of such compensation shall be determined in accordance with section
21 but in calculating the compensation payable, no account shall be taken of
the value of any uranium contained in the substance.

### 6. Disposal of uranium .-

(1)No minerals, concentrates and other materials which contain uranium in its
natural state in excess of such proportion as may be prescribed by
notification by the Central Government shall be disposed of except with the
previous permission in writing of the Central Government and in accordance
with such terms and conditions as it may impose.(2)The Central Government may
serve notice on any person who has produced any mineral, concentrate or other
material referred to in sub-section (1) that the Central Government [proposes
to compulsorily acquire it and upon the service of the notice], the mineral,
concentrate or other material shall become the property of the Central
Government and shall be delivered to the Central Government or as it may
direct:[* * *] [Proviso omitted by Act 59 of 1986, Section 2 (w.e.f.
21.9.1986). ](3)[ Compensation in respect of acquisition under sub-section (2)
shall be paid in accordance with section 21 and in determining such
compensation regard shall be had to the cost of production of such mineral,
concentrate or other material and such other factors as may be relevant, but
no account shall be taken of the value of uranium in its natural state
contained therein.] [Inserted by Act 59 of 1986, Section 2 (w.e.f. 21.9.1986).
]

### 7. Power to obtain information regarding materials, plant or processes .-

The Central Government may, by notice in writing served on any person, require
him to make such periodical and other returns, or statements at such times and
containing such particulars and accompanied by such plans, drawings and other
documents as may be specified in the notice relating to-(a)any prescribed
substance, specified in the notice, in his possession or under his control or
present in or on any land or mine owned or occupied by him which in the
opinion of the Central Government is or can be a source of any of the
prescribed substances, including returns in respect of any such land or
mine;(b)any plant in his possession or under his control designed for mining
or processing of minerals so specified, or adapted for the production or use
of atomic energy or research into matters connected therewith;(c)any contract
entered into by him or any license granted by or to him relating to
prospecting or mining of minerals so specified or the production or use of
atomic energy or research into matters connected therewith;(d)any other
information in his possession relating to any work carried out by him or on
his behalf or under his directions, in connection with prospecting or mining
of materials so specified or the production or use of atomic energy or
research into matters connected therewith.

### 8. Power of entry and inspection .-

(1)Any person authorised by the Central Government may, on producing, if so
required, a duly authenticated document showing his authority, enter any mine,
premises or land-(a)where he has reason to believe that work is being carried
out for the purpose of or in connection with production and processing of any
prescribed substances or substances from which a prescribed substance can be
obtained or production, development or use of atomic energy or research into
matters connected therewith, or(b)where any such plant as is mentioned in
clause (b) of section 7 is situated, and may inspect the mine, premises or
land and any articles contained therein.(2)The person carrying out the
inspection may make copies of or extracts from any drawing, plan or other
document found in the mine, premises or land and for the purpose of making
such copies or extracts, may remove any such drawing, plan or other document
after giving a duly signed receipt for the same and retain possession thereof
for a period not exceeding seven days.

### 9. Power to do work for discovering minerals .-

(1)The Central Government may, subject to the provisions of this section, do
on, over or below the surface of any land such work as it considers necessary
for the purpose of discovering whether there is present in or on the land,
either in a natural state or in a deposit or waste material obtained from any
underground or surface working, any substance from which in its opinion any of
the prescribed substances can be obtained, and the extent to which such
substance is so present.(2)Before any powers are exercised under sub-section
(1) in relation to any land, the Central Government shall serve on every
owner, lessee and occupier of the land a notice in writing specifying the
nature of the work proposed to be done and the extent of the land affected,
and the time, not being less than twenty-eight days, within which and the
manner in which objections can be made thereto, and no such powers shall be
exercised otherwise than in pursuance of the notice or before the expiration
of the time specified therein for making objections.(3)The Central Government
may, after giving the person making the objection an opportunity of appearing
before and being heard by a person appointed by the Central Government for the
purpose, and after considering any such objection and the report of the person
so appointed, make such orders as it may deem proper but not so as to increase
the extent of the land affected.(4)Compensation shall be determined and paid
in accordance with section 21 in respect of any diminution in the value of any
land or property situate thereon resulting from the exercise of powers under
this section.

### 10. Compulsory acquisition of right to work minerals .-

(1)Where it appears to the Central Government that any minerals from which in
its opinion any of the prescribed substances can be obtained are present in or
on any land, either in a natural state or in a deposit of waste material
obtained from any underground or surface working, it may by order provide for
compulsorily vesting in the Central Government the exclusive right, so long as
the order remains in force, to work those minerals and any other minerals
which it appears to the Central Government to be necessary to work with those
minerals, and may also provide, by that order or a subsequent order, for
compulsorily vesting in the Central Government any other ancillary rights
which appear to the Central Government to be necessary for the purpose of
working the minerals aforesaid including (without prejudice to the generality
of the foregoing provisions)-(a)right to withdraw support;(b)rights necessary
for the purpose of access to or conveyance of the minerals aforesaid or the
ventilation or drainage of the working;(c)rights to use and occupy the surface
of any land for the purpose of erecting any necessary buildings and installing
any necessary plant in connection with the working of the minerals
aforesaid;(d)rights to use and occupy for the purpose of working the minerals
aforesaid any land forming part of or used in connection with an existing mine
or quarry, and to use or acquire any plant used in connection with any such
mine or quarry; and(e)rights to obtain a supply of water for any of the
purposes connected with the working of the minerals aforesaid, or to dispose
of water or other liquid matter obtained in consequence of working such
minerals.(2)Notice of any order proposed to be made under this section shall
be served by the Central Government-(a)on all persons who, but for the order,
would be entitled to work the minerals affected; and(b)on every owner, lessee
and occupier (except tenants for a month or for less than a month) of any land
in respect of which rights are proposed to be acquired under the
order.(3)Compensation in respect of any right acquired under this section
shall be paid in accordance with section 21, but in calculating the
compensation payable, no account shall be taken of the value of any minerals
present in or on land affected by the order, being minerals specified in the
order, as those from which in the opinion of the Central Government uranium or
any concentrate or derivative of uranium can be obtained.

### 11. Compulsory acquisition of prescribed substances, minerals and plants
.-

(1)Save as otherwise provided in any other provision of this Act, the Central
Government may compulsorily acquire in accordance with the provisions of this
section-(a)any prescribed substance;(b)any minerals from which in the opinion
of the Central Government any of the prescribed substances can be
obtained;(c)any prescribed equipment;(d)any plant which is designed or adapted
for the mining or processing of any minerals referred to in clause (b) or
substances obtained therefrom or for the production or use of any prescribed
substance or a radioactive substance or for the production, use or disposal of
such articles as are or are likely to be required for or in connection with
the production, use or disposal of atomic energy or for research into matters
connected therewith.(2)Where the Central Government acquires any plant
referred to in clause (d) of sub-section (1), it shall also have the right to
acquire any buildings, railway sidings, tramway lines, or aerial ropeways
serving such plant.(3)Where the Central Government proposes to acquire any
property under sub-section (1), it shall serve upon the person appearing to be
the owner thereof, a notice in writing specifying the property to be acquired
and requiring that person to make to the Central Government within the time
specified in the notice a written declaration containing such particulars as
may be so specified regarding the ownership of such property and any agreement
or charge by virtue of which any other person has an interest in such
property.(4)Upon the service of a notice under sub-section (3), no property to
which the notice relates shall be disposed of without the previous permission
in writing of the Central Government.(5)If it appears to the Central
Government in consequence of any written declaration made to it in pursuance
of sub-section (3) that any person other than the person on whom the notice
under sub-section (3) was served is the owner of, or has any interest in, the
property to which the notice relates, the Central Government shall serve a
copy of the notice on that other person.(6)A notice served under sub-section
(3) shall contain a statement to the effect that an objection may be made
thereto within such time and in such manner as may be specified, and if any
such objection is duly made and not withdrawn, the Central Government shall
afford an opportunity to the person making the objection of appearing before
and being heard by a person appointed by the Central Government for the
purpose.(7)After considering any such objection, and the report of the person
appointed by it under sub-section (6), the Central Government may serve on the
persons upon whom the notice under sub-section (3) or a copy thereof was
served a further notice in writing either withdrawing the notice of
acquisition or confirming the said notice as respects the property to which it
relates or such part of the property as may be specified.(8)Any property with
respect to which a notice of acquisition is served under this section
shall-(a)if no objection is duly made to the notice, vest in the Central
Government at the expiration of the time for making such objection;(b)if such
an objection is duly made and the notice is confirmed as respects the whole or
any part of that property by a notice served under sub-section (7), vest
accordingly in the Central Government on the service of the last mentioned
notice, and shall in either case vest free from all
encumbrances.(9)Compensation in respect of acquisition under this section
shall be paid in accordance with section 21.[11-A. Removal of doubts.-For the
removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the compulsory acquisition of
any mineral, concentrate or other material under sub-section (2) of section 6,
or of any substance, minerals, equipment or plant under sub-section (1) of
section 11, shall not be deemed to be a sale for any purpose whatsoever.]

### 12. Compensation in case of compulsory acquisition of a mine .-

Where the Central Government acquires, in accordance with any law, any mine or
part of a mine from which in the opinion of the Central Government any of the
prescribed substances can be obtained, a compensation in respect of such
acquisition shall be paid in accordance with section 21:Provided that in
determining the amount of such compensation, no account shall be taken of the
value of uranium which may be obtained from such mine or part of a mine.

### 13. Novation of certain contracts .-

(1)The Central Government may serve on the parties to a contract relating to
prospecting or mining of any substance from which any of the prescribed
substances can be obtained or to production or use of atomic energy or to
research into matters connected therewith, not being a contract for the
rendering of personal services, a notice in writing stating that on such date
as may be specified in the notice the rights and liabilities of any of the
parties to the contract specified in the notice (hereinafter referred to as
the specified party) will be transferred to the Central Government, and
thereupon subject to any withdrawal of the notice under the following
provisions of this section, the contract shall, as regards any rights
exercisable, or liabilities incurred, on or after the said date, have effect
as if the Central Government were a party to the contract instead of the
specified party and as if for any reference in the contract to the specified
party there were substituted as reference to the Central Government.(2)A
notice served under sub-section (1) shall contain a statement to the effect
that an objection may be made thereto within such time and in such manner as
may be specified, and if any such objection is duly made and not withdrawn,
the Central Government shall afford an opportunity to the person making the
objection of appearing before and being heard by a person appointed by the
Central Government for the purpose.(3)After considering any such objection and
the report of the person appointed by it under sub-section (2), the Central
Government may make such order as it may deem proper.(4)Where the rights and
liabilities of a party to a contract are transferred to the Central Government
under this section, there shall be paid to that party such compensation in
respect of any loss suffered by that party as may be agreed between him and
the Central Government, and in default of such agreement, as may be determined
by arbitration.

### 14. Control over production and use of atomic energy .-

(1)The Central Government may, subject to such rules as may be made in this
behalf, by order prohibit except under a license granted by it-(i)the working
of any mine or minerals specified in the order, being a mine or minerals from
which in the opinion of the Central Government any of the prescribed
substances can be obtained;(ii)the acquisition, production, possession, use,
disposal, export or import-(a)of any of the prescribed substances; or(b)of any
minerals or other substances specified in the rules, from which in the opinion
of the Central Government any of the prescribed substances can be obtained;
or(c)of any plant designed or adopted or manufactured for the production,
development and use of atomic energy or for research into matters connected
therewith; or(d)of any prescribed equipment.(1A)[ No licence under sub-clause
(c) of clause (ii) of sub-section (1) shall be granted to a person other than
a Department of the Central Government or any authority or an institution or a
corporation established by the Central Government, or a Government
company.(1B)Any licence granted to a Government company under sub-section (1)
shall stand cancelled in case the licensee ceases to be a Government company
and, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, all assets thereof shall vest in the Central Government free from any
liability and the Central Government shall take such measures for safe
operation of the plant and disposal of nuclear material so vested in it, as
may be necessary in accordance with the provisions of section 3.](2)Nothing in
this section shall affect the authority of the Central Government to refuse a
license for the purpose of this section or to include in a license such
conditions as the Central Government thinks fit or to revoke a license and the
Central Government may take any action as aforesaid.(3)Without prejudice to
the generality of the foregoing provisions, the rules referred to in this
section may provide for -(a)the extent to which information in the possession
of, or which has been made available to, the person granted a license for
purposes of this section, should be regarded as restricted information;(b)the
extent to which the area or premises under the control of the person to whom a
license has been granted for purposes of this section, should be regarded as a
prohibited area;(c)the conditions and criteria for location of any
installation or operation of any plant in respect of which a license has been
granted or is intended to be granted for the purposes of this section
including those necessary for protection against radiation and safe disposal
of harmful by-products or wastes;(d)the extent of the licensee's liability in
respect of any hurt to any person or any damage to property caused by ionising
radiations or any radioactive contamination either at the plant under license
or in the surrounding area;(e)provision by licensee either by insurance or by
such other means as the Central Government may approve, of sufficient funds to
be available at all times to ensure settlement of any claims in connection
with the use of the site or the plant under license which have been or may be
duly established against the licensee in respect of any hurt to any person or
any damage to any property caused by ionising radiations emitted at the plant
under license or radioactive contamination either at the plant under license
or in surrounding areas;(f)obligatory qualifications, security clearances,
hours of employment, minimum leave and periodical medical examination of the
persons employed and any other requirement or restriction or prohibition on
the employer, employed persons and other persons; and(g)such other incidental
and supplementary provisions including provisions for inspection and also for
the sealing of premises and seizure, retention and disposal of any article in
respect of which there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a
contravention of the rules has been committed, as the Central Government
considers necessary.(4)The Central Government may also prescribe the fees
payable for issue of license under sub-section (1).

### 15. Requisitioning of any substance for extracting uranium or plutonium .-

(1)The Central Government shall have the right to require that any substance
which, in the opinion of the Central Government, contains uranium, plutonium
or any of their isotopes, shall be delivered to it and the Central Government
may extract from that substance the uranium, plutonium or any of their
isotopes contained therein and return the substance to the person concerned on
payment of compensation which shall be determined in accordance with section
21:Provided that such compensation shall not, in any case, exceed the cost
incurred by the person in the production, mining or irradiation of the
substance and in determining the same no account shall be taken of the value
of uranium, plutonium or any of their isotopes extracted from the
substance.(2)Nothing in this section shall prevent the Central Government from
permitting, subject to such conditions as it may deem fit to impose, the use
of small quantities of natural uranium for the purpose of examination, test or
analysis.

### 16. Control over radioactive substances .-

The Central Government may prohibit the manufacture, possession, use, transfer
by sale or otherwise, export and import and in an emergency, transport and
disposal, of any radioactive substances without its written consent.

### 17. Special provisions as to safety .-

(1)The Central Government may, as regards any class or description of premises
or places, being premises or places, in which radioactive substances are
manufactured, produced, mined, treated, stored or used or any radiation
generating plant, equipment or appliance is used, make such provision by rules
as appear to the Central Government to be necessary-(a)to prevent injury being
caused to the health of persons employed at such premises or places or other
persons either by radiations, or by the ingestion of any radioactive
substance;(b)to secure that any radioactive waste products resulting from such
manufacture, production, mining, treatment, storage, or use as aforesaid are
disposed of safely;(c)to prescribe qualifications of the persons for
employment at such premises or places and the regulation of their hours of
employment minimum leave and periodical medical examination, and the rules
may, in particular and without prejudice to the generality of this sub-
section, provide for imposing requirements as to the erection or structural
alterations of buildings or the carrying out of works.(2)The Central
Government may, as respects the transport of any radioactive substance or any
prescribed substance specified by an order issued under this Act as being
dangerous to health, make such rules as appear to be necessary to prevent
injury being caused by such transport to the health of persons engaged therein
and other persons.(3)Rules made under this section may provide for imposing
requirements, prohibitions and restrictions on employers, employed persons and
other persons.(4)Any person authorised by the Central Government under this
section, may, on producing, if so required, a duly authenticated document
showing his authority, enter at all reasonable hours any premises, or any
vehicle, vessel or aircraft for the purpose of ascertaining whether there has
been committed, or is being committed, in or in connection with the premises,
vehicle, vessel or aircraft, any contravention of the rules made under this
section.(5)In the event of any contravention of the rules made under this
section, the Central Government shall have the right to take such measures as
it may deem necessary to prevent further injury to persons or damage to
property arising from radiation or contamination by radioactive substances
including, without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions,
and to the right to take further action for the enforcement of penalties under
section 24, the sealing of premises, vehicle, vessel, or aircraft, and the
seizure of radioactive substances and contaminated equipment.

### 18. Restriction on disclosure of information .-

(1)The Central Government may by order restrict the disclosure of information,
whether contained in a document, drawing, photograph, plan, model or in any
other form whatsoever, which relates to, represents or illustrates -(a)an
existing or proposed plant used or proposed to be used for the purpose of
producing, developing or using atomic energy, or(b)the purpose or method of
operation of any such existing or proposed plant, or(c)any process operated or
proposed to be operated in any such existing or proposed plant.(2)No person
shall -(a)disclose, or obtain or attempt to obtain any information restricted
under sub-section (1), or(b)disclose, without the authority of the Central
Government, any information obtained in the discharge of any functions under
this Act or in the performance of his official duties.(3)Nothing in this
section shall apply-(i)to the disclosure of information with respect to any
plant of a type in use for purposes other than the production, development or
use of atomic energy, unless the information discloses that plant of that type
is used or proposed to be used for the production, development or use of
atomic energy or research into any matters connected therewith; or(ii)where
any information has been made available to the general public otherwise than
in contravention of this section, to any subsequent disclosure of that
information.

### 19. Prevention of entry into prohibited areas .-

The Central Government may by order prohibit-(a)entry of any person, without
obtaining permission, into a prohibited area, and(b)taking by any persons,
without permission, of any photograph, sketch, pictures, drawing, map or other
document from a prohibited area and any permission, if given to do these
things, may be subject to stipulations which the Central Government may
consider necessary.

### 20. Special provisions as to inventions .-

(1)As from the commencement of this Act, no patents shall be granted for
inventions which in the opinion of the Central Government are useful for or
relate to the production, control, use or disposal of atomic energy or the
prospecting, mining, extraction, production, physical and chemical treatment,
fabrication, enrichment, canning or use of any prescribed substance or
radioactive substance or the ensuring of safety in atomic energy
operations.(2)The prohibition under sub-section (1) shall also apply to any
invention of the nature specified in that sub-section in respect of which an
application for the grant of a patent has been made to the Controller of
Patents and Designs appointed under the [Indian Patents and Designs Act, 1911
(2 of 1911)], before the commencement of this Act and is pending with him at
such commencement.(3)The Central Government shall have the power to inspect at
any time any pending patent application and specification before its
acceptance and if it considers that the invention relates to atomic energy, to
issue directions to the Controller of Patents and Designs to refuse the
application on that ground.(4)Any person, who has made an invention which he
has reason to believe relates to atomic energy, shall communicate to the
Central Government the nature and description of the invention.(5)Any person
desiring to apply for a patent abroad for an invention relating to or which he
has reason to believe relates to atomic energy shall obtain prior permission
from the Central Government before making the application abroad or
communicating the invention to any person abroad, unless three months have
elapsed since his request for permission was made to the Central Government
and no reply was received by him.(6)The Controller of Patents and Designs
shall have the power to refer any application to the Central Government for
direction as to whether the invention is one relating to atomic energy and the
direction given by the Central Government shall be final.(7)Any invention in
the field of atomic energy conceived whether in establishments controlled by
the Central Government or under any contract, sub-contract, arrangement or
other relationship with the Central Government shall be deemed to have been
made or conceived by the Central Government, irrespective of whether such
contract, sub-contract, arrangement or other relationship involves financial
participation of or assistance from the Central Government.(8)Notwithstanding
anything contained in the [Indian Patents and Designs Act, 1911 (2 of 1911)] [
Now see the Patents Act, 1970 (39 of 1970).], the decision of the Central
Government on points connected with or arising out of this section shall be
final.

### 21. Principles relating to payment of compensation .-

(1)Save as otherwise provided in this Act, where by reason of exercise of any
powers under this Act, any compensation is payable, the amount of such
compensation shall be determined in the manner and in accordance with the
principles hereinafter set out, that is to say-(a)where the amount of
compensation is fixed by agreement, it shall be paid in accordance with such
agreement;(b)where no such agreement is reached, the Central Government shall
appoint as arbitrator a person having expert knowledge as to the nature of the
right affected who shall determine the amount of compensation payable.(2)In
making his award, the arbitrator appointed under sub-section (1) shall have
regard -(a)in the case of any compensation payable under section 9 -(i)to the
nature of the work done;(ii)the manner, extent and duration of the exercise of
any powers under that section;(iii)the diminution in the rent of the land and
of the property situated thereon, which might reasonably be expected over any
period or diminution in the market value of the land and property on the date
when the exercise of powers comes to an end; and(iv)the provisions of sub-
section (1) of section 23 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 of 1894), in so
far as such provisions can be made applicable to the exercise of powers under
section 9; and(b)In the case of any compensation payable under section 11 or
under section 12, to the price which the owner might reasonably have been
expected to obtain on a sale of the property effected by him immediately
before the date of the acquisition.(3)An appeal shall lie to the High Court
against an award of the arbitrator except in cases where the amount claimed
thereof does not exceed an amount prescribed in this behalf by the Central
Government.(4)The Central Government may make rules prescribing the procedure
to be followed in the arbitrations under this Act and the principles to be
followed in the apportionment of the cost of proceedings before the arbitrator
and on appeal.(5)Save as provided in this Act, nothing in any law for the time
being in force relating to arbitration shall apply to arbitrations under this
Act.

### 22. Special provisions as to electricity .-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the [Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948
(54 of 1948)], the Central Government shall have authority -(a)to develop a
sound and adequate national policy in regard to atomic power, to co-ordinate
such policy with the Central Electricity Authority and the State Electricity
Boards constituted under sections 3 and 5 respectively of that Act and other
similar statutory corporations concerned with the control and utilisation of
other power resources, to implement schemes for the generation of electricity
in pursuance of such policy and to operate [either by itself or through any
authority or corporation established by it or a Government company,] [Inserted
by Act 29 of 1987, Section 4 (w.e.f. 8.9.1987). ] atomic power stations in the
manner determined by it in consultation with the Boards or Corporations
concerned, with whom it shall enter into agreement regarding the supply of
electricity so produced;(b)to fix rates for and regulate the supply of
electricity from atomic power stations [either by itself or through any
authority or corporation established by it or a Government company, in
consultation with ] [Substituted by Act 29 of 1987, Section 4, for " with the
concurrence of" (w.e.f. 8.9.1987). ]of the Central Electricity Authority;(c)to
enter into arrangements with the Electricity Board of the State in which an
atomic power station is situated, [either by itself or through any authority
or corporation established by it or a Government company] [Inserted by Act 29
of 1987, Section 4 (w.e.f. 8.9.1987). ] for the transmission of electricity to
any other State:Provided that in case there is a difference of opinion between
the Central Government [or such authority or corporation or Government
company, as the case may be,] [Inserted by Act 29 of 1987, Section 4 (w.e.f.
8.9.1987). ] and any State Electricity Board in regard to the construction of
necessary transmission lines, the matter shall be referred to the Central
Electricity Authority whose decision shall be binding on the parties
concerned.(2)No provision of the Indian [Electricity Act, 1910 (9 of 1910)]
[[*Repealed by the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003). Now see the Electricity
Act, 2003 (36 of 2003).]], or any rule made thereunder or of any instrument
having effect by virtue of such law or rule shall have any effect so far as it
is inconsistent with any of the provisions of this Act.(3)Save as otherwise
provided in this Act, the provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and
not in derogation of, the Indian [Electricity Act, 1910 (9 of 1910)]
[[*Repealed by the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003). Now see the Electricity
Act, 2003 (36 of 2003).]], and the [Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (54 of
1948)] [[*Repealed by the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003). Now see the
Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003).]].

### 23. Administration of Factories Act, 1948.-

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Factories Act, 1948 (65 of 1948),
the authority to administer the said Act, and to do all things for the
enforcement of its provisions, including the appointment of inspecting staff
and the making of rules thereunder, shall vest in the Central Government in
relation to any factory owned by the Central Government [or any authority or
corporation established by it or a Government company] and engaged in carrying
out the purposes of this Act.

### 24. Offences and penalties .-

(1)Whoever-(a)contravenes any order made under section 14 or any condition
subject to which a license is granted under that section; or(b)contravenes any
rule made under section 17 or any requirement, prohibition or restriction
imposed under any such rule; or(c)obstructs any person authorised by the
Central Government under sub-section (4) of section 17 in the exercise of
powers under that sub-section; or(d)contravenes sub-section (2) of section 18,
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five
years, or with fine, or with both.(2)Whoever-(a)fails to comply with any
notice served on him under section 5 or with any terms and conditions that may
be imposed on him under that section; or(b)fails to comply with any notice
served on him under section 7 or knowingly makes any untrue statement in any
return or statement made in pursuance of any such notice; or(c)obstructs any
person or authority in the exercise of powers under section 8 or 9;
or(d)contravenes any other provision of this Act or any order made thereunder,
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year,
or with fine, or with both.

### 25. Offences by companies .-

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to, any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation .-For the purposes of
this section,-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm and
other association of individuals; and(b)"director" in relation to a firm,
means a partner in the firm.

### 26. Cognizance of offences .-

(1)All offences under this Act shall be cognizable under the [Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)], but no action shall be taken in respect of any
person for any offence under this Act except on the basis of a written
complaint made-(a)in respect of contravention of section 8, 14 or 17 or any
rules or order made thereunder, by the person authorised to exercise powers of
entry and inspection;(b)in respect of any other contravention, by a person
duly authorised to make such complaints by the Central
Government.(2)Proceedings in respect of contravention of section 18 shall not
be instituted except with the consent of the Attorney General of India.

### 27. Delegation of powers .-

The Central Government may, by order, direct that any power conferred or any
duty imposed on it by this Act shall, in such circumstances and subject to
such conditions as may be specified in the direction, be exercised or
discharged also by-(a)such officer or authority subordinate to the Central
Government, or(b)such State Government or such officer or authority
subordinate to a State Government as may be specified in the direction.

### 28. Effect of other laws .-

The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any enactment other than this Act or any
other instrument having effect by virtue of any enactment other than this Act.

### 29. Protection of action taken in good faith .-

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Government or any person or authority in respect of anything done by it or him
in good faith in pursuance of this Act or of any rule or order made
thereunder.

### 30. Power to make rules .-

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out
the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing powers, such rules may provide for-(a)declaring
any information not so far published or otherwise made public as restricted
information and prescribing the measures to be taken to guard against
unauthorised dissemination or use thereof;(b)declaring any area or premises as
prohibited area and prescribing the measures to be taken to provide against
unauthorised entry into or departure from such prohibited area;(c)reporting of
information relating to the discovery of uranium, thorium and other prescribed
substances and for payment of rewards for such discoveries;(d)control over
mining or concentration of substances containing uranium;(e)regulating by
licensing and encouraging by award of concessions including rewards, floor
prices and guarantees, mining of and prospecting for other prescribed
substances;(f)compulsory acquisition of prescribed substances, minerals and
plants;(g)regulating the production, import, export, transfer, refining,
possession, ownership, sale, use or disposal of the prescribed substances and
any other articles that in the opinion of the Central Government may be used
for, or may result as a consequence of, the production, use or application of
atomic energy;(h)regulating the use of prescribed equipment;(i)regulating the
manufacture, custody, transport, transfer, sale, export, import, use or
disposal of any radioactive substance;(j)regulating the transport of such
prescribed substances as are declared dangerous to health under sub-section
(2) of section 17;(k)developing, controlling, supervising and licensing the
production, application and use of atomic energy;(l)fees for issue of licenses
under this Act;(m)the manner of serving notices under this Act;(n)generally
promoting co-operation among persons, institutions and countries in the
production, use, application of atomic energy and in research and
investigations in that field.(3)Rules made under this Act may provide that a
contravention of the rules shall, save as otherwise expressly provided in this
Act, be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees.(4)Every
rule made under this Act shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made,
before each House of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of
thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive
sessions, and if [before the expiry of the session immediately following the
session] or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be
made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be
of no effect, as the case may be; so however that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule.

### 31. Act binding on Government .-

The provisions of this Act shall be binding on Government.

### 32. Repeal of Act 29 of 1948.-[ Repealed by the Repealing and Amending
Act, 1974 (56 of 1974), section 2 and Schedule I (w.e.f.20-12-1974).]

