## Union of India - Act

## The Anti-Hijacking Act, 1982

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Anti-Hijacking Act, 1982

## Act 65 of 1982

  * Published on 1 January 1982 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1982 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1982.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Anti-Hijacking Act, 1982(65 of 1982)

### 098.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-In recent years, there has been an increase
in offences by way of unlawful seizure of aircraft or hijacking. A Convention
for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft was drawn up at the
diplomatic conference held at The Hague in December, 1970 for adoption by
States, by the representatives of 77 Governments. For dealing more effectively
with offences involving unlawful seizure of aircraft or hijacking, it is
proposed that India should ratify this Convention. The ratification of the
Convention involves obligation for making necessary legal provisions for
giving effect thereto.2\. The salient features of the Convention are:-(a)
Nature of acts to which the Convention applies.-The Hague Convention has
created a new international offence, the offence of unlawful seizure of
aircraft alias, hijacking. The Convention covers offences committed by any
person on board an aircraft in flight.A person who unlawfully, by force or
threat thereof, or by any other form of intimidation, seizes or exercises
control of the aircraft, commits the offence of hijacking, whatever his
nationality and whatever the State in which the aircraft is registered and
whether the aircraft is in India or elsewhere.The Convention applies equally
to attempts made and to accomplices who are on board the aircraft.The
Convention calls for the offences to be made punishable by severe
penalties.(b) Aircraft to which the Convention does not apply.-The Convention
does not apply to military aircraft or to aircraft belonging to customs or
police service.(c) The Convention is applicable only to aircraft in flight
that is to say, from the moment when all its external doors are closed
following the embarkation until the moment when any such door is opened for
disembarkation, or "in the case of forced landing-until the competent
authorities take over the responsibility for the aircraft and for persons and
property on board". Any pre-flight or post-flight attempt at hijacking will
primarily be the concern of the territorial State and not within the scope of
the Convention.(d) The prime purpose of the Convention is to ensure the
punishment to hijacker so as to deter hijacking. To this end, the Convention
obliges every contracting State in whose territory an alleged hijacker is
found either to extradite him or to punish him.(e) Jurisdiction.-In respect to
offences and acts committed on board an aircraft, the Convention without
prejudice to the exercise of jurisdiction by the State over whose air-space
the offence was committed confers jurisdiction on the State of registration of
the aircraft, the State of residence of the lessee of a leased aircraft who
has its principal place of business or when the lessee has no such place of
business, his permanent residence in that State and any State where the
offender is found. Thus a limited principle of universality has been
introduced in the convention so that a hijacker should not be able to find a
haven of immunity at least among the contracting States.3\. Though The Hague
Convention does not apply to hijacking of an aircraft when both the place of
take off and the place of landing are situated in the country in which the
aircraft is registered, it is proposed to avail of the present opportunity to
covet such cases also in respect of aircraft registered in India.Amendment Act
39 of 1994-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Anti-Hijacking Act, 1982 was
enacted to deal with offences against civil aviation and to give effect to
international conventions in this matter to which India is a party. A review
of the existing law was undertaken by a Task Force appointed by the Ministry
of Civil Aviation an Tourism to make it more effective. The Task Force was of
the view that certain changes are required to ensure prompt and professionally
oriented investigation, quick trial and early pronouncement of verdict. It is,
therefore, proposed to make the necessary changes in the Anti-Hijacking Act,
1982.2\. The salient features of the Bill are:-(a) incorporation of enabling
provisions empowering Central Government to authorise any of its officers to
investigate, etc., cases of hijacking;(b) to provide for the specification by
notification of Designated Courts by State Governments for speedy trial and
disposal of cases;(c) to shift the burden of proof on the accused in specified
circumstances;(d) to make the grant of bail more stringent.An Act to give
effect to the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft
and for matters connected therewith.Whereas a Convention for the Suppression
of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft was, on the 16th day of December, 1970, signed
at The Hague;And whereas it is expedient that India should accede to the said
Convention and make provisions for giving effect thereto and for matters
connected therewith;Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-third Year of
the Republic of India as follows:

Enforced from 15.11.1982.  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent, application and commencement

(1)This Act may be called The Anti-Hijacking Act , 1982.(2)It extends to the
whole of India and, save as otherwise provided in this Act, it applies also to
any offence thereunder committed outside India by any person.(3)It shall come
into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions

.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)aircraft means any
aircraft, whether or not registered in India, other than a military aircraft
or an aircraft used in customs or police service;(b)aircraft registered in
India means an aircraft which is for the time being registered in
India;(c)Convention country means a country in which The Hague Convention is
for the time being in force;(d)Hague Convention means the Convention for the
Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft signed at The Hague on the 16th
day of December, 1970;(e)military aircraft means an aircraft of the naval,
military, air force or any other armed forces of any country and includes
every aircraft commanded for the time being by a person in any such force
detailed for the purpose.

## Chapter II  
Hijacking And Connected Offences

### 3. Hijacking

(1)Whoever on board an aircraft in flight, unlawfully, by force or threat of
force or by any other form of intimidation, seizes or exercises control of
that aircraft, commits the offence of hijacking of such aircraft.(2)Whoever
attempts to commit any of the acts referred to in sub-section (1) in relation
to any aircraft, or abets the commission of any such act, shall also be deemed
to have committed the offence of hijacking of such aircraft.(3)For the
purposes of this section, an aircraft shall be deemed to be in flight at any
time from the moment when all its external doors are closed following
embarkation until the moment when any such door is opened for disembarkation,
and in the case of a forced landing, the flight shall be deemed to continue
until the competent authorities of the country in which such forced landing
takes place take over the responsibility for the aircraft and for persons and
property on board.

### 4. Punishment for hijacking

.Whoever commits the offence of hijacking shall be punished with imprisonment
for life and shall also be liable to fine.

### 5. Punishment for acts of violence connected with hijacking

.Whoever, being a person committing the offence of hijacking of an aircraft
commits, in connection with such offence, any act of violence against any
passenger or member of the crew of such aircraft, shall be punished with the
same punishment with which he would have been punishable under any law for the
time being in force in India if such act had been committed in India.[5-A.
Conferment of powers of investigation, etc [Inserted by Act 39 of 1994,
Section 2 (w.e.f. 1.10.1996.)](1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), for the purposes of this Act,
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, confer on
any officer of the Central Government, powers of arrest, investigation and
prosecution exercisable by a police officer under the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).(2)All officers of police and all officers of
Government are hereby required and empowered to assist the officer of the
Central Government referred to in sub-section (1), in the execution of the
provisions of this Act. ]

### 6. Jurisdiction

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), where an offence under
section 4 or section 5 is committed outside India, the person committing such
offence may be dealt with in respect thereof as if such offence had been
committed at any place within India at which he may be found.(2)No Court shall
take cognizance of an offence punishable under section 4 or section 5 which is
committed outside India unless(a)such offence is committed on board an
aircraft registered in India;(b)such offence is committed on board an aircraft
which is for the time being leased without crew to a lessee who has his
principal place of business or where he has no such place of business, his
permanent residence in India; or(c)the alleged offender is a citizen of India
or is on board the aircraft in relation to which such offence is committed
when it lands in India or is found in India.[6-A. Designated Courts [Inserted
by Act 39 of 1994, Section 3 (w.e.f. 1.10.1996.)](1)For the purpose of
providing for speedy trial, the State Government shall, with the concurrence
of the Chief Justice of the High Court, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify a Court of Session to be a Designated Court for such area or
areas as may be specified in the notification.(2)Notwithstanding anything
contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), a Designated
Court shall, as far as practicable, hold the trial on a day-to-day basis.[6-B.
Offences triable by Designated Court [Inserted by Act 39 of 1994, Section 3
(w.e.f. 1.10.1996.)](1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974),(a)all offences under this Act shall be
triable only by the Designated Court specified under sub-section (1) of
section 6-A;(b)where a person accused of or suspected of the commission of an
offence under this Act is forwarded to a Magistrate under sub-section (2) or
sub-section (2-A) of section 167 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974), such Magistrate may authorise the detention of such person in such
custody as he thinks fit for a period not exceeding fifteen days in the whole
where such Magistrate is a Judicial Magistrate and seven days in the whole
where such Magistrate is an Executive Magistrate:Provided that where such
Magistrate considers,(i)when such person is forwarded to him as aforesaid;
or(ii)upon or at any time before the expiry of the period of detention
authorised by him, hat the detention of such person is unnecessary, he shall
order such person to be forwarded to the Designated Court having
jurisdiction;(c)the Designated Court may exercise, in relation to the person
forwarded to it under clause (b), the same power which a Magistrate having
jurisdiction to try a case may exercise under section 167 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), in relation to an accused person in such
case who has been forwarded to him under that section;(d)A Designated Court
may, upon a perusal of a complaint made by an officer of the Central
Government or the State Government, as the case may be, authorised in this
behalf, take cognizance of that offence without the accused being committed to
it for trial.(2)When trying an offence under this Act, a Designated Court may
also try an offence other than an offence under this Act, with which the
accused may, under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), be
charged at the same trial.

### 6\.

-C. Application of Code to proceedings before a Designated Court [Inserted by Act 39 of 1994, Section 3 (w.e.f. 1.10.1996.)].Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) shall apply to the proceedings before a Designated Court and the person conducting a prosecution before a Designated Court shall be deemed to be a Public Prosecutor. ]

## Chapter III  
Miscellaneous

### 7. Provisions as to extradition

(1)The offences under section 4 and section 5 shall be deemed to have been
included as extraditable offences and provided for in all the extradition
treaties made by India with Convention countries and which extend to, and are
binding on, India on the date of commencement of this Act.(2)For the purposes
of the application of the Extradition Act, 1962 (34 of 1962) to offences under
this Act, any aircraft registered in a Convention country shall, at any time
while that aircraft is in flight, be deemed to be within the jurisdiction of
that country, whether or not it is for the time being also within the
jurisdiction of any other country.[7-A. Provision as to bail [Inserted by Act
39 of 1994, Section 4 (w.e.f. 1.10.1996.)](1)Notwithstanding anything in the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), no person accused of an offence
punishable under this Act shall, if in custody, be released on bail or on his
own bond unless(a)the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity to
oppose the application for such release; and(b)where the Public Prosecutor
opposes the application, the Court is satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence and that he is not
likely to commit any offence while on bail.(2)The limitations on granting of
bail specified in sub-section (1) are in addition to the limitations under the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) or any other law for the time
being in force on granting of bail.(3)Nothing contained in this section shall
be deemed to affect the special powers of the High Court regarding bail under
section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974). ]

### 8. Contracting parties to Convention

.The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, certify
as to who are the contracting parties to The Hague Convention and to what
extent they have availed themselves of the provisions of the Convention, and
any such notification shall be conclusive evidence of the matters certified
therein.

### 9. Power to treat certain aircraft to be registered in Convention
countries

.If the Central Government is satisfied that the requirements of article 5 of
The Hague Convention have been satisfied in relation to any aircraft, it may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that such aircraft shall, for
the purposes of this Act, be treated as registered in such Convention country
as may be specified in the notification.

### 10. Previous sanction necessary for prosecution

.No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall be instituted except with
the previous sanction of the Central Government.[10-A. Presumptions as to
offences under sections 4 and 5 [Inserted by Act 39 of 1994, Section 5 (w.e.f.
1.10.1996.)].In a prosecution for an offence under section 4 or section 5 if
it is proved(a)that the arms, ammunition or explosives were recovered from the
possession of the accused and there is reason to believe that such arms,
ammunition or explosives of similar nature were used in the commission of such
offence; or(b)that there is evidence of use of force, treat of force or any
other form of intimidation caused to the crew or passengers in connection with
the commission of such offence, the Designated Court shall presume, unless the
contrary is proved, that the accused had committed such offence.

### 11. Protection of action taken in good faith

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance
of the provisions of this Act.(2)No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie
against the Central Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance
of the provisions of this Act.

