## Union of India - Act

## The Asian Development Bank Act, 1966

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Asian Development Bank Act, 1966

## Act 18 of 1966

  * Published on 29 May 1966 
  * Commenced on 29 May 1966 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 May 1966.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Asian Development Bank Act, 1966(18 OF 1966)

### 284.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-In pursuance of an International Agreement
to which India will be a signatory, a new financial institution called Asian
Development Bank is being established for accelerating the economic
development of Asia and the Far East.

## Chapter 8  
of the Articles of Agreement provides for the granting to the Bank and its
officers and employees certain status, immunities, exemptions and privileges
in the territory of each member country. Article 57 of the Agreement
stipulates that each member country, in accordance with its judicial system,
shall promptly take such action as necessary to make effective in its own
territory, the provisions set forth in Chapter VIII of the Agreement. By this
Bill, it is proposed to enact the necessary legislation to give effect to the
provisions of the said Chapter VIII of the Articles of Agreement. Provision
has also been made in the Bill empowering the Central Government to make
payments to the Bank towards the subscription fees and other charges and for
matters connected therewith.

[29th May, 1966]An Act to implement the international agreement for the
establishment and operation of the Asian Development Bank and for matters
connected therewith.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Seventeenth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

Brought into force on 19.12.1966 vide S.O. 3803, dated 17.12.1966, published
in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 3416.  
---  
  
### 1. Short title, extent and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The
Asian Development Bank Act, 1966.

(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date
as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint.

### 2. Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"Agreement" means the Agreement for the establishment and operation of the
international body known as the Asian Development Bank;(b)"Bank" means the
Asian Development Bank established under the Agreement.

### 3. Payments to bank .-(1) There shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund
of India, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in this behalf,
all such sums as may, from time to time, be required for the purpose of
paying,-

(a)the subscriptions payable by the Central Government to the Bank under
paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Article 5 of the Agreement;(b)any commission, fees or
other charges payable by the Central Government to the Bank under Article 16
of the Agreement;(c)any sums payable by the Central Government to the Bank
under paragraph 1 of Article 25 of the Agreement.(2)The Central Government
may, if it thinks fit so to do, create and issue to the Bank, in such form as
it thinks fit, any such non-interest bearing and non-negotiable notes or other
obligations as are provided for by paragraph 3 of Article 6 of the Agreement.

### 4. Reserve Bank to be depository for Bank .-The Reserve Bank of India
shall be the depository of the Indian currency holdings of the Bank.

### 5. Conferment of status and certain immunities, exemptions and privileges
on bank and conferment of certain immunities, exemptions and privileges on its
officers and employees .-(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in any other law, the provisions of the Agreement set out in the
Schedule shall have the force of law in India:

Provided that nothing in Article 56 of the agreement shall be construed
as-(a)entitling the Bank to import into India goods free of any duty of
customs without any restriction on their subsequent sale therein;
or(b)conferring on the Bank any exemption from duties or taxes which form part
of the price of goods sold; or(c)conferring on the Bank any exemption from
duties or taxes which are in fact no more than charges for services
rendered.(2)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, amend the Schedule in conformity with any amendments, duly made and
adopted, of the provisions of the Agreement set out therein.

### 6. Power to make rules .-The Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

### 7. Notifications issued under section 5 and rules made under section 6 to
be laid before Parliament .-Every notification issued under sub-section (2) of
section 5 and every rule made under section 6 shall be laid as soon as may be
after it is issued or made before each House of Parliament while it is in
session for a total period of thirty days, which may be comprised in one
session [or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid] both Houses agree in making any modification in the notification
or, as the case may be, in the rule, or both Houses agree that the
notification or rule should not be issued or made, the notification or rule
shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect as
the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
notification or rule.

THE SCHEDULESection 9PROVISIONS OF THE AGREEMENT HAVING THE FORCE OF LAW

## Chapter VIII  
STATUS, IMMUNITIES, EXEMPTIONS AND PRIVILEGES

ARTICLE 48PURPOSE OF CHAPTERTo enable the Bank effectively to fulfil its
purpose and carry out the functions entrusted to it, the status, immunities,
exemptions and privileges set forth in this Chapter shall be accorded to the
Bank in the territory of each member.ARTICLE 49LEGAL STATUSThe Bank shall
possess full juridical personality and, in particular, full capacity:(i)to
contract;(ii)to acquire, and dispose of, immovable and movable property;
and(iii)to institute legal proceedings.ARTICLE 50IMMUNITY FROM JUDICIAL
PROCEEDINGS

### 1\. The Bank shall enjoy immunity from every form of legal process, except
in cases arising out of or in connection with the exercise of its powers to
borrow money, to guarantee obligations, or to buy and sell or underwrite the
sale of securities, in which cases actions may be brought against the Bank in
a court of competent jurisdiction in the territory of a country in which the
Bank has its principal or a branch office, or has appointed an agent for the
purpose of accepting service or notice of process, or has issued or guaranteed
securities.

### 2\. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, no
action shall be brought against the Bank by any member, or by any agency or
instrumentality of a member, or by any entity or person directly or indirectly
acting for or deriving claims from a member or from any agency or
instrumentality of a member. Members shall have recourse to such special
procedures for the settlement of controversies between the Bank and its
members as may be prescribed in this Agreement, in the by-laws and regulations
of the Bank, or in contracts entered into with the Bank.

### 3\. Property and assets of the Bank shall, wheresoever located and by
whomsoever held, be immune from all forms of seizure, attachment or execution
before the delivery of final judgment against the Bank.

ARTICLE 51IMMUNITY OF ASSETSProperty and assets of the Bank, wheresoever
located and by whomsoever held, shall be immune from search, requisition,
confiscation, expropriation or any other form of taking or foreclosure by
executive or legislative action.ARTICLE 52IMMUNITY OF ARCHIVESThe archives of
the Bank and, in general, all documents belonging to it, or held by it, shall
be inviolable, wherever located.ARTICLE 53FREEDOM OF ASSETS FROM
RESTRICTIONSTo the extent necessary to carry out the purpose and functions of
the Bank effectively, and subject to the provisions of this Agreement, all
property and assets of the Bank shall be free from restrictions, regulations,
controls and moratoria of any nature.ARTICLE 54PRIVILEGE FOR
COMMUNICATIONSOfficial communications of the Bank shall be accorded by each
member treatment not less favourable than that it accords to the official
communications of any other member.ARTICLE 55IMMUNITIES AND PRIVILEGES OF BANK
PERSONNELAll Governors, Directors, alternates, officers and employees of the
Bank, including experts performing missions for the Bank :(i)shall be immune
from legal process with respect to acts performed by them in their official
capacity, except when the Bank waives the immunity;(ii)where they are not
local citizens or nationals, shall be accorded the same immunities from
immigration restrictions, alien registration requirements and national service
obligations, and the same facilities as regards exchange regulations, as are
accorded by members to the representatives, officials and employees of
comparable rank of other members; and(iii)shall be granted the same treatment
in respect of travelling facilities as is accorded by members to
representatives, officials and employees of comparable rank of other
members.ARTICLE 56EXEMPTION FROM TAXATION

### 1\. The Bank, its assets, property, income and its operations and
transactions, shall be exempt from all taxation and from all customs duties.
The Bank shall also be exempt from any obligation for the payment, withholding
or collection of any tax or duty.

### 2\. No tax shall be levied on or in respect of salaries and emoluments
paid by the Bank to Directors, alternates, officers or employees of the Bank,
including experts performing missions for the Bank, except where a member
deposits with its instrument of ratification or acceptance a declaration that
such member retains for itself and its political subdivisions the right to tax
salaries and emoluments paid by the Bank to citizens or nationals of such
member.

### 3\. No tax of any kind shall be levied on any obligation or security
issued by the Bank, including any dividend or interest thereon, by whomsoever
held:

(i)which discriminates against such obligation or security solely because it
is issued by the Bank; or(ii)if the sole jurisdictional basis for such
taxation is the place or currency in which it is issued, made payable or paid,
or the location of any office or place of business maintained by the Bank.

### 4\. No tax of any kind shall be levied on any obligation or security
guaranteed by the Bank, including any dividend or interest thereon, by
whomsoever held:

(i)which discriminates against such obligation or security solely because it
is guaranteed by the Bank; or(ii)if the sole jurisdictional basis for such
taxation is the location of any office or place of business maintained by the
Bank.ARTICLE 58WAIVER OF IMMUNITIES, EXEMPTIONS AND PRIVILEGESThe Bank at its
discretion may waive any of the privileges, immunities and exemptions
conferred under this Chapter in any case or instance, in such manner and upon
such conditions as it may determine to be appropriate in the best interests of
the Bank.

