## Union of India - Act

## The Authoritative Texts (Central Laws) Act, 1973

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Authoritative Texts (Central Laws) Act, 1973

## Act 50 of 1973

  * Published on 5 December 1973 
  * Commenced on 5 December 1973 
  * [This is the version of this document from 5 December 1973.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Authoritative Texts (Central Laws) Act, 1973ACT NO. 50 OF 1973

### 1270.

Authorised translations of the various Central laws in State official
languages would be extremely useful to the general public and also for
official purposes of the States, which have adopted languages other than
Hindi, and English as official languages of their States. Therefore, when the
official Language (Legislative) Commission was first constituted in 1961, it
was also entrusted with the function of arranging for translation of Central
Acts, Ordinances and Regulations into various official languages of the
States. According to the existing arrangements, the translations in a State
official language is prepared by or under the auspices of the Government of
the State concerned and finalised by the official Language (Legislative)
Commission in consultation with the translations can have no legal status and
their utility would be limited.It is, therefore, necessary to make provision
for the publication of authorised translations of Central Acts, Ordinances as
also of orders, rules, regulations and bye-laws issued under the Constitution
or under any Central Act, in State official languages. Hence this Bill.-
S.O.R. - Gazette of India, 22-11-1972, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., P. 1153.Act 18
of 1988 Under Section 2 of the Authorised Translations (Central Laws) Act,
1973, a translation in any language, other than Hindi, specified in the Eighth
Schedule to the Constitution and published under the authority of the
President of any Central Act or of any Ordianance promulgated by the President
or of any order, rule, regulation or bye-law issued under the Constitution or
under any Central Act shall be deemed to be the authorised translation thereof
in such language.2\. Section 5(1) of the Official Languages Act, 1963 provides
for authoritative texts in Hindi of Central Acts, etc. At present, there is no
provision in the Authorised Translations (Central Laws) Act, 1973 for
providing authoritative texts of central Act, etc., in the languages, other
than Hindi, specified in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution. As such,
these cannot be quoted in Courts of law. There has also been a general demand
for authorities taxts of Central Acts, etc., in the languages, other than
Hindi, specified in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution. The proposed
amendment is being brought forward to fulfil this demand. This will enable the
authoritative texts of Central Acts, etc., in the languages, other than Hindi,
specified in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution to be quoted in the
Courts of law and facilitate the use of these languages in Courts of law
located in States where such languages are the official languages. - S.O.R. -
Gazette of India, 31-8-1987, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., P. 58 (No. 45).[5th
December, 1973]An Act to provide for [authoritative texts] [ Substituted by
Act 18 of 1988, Section 2.] of Central laws in certain languages.BE it enacted
by Parliament in the Twenty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:--

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Authoritative Texts] [Substituted by Section 3,
Act 18 of 1988 ] (Central Laws) Act, 1973.(2)It shall come into force on such
date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint.

1st July 1981, vide Notification No. S. O. 482 (E), dt. 15th June, 1981.  
---  
  
### 2. Authoritative texts of Central laws in certain languages.

A translation in any language (other than Hindi) specified in the Eighth
Schedule to the Constitution, published under the authority of the President
in the Official Gazette,--(a)of any Central Act or of any Ordinance
promulgated by the President, or(b)of any order, rule, regulation or bye-law
issued under the Constitution or under any Central Act, shall be deemed to be
the [authoritative text] [ Substituted by Act 18 of 1988, Section 4.] thereof
in such language.

### 3. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.(2)Every rule made under this
section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House
of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

