## Union of India - Act

## The Auroville Foundation Act, 1988

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Auroville Foundation Act, 1988

## Act 54 of 1988

  * Published on 29 September 1988 
  * Commenced on 29 September 1988 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 September 1988.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Auroville Foundation Act, 1988No. 54 OF 1988

### 1413.

The cultural township of Auroville, situated about 10 kms. north of
Pondicherry, was founded on 28th February, 1968, on the basis of a charter
announced by the Mother where people of different countries are expected to
live together in harmony in one community and are expected to engaged
themselves in cultural, educational, scientific and other pursuits aiming at
human unity.2\. The formation and growth of Auroville was welcomed by the
Government of India as a concrete effort of creating international
understanding. Resolutions were also sponsored by the Government of India in
four general conferences of UNESCO, commending Auroville project to those
interested in UNESCO's ideals. However, soon after the Mother left her body in
1973, unhappy developments overtook this project and the Central Government
were forced to take over temporarily the management of Auroville from Sri
Aurobindo Society and other under the Auroville (Emergency Provisions) Act,
1980 (59 of 1980). Initially, the Act was valid for 5 years but it had to be
extended further in 1985 and 1987 as the efforts made to arrive at a solution,
in consultation witht the residents of Auroville and Sri Aurobindo Society, to
provide for the permanent management of Auroville, had not succeeded. Efforts
were, howver, continued and a broad consensus has now emerged that it would be
in the interest of further development of Auroville to establish a body
corporate called the Auroville Foundation.3\. The properties relatable to
Auroville which are currently owned by Sri Aurobindo Soceity and other trusts
and bodies founded by the Residents of Aurobindo will vest in the view body
corporate. The management of all properties and assets relatable to Auroville
is presently with the Administrative of Auroville appointed under the
Auroville (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1980. These assets were created by Sri
Aurobindo Society and other bodies substantially with the aid of donations
received from different organizations and individuals in and outside India
(including the Central and State Governments) for purposes and activities of
Auroville which under the proposed legislation will become the responsibility
of the Foundation. The Government, therefore, proposes to acquire these assets
without payment of any compensation and vest these in the proposed Auroville
Foundation whose primary objective shall be to encourage and promote ideals
and programmes envisaged in the charter of Auroville proclaimed by the Mother
which are cherished in equal degree by the Sri Aurobindo Society and the
Residence of Auroville.4\. As in the existing Auroville Act, there shall be an
International Advisory Council to advise the Central Government and the
Governing Board of the Foundation on matters concerning development and
management of Auroville. The day to day activities will be looked after the
Residents through appropriate autonomous arrangements.5\. The management of
the Foundation will vest in a Governing Board, as constituted by the
Government from time to time. In order to avoid old controversies getting
perpetuated in the Governing Board, the Government has decided in principle
that none of the existing societies or trusts will have a right or
representation on the Governing Board. All nominations to this body will,
therefore, be on individual basis.6\. The Bill incorporates the provisions
mentioned above. - Gazette of India, 31-8-1988, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p. 23
(No. 46).[ 29th September, 1988.]An Act to provide for the acquisition and
transfer of the undertakings of Auroville and to vest such undertakings in a
foundation established for the purpose with a view to making long-term
arrangements for the better management and further development of Auroville in
accordance with its original charter and for matters connected therewith or
incidental thereto.WHEREAS Auroville was founded by the 'Mother' on the 28th
day of February, 198 as an international cultural township;AND WHEREAS in view
of the serious difficulties which has arisen with regard to the management of
Auroville, the management thereof had been vested in the Central Government
for a limited period by the Auroville (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1980 (59 of
1980);AND WHEREAS under the management of the Central Government and under the
overall guidance of the International Advisory Council set up under the
aforesaid Act, Auroville had been able to develop during the last eight years
along several important lines and the residents of Auroville have also carried
on activities for the development of Auroville which need further
encouragement and consolidation;AND WHEREAS Auroville was developed as a
cultural township with the aid of funds received from different organisations
in and outside India as also from substantial grants received from the Central
and State Governments, and the United Nations Educational Scientific and
Cultural Organisation also had, from time to time, reflected in its
resolutions that the project on Auroville is contributing to international
undertakings and promotion of peace;AND WHEREAS for the purpose of
encouraging, continuing and consolidating the aforesaid activities of
Auroville, it is necessary in the public interest to acquire the undertakings
of Auroville and to vest them in a body corporate established for the
purposes;BE it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-ninth Year of the Republic
of India as follows: --

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title.

\- This Act may be called the Auroville Foundation Act, 1988,

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, --(a)"appointed day"
means the date of commencement of this Act;(b)"Auroville" means so much of the
undertakings as form part of, or are relatable to, the cultural township which
is known as Auroville and the charter of which was proclaimed by the 'Mother'
on the 28th day of February, 1988;(c)"Council" means the Auroville
International Advisory Council constituted under sub-section (1) of section
21;(d)"Custodian" means the person who is appointed as the Custodian under
sub-section (2) of section 7 in respect of the undertaking;(e)"Foundation"
means the Auroville Foundation established under sub-section (1) of section
10;(f)"governing Board" means the Governing Board of the Foundation
constituted under sub-section (1) of section 11;(g)"notification" means a
notification published in the Official Gazette;(h)"prescribed" means
prescribed by rules made under this Act;(i)"Residents' Assembly" means the
Residents' Assembly of the Foundation;(j)"Society" means Sri Aurobindo
Society, being a Society as defined in the West Bengal Societies Registration
Act, 1961 (West Bengal Act XXVI of 1961.), and having is registered office at
Calcutta in the State of West Bengal;(k)"specified date" means such date as
the Central Government may, for the purposes of section 9, by notification,
specify;(l)"trust' or "body" means a trust or body specified in the
Schedule.(m)"undertakings" means the undertakings of the Society, trust or
body which had vested in the Central Government under section 3.

## Chapter II  
Acquisition And Transfer Of Undertakings Of Auroville

### 3. Transfer to and vesting in, the Central Government certain undertakings
of the Society, trust and bodies.

\- On the appointed day, so much of the undertakings of the Society, trust and
body as form part of, or are relatable to Auroville, and the right, title and
interest of the Society, trust and body, in relation to such undertakings,
shall, by virtue of this Act, stand transferred to, and vest in, the Central
Government.

### 4. General effect of vesting.

(1)The undertakings vested under section 3 shall be deemed to include all the
assets, rights, leaseholds, powers, authorities and privileges, and all
property (movable and immovable), including lands, buildings, works,
workshops, projects, stores, instruments, machinery, automobiles and other
vehicles, cash balances, funds, including reserve funds, investments and book
debts of the Society, trust or body as form part of, or are relatable to,
Auroville and all other rights and interests arising out of such properties as
were immediately before the appointed day in the ownership, possession, power
or control of the Society, trust or body, whether within or without India, and
all books of account, registers, maps, plans and all other documents of
whatever nature relating thereto.(2)All properties and assets as aforesaid
which have vested in the Central Government under section 3 shall, by force of
such vesting, be freed and discharged from any trust, obligation, mortgage,
charge, lien and all other incumbrances affecting them or of any attachment
injunction, decree or order of any court or other authority restricting the
use of such properties or assets in any manner or appointing any receiver in
respect of the whole or any part of such properties or assets shall be deemed
to have been withdrawn.(3)Any licence or other instrument granted to the
Society, trust or body in relation to any undertaking which has vested in the
Central Government under section 3 at any time before the appointed day and in
force immediately before the appointed day, shall continue to be in force on
and after such day in accordance with its tenor in relation to and for the
purposes of such undertaking or where the undertaking is directed under
section 6 to vest in the Foundation, the Foundation shall be deemed to be
substituted in such licence or other instrument as if such licence or other
instrument had been granted to the Foundation and the Foundation shall hold it
for the remainder of the period for which the Society, trust or body would
have held it under the terms thereof.(4)If, on the appointed day, any suit,
appeal or other proceeding, of whatever nature, in relation to any property or
asset which has vested in the Central Government under section 3, instituted
or preferred by or against the Society, trust or body is pending, the same
shall not abate, be discontinued or be, in any way, prejudicially affected by
reason of the transfer of the undertakings of the Society, trust or body or of
anything contained in this Act, but the suit, appeal or other proceeding may
be continued, prosecuted or enforced by or against the Central Government, or
where the undertakings of the Society, trust or body are directed under
section 6 to vest in the Foundation, by or against the Foundation.

### 5. Central Government or Foundation to be liable for certain prior
liabilities.

\- Every liability in relation to any undertaking in respect of any period
prior to the appointed day shall be enforceable against the Central Government
and not against the Society, trust or body, or where the said undertakings are
directed, under section 6, to vest in the Foundation, against the Foundation.

### 6. Power of Central Government to direct vesting of the undertakings in
the Foundation.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3 and 4, the Central
Government shall, as soon as may be after the appointed day, direct, by
notification, that the undertakings and the right, title and interest of the
Society, trust or body in relation to such undertakings which had vested in
the Central Government under section 3, shall, instead of continuing to vest
in the Central Government, vest in the Foundation either on the date of
publication of the notification or on such earlier or later date as may be
specified in the notification.(2)Where the right, title and interest of the
Society, trust or body in relation to the undertakings vest, under sub-section
(1), in the Foundation, the Foundation shall, on and from the date of such
vesting, be deemed to have become the owner in relation to such undertakings
and the rights and liabilities of the Central Government in relation to such
undertakings shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have
become, the rights and liabilities, respectively, of the Foundation.

### 7. Management, etc., of the undertakings.

(1)The general superintendence, direction, control and management of the
affairs of the undertakings, the right, title and interest in relation to
which have vested in the Central Government under section 3, shall, --(a)where
a direction has been made by the Central Government under sub-section (1) of
section 6, vest in the Foundation; or(b)where no such direction has been made
by the Central Government, vest in a Custodian appointed day by the Central
Government under sub-section (2), and, thereupon, the Foundation, or the
Custodian so appointed, as the case may be, shall be entitled to exercise all
such powers and do all such things as the Society, trust or body, as the case
may be, is authorised to exercise and do in relation to its
undertakings.(2)The Central Government may appoint any person as the Custodian
of the undertakings in relation to which no direction has been made by it
under sub-section (1) of section 6.(3)The Custodian so appointed shall receive
such remuneration as the Central Government may fix and shall hold office
during the pleasure of the Central Government.

### 8. Duties of person in charge of management by undertakings to deliver all
assets.

(1)On the vesting of the management of the undertakings in the Foundation or
on the appointment of a Custodian under section 7, all persons in charge of
the management of the undertakings immediately before such vesting or
appointment shall be bound to deliver to the Foundation or Custodian, as the
case may be, all assets, books of account, registers and other documents in
their custody relating to the undertakings.(2)The Central Government may issue
such directions as it may deem desirable in the circumstances of the case to
the Custodian as to the powers and duties of the Custodian and such Custodian
may, also, if it is considered necessary so to do, apply to the Central
Government at any time for instructions as to the manner in which the
management of the undertakings shall be conducted or in relation to any other
matter arising in the course of such management.(3)Any person, who on the
appointed day, has in his possession or under his control, any books, document
or other papers relating to the undertakings shall be liable to account for
the said books, documents or other papers to the Central Government or the
Foundation, as the case may be, and shall deliver them up to the Central
Government or the Foundation or to such person or body of persons as the
Central Government or the Foundation may specify in this behalf.(4)The Central
Government or the Foundation may take or cause to be taken, all necessary
steps for securing possession of all undertakings which have vested in the
Central Government or the Foundation under this Act.(5)the society, trust or
body shall, within such period as the central government may allow in this
behalf, furnish to that government a complete inventory of all its properties
and assets, as on the appointed day pertaining to the undertakings and, for
this purpose, the central government or the foundation shall afford to the
society, trust or body all reasonable facilities.

### 9. Certain powers of the Central Government or the Foundation.

\- The Central Government or the Foundation shall be entitled to receive up to
the specified date, to the exclusion of all other persons, any money due to
the Society, trust or body in relation to its undertakings which have vested
in the Central Government or the Foundation, as the case may be, and realised
after the appointed day, notwithstanding that the realisation pertains to a
period prior to the appointed day.

## Chapter III  
The Auroville Foundation

### 10. Establishment and incorporation of the Foundation.

(1)With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification,
appoint in this behalf, there shall be established for the purpose of this
Act, a Foundation, to be called the Auroville Foundation.(2)The Foundation
shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid, having perpetual succession
and a common seal with power to acquire, hold and dispose of property, both
movable and immovable, and to contract and shall by the said name sue and be
sued.(Establishment and in-corporation of the Foundation.)(3)The Foundation
shall consist of the following authorities, namely :--(a)the Governing
Board;(b)the Residents' Assembly;(c)the Auroville International Advisory
Council

### 11. Governing Board.

(1)The Governing Board shall consist of the following members, namely
:--(i)not more than seven members to be nominated by the Central Government
from amongst persons, who have--(a)rendered valuable service to
Auroville;(b)dedicated themselves to the ideals of life-long education,
synthesis of material and spiritual researches or human unity;(c)contributed
significantly in activities that are being persued or are envisaged to be
promoted in Auroville, including activities relating to environment,
afforestation, arts are crafts, industry, agriculture, humanities, sciences
and integral yoga;(ii)two representatives of the Central Government to be
nominated by it.(2)The Central Government shall nominate a Chairman of the
Governing Board from amongst the members nominated by it under clause (i) of
sub-section (1).(3)The general superintendence, direction and management of
the affairs of the Foundation shall vest in the Governing Board which may
exercise all the powers and discharge all the functions which may be exercised
or discharged by the Foundation.(4)The Governing Board may associate with
itself in such manner and for such purposes as may be prescribed, any persons
whose assistance or advice it may desire in complying with any of the
provisions of this Act and a person so associated shall have the right to take
part in the discussions of the Governing board relevant to the purposes for
which he has been associated, but shall not have the right to vote.(5)No act
or proceeding of the Governing Board or any committee appointed by it under
section 16 shall be invalidated merely by reason of,--(a)any vacancy in, or
any defect in the constitution of, the Governing Board or such committee;
or(b)any defect in the nomination of a person acting as a member of the
Governing Board or such committee; or(c)any irregularity in the procedure of
the Governing Board or such committee not affecting the merits of the case.

### 12. Term of office of members.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this section, the term of office of the
members of the Governing Board including the Chairman shall be four years from
the date of their nomination.(2)An outgoing member of the Governing Board
shall be eligible for re-nomination.(3)The term of office of a member
nominated to fill a casual vacancy in the Governing Board shall continue for
the remainder of the term of the member in whose place he is nominated.(4)A
member may resign his office by writing under his hand addressed to the
Central Government but he shall continue in office until, his resignation is
accepted by that Government.

### 13. Salary and allowances and officer conditions of service of Chairman.

\- The Chairman of the Governing Board shall be entitled to such salary and
allowances and such conditions of service in respect of leave, pension,
provident fund and other matters as may, from time to time, be fixed by the
Central Government.

### 14. Meetings of the Governing Board.

(1)The Governing board shall meet at least once a year at Auroville at such
time as may be fixed by the Chairman of the Governing Board.(2)All the
decisions at any meeting of the Governing Board shall be taken by a majority
of the members present and voting:Provided that in the case of equality of
votes, the Chairman of the Governing Board shall have a casting vote.

### 15. Secretary and other officers of the Foundation.

(1)The Central Government shall appoint a Secretary to the Foundation to
exercise such powers and perform such duties under the Chairman of the
Governing Board as may be prescribed or as may be delegated to him by the
Chairman.(2)The Secretary shall be entitled to such salary and allowances and
such conditions of service in respect of leave, pension, provident fund and
other matters as may, from time to time, be fixed by the Central
Government.(3)Subject to such control, restrictions and conditions as may be
prescribed, the Governing board may appoint such other officers and employees
as may be necessary for the efficient performance of its functions.(4)The
Chairman, Secretary and other officers and employees of the Foundation shall
not undertake any work unconnected with their duties under this Act except
with the permission of the Central Government.

### 16. Committees of the Governing Board.

(1)The Governing board may appoint such committees as may be necessary for the
efficient discharge of its duties and performance of its functions under this
Act.(2)The Governing Board shall have the power to co-opt as members of any
committee, appointed under sub-section (1), such number of persons who are not
members of the Governing Board as it may think fit, and the persons so co-
opted shall have the right to attend the meetings of the committee, and take
part in the proceedings of the committee, but shall not have the right to
vote.

### 17. Powers and functions of the Governing Board.

\- The powers and functions of the Governing Board shall be--(a)to promote the
ideals of Auroville and to co-ordinate activities and services of Auroville in
consultation with the Residents' Assembly for the purposes of cohesion and
integration of Auroville;(b)to review the basic policies and the programmes of
Auroville and give necessary directions for the future development of
Auroville;(c)to accord approval to the programmes of Auroville drawn up by the
Residents' Assembly ;(d)to monitor and review the activities of Auroville and
to secure proper management of the properties vested in the Foundation under
section 6 and other properties relatable to Auroville;(e)to prepare a master-
plan of Auroville in consultation with the Residents' Assembly and to ensure
development of Auroville as so planned;(f)to authorise and co-ordinate fund-
raising for Auroville and to secure proper arrangements for receipts and
disbursement of funds for Auroville.

### 18. Residents Assembly.

(1)The Residents' Assembly shall consist of all the residents of Auroville who
are for the time being entered in the register of residents maintained under
this section.(2)The Secretary to the Governing board shall maintain the
register of residents in such manner as may be prescribed and all the persons
who are residents of Auroville and who are of the age of eighteen years and
above are entitled to have their names entered in the register on an
application made to the Secretary in such form as may be prescribed.(3)All the
names of residents' which have been included in the register maintained by the
Administrator under section 5 of the Auroville (Emergency Provisions) Act,
1980 (59 of 1980.) immediately before the appointed day, shall be deemed to
have been included in the register maintained under this section.

### 19. Functions of Residents Assembly.

(1)The Resident's Assembly shall perform such functions as are required by
this Act shall advise the Governing Board in respect of all activities
relating to the residents of Auroville.(2)In particular , and without
prejudice to the foregoing powers, the Residents' Assembly may--(a)allow the
admission or cause the termination of persons in the register of residents in
accordance with the regulations made under section 32;(b)organise various
activities relating to Auroville;(c)formulate the master plant of Auroville
and make necessary recommendations for the recognition of organisations
engaged in activities relatable to Auroville for the approval of the Governing
Board;(d)recommend proposals for raising funds for Auroville for the approval
of the Governing Board.(3)For the purpose of carrying of its functions, the
Residents' Assembly may establish such committees as it may consider necessary
which shall represent it in relation to the functions to be performed by the
Governing Board.

### 20. Working Committee or Residents Assembly.

(1)There shall be a Working Committee of the Residents' Assembly which shall
assist the Residents' Assembly or, as the case may by, the Governing Board, in
discharging its duties under this Act.(2)The Working Committee shall consist
of not more than seven members to be chosen by the Residents' Assembly from
among themselves.(3)The manner of choosing the member of the Working Committee
and their term of office shall be such as may be decided by the Resident's
Assembly.(4)The Working Committee may, with the approval of the Governing
Board, create or constitute other organisations, trusts, societies or
association relatable or Auroville if the Working Committee is satisfied that
such organisations, trusts, societies or associations have--(a)their
headquarters at Auroville;(b)declared than in all matters relating to
Auroville they shall act in conformity with the decisions of the Governing
Board and that their main object is to promote the ideals laid down in the
Charter of Auroville proclaimed by the 'Mother' on the 28th day of February,
1968.

### 21. Advisory Council.

(1)The Auroville International Advisory Council shall consist of not more than
five members nominated by the Central Government.(2)The Central Government may
nominate the members of the Council from amongst persons who in its opinion
are devoted to the ideals of human unity, peace and progress.(3)The Council
may, on its own motion or on a reference made to it by the Governing Board,
advise the Governing Board on any matter relating to the development and
management of Auroville.(4)In tendering any advise to the Governing Board, the
Council shall endeavour to secure that--(a)the ideals for which Auroville has
been established are encouraged, and(b)the residents of Auroville are allowed
freedom to grow and develop activities and institutions for the fulfilment of
the aspirations and programmes envisaged in the said Charter of
Auroville.(5)There shall be a Chairman of the Council who shall be declared by
the members of the Council from among themselves.(6)The term of office of, the
method of filling casual vacancies among, and the allowances and other
remuneration, if any, payable to, the members of the Council, shall be such as
may be determined by the Central Government.(7)The Council shall have power to
regulate its own procedure.

### 22. Dissolution of the Foundation.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification and for reasons to be specified
therein, direct that the Foundation shall be dissolved from such date and for
such period as may be specified in the notification :Provided that before
issuing any such notification, the Central Government shall give a reasonable
opportunity to the Foundation to make representation against the proposed
dissolution and shall consider the representation, if any, of the
Foundation.(2)When the Foundation is dissolved under the provisions of sub-
section (1),--(a)all members of the Governing Board, notwithstanding that the
terms of their office had not expired, shall, from the date of dissolution,
vacate their offices as such members;(b)all powers and duties of the
Foundation shall, during the period of dissolution, be exercised and performed
by such person or persons as the Central Government may appoint in this
behalf;(c)all properties vested in the Foundation shall, during the period of
dissolution, vest in the Central Government; and(d)as soon as the period of
dissolution expires, the Foundation shall be reconstituted in accordance with
the provisions of this Act.

### 23. Grant by Central Government to the Foundation.

\- For the purpose of enabling the Foundation to discharge its functions under
this Act, the Central Government may, after due appropriation made by
Parliament by law in this behalf, pay to the Foundation, in each financial
year, such sums of money as that Government considers necessary by way of
grant, loan or otherwise.

## Chapter INVITATION  
Miscellaneous

### 24. Duty to furnish returns, etc.

(1)The Governing Board shall furnish to the Central Government at such time
and in such form and manner as may be prescribed, or as the Central Government
may direct, such returns and statements and such particulars as the Central
Government may, from time to time, require.(2)Without prejudice to the
provisions of sub-section (1), the Governing Board shall, as soon as possible
after the end of each financial year, submit to the Central Government a
report in such form and before such date as may be prescribed giving a true
and full account of its activities, policy and programmes during the previous
year.(3)A copy of the report received under sub-section (2) shall be laid, as
soon as may be, after it is received before each House of Parliament.

### 25. Borrowing powers of the Governing Board.

\- Subject to such rules as may be made in this behalf, the Governing Board
shall have the power to borrow on the security of the properties of Auroville
or any other asset for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

### 26. Accounts and audit.

(1)The Governing Board shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant
records and prepare an annual statement of accounts, including the income and
expenditure account and the balance-sheet in such form as may be prescribed by
the Central Government in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor
General of India.(2)The accounts of the Foundation shall be audited by the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India at such intervals as may be specified
by him and any expenses incurred in connection with such audit shall be
payable by the Foundation to the Comptroller and Auditor General.(3)The
Comptroller and Auditor General of India and any person appointed by him in
connection with the audit of the accounts of the Foundation shall have the
same rights and privileges and authority in connection with such audit as the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India has in connection with the audit of
Government accounts and, in particular , shall have the right to demand the
production of books, accounts, connected vouchers and other documents and
papers and to inspect the officer of the Foundation.(4)The accounts of the
Foundation, as certified by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India or
any other person appointed by him in this behalf together with the audit
report thereon shall be forwarded annually to the Central Government and that
Government shall cause the same to be laid before each House of Parliament.

### 27. Act to have overriding effect.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force
or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act,
or in any decree or order of any court, tribunal or other authority.

### 28. Contracts to cease to have effect unless ratified by the foundation.

\- Every contract entered into by the Society, trust or body in relation to
its undertakings for any service, sale or supply, and in force immediately
before the appointed day, shall, on and from the expiry of one hundred and
eight days from that day, cease to have effect unless such contract is, before
the expiry of the said period, ratified in writing by the Central Government
or, as the case may be, the Foundation, and in ratifying such contract, the
Central Government or, as the case may be, the Foundation may make such
alterations or modifications therein as it may think fit:Provided that the
Central Government or, as the case may be, the Foundation shall not omit to
ratify a contract and shall not make any alteration or modification
therein,--(a)unless it is satisfied that such contract is unduly onerous or
has been entered into in bad faith or is detrimental to the interests of the
Central Government or, as the case may be, the Foundation; and(b)except after
giving the parties to the contract a reasonable opportunity of being heard and
except after recording in writing its reasons for its refusal to ratify the
contract or for making any alteration or modification therein.

### 29. Penalties.

\- A person who,--(a)having in his possession, custody or control any property
forming part of the undertakings of the Society, trust or body, wrongfully
withholds such property from the Central Government or, as the case may be,
the Foundation or any person or body of persons authorised by that Government
or the Foundation; or(b)wrongfully obtains possession of, or retains, any
property forming part of any undertaking of the Society, trust or body or
wilfully withholds or fails to furnish to the Central Government or, as the
case may be, the Foundation or any person or body of persons authorised by
that Government or the Foundation, any documents relating to such undertakings
which may be in his possession, custody or control, or fails to deliver to the
Central Government or, as the case may be, the Foundation or any person or
body of persons authorised by that Government or the Foundation any assets,
books of account, registers or other documents in his possession, custody or
control relating to the undertakings of the Society, trust or body;
or(c)wrongfully removes or destroys any property forming part of the
undertakings of the Society, trust or body , shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may
extend to ten thousand rupees, or with both.

### 30. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Central Government or any officer of that Government or the Custodian or any
officer or other person authorised by that Government or the Foundation for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.

### 31. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may be, notification, make rules for carrying out
the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely :--(a)the manner in which and the purpose for
which any person may be associated with the Governing Board under sub-section
(4) of section 11;(b)the powers and duties which the Secretary to the
Governing Board may perform under sub-section (1) of section 15;(c)the
control, restrictions and conditions subject to which the Governing Board may
appoint officers and employees under sub-section (3) of section 15;(d)the
manner in which the register of residents may be maintained under sub-section
(2) of section 18;(e)the time within which and the form and manner in which
the Governing Board may furnish returns and reports under sub-section (1) of
section 24;(f)the form and the date before which the Governing Board shall
submit reports to the Central Government under sub-section (2) of section
24;(g)the rules subject to which the Governing Board shall have the power to
borrow under section 25;(h)any other matter which is to be or may be
prescribed.

### 32. Power to make regulations.

(1)The Governing Board may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act
and the rules made thereunder, for enabling it to discharge its function under
this Act.(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such
regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely
:--(a)the procedure to be following at meetings of the Governing Board or at
the meetings of the committees appointed by it and the number of members which
shall form a quorum at such meetings;(b)the delegation to the Chairman, other
members, Secretary or other officers of the Governing Board, of any of the
powers, duties of the Governing Board under this Act ;(c)the travelling and
other allowances payable to persons associated under sub-section (4) of
section 11 or co-opted under sub-section (2) of section 16;(d)the pay and
allowances and leave and other conditions of service of officers (other than
those appointed by the Central Government) and other employees of the
Foundation;(e)the maintenance of the accounts of the Foundation;(f)the
maintenance of the registers and other records of the Foundation and its
various committees;(g)the appointment by the Governing Board of agents to
discharge on its behalf any of its functions;(h)admission or termination of
persons in the register of residents.(3)No regulation made by the Governing
Board shall have effect until it has been approved by the Central Government
and published in the Official Gazette, and the Central Government, in
approving the regulation, may make changes therein which appear to it to be
necessary.

### 33. Rules and regulations to be laid before Parliament.

\- Every rule or regulation made under this shall be laid as soon as may be
after it is made before each House of Parliament while it is in session for a
total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or
more successive sessions and if before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree
in making any modification in the rule or regulation, or both Houses agree
that the rule or regulation should not be made, the rule or regulation shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule
or regulation.

### 34. Power to make difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order, not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, remove the difficulty :Provided that no such order shall be made
after the expiry of a period of two years from the appointed day.(2)Every
order made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it, is
made, before each House of Parliament.THE SCHEDULE[See section 2 (l) ]TRUSTS
AND BODIES

### 1\. Auroville Trust, Auroville.

### 2\. Artisane Trust, Auroville.

### 3\. Auroservice d'Auroville Trust, Pondicherry.

### 4\. Aurelec Trust, Auroville.

### 5\. Auromitra, Auroville.

### 6\. Centre for Scientific Research, Auroville.

### 7\. Sri Aurobindo International Institute of Educational Research,
Auroville.

### 8\. Altecs Trust, Auroville.

### 9\. New Engineering Trust, Auroville.

### 10\. Auro Trust, Pondicherry.

### 11\. Service Trust, Pondicherry.

### 12\. Auro Press Trust, Pondicherry.

### 13\. New Trust, Pondicherry.

