## International Treaty - Act

## The Agreement between the Republic of India and the Republic of Austria for
the avoidance of Double Taxation with respect to taxes on income

TREATY  
India

# The Agreement between the Republic of India and the Republic of Austria for
the avoidance of Double Taxation with respect to taxes on income

## Rule THE-AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-
AUSTRIA-FOR-THE-AVOIDANCE-OF-DOUBLE-TAXATION-WITH-RESPECT-TO-TAXES-ON-INCOME
of 1963

  * Published on 1 April 1963 
  * Commenced on 1 April 1963 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 April 1963.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Agreement between the Republic of India and the Republic of Austria for
the avoidance of Double Taxation with respect to taxes on income

### 2005.

G.S.R.588, dtd 5.4.1965. - Whereas the annexed Convention between the Republic
of India and the Republic of Austria for the avoidance of double taxation with
respect to taxes on income has been ratified and the Instruments of
Ratification exchanged, as required by Article XXI of the said Convention:Now,
therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 90 of the Income-tax
Act 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government hereby directs that all
provisions of the said Convention shall be given effect to in the Union of
India.ANNEXURE CONVENTION BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF
AUSTRIA FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION WITH RESPECT TO TAXES ON
INCOMEThe Republic of India and the Republic of Austria, desiring to conclude
a Convention for the avoidance of double taxation with respect to taxes on
income.Have agreed as follows:ARTICLE I

### 1. The taxes which are the subject of the present Convention are:

a. In Austriai. the Einkommensteuer (income tax);ii. the Koreperschaftsteuer
(corporation tax);iii. the Beitrag vom Einkommen zur Forderung des
Wohnbauesund fur Zwecke des Familienlasten-ausgleiches (Contribution from
income for the promotion of residential building and for the equalisation of
family burdens);(hereinafter referred to as "Austrian tax");b. In India:i. the
income-tax,ii. the super-tax andiii. the surchargeimposed under the Income-tax
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961);(hereinafter referred to as "Indian tax")

### 2. The present Convention shall also apply to any other taxes of a
substantially similar character imposed in Austria or in India subsequently to
the date of signature of the present Convention.

ARTICLE II

### 1\. In the present Convention, unless the context otherwise requires:

a. the terms "one of the territories" and "the other territory" mean Austria
or India as the context requires;b. the term "person" includes individuals,
companies and all other entities which are treated as taxable units under the
tax laws in force in the respective territories;c. the term "company" means
any entity which is treated as a body corporate under the Austrian law or as a
company under the Indian law for tax purposes;d. the term "tax" means Austrian
tax or Indian tax, as the context requires;e. the terms "resident of Austria"
and "resident of India" mean, respectively, a person who is resident
("Wohnsitz" or "gewohnlicher Aufenthalt") in Austria for the purposes of
Austrian tax and not resident in India for the purposes of Indian tax, and a
person who is resident in India for the purposes of Indian tax and not
resident ("Wohnsitz" or "gewohnlicher Aufenthalt") in Austria for the purposes
of Austrian tax. A company shall be regarded as resident in Austria if it is
incorporated in Austria or its business is wholly managed and controlled in
Austria; a company shall be regarded as resident in India if it is
incorporated in India or its business is wholly managed and controlled in
India;f. the terms "Austrian enterprise" and "Indian enter prise" mean,
respectively, an industrial or commercial enterprise or undertaking carried on
by a resident of Austria and an industrial. or commercial enterprise or
undertaking carried on by a resident of India, and the terms "enterprise of
one of the territories and enterprise of the other territory" mean an Austrian
enterprise or an Indian enterprise, as the context requires;g. the term
"permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business in which the
business of the enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.ga. The term
"permanent establishment" shall include a place of management, a branch, an
office, a factory, a workshop, a warehouse, a mine, quarry or other place of
extraction of natural resources, and a permanent sales exhibition.gb. An
enterprise of one of the territories shall be deemed to have a permanent
establishment in the other territory if it carries on in that other territory
a construction, installation or assembly project or the like.gc. The use of
mere storage facilities or the maintenance of a place of business exclusively
for the purchase of goods or merchandise and not for any processing of such
goods or merchandise in the territory of purchase, shall not constitute a
permanent establishment.gd. A person acting in one of the territories for or
on behalf of an enterprise of the other territory shall be deemed to be a
permanent establishment of that enterprise in the first-mentioned territory,
if

### 1\. he has and habitually exercises in the first-mentioned territory a
general authority to negotiate and enter into contracts for or on behalf of
the enterprise, unless the activities of the person are limited exclusively to
the purchase of goods or merchandise for the enterprise, or

### 2\. he habitually maintains in the first-mentioned territory a stock of
goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise from which the person
regularly delivers goods or merchandise for or on behalf of the enterprise, or

### 3. he habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned territory
exclusively or almost exclusively, for the enterprise itself, or for the
enterprise and other enterprises which are controlled by it or have a
controlling interest in it.

ge. A broker of a genuinely independent status who merely acts as in
intermediary between an enterprise of one of the territories and a prospective
customer in the other territory shall not be deemed to be permanent
establishment of the enterprise in the last-mentioned territory.gf. The fact
that a company, which is a resident of one of the territories, has a
subsidiary company which either is a resident of the other territory or
carries on a trade or business in that other territory (whether through a
permanent establishment or otherwise) shall not, of itself constitute that
subsidiary company a permanent establishment of its parent company.h. the term
"competent authority" means, in the case of Austria, the Federal Ministry of
Finance, and in the case of India, the Central Government in the Ministry of
Finance, Department of Revenue.

### 2\. In the application of the provisions of this Convention in one of the
territories any term not otherwise defined in this Convention shall, unless
the context otherwise requires, have the meaning which it has under the laws
in force in that territory relating to the taxes which are the subject of this
Convention.

ARTICLE III

### 1\. Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) below, tax shall not be
levied in one of the territories on the industrial or commercial profits of an
enterprise of the other territory unless profits are derived in the first-
mentioned territory through a permanent establishment of the said enterprise
situated in the first-mentioned territory. If profits are so derived, tax may
be levied in the first-mentioned territory on the profits attributable to the
said permanent establishment.

### 2\. There shall be attributed to the permanent establishment of an
enterprise of one of the territories situated in the other territory the
industrial or commercial profits which it might be expected to derive in that
other territory if it were an independent enterprise engaged in the same or
similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing at arm's
length with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment. In any
case, where the ascertainment of the correct amount of profits attributable to
a permanent establishment presents exceptional difficulties, the profits
attributable to the permanent establishment may be, estimated on a reasonable
basis.

### 3\. The provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article shall not be construed
its preventing the taxation in one of the territories in pursuance of the
present Convention and in conformity with the laws of that territory of income
(e.g., dividends, interest, capital gains, fees for technical services, income
from the operation of aircraft, rents or royalties or income from immovable
property) derived from sources therein by a resident of the other territory
even if such income is not attributable to a permanent establishment situated
in that former territory.

ARTICLE IVWhere,a. an enterprise of one of the territories participates
directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise
of the other territory, orb. the same persons participate directly or
indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of one of
the territories and an enterprise of the other territory, and in either case
conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises, in their
commercial or financial relations, which differ from those which would be made
between independent enterprises, then any profits which but for those
conditions would have accrued to one of the enterprises but by reason of those
conditions have not so accrued may be included in the profits of that
enterprise and taxed accordingly.ARTICLE V

### 1\. Income derived from the operation of aircraft by an enterprise of one
of the territories shall not be taxed in the other territory unless the
aircraft is operated wholly or mainly between places within that other
territory.

### 2\. Paragraph (1) shall likewise apply in respect of participations in
pools of any kind by enterprises engaged in air transport.

### 3\. Income derived from the operation of aircraft by an Indian enterprise
shall likewise not be subjected to business tax (Gewerbesteuer) in Austria.

ARTICLE VI

### 1\. Royalties derived by a resident of one of the territories from sources
in the other territory may be taxed only in that other territory.

### 2\. In this Article, the term "royalty" means any royalty of other like
amount received as consideration for the right to use copyrights, artistic or
scientific works, cinematographic films, patents, models, designs, plans,
secret processes or formulae, trademarks and other like properties or rights.

ARTICLE VIIAmount paid by an enterprise of one of the territories for
technical services furnished by an enterprise of the other territory shall not
be subject to tax by the first-mentioned territory except in so far as such
amounts are attributable to activities actually performed in the first-
mentioned territory. In computing the income so subject to tax, there shall be
allowed as deductions the expenses incurred in the first-mentioned territory
in connection with the activities performed in that territory.ARTICLE
VIIIDividends paid by a company which is a resident of one of the territories
to a resident of the other territory may be taxed only in the first-mentioned
territory.ARTICLE IXInterest on bonds, securities, notes, debentures or any
other form of indebtedness, derived by a resident of one of the territories
from sources in the other territory may be taxed only in that other
territory.ARTICLE XIncome from immovable property may be taxed only in the
territory in which the property is situated. For this purpose any rent or
royalty or other income derived from the operation of a mine, quarry or any
other place of extraction of natural resources shall be regarded as income
from immovable property.ARTICLE XI

### 1\. Capital gains derived from the sale, exchange or transfer of a capital
asset, whether movable or immovable, may be taxed only in the territory in
which the capital asset is situated at the time of such sale, exchange or
transfer. For this purpose, the situs of the shares of a company shall be
deemed to be in the territory where the company is incorporated.

### 2\. In this Article the term "capital asset" does not include movable
property in the form of personal effects (e.g. wearing apparel, jewellery and
furniture) held for personal use by the taxpayer or any member of his family
dependent on him.

ARTICLE XII

### 1\. Remuneration for services rendered (other than pensions and annuities)
paid out of public funds of Austria shall not be taxed in India unless the
payment is made to a national of India for services rendered therein.

### 2\. Remuneration for services rendered (other than pensions and annuities)
paid out of public funds of India shall not be taxed in Austria unless the
payment is made to a national of Austria for services rendered therein.

### 3\. The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article shall not
apply to payments in respect of services in connection with any trade or
business carried on by either of the Contracting Parties or political sub-
divisions thereof for purposes of profit.

### 4. The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article shall also
apply to remuneration other than pensions and annuities, paid by the Austrian
National Bank, the Austrian Federal Railways and the Austrian Postal and
Telegraph Administration and by the Reserve Bank of India, the Public Railways
Authorities and the Postal Administration of India.

ARTICLE XIII

### 1\. Any pension or annuity derived by a resident of one of the territories
from sources in the other territory may be taxed only in that other territory.

### 2\. In this Article, the term "pension" means periodic payments made in
consideration of services rendered or by way of compensation for injuries
received. The term "annuity" means sum payable periodically at stated times
during life or during it specified or ascertainable period of time.

ARTICLE XIV

### 1\. Subject to Article XII, profits or remuneration from professional
services or from services as an employee derived by an individual who is a
resident of one of the territories may be taxed in the other territory only if
such services are rendered in that other territory.

### 2\. An individual who is a resident of Austria shall not be taxed in India
on profits or remuneration referred to in paragraph (1) if --

a. he is temporarily present in India for a period or periods not exceeding in
the aggregate 183 days during the relevant "previous year".b. the services are
rendered for or on behalf of a resident of Austria.c. the profits or
remuneration are subject to Austrian tax andd. the profits or remuneration are
not deducted in computing the profits of an enterprise chargeable to Indian
tax.

### 3\. An individual who is a resident of India shall not be taxed in Austria
on profits or remuneration referred to in paragraph (1) if ---

a. he is temporarily present in Austria for a period or periods not exceeding
in the aggregate 183 days during a taxable year.b.the services are rendered
for or on behalf of a resident of India,c. the profits or remuneration are
subject to Indian tax, andd.the profits or remuneration are not deducted in
computing the profits of an enterprise chargeable to Austrian tax.

### 4\. Where an individual permanently or predominantly performs services on
ships or aircraft operated by an enterprise of one of the territories, such
services shall be deemed to be performed in that territory.

ARTICLE XVA professor or teacher from one of the territories who receives
remuneration for teaching, during a period of temporary residence not
exceeding two years, at a university, college, school or other educational
institution in the other territory, shall not be taxed in that other territory
in respect of that remuneration.ARTICLE XVI

### 1\. An individual from one of the territories who is tempo-rarily present
in the other territory solely ---

a. as a student at a university, college or school it, that other
territory,b.as a business apprentice, orc. as the recipient of a grant
allowance or award for the primary purpose of study or research from a
religious, charitable, scientific or educational organisation, shall not be
taxed in the other territory in respect of remittances from abroad for the
purposes of his maintenance, education or training, in respect of a
scholarship, and in respect of any amount representing remuneration for an
employment which he exercises in that other territory for the purposes of
practical training.

### 2\. An individual from one of the territories who is temporarily present
in the other territory for a period not exceeding one year, as an employee of,
or under contract with, an enterprise of the former territory or an
organisation referred to in paragraph (1) sub-paragraph (c) above, solely to
acquire technical, professional or business experience from a person other
than such enterprise or organisation, shall not be taxed in that other
territory on remuneration for such period, unless the amount thereof exceeds
50,000---Austrian shillings or its equivalent in Indian Currency.

### 3\. An individual from one of the territories temporarily present in the
other territory under arrangements with the Government of that other territory
solely for the purpose of training, research or study shall not be taxed in
that either territory on remuneration received in respect of such training,
research or study unless the amount thereof exceeds 80,000--Austrian shillings
or its equivalent in Indian currency.

ARTICLE XVII

### 1\. The laws in force in either of the territories will continue to govern
the assessment and taxation of income in the respective territories except
where express provision to the contrary is made in this Convention.

### 2\. Income from sources within Austria which in accordance with this
Convention may be subjected to tax in Austria either directly or by deduction
shall not be subject to Indian tax.

### 3\.

(3)Income from sources within India which in accordance with this Convention
may be subjected to tax in India either directly or by deduction shall not be
subject to Austrian tax.

### 4\. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (2) and (3) of this
Article, the items, of income which under the laws of the two territories
should be taken into account for calculating the rate of tax to be imposed
shall continue to be so taken into account.

ARTICLE XVIIIThe competent authorities shall exchange such information (being
information which is at their disposal under their respective taxation laws in
the normal course of administration) as is necessary for carrying out the
provisions of the present Convention. Any information so exchanged shall be
treated as secret and shall not be disclosed to any persons other than those
concerned With the assessment and collection of the taxes which are the
subject of the present Convention. No information as aforesaid shall be
exchanged by the competent authority of one of the territories which would
disclose any trade, business, industrial or professional secret or any trade
process to the authority of the other territory.ARTICLE XIX

### 1\. Where a resident of one of the territories shows proof that the action
of the taxation authorities of the other territory has resulted or will result
in double taxation contrary to the provisions of the present Convention, he
shall be entitled to present his case to the competent authority of the
territory of which he is a resident. Should his claim be deemed worthy of
consideration, the competent authority to which the claim is made shall
endeavour to come to an agreement with the competent authority of the other
territory with a view to avoiding double taxation.

### 2\. Should any difficulty or doubt arise as to the interpretation or
application of the present Convention the competent authorities of both
territories may settle the question by mutual agreement.

ARTICLE XXThe provisions of the present Convention shall not be construed to
restrict in any manner any exemption, deduction credit or other allowance now
or hereafter accorded by the laws of one of the Contracting States in
determining the tax of that Contracting State.ARTICLE XXI

### 1\. The present Convention shall be ratified.

### 2\. The instruments of ratification shall be exchanged at Vienna as soon
as possible.

### 3\. The present Convention shall enter into force upon the exchange of
instruments of ratification and shall thereupon have effect ---

a. in respect of Austrian tax, taxes which are levied for the calendar year
1962 and for subsequent calendar years, andb.in respect of Indian tax, in
relation to the income for any "previous year" relevant to any year of
assessment beginning on or after the 1st April 1963.ARTICLE XXIIThe present
Convention shall continue in effect indefinitely but either of the Contracting
Parties may on or before the 30th of June in any calendar year after 1965 give
to the other Contracting Party notice of termination and, in such event, the
present Convention shall cease to be effective ---a. in respect of Austrian
tax, for taxes which are levied for the calendar years following the year in
which the notice of termination is given, andb.in respect of Indian tax, in
relation to the income which arises on or after the 1st of January following
the year in which the notice of termination is given.In witness whereof the
undersigned Plenipotentiaries have signed the present Convention.Done in
duplicate at New Delhi, in the English language, This 24th day of September,
1963.

For the Republicof India: |  For the Republicof Austria :  
---|---  
ShrimatiTarkeshwari Sinha, |  Dr. GeorgeSchlumberger,  
Deputy Minister ofFinance, |  Ambassador of theRepublic of Austria in India  
Government ofIndia. |  New Delhi the 24thSeptember, 1963.  
  
Dear Sir,The Convention between the Republic of India and the Republic of
Austria for the avoidance of Double Taxation with respect to taxes on income
being signed today, I have the honour, on behalf of the Government of India,
to inform you that where a resident of one of the territories fulfils an order
for the sale of machinery to a resident of the other territory and it is
incidental to the sale of the machinery that a person or reasons employed by
the resident of the first-mentioned territory should proceed to that other
territory for assisting in the installation of the machinery therein, such
activity shall not be deemed to constitute a permanent establishment unless it
is carried on for a period exceeding one month or the expenses incurred on
such activity are more than ton per cent of the total sale price for the
order.I shall be grateful if you confirm your agreement to the above
understanding of the provisions of Article 11(1)(g)(bb) of the said
Convention, and that in such case, this note and your reply thereto shall be
deemed to be part of the Convention.Please accept, Mr. Ambassador, the
assurance of my high consideration.Shrimati Tarkeshwari Sinha.ToHis Excellency
Dr. George Schulumberger,Ambassador of the Republicof Austria in India,New
Delhi.New Delhi,the24th September, 1963.Madam,With reference to the
Convention, signed today, between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of
India for the avoidance of Double Taxation with respect to taxes on income,
you have informed me of the following:"The Convention between the Republic of
India and the Republic of Austria for the avoidance of Double Taxation with
respect to taxes on income being signed today, I have the honour, on behalf of
the Government of India, to inform you that where a resident of one of the
territories fulfils an order for the sale of machinery to a resident of the
other territory and it is incidental to the sale of the machinery that a
person or persons employed by the resident of the first-mentioned territory
should proceed to that other territory for assisting in the installation of
the machinery therein such activity shall not be deemed to constitute a
permanent establishment, unless it is carried on for a period exceeding one
month or the expenses incurred on such activity are more than ten per cent of
the total sale price for the order.I shall be grateful if you confirm your
agreement to the above understanding of the provisions of Article II
(1)(g)(bb) of the said Convention, and that in such case, this note and your
reply thereto shall be deemed to be part of the Convention."I have the honour
to inform you that this proposal meets my approval. Your note of today's date
and my reply thereto shall therefore be part of the Convention.Accept, Madam
Minister, the assurance of my high consideration.DR. GEORGE
SCHLUMBERGER.ToShrimati Tarkeshwari Sinha,Deputy Minister of
Finance,Government of India,New Delhi.

