## Union of India - Act

## The Baggage (Transit to Customs Stations) Regulations, 1967

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Baggage (Transit to Customs Stations) Regulations, 1967

## Rule THE-BAGGAGE-TRANSIT-TO-CUSTOMS-STATIONS-REGULATIONS-1967 of 1967

  * Published on 3 June 1967 
  * Commenced on 3 June 1967 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 June 1967.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Baggage (Transit to Customs Stations) Regulations, 1967Published vide M.F.
(D.R.I.) Notification, No. 61 Cus. dated 3rd June, 1967M.F. (D.R.I.)
Notification, No. 61 Cus. dated 3rd June, 1967. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by Section 81 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) and in
supersession of its Notification No. 135-Cus., dated 25th May, 1963, the
Central Board of Excise and Customs hereby makes the following regulations for
the transit of unaccompanied baggage from the customs station of arrival at
Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta, [Madras, Bangalore] [Substituted by M.F. (D.R.)
Notification. No. 246/85-Cus. (N.T.), dated 2nd August, 1985.], [Trivandrum,]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 197 (E), dated 12th February, 1986, for the words 'or
Trivandrum'.] Hyderabad [Cochin, Ahmedabad, Goa, Calicut, Coimbatore, Lucknow
or Amritsar] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 481(E), dated 8.7.2002
(w.e.f. 3.6.1967)] to any other of the aforesaid customs stations, namely :

### 1. Short title.

\- These regulations may be called the Baggage (Transit to Customs Stations)
Regulations, 1967.

### 2. Conditions for allowing transit.

\- Where the unaccompanied baggage or any passenger arrives at the customs
station at Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta, [Madras, Bangalore] [Substituted by M.F.
(D.R.) Notification. No. 246/85-Cus. (N.T.), dated 2nd August, 1985.],
[Trivandrum,] [Substituted by G.S.R. 197 (E), dated 12th February, 1986, for
the words 'or Trivandrum'.] Hyderabad [Cochin, Ahmedabad, Goa, Calicut,
Coimbatore, Lucknow or Amritsar] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R.
481(E), dated 8.7.2002 (w.e.f. 3.6.1967)] and the passenger desires that the
said baggage may be cleared at any of the aforesaid customs stations other
than the customs station at which the baggage has arrived, then on a request
made in this behalf by the passenger, such baggage may be permitted to be
transported to the customs station at which the passenger desires the same to
be cleared, by [air, a passenger train or trucks] [Substituted words "air or
by a passenger train" by Notification No. G.S.R. 481(E), dated 8.7.2002
(w.e.f. 3.6.1967)], if -(a)all arrangements are made by the passenger or his
agent for the transport of such baggage from the customs station of arrival to
the customs station at which he desires to have such baggage cleared, for its
booking to that station and for its transport to the customs house in the
place at which the station is located;(b)the baggage remains under the
supervision of an officer of customs deputed for the purpose except when it is
under the custody of the airline or the railway authorities, and the passenger
pays for the services of the officer so deputed; and(c)in the case of goods to
be transported by rail, such of the goods as can be insured with the railways
are so insured.(d)[ In the case of goods to be transported by trucks, the
carrier shall be responsible for carriage of goods to destination Customs in
containerised truck after sealing or the same by one time bottle seal by
Customs and on execution of bond and security to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner of Customs at the originating Airport/ Air-cargo Complex.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 481(E), dated 8.7.2002 (w.e.f. 3.6.1967)]

### 3. Special provision.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in regulations, the [Commissioner of
Customs] [Substituted by the Finance Act, 1995 (22 of 1995), Section 50, for
the words 'Collector of Customs'.] may, at the discretion, permit
unaccompanied baggage to be transported for clearance to the customs station
at which the passenger desires to have the same cleared by goods train, if
-(a)the goods are insured; and(b)(i)the passenger or his agent satisfies the
proper officer that the goods would not be accepted for being carried in a
passenger train having regard to the size and weight thereof; or(ii)the
transport by passenger train would put the passenger to undue financial
strain;Provided that the [Commissioner of Customs] [Substituted by the Finance
Act, 1995 (22 of 1995), Section 50, for the words 'Collector of Customs'.]
shall, whenever Quick Transit Service is available, allow the transport of
goods only through that service.Explanation. - "Quick Transit Service" means
the special scheme of transit of goods consignments over the Indian Railway
System in which the delivery of goods at destination is guaranteed within the
stipulated time.

### 4. [ Payment of fee. - A fee of [twenty rupees] [Substituted by
Notification No. 229/84, Cus., dated 31st August, 1984.] in respect of each
application for transhipment of goods shall be charged at all customs
station.]

