## Union of India - Act

## The Beedi Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1976

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Beedi Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1976

## Act 56 of 1976

  * Published on 1 March 1979 
  * Commenced on 1 March 1979 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 March 1979.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Beedi Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1976(56 OF 1976)

### 306.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-Welfare measures to ameliorate the living
conditions of the labour employed in the beedi establishments are not
satisfactory. The Beedi and Cigar Workers (Conditions of Employment) Act,
1966, has a limited coverage in as much as it does prescribe some measures to
improve the working conditions of the beedi and cigar workers in industrial
premises only, such as cleanliness, ventilation, first aid, canteen, working
hours, weekly holidays, etc. In so far as the field of labour welfare is
concerned, the Act does not provide for medical, educational, recreational
facilities, etc. Statutory Welfare Funds exists for mica, coal, iron-ore and
lime-stone and dolomite mining industries, such Funds having been established
under the Mica Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1946, the Coal Mines Labour Welfare
Funds Act, 1947, the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Act, 1961 and the
Limestone and Dolomite Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1972, respectively. In
order to provide welfare measures for the persons employed in the beedi
establishments, it is proposed to establish a welfare fund. For this purpose
it is proposed to levy, as a cess, a duty of excise on so much of the tobacco
as is issued to any person from a warehouse for any purpose in connection with
the manufacture of beedi. The rate of duty of excise will be at such rate not
exceeding one rupee per kilogram of such tobacco as the Central Government
may, from time to time, fix. The duty of excise to be levied shall be in
addition to any cess or duty to be leviable on tobacco under any other law for
the time being, in force.2\. The Bill is mainly designed to achieve the above
objectives.Amendment Act 47 of 1981-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-To
ameliorate the living conditions and provide welfare measures to Beedi
Workers, two Acts, namely, the Beedi Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1976 (56 of
1976) and the Beedi Workers Welfare Fund Act, 1976 (62 of 1976) were enacted.
The former Act provided for levy as a duty of excise by way of cess at a rate
not exceeding one rupee per kilogram of tobacco issued from warehouses to any
person for manufacture of Beedis. Initially the cess was fixed at 25 paise per
kilogram of tobacco issued from warehouses for manufacture of beedis. The
proceeds were utilised to finance the Welfare Fund for Beedi Workers. The
Finance Act for 1979-80 exempted unmanufactured tobacco from the levy of
Central Excise duty, including additional excise duties. As a result, the
collection of cess for financing the Beedi Workers Welfare Fund could no
longer be collected under the Beedi Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1976 with effect
from 1st March, 1979.2\. In order to continue and expand welfare measures for
persons employed in beedi establishments, it is proposed to amend the Beedi
Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1976, so as to provide for a levy of cess on
manufactured beedis to finance the welfare fund constituted under section 3 of
the Beedi Workers Welfare Fund Act, 1976 (62 of 1976). The levy of such cess
shall be at such rate which shall not be less than 10 paise or more than 50
paise per thousand manufactured beedis as the Central Government may, from
time to time, fix.Amendment Act 24 of 1998-Statement of Objects and
Reasons.-The Beedi Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1976 (56 of 1976) and the Beedi
Workers Welfare Fund Act, 1976 (62 of 1976) have been enacted to ameliorate
the living conditions and provide welfare measures to beedi workers. The
former Act provides for levy as a duty of excise by way of cess on1.
Substituted by Act 47 of 1981, Section 2, for "tobacco issued for the
manufacture of beedi" (w.e.f. 1-1-1982).manufactured beedis at a rate of not
less than ten paise or more than fifty paise per thousand. The proceeds are
being utilised to finance the Welfare Fund for Beedi Workers, Initially, the
cess was fixed at twenty-five paise per kilogram of tobacco issued from
warehouses of manufacture of beedis. The cess for financing the Beedi Workers
Welfare Fund could not be collected under the Beedi Workers Welfare Cess Act,
1976 with effect from 1st March, 1979 due to exemption granted by the Finance
Act for 1979-80. Thereafter, the Beedi Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1976 was
amended in 1981 to provide levy of not less than ten paise and not more than
fifty paise per thousand manufactured beedis.2\. After amendment of the Beedi
Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1976, the cess was levied a the rate of ten paise
per thousand manufactured beedis, but was increased to thirty paise per
thousand on 1st March, 1987 to meet the increasing cost of administering the
various welfare measures under the Fund. It was subsequently increased to
fifty paise per thousand manufactured beedis with effect from 17th October,
1995. In order to continue and expand welfare measures for persons employed in
beedi establishments, it is proposed to amend the Beedi Workers Welfare Cess
Act, 1976 so as to increase the minimum rate of cess from ten paise to fifty
paise and maximum rate of cess from fifty paise to five rupees per thousand
manufactured beedis, as the Central Government may, from time to time,
fix.[7th April, 1976]An Act to provide for the levy and collection, by way of
cess, a duty of excise on [manufactured beedis] [Brought into force on
15.2.1977. ] .Be it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-seventh Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The
Beedi Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1976.

(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date
as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint.

### 2. Definitions. -In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"Fund "means the Beedi Workers Welfare Fund formed under section 3 of the
Beedi Workers Welfare Fund Act, 1976 (62 of 1976);(b)"prescribed "means
prescribed by rules made under this Act.(c)[ words and expressions used but
not defined in this Act and defined in the [Central Excise and Salt Act, 1944
(1 of 1944)], shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that
Act.]

### 3. [ Levy and collection of cess on manufactured beedis .-(1) With effect
from such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint, there shall be levied and collected by way of cess for the
purposes of the Beedi Workers Welfare Fund Act, 1976 (62 of 1976), a duty of
excise on manufactured beedis at such rate which shall [not be less than fifty
paise or more than five rupees] per thousand manufactured beedis, as the
Central Government may, from time to time, fix by notification in the Official
Gazette.

(2)The duty of excise levied under sub-section (1) shall be in addition to any
cess or duty leviable on manufactured beedis (whether spelt as such or as
biris or in any other manner) under any law for the time being in force.][3-A.
Application of Act 1 of 1944 to cess .-The provisions of the Central Excises
and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944) or the rules thereunder, including those
relating to refunds and exemption from duty, as in force from time to time,
shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the levy, collection and refund
of, or exemption from, cess under this Act, as they apply in relation to the
levy, collection and refund of, or exemption from, duties of excise in respect
of manufactured biris under that Act.]

### 4. Crediting of proceeds of duty to the Consolidated Fund of India .-The
proceeds of the duty of excise levied under sub-section (1) of section 3 shall
be credited to be Consolidated Fund of India.

### 5. Power to call for information

.-The Central Government or any other authority specified by it in this behalf
may require any person to furnish for the purposes of this Act, such
statistical and any other information as it may think fit.

### 6. Protection of action taken in good faith

.-No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government or any officer or other employee of the Central Government for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act or
the rules made thereunder.

### 7. Power to make rules

.-(1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
make [rules] for carrying out the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular and
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may
provide for-[* * * ] [Clause (a) omitted by Act 47 of 1981, Section 6 (w.e.f.
1.1.1982). ](b)the furnishing to the Central Government or any other authority
specified by it in this behalf by any person of such statistical and any other
information as it may be required to be furnished under section 5;(c any other
matter which has to be or may be prescribed, or provided for, by rules under
this Act(3)Every rule made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule.

