## Union of India - Act

## THE BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2023

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# THE BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2023

## Act 10 of 2023

  * Published on 3 August 2023 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 August 2023.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Biological Diversity Act, 2002.BE it enacted by
Parliament in the Seventy-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Biological Diversity (Amendment)Act, 2023.(2)It
shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2.Amendment of preamble.

In the Biological Diversity Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as the
principal Act), in the preamble,—(a)for the word “party”, the word “Party”
shall be substituted;(b)for the words beginning with “AND WHEREAS it is
considered necessary”, and ending with “give effect to the said Convention”,
the following shall be substituted, namely:—“AND WHEREASIndia is a Party to
the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable
sharing of benefits arising from their utilisation to the convention on
Biological Diversity which was adopted on the 29th October, 2010 in Nagoya,
Japan;AND WHEREAS it is considered necessary to provide for conservation,
sustainable utilisation, fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising
out of utilisation of biological resources and also to give effect to the said
Convention.”.

### 3. Amendment of section 2.

In section 2 of the principal Act,—(i)for clause (a), the following clauses
shall be substituted, namely:—(a) “access” means collecting, procuring or
possessing any biological resource occurring in or obtained from India or
traditional knowledge associated thereto, for the purposes of research or bio-
survey or commercial utilisation;(aa)“benefit claimers” means the conservers
of biological resources, their by-products, creators or holders of traditional
knowledge associated thereto(excluding codified traditional knowledge only for
Indians) and information relating to the use of such biological resources,
innovations and practices associated with such use and application;’;(ii)in
clause (b), after the words “biological diversity”, the words or“biodiversity”
shall be inserted;(iii)for clause (c), the following clause shall be
substituted, namely:—(c) “biological resources” include plants, animals,
micro-organisms or parts of their genetic material and derivatives (excluding
value added products), with actual or potential use or value for humanity, but
does not include human genetic material;';(iv)after clause (e), the following
clause shall be inserted, namely:—(ea) “codified traditional knowledge” means
the knowledge derived from authoritative books specified in the First Schedule
to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940;(v)after clause (f), the following clause
shall be inserted, namely:—(fa) “derivative” means a naturally occurring
biochemical compound or metabolism of biological resources, even if it does
not contain functional units of heredity;(vi)after clause (g), the following
clauses shall be inserted, namely:—(ga) “folk variety” means a cultivated
variety of plant that was developed, grown and exchanged informally among
farmers;(gb)“India” means the territory of India as referred to in Article 1
of the Constitution, its territorial waters, seabed and sub-soil underlying
such waters, continental shelf, exclusive economic zone or any other maritime
zone as refferred to in the Territorial Waters, Continental Shelf, Exclusive
Economic Zone and Other Maritime ZonesAct, 1976, and the air space above its
territory;(gc)“landrace” means primitive cultivar that was grown by ancient
farmers and their successors;(vii)after clause (i), the following clause shall
be inserted, namely:—(ia) “Member-Secretary” means the full time Secretary of
the National Biodiversity Authority, or of the State Biodiversity Board, as
the case may be;’.

### 4.Amendment of heading of Chapter II

In Chapter II of the principalAct, in the Chapter heading, for the word
“DIVERSITY”, the word “RESOURCES” shall be substituted.

### 5.Amendment of section 3.

In section 3 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), in clause (c), for sub-
clause (ii), the following sub-clause shall be substituted, namely:—“(ii)
incorporated or registered in India under any law for the time being in force,
which is controlled by a foreigner within the meaning of clause (27) of
section 2 of the CompaniesAct, 2013.”.

### 6.Amendment of section 4.

For section 4 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:—4\. Results of research not to be transferred to certain
persons without approval of National Biodiversity Authority.No person or
entity shall share or transfer any result of the research on any biological
resource occurring in, or obtained or accessed from, India or traditional
knowledge associated thereto, for monetary consideration or otherwise, to a
person or body corporate referred to in sub-section (2) of section 3, without
the prior written approval of the National Biodiversity Authority, except the
codified traditional knowledge which is only for Indians:Provided that the
provisions of this section shall not apply if publication of research papers
or dissemination of knowledge in any seminar or workshop involving financial
benefit is as per the guidelines issued by the Central Government:Provided
further that where the results of research are used for further research,
then, the registration with the National Biodiversity Authority shall be
necessary:Provided also that if the results of research are used for
commercial utilisation or for obtaining any intellectual property rights,
within or outside India, prior approval of the National Biodiversity Authority
shall be required to be taken in accordance with the provisions of this Act.”.

### 7. Amendment of section 5.

In section 5 of the principal Act,—(i)in the marginal heading, for the words
and figures “Sections 3 and 4”, the words “Certain provisions” shall be
substituted;(ii)for sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be
substituted, namely:—(1) The provisions of section 3 shall not apply to
collaborative research projects involving transfer or exchange of biological
resource or traditional knowledge associated thereto between institutions,
including Government sponsored institutions of India, and such institutions in
other countries, if such collaborative research projects satisfy the
conditions specified in sub-section (3).

### 8.Amendment of section 6

In section 6 of the principal Act,—(a)for sub-section (1), the following sub-
sections shall be substituted, namely:—(1) Any person or entity covered under
sub-section (2) of section 3 applying for an intellectual property right, by
whatever name called, in or outside India, for any invention based on any
research or information on a biological resource which is accessed from India,
including those deposited in repositories outside India, or traditional
knowledge associated thereto, shall obtain prior approval of the National
Biodiversity Authority before grant of such intellectual property
rights.(1A)Any person covered under section 7 applying for any intellectual
property right, by whatever name called, in or outside India, for any
invention based on any research or information on a biological resource which
is accessed from India, including those deposited in repositories outside
India, or traditional knowledge associated thereto, shall register with the
National Biodiversity Authority before grant of such intellectual property
rights.(1B)Any person covered under section 7 who has obtained intellectual
property right, by whatever name called, in or outside India, for any
invention based on any research or information on a biological resource which
is accessed from India, including those deposited in repositories outside
India, or traditional knowledge associated thereto, shall obtain prior
approval of the National Biodivesity Authority at the time of
commercialisation.".(b)in sub-section (3), the words "enacted by the
Parliament" shall be omitted.

### 9.Substitution of new section for section 7.

For section 7 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:—7.Prior intimation to State Biodiversity Board for
accessing biological resource for certain purposes.(1) No person, other than
the person covered under sub-section (2) of section 3, shall access any
biological resource and its associated knowledge for commercial utilisation,
without giving prior intimation to the concerned State Biodiversity Board, but
such access shall be subject to the provisions of clause (b) of section 23 and
sub-section (2) of section 24:Provided that the provisions of this section
shall not apply to the codified traditional knowledge, cultivated medicinal
plants and its products, local people and communities of the area, including
growers and cultivators of biodiversity and to vaids, hakims and registered
AYUSH practitioners only who have been practicing indigenous medicines,
including Indian systems of medicine as profession for sustenance and
livelihood.(2)In the case of cultivated medicinal plants, the exemption under
sub-section(1)shall be available only if a certificate of origin is obtained
from the Biodiversity Management Committee in such manner as may be
prescribed.(3)The Biodiversity Management Committee shall, on the basis of
entries made in such books, maintained in such manner, issue the certificate
of origin under subsection (2) in such manner as may be prescribed.".

### 10.Amendment of section 8.

In section 8 of the principal Act,—(a)for sub-section (3), the following sub-
section shall be substituted, namely:—"(3) The Head office of the National
Biodiversity Authority shall be at Chennai and the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, establish regional offices in other
places in India.";(b)in sub-section (4),—(i)for clauses (a), (b) and (c), the
following clauses shall be substituted, namely:—(a)a Chairperson, who shall be
an eminent person having adequate knowledge, expertise and experience in the
conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and in matters
relating to fair and equitable sharing of benefits, to be appointed by the
Central Government;(b)sixteen ex officio members to be appointed by the
Central Government, representing the Ministries dealing with—(i)Agricultural
Research and Education;(ii)Agriculture and Farmers Welfare;(iii)Ayurveda,
Unani, Siddha, Sowa Rigpa, Yoga and Naturopathy and
Homoeopathy;(iv)Biotechnology;(v)Environment and Climate Change;(vi)Forests
and Wildlife;(vii)Indian Council of Forestry Research and
Education;(viii)Earth Sciences;(ix)Pachayati Raj;(x)Science and
Technology;(xi)Scientific and Industrial Research;(xii)Tribal Affairs;(c)four
representatives from State Biodiversity Boards on rotational basis;";(ii)in
clause (d),—(A)For the word "specialists", the words "experts including legal
experts" shall be substituted;(B)for the word "equitable", the words "fair and
equitable" shall be substituted;(iii)after clause (d), the following clause
shall be inserted, namely:—"(e) a Member-Secretary, who shall have experience
in matters relating to biodiversity conservation, to be appointed by the
Central Government.".

### 11. Amendment of section 9.

In section 9 of the principal Act,—(a)in the marginal heading, for the words
"Chairperson and members", the words "Chairperson, members and Member-
Secretary" shall be substituted;(b)after the words "National Biodiversity
Authority", the words "and of Member-Secretary" shall be inserted.

### 12.Insertion of new section 10A.

After section 10 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:—10A.Member Secretary(1)The Member-Secretary shall be the
chief coordinating officer and the convener of the National Biodiversity
Authority and shall assist that Authority in the discharge of its functions
under this Act.(2)The Member-Secretary shall perform such other functions as
may be prescribed.".

### 13.Amendment of section 13.

In section 13 of the principal Act, for sub-section (2), the following sub-
section shall be substituted, namely:—(2) The National Biodiversity Authority
may also constitute such number of committees as it deems fit for the
efficient discharge of its duties and performance of its functions under this
Act.".

### 14.Amendment of section 15.

In section 15 of the principal Act,—(i)after the words "signature of the
Chairperson", the words "or Member-Secretary" shall be inserted;(ii)for the
words "signature of an officer", the words "signature of Member-Secretary or
an officer" shall be substituted.

### 15.Amendment of section 16.

In section 16 of the principal Act, after the words "delegate to any member",
the words "or Member-Secretary" shall be inserted.

### 16.Amendment of section 18.

In section 18 of the principal Act,—(a)for sub-sections (1) and (2), the
following sub-sections shall be substituted, namely:—"(1) The National
Biodiversity Authority shall, with the approval of the Central Government,
make regulations to provide for access to biological resources and traditional
knowledge associated thereto, and for determination of fair and equitable
sharing of benefits.(2)It shall be the duty of the National Biodiversity
Authority to regulate any activity referred to in sections 3, 4 and 6 by
granting or rejecting approvals.";(b)in sub-section (3),—(i)in clause (a), for
the word "equitable", the words "fair and equitable"shall be
substituted;(ii)in clause (b), for the words "heritage sites", the words
"biodiversity heritage sites" shall be substituted;(iii)after clause (b), the
following clause shall be inserted, namely:—"(ba) advise the State
Biodiversity Boards on any matter relating to the implementation of the
Act;";(c)for sub-section (4), the following sub-section shall be substituted,
namely:—"(4) The National Biodiversity Authority may, on behalf of the Central
Government, take any measures necessary to oppose the grant of intellectual
property rights in any country outside India on any biological resource which
is found in or brought from India, including those deposited in repositories
outside India, or traditional knowledge associated thereto accessed.".

### 17.Amendment of section 19.

In section 19 of the principal Act,—(a)for sub-section (2), the following sub-
sections shall be substituted, namely:—"(2) Any person referred to in sub-
section (2) of section 3 who intends to apply for a patent or any other form
of intellectual property rights, whether in India or outside India, referred
to in sub-section (1) of section 6, may make an application to the National
Biodiversity Authority in such form, on payment of such fee, and in such
manner, as may be prescribed.(2A)Any person referred to in sub-section (1A) of
section 6 shall register with the National BiodiversityAuthority at the time
of making application under sub-section (2), and persons referred to in sub-
section (1B) of section 6 shall obtain prior approval from the National
Biodiversity Authority at the time of commercialisation."(b)after sub-section
(3), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—(3A)The National
Biodiversity Authority shall, while granting approval under this section,
determine the benefit sharing in such manner as may be specified by
regulations made in this behalf:Provided that if the National Biodiversity
Authority is of the opinion that such an activity is detrimental or contrary
to the objectives of conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity or fair
and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of such activity, it may, by
order, for reasons to be recorded in writing, prohibit or restrict any such
activity:Provided further that no such order for rejection shall be made
without giving an opportunity of being heard to the person concerned.";(c)for
sub-section (4), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:—"(4)
The National Biodiversity Authority shall place in public domain details of
every approval granted or rejected under this section.".

### 18.Amendment of section 20.

In section 20 of the principal Act,—(i)in the marginal heading, for the words
"biological resource or knowledge", the words "results of research" shall be
substituted;(ii)for sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be
substituted, namely:—(1)Any person or entity who intends to transfer the
results of any research on biological resources, which are found in or brought
from India, including those deposited in repositories outside India or
traditional knowledge associated thereto, to persons referred to under sub-
section (2) of section 3 for monetary consideration or otherwise, he shall
make an application to the National Biodiversity Authority in such form, and
on payment of such fee, as may be prescribed.";(iii)in sub-section (2), for
the words "any biological resource or knowledge associated thereto", the words
"the results of research" shall be substituted;(iv)for sub-sections (3) and
(4), the following sub-sections shall be substituted, namely:—(3)On receipt of
an application under sub-section (2), the National BiodiversityAuthority may,
after making such enquiries, as it deems fit, by order, grant approval,
subject to such terms and conditions, as it may deem fit, including benefit
sharing or otherwise, as per the guidelines or for reasons to be recorded in
writing, or reject the application:Provided that no such order for rejection
shall be made without giving an opportunity of being heard to the person
concerned.(4)The National Biodiversity Authority shall place in public domain
the details of every approval granted or rejected under this section.".

### 19.Amendment of section 21.

In section 21 of the principal Act,—(a)in the marginal heading, for the word
"equitable", the words "fair and equitable" shall be substituted;(b)for sub-
section (1), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:—"(1) The
National BiodiversityAuthority shall, while determining benefit sharing for
the approval granted under this Act, ensure that the terms and conditions
subject to which the approval is granted secures fair and equitable sharing of
benefits arising out of the use of accessed biological resources, their
derivatives, innovations and practices associated with their use and
applications Amendment of section 20.and knowledge relating thereto in
accordance with mutually agreed terms and conditions between the person
applying for such approval, and the Biodiversity Management Commitee
represented by the National Biodiversity Authority.".(c)in sub-section (3),
for the proviso, the following proviso shall be substituted, namely:—"Provided
that where biological resource or associated knowledge was a result of access
from an individual or group of individuals or organisations, the National
BiodiversityAuthority may direct that the amount shall be paid directly to
such benefit claimer or organisation in accordance with the terms of any
agreement and in such manner as it deems fit.".

### 20.Amendment of section 22.

In section 22 of the principal Act,—(i)in sub-section (2), in the proviso,
after the words " group of persons", the words "or body" shall be
inserted;(ii)in sub-section (4), for clauses (a), (b) and (c), the following
clauses shall be substituted, namely:—(a)a Chairperson, who shall be an
eminent person having adequate knowledge, expertise and experience in the
conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and in matters
relating to fair and equitable sharing of benefits, to be appointed by the
State Government;(b)not more than seven ex officio members to be appointed by
the State Government to represent the concerned departments of the State
Government, including departments dealing Panchayati Raj and tribal
affiairs;(c)not more than five non-official members to be appointed from
amongst experts, including legal experts, scientists having special knowledge,
expertise and work experience in matters relating to conservation of
biological diversity, sustainable use of biological resources and fair and
equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the use of biological
resources.".

### 21.Amendment of section 23.

In section 23 of the principalAct, for clauses (a) and (b), the following
clauses shall be substituted, namely:—(a)advise the State Government on
matters relating to the conservation of biodiversity, sustainble use of its
components and fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the
utilisation of biological resources or traditional knowledge associated
thereto, in conformity with the regulations or guidelines if any, issued by
the Central Government or the National BiodiversityAuthority;(b)regulate any
activity referred to in section 7 by granting or rejecting
approvals;(ba)determine the fair and equitable sharing of benefits as provided
under the regulations made in this behalf by the National Biodiversity
Authority while granting approvals;".

### 22.Amendment of {{>#sec_24 section 24}}.

In section 24 of the princiapal Act,—(a)for sub-section (1), the following
sub-section shall be substituted, namely:—(1)Any person other than the person
referred to in sub-section (2) of section 3, intending to undertake any
activity covered under section 7, shall give prior intimation to the State
Biodiversity Board, in such form as may be prescribed by the State
Government.";(b)for sub-sections (2) and (3), the following sub-sections shall
be substituted, namely:—(2) If the State Biodiversity Board is of the opinion
that such activity is detrimental or contrary to the objectives of
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity of fair and equitable sharing
of benefits arising out of such activity, it may by order, restrict or reject
such activity:Provided that no such order or rejection shall be made without
giving an opportunity of being heard to the person concerned.(3)The State
Biodiversity Board shall place in public domain the details of every approval
granted or rejected under this section.".

### 23.Amendment of section 27.

In section 27 of the principal Act,—(i)in sub-section (1), for clause (b), the
following clause shall be substituted, namely:—(b) all sums including charges
and benefit sharing amount received by the National Biodiversity
Authority;";(ii)in sub-section (2),—(A)in the opening portion, for the word
"applied", the word "utilised"shall be substituted;(B)for clauses (b) and (c),
the following clauses shall be substituted, namely:—(b) conservation,
promotion and sustainable use of biological resources;(c)socio-economic
development of areas from where such biological resources or traditional
knowledge associated thereto have been accessed in consultation with the
Biodiversity Management Committee:Provided that when it is not possible to
identify the area from where the biological resources or traditional knowledge
associated thereto have been accessed, the fund shall be utilised for socio-
economic development of the area where such biological resources
occur;(d)activities to meet the purposes of the Act."

### 24. Amendment of section 32

In section 32 of the principal Act,—(i)in sub-section (1), for clause (c), the
following clause shall be substituted, namely:—"(c) all sums including charges
and benefit sharing amount received by the State Biodiversity Board and from
such other sources as may be decided by the State Government;";(ii)in sub-
section (2),—(A)in the opening portion, for the word "applied", the word
"utilised"shall be substituted;(B)after clause (a), the following clause shall
be inserted, namely:—"(aa) channelling benefits to the benefit
claimers;";(C)for clause (c) the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:—"(c) conservation, promotion and sustainable use of biological
resources;";(D)for clause (d), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:—(d) socio-economic development of areas from where such biological
resources or traditional knowledge associated thereto have been accessed in
consultation with the Biodiversity Management Committee or local body
concerned:Provided that when it is not possible to identify the area from
where the biological resources or associated knowledge have been accessed, the
fund shall be utilised for socio-economic development of the area where such
biological resources occur;";(E)for clause (e), the following clauses shall be
substituted, namely:—(e) making grants or loans to the Biodiversity Management
Committees;(f)the activities to meet the purposes of the Act."

### 25. Amendment of section 36.

In section 36 of the principal Act,—(i)for the marginal heading, the following
shall be substituted, namely:—"Central Government to develop national
strategies and plans for conservation, promotion and sustainable use of
biological diversity.";(ii)in sub-section (1),—(a)after the words "The Central
Government shall", the words "in consultation with the State Government and
Union territories", shall be inserted;(b)for the words "conservation of
biological resources, incentives", the words "conservation of biological
resources, including cultivars, folk varieties and landraces, incentives"
shall be substituted;(iii)in sub-section (3), for the words "sectoral or
cross-sectoral plans, programmes and policies", the words "sectoral policies
or cross-sectoral plans and programmes" shall be substituted;(iv)after sub-
section (5) and before the Explanation, the following sub-section shall be
inserted, namely:—"(6) The Central Government shall involve the National
Biodiversity Authority or State Biodiversity Boards to undertake measures for
conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity or traditional
knowledge associated thereto.".

### 26.Insertion of new sections 36A and 36B.

After section 36 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be
inserted, namely:—36A. Measures to be taken by National Biodiversity
Authority.The Central Government may authorise National Biodiversity Authority
or any other organisation to take any measure necessary to monitor and
regulate within the territory of India, the access and utilisation of
biological resources obtained from a foreign country in order to meet the
international obligations to which India is a signatory.36B.State Government
to develop strategies and plans for conservation and sustainable use of
biological diversity(1)The State Government shall develop strategies, plans,
programmes for the conservation and promotion and sustainable use of
biological diversity, including measures for indentification and monitoring of
areas rich in biological resources, promotion of in situ, and ex situ,
conservation of biological resources, including cultivars, folk varieties and
landraces, incentives for research, training and public education to increase
awareness with respect to biodiversity, in conformity with the national
strategies, plans and programmes.(2)The State Government shall, as far as
practicable, wherever it deems appropriate, integrate the conservation,
promotion and sustainable use of biological diversity into relevant sectoral
policies or cross-sectoral plans and programmes.".

### 27.Amendment of section 37.

In section 37 of the principal Act,—(a)for sub-section (1), the following sub-
section shall be substituted, namely:—(1) Without prejudice to any other law
for the time being in force, based on the recommendations of the State
Biodiversity Board, the State Government
may,fromtimetotime,notifyintheOfficialGazette,areasofbiodiversityimportance as
biodiversity heritage sites under this Act:Provided that the State
Biodiversity Board shall consult the local body and the Biodiversity
Management Committee concerned before making such recommendations.";(b)in sub-
section (2), for the words "heritage sites", the words "biodiversity heritage
sites" shall be substituted.

### 28.Amendment of section 38.

In section 38 of the principal Act, the following provisos shall be inserted,
namely:—"Provided that the Central Government may delegate such power to the
State Government:Provided further that where such power is delegated to the
State Government, it shall consult the National BiodiversityAuthority before
issuing any such notification.".

### 29. Substitution of new section for section 40.

For section 40 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:—40\. Provisions of this Act not to apply in certain
cases.Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Central Government
may, in consultation with the National Biodiversity Authority, by notification
in the Official Gazette, declare that all or any of the provisions of thisAct
shall not apply to biological resources when normally traded as commodities or
to the items derived from them, including agricultural wastes, as notified and
cultivated medicinal plants and their products for entities covered under
section 7, registered as per the regulations made or as prescribed:Provided
that no exemption shall be made for the activities referred to in sub-sections
(1) and (2) of section 6.

### 30.Amendment of section 41.

In section 41 of the principal Act,—(a)for sub-section (1), the followings
sub-sections shall be substituted, namely:—(1)Every local body at the Gram
Panchayat level in the rural areas and at the Nagar Panchayat or Municipal
Committee at Municipal Corporation level in the urban areas shall constitute a
Biodiversity Management Committee (by whatever name called) within its area
for the purpose of promoting conservation, sustainable use and documentation
of biological diversity including preservation of habitats, conservation of
landraces, folk varieties, farmers' varieties, and cultivars, domesticated
stocks and breeds of animals, living things in water bodies and microorganisms
and chronicling of knowledge relating to biological diversity:Provided that
the State Government may constitute Biodiversity Management Committees at the
intermediate or district Panchayat level for achieving the objectives of the
Act.(1A)The functions of Biodiversity Management Committee so constituted
shall include conservation, sustainable use and documentation of biological
diversity, including conservation of habitats, landraces, folk varieties,
cultivars, domesticated breeds of animals, and microorganisms, and chronicling
of traditional knowledge associated thereto relating to biological
diversity.(1B)The composition of the Biodiversity Management Committee shall
be such as may be prescribed by the State Government:Provided that the number
of members of the said Committee shall not be less than seven and not
exceeding eleven.";(b)in sub-section (2), for the words " and knowledge
associated with such resources", the words "or traditional knowledge
associated thereto" shall be substituted;(c)the following Explanation shall be
inserted, namely:—Explanation.—For the purposes of this section—(a)"cultivar"
means a veriety of plant that has originated and persisted under cultivation
or was specifically bred for the purpose of cultivation;(b)"folk variety"
means a cultivated variety of plant that was developed, grown and exchanged
informally among farmers;(c)"landrace" means primitive cultivar that was grown
by ancient farmers and their successors;(d)"farmers' variety" means a veriety
which—(i)has been traditionally cultivated and evolved by the farmers in their
field; or(ii)is a wild relative or landrace of a veriety about which the
farmers possess the common knowledge.’.

### 31.Amendment of section 43

In section 43 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), for clause (e), the
following clause shall be substituted, namely:—(e) benefit sharing amount and
all other sums received by the Local Biodiversity Fund from such other sources
as may be decided by the State Government.

### 32.Substitution of new section for section 44.

For section 44 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
substiututed, namely:—44\. Application of Local Biodiversity Fund.(1) The
Local Biodiversity Fund shall be utilised in accordance with the regulations
and the guidelines made in this behalf, for—(a)the conservation and promotion
of biodiversity including restoration of areas falling within the jurisdiction
of concerned local body;(b)the socio-economic development of the community
without compromising the conservation concerns; and(c)the administrative
expenses of the Biodiversity Management Committee.(2)The Fund shall be
utilised in such manner as may be prescribed by the State Government.".

### 33.Substitution of new section for section 45.

For section 45 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:—45\. Annual statement of Biodiversity Management
Committees.The custodian of the Local Biodiversity Fund shall prepare, in such
form and during each financial year at such time as may be prescribed by the
State Government, its annual statement giving a full account of its activities
during the previous financial year, and submit the same to the local body
concerned with a copy to the State Biodiversity Board.".

### 34.Substitution of new section for section 46.

For section 46 of the prinicpal Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:—46\. Audit of accounts of Biodiversity Management
Committees.(1)The Biodiversity Management Committee shall maintain the
accounts which shall be audited in such manner as may be prescribed by the
State Government.(2)The Biodiversity Management Committee shall furnish to the
local body concerned and to the State Biodiversity Board, before such date as
may be prescribed by the State Government, its audited copy of accounts
together with auditor's report thereon.".

### 35.Amendment of section 50.

In section 50 of the principalAct, in the marginal heading, the words "between
the State Biodiversity Board" shall be omitted.

### 36.Amendment of section 52.

In section 52 of the princiaplAct, in sub-section (1), for the words "benefit
sharing or order", the words "fair and equitable sharing of benefits or order
or direction" shall be substituted.

### 37. Amendment of section 53.

In section 53 of the principal Act,—(i)for the words "benefit sharing", the
words "fair and equitable sharing of benefits" shall be substituted;(ii)after
the words "order made by the High Court", the words "or the National Green
Tribunal" shall be inserted;(iii)after the words "Registrar of the High
Court", the words "or the Registrar of the National Green Tribunal" shall be
inserted;(iv)in the Explanation, after the words "group of persons", wherever
they occur, the words "or body" shall be substituted.

### 38.Substitution of new sections 55, 55A and 55B for section 55.

For section 55 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be
substituted, namely:—55\. Penalties.If any person or entity covered under sub-
section (2) of section 3 or section 7 contravenes or attempts to contravene or
abets the contravention of the provisions of section 3 or section 4 or section
6 or section 7, such person shall be liable to pay penalty which shall not be
less than one lakh rupees, but which may extend to fifty lakh rupees, but
where the damage caused exceeds the amount of penalty, such penalty shall be
commensurate with the damage caused, and in case, the failure or contravention
continues, an additional penalty may be imposed, which shall not exceed one
crore rupees and such penalty shall be decided by the adjudicating officer
appointed under section 55A.55A. Adjudication of penalties(1)For the purposes
of determining the penalities under section 55, the Central Government may
appoint an officer not below the rank of Joint Secretary to the Government of
India or a Secretary to the State Government to be the adjudicating officer,
to hold inquiry in the prescribed manner and to impose the penalty so
determined:Provided that the Central Government may appoint as many
adjudicating officers as may be required.(2)While holding an inquiry, the
adjudicating officer shall have power to summon and enforce the attendance of
any person acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case to give
evidence or to produce any document, which in the opinion of the adjudicating
officer, may be useful for, or relevant to, the subject-matter of the inquiry
and if, on such inquiry, he is satisfied that the person concerned has failed
to comply with the provisions of section 3 or section 4 or section 6 or
section 7, he may impose such penalty as he thinks fit in accordance the
provisions of section 55:Provided that no such penalty shall be imposed
without giving the person concerned an opportunity of being heard in the
matter.(3)Any person aggrieved by the order made by the adjudicating officer
under sub-section (2) may prefer an appeal to the National Green Tribunal
established under section 3 of the National Green TribunalAct, 2010.(4)Every
appeal under sub-section (3) shall be filed within sixty days from the date on
which the copy of the order made by the adjudicating officer is received by
the aggrieved person.(5)The National Green Tribunal may, after giving the
parties to the appeal an opportunity of being heard, pass such order as it
thinks fit, confirming, modifying or setting aside the order appealed against.

### 55B.Power to enter, inspect, survey, etc.

Any authority or officer empowered by the Central Government may, for the
purposes of carrying out inspection, survey or any such activity, have all or
any of the following powers, namely:—(a)the power to enter upon any land,
vehicle, or premises and to inspect, investigate, survey and collect
information and make a map of the same and seize the materials and
records;(b)the powers of a civil court to compel the attendance of anyone,
including witnesses and production of documents and materials objects;(c)the
power to issue a search-warrant;(d)the power to hold an inquiry and in the
course of such inquiry, receive and record evidence;(e)such other power as may
be prescribed.".

### 39. Section 58 of the principal Act shall be omitted

### 40.Insertion of new section 59A.

After section 59 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:—59A. Act not to apply to certain persons.The provision of
this Act shall not apply to any person who has been given any approval or
granted any right under any law relating to protection of plant varieties
enacted by Parliament to the extent that such approvals or rights given under
that Act does not require similar approval under this Act.".

### 41.Amendment of section 61.

In section 61 of the principal Act,—(a)in the opening portion, for the word
"complaint", the words "written complaint" shall be substituted;(b)in clause
(b), for the words "any benefit claimer", the words "any person or a benefit
claimer" shall be substituted.

### 42.Amendment of section 62.

In section 62 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2),—(i)for clause (a), the
following clauses shall be substituted, namely:—(a)the manner of obtaining the
certificate of origin under sub-section (2) of section 7;(aa)the books on the
basis of which the certificate of origin to be issued, the manner of
maintaining such books and the manner of issuing such certificate under sub-
section (3) of section 7;(ab)the terms and conditions of service of the
Chairperson, Member-Secretary and other members under section 9;";(ii)after
clause (b), the following clause shall be inserted namely:—(ba)the other
functions to be performed by the Member-Secretary;";(iii)in clause (e), after
the word "application", the word "and payment of fees" shall be
inserted;(iv)after clause (e), the following clause shall be inserted,
namely:—(ea)form of application and payment of fees under sub-section (1) of
section 20;";(v)after clause (j), the following clauses shall be inserted,
namely:—(ja)the manner of holding inquiry by the adjudicating officer under
section 55A;(jb)the other power under clause (e) of section 55B;"

### 43. Amendment of section 63.

In section 63 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2),—(i)after clause (e),
the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—"(ea) the composition of the
Biodiversity Management Committee under sub-section (1B) of section
41;";(ii)in clause (f), for the word "applied", the word "utilised" shall be
substituted;(iii)in clause (g), for the words "annual report", the words
"annual statement" shall be substituted.

