## Union of India - Act

## The Bureau Of Indian Standards (Recognition Of Consumers' Associations)
Rules, 1991

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Bureau Of Indian Standards (Recognition Of Consumers' Associations)
Rules, 1991

## Rule THE-BUREAU-OF-INDIAN-STANDARDS-RECOGNITION-OF-CONSUMERS-ASSOCIATIONS-
RULES-1991 of 1991

  * Published on 9 October 1991 
  * Commenced on 9 October 1991 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 October 1991.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Bureau Of Indian Standards (Recognition Of Consumers' Associations) Rules,
1991Published Vide G.S.R. 619(E), dated 9-10-1991, published in the Gazette of
India, Ext.,Pt.Ii, Section 3(i), dated 9-10-1991

### 331.

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Bureau of Indian
Standards Act, 1986 (63 of 1986), the Central Government hereby makes the
following rules, namely :-

### 1. Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called the Bureau
of Indian Standards (Recognition of Consumers 'Associations) Rules, 1991.

(2)They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official
Gazette.

### 2. Definitions

.-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act "means the
Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 1986 (63 of 1986);(b)"Form "means a Form
appended to the Schedule to these rules;(c)"Ministry "means the Ministry of
Civil Supplies, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution; and(d)"Principal
Officer "in relation to a consumer association means any individual who is
specifically authorised in writing or by means of a resolution adopted by such
consumer association in that behalf.

### 3. Application for recognition of consumers association

.-(1) Every consumers association which is desirous of being recognised as a
registered consumers association,-(a)shall have not less than fifty consumers
as its members; and(b)shall make an application for such recognition in
triplicate to the Bureau of Indian Standards in Form I.(2)Every application
made under sub-rule (1), shall be accompanied by a bank draft of rupees one
thousand.(3)On receipt of an application made under sub-rule (1), the Bureau
of Indian Standards shall note thereon the date of its receipt and shall
forthwith communicate such date to the applicant.(4)The Bureau of Indian
Standards may, before issue of a certificate of recognition, require the
applicant to furnish, within such period as may be specified by it, such
additional information as may be considered necessary within a period of 30
days of the receipt of that letter by the applicant.(5)On receipt of an
application and such other additional information as may be sought under sub-
rule (4), the Bureau of Indian Standards shall process the application and
forward the documents to the Ministry of Civil Supplies, Government of India
with its recommendations for their consideration.(6)On receipt of the
recommendations of the Bureau under sub-rule (5), the Ministry shall consider
those recommendations and after satisfying itself that the applicant
association is fit to be recognised, may recognise the association in this
behalf.(7)The certificate of recognition to be issued by the Ministry under
sub-rule (6) shall be in Form II.(8)Where a certificate of recognition issued
under these rules is lost, destroyed or mutilated, a duplicate may be issued
on an application made in this behalf and on payment of a fee of rupees one
hundred.

### 4. Payment of fees

.-The fees payable under those rules shall be paid in the form of a bank draft
in favour of the Bureau of Indian Standards, New Delhi.

### 5. Refusal to grant certificate of recognition to consumer association

.-Where a certificate of recognition of a consumers association has been
refused, the applicant shall be informed of the reasons for such refusal by
the Bureau.

### 6. Copies of certificate of recognition to be furnished to certain
authorities

.-Every consumer association which has been recognised as a "registered
consumers "association under these rules, shall furnish a copy of the
certificate of recognition issued to it while filing a complaint under section
34(1) of the Act.

### 7. Verification of application

.-Every application made under these rules shall be duly verified by the
principal Officer.

## Schedule

FORM I[See sub-rule (1) of rule 31FORM OF APPLICATION TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE
BUREAU OF INDIAN STANDARDS FOR RECOGNITION OF CONSUMERS' ASSOCIATION (TO BE
SUBMITTED IN TRIPLICATE)(1)Name of the consumers'
association:(2)Address:(a)Registered Office;(b)For
correspondence;(c)Branches:(3)If registered under section 25 of the Companies
Act, 1956, the date of registration.(4)If registered tinder any other law, the
Act under which registered and date of registration:(Certified copy of the
certificate of registration to be enclosed).(5)Total number of members of the
association (as on date of application).(6)Objects of the association
(certified copy of Memorandum of Association to be enclosed alongwith copy of
the rules and regulations of the association).(7)Names, addresses and
occupations of persons on the Board of Directors, Governing Body, Council
/Committee (by whatever name called), to whom the management of the affairs of
the association is entrusted.(8)Number of employees:(a)Whole-time;(b)Part-
time;(9)Year-wise details of the work done by the association during the last
three years in the field of protection of consumers' interest.(10)Copies of
published annual report and audited accounts of the association for the last
three years.(11)Details of Laboratory organisation, if any, owned, run or
operated by the association for purposes of protection of consumer's
interest.Place ..................
Signature...............................................Date
................... Name and Designation........................VERIFICATIONI
......................................do hereby solemnly state that what is
stated in Items 1 to 11 above is true to the best of my knowledge and
belief.Place ..................
Signature...............................................Date
................... Name and Designation........................FORM II[See
sub-rule (7) of rule 3 ]CERTIFICATE OF RECOGNITIONGovernment of IndiaMinistry
of Civil Supplies, Consumer Affairs and Public DistributionCertified that the
consumer's association whose particulars are given below, has, this day, been
recognised as a "registered consumers' association" in terms of section 34 of
the Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 1986 (63 of 1986).Particulars(1)Name of
the Consumers' Association:(2)Address:(3)Name of persons on the governing
board/body/council to whom management of the Association is
entrusted:(4)Number of members:(5)Registration number:Signature
................................Date
.........................................File No
.....................................Seal of the Ministry of Civil
Supplies,Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution.

