## Union of India - Act

## The Building And Other Construction Workers 'welfare Cess Act, 1996

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Building And Other Construction Workers 'welfare Cess Act, 1996

## Act 28 of 1996

  * Published on 3 November 1995 
  * Commenced on 3 November 1995 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 November 1995.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Building And Other Construction Workers 'welfare Cess Act, 1996

### 28. Of 1996

### 326.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Bill is complementary to the Building
and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of
Service) Bill, 1996 proposed to be introduced and considered simultaneously.
With a view to provide for the levy and collection of a cess on the cost of
construction incurred by the employers for augmenting the resources of the
Building and Other Construction Workers' Welfare Boards constituted by the
State Governments under the Building and Other Construction Workers
(Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) (Ordinance 14 of 1955),
an Ordinance, namely, the Building and Other Construction Workers' Welfare
Cess Ordinance, 1995 (15 of 1995), was promulgated by the President on the 3rd
November, 1995. The intention was to make over, after due appropriation by
Parliament by law, the proceeds of the cess, to the State Building and Other
Construction Workers' Welfare Boards and the cost of collection not exceeding
one per cent. of the cess collected to the State Governments to whom it is
proposed to delegate the authority to collect the cess. A Bill, namely, the
Building and Other Construction Workers' Welfare Cess Bill, 1995 was
introduced in Lok Sabha on the 1st December, 1995 to replace the said
Ordinance by an Act of Parliament. Since the said Bill could not be taken up
for consideration and passing in the Winter Session, 1995 and the Budget
Session 1996 of Lok Sabha, the Building and Other Construction Workers'
Welfare Cess Ordinance, 1996 and the Building and Other Construction Workers'
Welfare Cess Second Ordinance, 1996 respectively were promulgated on the 5th
January, 1996 and the 27th March, 1996 with a view to give continued effect to
the legislative protection. On the dissolution of the Tenth Lok Sabha, the
Building and Other Construction Workers' Welfare Cess Bill, 1995 stood lapsed.
By virtue of Article 123(2)(a) of the Constitution the Building and Other
Construction Workers' Welfare Cess Second Ordinance, 1996 promulgated on the
27th March, 1996 would have also ceased to operate with effect from the 4th
July, 1996. In view of the urgency felt and as the Parliament was not in
session, the President was pleased to promulgated the Building and Other
Construction Workers' Welfare Cess Third Ordinance, 1996 on 20th June, 1996 in
order to give continued effect to the legislative protection envisaged in the
earlier Ordinance.2\. The Bill seeks to replace the Building and Other
Construction Workers' Welfare Cess Ordinance, 1996 (Ordinance 26 of
1996).[19th August, 1996]An Act to provide for the levy and collection of a
cess on the cost of construction incurred by employers with a view to
augmenting the resources of the Building and Other Construction Workers
'Welfare Boards constituted under the Building and Other Construction Workers
(Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996.Be it enacted
by Parliament in the Forty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

\- This Act may be called The Building and Other Construction Workers 'Welfare
Cess Act, 1996.(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall be deemed to
have come into force on the 3rd day of November, 1995.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Board "means a
Building and Other Construction Workers 'Welfare Board constituted by a State
Government under sub-section (1) of section 18 of the Building and Other
Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act,
1996;(b)"Fund "means the Building and Other Construction Workers 'Welfare Fund
constituted by a Board;(c)"prescribed "means prescribed by rules made under
this Act;(d)words and expressions used herein but not defined and defined in
the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and
Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 shall have the meanings respectively assigned
to them in that Act.

### 3. Levy and collection of cess.

(1)There shall be levied and collected a cess for the purposes of the Building
and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of
Service) Act, 1996, at such rate not exceeding two per cent. but not less than
one per cent. of the cost of construction incurred by an employer, as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, from time to
time specify.(2)The cess levied under sub-section (1) shall be collected from
every employer in such manner and at such time, including deduction at source
in relation to a building or other construction work of a Government or of a
public sector undertaking or advance collection through a local authority
where an approval of such building or other construction work by such local
authority is required, as may be prescribed.(3)The proceeds of the cess
collected under sub-section (2) shall be paid by the local authority or the
State Government collecting the cess to the Board after deducting the cost of
collection of such cess not exceeding one per cent. of the amount
collected.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2), the cess leviable under this Act including payment of such cess
in advance may, subject to final assessment to be made, be collected at a
uniform rate or rates as may be prescribed on the basis of the quantum of the
building or other construction work involved.

[Uttar Pradesh.]- Amendment of Section 3 of Act No. 28 of 1996. - In section 3
of the building and other construction workers' Welfare Cess Act, 1996, in
sub-section (1) the following explanation shall be inserted at the end,
namely-"Explanation.- for the purpose of levy of cess under this sub-section
cost of construction shall include all expenditure incurred by an employer in
connection with the building or other construction work bur shall not
include-(a) cost of land;(b) any compensation paid or payable to a worker or
his dependents under the Employee's Compensation Act, 1923;(c) expenditure
incurred on such plant, equipments installed or upgraded which are not part of
construction activity;(d) machines such as MRI, CT Scan, Dialysis machine etc.
used for treatment of patients in hospitals."  
---  
  
### 4. Furnishing of returns.

(1)Every employer shall furnish such return to such officer or authority, in
such manner and at such time as may be prescribed.(2)If any person carrying on
the building or other construction work, liable to pay the cess under section
3, fails to furnish any return under sub-section (1), the officer or the
authority shall give a notice requiring such person to furnish such return
before such date as may be specified in the notice.

### 5. Assessment of cess.

(1)The officer or authority to whom or to which the return has been furnished
under section 4 shall, after making or causing to be made such inquiry as he
or it thinks fit and after satisfying himself or itself that the particulars
stated in the return are correct, by order, assess the amount of cess payable
by the employer.(2)If the return has not been furnished to the officer or
authority under sub-section (2) of section 4, he or it shall, after making or
causing to be made such inquiry as he or it thinks fit, by order, assess the
amount of cess payable by the employer.(3)An order of assessment made under
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall specify the date within which the
cess shall be paid by the employer.

### 6. Power to exempt.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Central Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt any employer or class of
employers in a State from the payment of cess payable under this Act where
such cess is already levied and payable under any corresponding law in force
in that State.

### 7. Power of entry.

\- Any officer or authority of the State Government specially empowered in
this behalf by that Government may-(a)with such assistance, if any, as he or
it may think fit, enter at any reasonable time any place where he or it
considers it necessary to enter for carrying out the purposes of this Act
including verification of the correctness of any particulars furnished by any
employer under section 4;(b)do within such place anything necessary for the
proper discharge of his or its duties under this Act; and(c)exercise such
other powers as may be prescribed.

### 8. Interest payable on delay in payment of cess.

\- If any employer fails to pay any amount of cess payable under section 3
within the time specified in the order of assessment, such employer shall be
liable to pay interest on the amount to be paid at the rate of two per cent.
for every month or part of a month comprised in the period from the date on
which such payment is due till such amount is actually paid.

### 9. Penalty for non-payment of cess within the specified time.

\- If any amount of cess payable by any employer under section 3 is not paid
within the date specified in the order of assessment made under section 5, it
shall be deemed to be in arrears and the authority prescribed in this behalf
may, after making such inquiry as it deems fit, impose on such employer a
penalty not exceeding the amount of cess:Provided that, before imposing any
such penalty, such employer shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being
heard and if after such hearing the said authority is satisfied that the
default was for any good and sufficient reason, no penalty shall be imposed
under this section.

### 10. Recovery of amount due under the Act.

\- Any amount due under this Act (including any interest or penalty) from an
employer may be recovered in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.

### 11. Appeals.

(1)Any employer aggrieved by any order of assessment made under section 5 or
by an order imposing penalty made under section 9 may, within such time as may
be prescribed, appeal to such appellate authority in such form and in such
manner as may be prescribed.(2)Every appeal preferred under sub-section (1)
shall be accompanied by such fees as may be prescribed.(3)After the receipt of
any appeal under sub-section (1), the appellate authority shall, after giving
the appellant an opportunity of being heard in the matter, dispose of the
appeal as expeditiously as possible. (4) Every order passed in appeal under
this section shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court
of law.

### 12. Penalty.

(1)Whoever, being under an obligation to furnish a return under this Act,
furnishes any return knowingly, or having reason to believe, the same to be
false shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months, or
with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.(2)Whoever,
being liable to pay cess under this Act, wilfully or intentionally evades or
attempts to evade the payment of such cess shall be punishable with
imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.(3)No
Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this section save
on a complaint made by or under the authority of the Central Government.

### 13. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an
offence under this Act has been committed with the consent or connivance of,
or is attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager,
secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary
to other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall
be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation .-For
the purposes of this section,-(a)"company "means any body corporate and
includes a firm or other association of individuals; and(b)"director ", in
relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 14. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.(2)Without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:-(a)the manner in which and the time within
which the cess shall be collected under sub-section (2) of section 3;(b)the
rate or rates of advance cess leviable under sub-section (4) of section
3;(c)the particulars of the returns to be furnished, the officer or authority
to whom or to which such returns shall be furnished and the manner and time of
furnishing such returns under sub-section (1) of section 4;(d)the powers which
may be exercised by the officer or authority under section 7;(e)the authority
which may impose penalty under section 9;(f)the authority to which an appeal
may be filed under sub-section (1) of section 11 and the time within which and
the form and manner in which such appeal may be filed;(g)the fees which shall
accompany an appeal under sub-section (2) of section 11; and (h) any other
matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Every rule made under this
Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may
be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 15. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Building and Other Construction Workers 'Welfare Cess Third Ordinance,
1996 (Ord. 26 of 1996), is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal,
anything done or any action taken under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to
have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act.

