## Union of India - Act

## The Cigarettes And Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition Of Advertisement And
Regulation Of Trade And Commerce, Production, Supply And Distribution) Act,
2003

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Cigarettes And Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition Of Advertisement And
Regulation Of Trade And Commerce, Production, Supply And Distribution) Act,
2003

## Act 34 of 2003

  * Published in Gazette 34 on 25 January 2017 
  * Assented to on 25 January 2017 
  * Commenced on 25 January 2017 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 January 2017.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE CIGARETTES AND OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS (PROHIBITION OF ADVERTISEMENT AND REGULATION OF TRADE AND COMMERCE, PRODUCTION, SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION) AMENDMENT ACT, 2007 (Act 38 of 2007) on 24 September 2007] 

The Cigarettes And Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition Of Advertisement And
Regulation Of Trade And Commerce, Production, Supply And Distribution) Act,
2003ACT NO. 34 OF 2003[18th May, 2003.]An Act to prohibit the advertisement
of, and to provide for the regulation of trade and commerce in, and
production, supply and distribution of, cigarettes and other tobacco products
and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.WHEREAS, the
Resolution passed by the 39th World Health Assembly (WHO), in its Fourteenth
Plenary meeting held on the 15th May, 1986 urged the member States of WHO
which have not yet done so to implement the measures to ensure that effective
protection is provided to non-smokers from involuntary exposure to tobacco
smoke and to protect children and young people from being addicted to the use
of tobacco;AND WHEREAS, the 43rd World Health Assembly in its Fourteenth
Plenary meeting held on the 17th May, 1990, reiterated the concerns expressed
in the Resolution passed in the 39th World Health Assembly and urged Member
States to consider in their tobacco control strategies plans for legislation
and other effective measures for protecting their citizens with special
attention to risk groups such as pregnant women and children from involuntary
exposure to tobacco smoke, discourage the use of tobacco and impose
progressive restrictions and take concerted action to eventually eliminate all
direct and indirect advertising, promotion and sponsorship concerning
tobacco;AND WHEREAS, it is considered expedient to enact a comprehensive law
on tobacco in the public interest and to protect the public health;AND
WHEREAS, it is expedient to prohibit the consumption of cigarettes and other
tobacco products which are injurious to health with a view to achieving
improvement of public health in general as enjoined by article 47 of the
Constitution;AND WHEREAS, it is expedient to prohibit the advertisement of,
and to provide for regulation of trade and commerce, production, supply and
distribution of, cigarettes and other tobacco products and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto:BE it enacted by Parliament in the
Fifty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:–

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.–

(1)This Act may be called the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products
(Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce,
Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003.(2)It extends to the whole of
India.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint and different dates may be
appointed for different provisions of this Act.

### 2. Declaration as to expediency of control by the Union–

It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the
Union should take under its control the tobacco industry.

### 3. Definitions.–

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,–(a)"advertisement"
includes any visible representation by way of notice, circular, label, wrapper
or other document and also includes any announcement made orally or by any
means of producing or transmitting light, sound, smoke or gas;(b)"cigarette"
includes,–(i)any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or in any other substance
not containing tobacco,(ii)any roll of tobacco wrapped in any substance
containing tobacco, which, by reason of its appearance, the type of tobacco
used in the filter, or its packaging and labelling is likely to be offered to,
or purchased by, consumers as cigarette, but does not include beedi, cheroot
and cigar;(c)"distribution" includes distribution by way of samples, whether
free or otherwise;(d)"export", with its grammatical variations and cognate
expressions, means taking out of India to a place outside India;(e)"foreign
language" means a language which is neither an Indian language nor the English
language;(f)"import", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions,
means bringing into India from a place outside India;(g)"Indian language"
means a language specified in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution, and
includes any dialect of such language;(h)"label" means any written, marked,
stamped, printed or graphic matter, affixed to, or appearing upon, any
package;(i)"package" includes a wrapper, box, carton, tin or other
container;(j)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(k)"production", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions,
includes the making of cigarettes, cigars, cheroots, beedis, cigarette
tobacco, pipe tobacco, hookah tobacco, chewing tobacco, pan masala or any
chewing material having tobacco as one of its ingredients (by whatever name
called) or snuff and shall include–(i)packing, labelling or re-labelling, of
containers;(ii)re-packing from bulk packages to retail packages; and(iii)the
adoption of any other method to render the tobacco product
marketable;(l)"public place" means any place to which the public have access,
whether as of right or not, and includes auditorium, hospital buildings,
railway waiting room, amusement centres, restaurants, public offices, court
buildings, educational institutions, libraries, public conveyances and the
like which are visited by general public but does not include any open
space;(m)"sale", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions,
means any transfer of property in goods by one person to another, whether for
cash or on credit, or by way of exchange, and whether wholesale or retail, and
includes an agreement for sale, and offer for sale and exposure for
sale;(n)"smoking", means smoking of tobacco in any form whether in the form of
cigarette, cigar, beedis or otherwise with the aid of a pipe, wrapper or any
other instruments;(o)"specified warning" means such warnings against the use
of cigarettes or other tobacco products to be printed, painted or inscribed on
packages of cigarettes or other tobacco products in such form and manner as
may be prescribed by rules made under this Act;(p)"tobacco products" means the
products specified in the Schedule.

### 4. Prohibition of smoking in a public place.–

No person shall smoke in any public place:Provided that in a hotel having
thirty rooms or a restaurant having seating capacity of thirty persons or more
and in the airports, a separate provision for smoking area or space may be
made.

### 5. Prohibition of advertisement of cigarettes and other tobacco products.–

(1)No person engaged in, or purported to be engaged in the production, supply
or distribution of cigarettes or any other tobacco products shall advertise
and no person having control over a medium shall cause to be advertised
cigarettes or any other tobacco products through that medium and no person
shall take part in any advertisement which directly or indirectly suggests or
promotes the use or consumption of cigarettes or any other tobacco
products.(2)No person, for any direct or indirect pecuniary benefit,
shall–(a)display, cause to display, or permit or authorise to display any
advertisement of cigarettes or any other tobacco product; or(b)sell or cause
to sell, or permit or authorise to sell a film or video tape containing
advertisement of cigarettes or any other tobacco product; or(c)distribute,
cause to distribute, or permit or authorise to distribute to the public any
leaflet, hand-bill or document which is or which contains an advertisement of
cigarettes or any other tobacco product; or(d)erect, exhibit, fix or retain
upon or over any land, building, wall, hoarding, frame, post or structure or
upon or in any vehicle or shall display in any manner whatsoever in any place
any advertisement of cigarettes or any other tobacco product:Provided that
this sub-section shall not apply in relation to–(a)an advertisement of
cigarettes or any other tobacco product in or on a package containing
cigarettes or any other tobacco product;(b)advertisement of cigarettes or any
other tobacco product which is displayed at the entrance or inside a warehouse
or a shop where cigarettes and any other tobacco products are offered for
distribution or sale.(3)No person, shall, under a contract or otherwise
promote or agree to promote the use or consumption of–(a)cigarettes or any
other tobacco product; or(b)any trade mark or brand name of cigarettes or any
other tobacco product in exchange for a sponsorship, gift, prize or
scholarship given or agreed to be given by another person.

### 6. Prohibition on sale of cigarette or other tobacco products to a person
below the age of eighteen years and in particular area.–

No person shall sell, offer for sale, or permit sale of, cigarette or any
other tobacco product–(a)to any person who is under eighteen years of age,
and(b)in an area within a radius of one hundred yards of any educational
institution.

### 7. Restrictions on trade and commerce in, and production, supply and
distribution of cigarettes and other tobacco products.–

(1)No person shall, directly or indirectly, produce, supply or distribute
cigarettes or any other tobacco products unless every package of cigarettes or
any other tobacco products produced, supplied or distributed by him bears
thereon, or on its label such such specified warning including a pictorial
warning as may be prescribed.(2)No person shall carry on trade or commerce in
cigarettes or any other tobacco products unless every package of cigarettes or
any other tobacco products sold, supplied or distributed by him bears thereon,
or on its label, the specified warning.(3)No person shall import cigarettes or
any other tobacco products for distribution or supply for a valuable
consideration or for sale in India unless every package of cigarettes or any
other tobacco products so imported by him bears thereon, or on its label, the
specified warning.(4)The specified warning shall appear on not less than one
of the largest panels of the package in which cigarettes or any other tobacco
products have been packed for distribution, sale or supply for a valuable
consideration.(5)No person shall, directly or indirectly, produce, supply or
distribute cigarettes or any other tobacco products unless every package of
cigarettes or any other tobacco products produced, supplied or distributed by
him indicates thereon, or on its label, the nicotine and tar contents on each
cigarette or as the case may be on other tobacco products along with the
maximum permissible limits thereof:Provided that the nicotine and tar contents
shall not exceed the maximum permissible quantity thereof as may be prescribed
by rules made under this Act.

### 8. Manner in which specified warning shall be made.–

(1)The specified warning on a package of cigarettes or any other tobacco
products shall be–(a)legible and prominent;(b)conspicuous as to size and
colour;(c)in such style or type of lettering as to be boldly and clearly
presented in distinct contrast to any other type, lettering or graphic
material used on the package or its label and shall be printed, painted or
inscribed on the package in a colour which contrasts conspicuously with the
background of the package or its labels.(2)The manner in which a specified
warning shall be printed, painted or inscribed on a package of cigarettes or
any other tobacco products shall be such as may be specified in the rules made
under this Act.(3)Every package containing cigarettes or any other tobacco
products shall be so packed as to ensure that the specified warning appearing
thereon, or on its label, is, before the package is opened, visible to the
consumer.

### 9. Language in which the specified warning shall be expressed.–

(1)Where the language used on a package containing cigarettes and any other
tobacco products or on its label is–(a)English, the specified warning shall be
expressed in the English language;(b)any Indian language or languages, the
specified warning shall be expressed in such Indian language or
languages;(c)both English and one or more Indian languages, the specified
warning shall be expressed in the English language as well as in such Indian
language or languages;(d)partly English and partly any Indian language or
languages, the specified warning shall be expressed in the English language as
well as in such Indian language or languages;(e)any foreign language, the
specified warning shall be expressed in the English language;(f)partly any
foreign language and partly English or any Indian language or languages, the
specified warning shall be expressed in the English language as well as in
such Indian language or languages.(2)No package of cigarettes or any other
tobacco products or its label shall contain any matter or statement which is
inconsistent with, or detracts from, the specified warning.

### 10. Size of letters and figures.–

No specified warning or indication of nicotine and tar contents in cigarettes
and any other tobacco products shall be deemed to be in accordance with the
provisions of this Act if the height of each letter or figure, or both the
used on such warning and indication is less than the height as may be
prescribed by rules made under this Act.

### 11. Testing laboratory for nicotine and tar contents.–

For purposes of testing the nicotine and tar contents in cigarettes and any
other tobacco products the Central Government shall by notification in the
Official Gazette grant recognition to such testing laboratory as that
Government may deem necessary.

### 12. Power of entry and search.–

(1)Any police officer, not below the rank of a sub-inspector or any officer of
State Food or Drug Administration or any other officer, holding the equivalent
rank being not below the rank of Sub-Inspector of Police, authorise side by
the Central Government or by the State Government may, if he has any reason to
suspect that any provision of this Act has been, or is being, contravened,
enter and search in the manner prescribed, at any reasonable time, any
factory, building, business premises or any other place,–(a)where any trade or
commerce in cigarettes or any other tobacco products is carried on or
cigarettes or any other tobacco products are produced, supplied or
distributed; or(b)where any advertisement of the cigarettes or any other
tobacco products has been or is being made.(2)The provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), shall apply to every search and seizure
made under this Act.

### 13. Power to seize.–

(1)If any police officer, not below the rank of a sub-inspector or any officer
of State Food or Drug Administration or any other officer, holding the
equivalent rank being not below the rank of Sub-Inspector of Police,
authorised by the Central Government or by the State Government, has any
reason to believe that,–(a)in respect of any package of cigarettes or any
other tobacco products, or(b)in respect of any advertisement of cigarettes or
any other tobacco products,the provisions of this Act have been, or are being,
contravened, he may seize such package or advertisement material in the manner
prescribed.(2)No package of cigarettes or any other tobacco products or
advertisement material seized under clause (a) of sub-section (1) shall be
retained by the officer who seized the package or advertisement material for a
period exceeding ninety days from the date of the seizure unless the approval
of the District Judge, within the local limits of whose jurisdiction such
seizure was made, has been obtained for such retention.

### 14. Confiscation of package.–

Any package of cigarettes or any other tobacco products or any advertisement
material of cigarettes or any other tobacco products, in respect of which any
provision of this Act has been or is being contravened, shall be liable to be
confiscated:Provided that, where it is established to the satisfaction of the
court adjudging the confiscation that the person in whose possession, power or
control any such package of cigarettes or any other tobacco products is found
is not responsible for the contravention of the provisions of this Act, the
Court may,instead of making an order for the confiscation of such package,
make such other order authorised by this Act against the person guilty of the
breach of the provisions of this Act as it may think fit.

### 15. Power to give option to pay costs in lieu of confiscation.–

(1)Whenever any confiscation of any package of cigarettes or any other tobacco
products is authorised by this Act, the court adjudging it may, subject to
such conditions as may be specified in the order adjudging the confiscation,
give to the owner thereof an option to pay, in lieu of confiscation, costs
which shall be equal to the value of the goods confiscated.(2)On payment of
the costs ordered by the court, the seized packages shall be returned to the
person from whom they were seized on condition that such person shall, before
making any distribution, sale or supply of such packages of cigarettes or
other tobacco products, get the specified warning and indication of nicotine
and tar contents incorporated on each such package.

### 16. Confiscation not to interfere with other punishments.–

No confiscation made, costs ordered to be paid under this Act shall prevent
the infliction of any punishment to which the person affected thereby is
liable under the provisions of this Act or under any other law.

### 17. Adjudication.–

Any confiscation of cigarettes or any other tobacco products may be adjudged
or costs may be ordered to be paid,–(a)without any limit, by the principal
civil court of original jurisdiction within the local limits of whose
jurisdiction such confiscation has been made, costs have been ordered to be
paid,(b)subject to such limits as may be specified by the Central Government
in this behalf, by such other court, not below a civil court having pecuniary
jurisdiction exceeding rupees five thousand, as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, authorise in this behalf.

### 18. Giving opportunity to the owner of seized packages.–

(1)No order adjudging confiscation or directing payment of costs shall be made
unless the owner or person in possession of the package of cigarettes or any
other tobacco products has been given a notice in writing informing him of the
grounds on which it is proposed to confiscate such package, and giving him a
reasonable opportunity of making a representation in writing, within such
reasonable time as may be specified in the notice, against the confiscation
mentioned therein, and, if he so desires, of being heard personally or through
a representative in the matter:Provided that, where no such notice is given
within a period of ninety days from the date of the seizure of the package of
cigarettes or of any other tobacco products, such package shall be returned,
after the expiry of that period, to the owner or the person from whose
possession it was seized.(2)Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (1), the
provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall, as far as
may be, apply to every proceeding referred to in sub-section (1).

### 19. Appeal.–

(1)Any person, aggrieved by any decision of the court adjudging a
confiscation, ordering the payment of costs, may prefer an appeal to the court
to which an appeal lies from the decision of such court.(2)The appellate court
may, after giving to the appellant an opportunity of being heard, pass such
order as it thinks fit confirming, modifying or reversing the decision or
order appealed against or may send back the case with such directions as it
may think fit for a fresh decision or adjudication, as the case may be, after
taking additional evidence, if necessary:Provided that an order enhancing any
fine in lieu of confiscation or confiscating of goods of greater value shall
not be made under this section unless the appellant has had an opportunity of
making a representation and, if he so desires, of being heard in person or
through a representative in his defence.(3)No further appeal shall lie against
the order of the court of appeal.

### 20. Punishment for failure to give specified warning and nicotine and tar
contents.–

(1)Any person who produces or manufactures cigarettes or tobacco products,
which do not contain, either on the package or on their label, the specified
warning and the nicotine and tar contents, shall in the case of first
conviction be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two
years, or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both,
and for the second or subsequent conviction, with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to five years and with fine which may extend to ten thousand
rupees.(2)Any person who sells or distributes cigarettes or tobacco products
which do not contain either on the package or on their label, the specified
warning and the nicotine and tar contents shall in the case of first
conviction be punishable with imprisonment for a term, which may extend to one
year, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both, and,
for the second or subsequent conviction, with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to two years and with fine which may extend to three thousand
rupees.

### 21. Punishment for smoking in certain places.–

(1)Whoever contravenes the provisions of section 4 shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to two hundred rupees.(2)An offence under this section
shall be compoundable and shall be tried summarily in accordance with the
procedure provided for summary trials in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974).

### 22. Punishment for advertisement of cigarettes and tobacco products.–

Whoever contravenes the provision of section 5 shall, on conviction, be
punishable–(a)in the case of first conviction, with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to two years or with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees or with both, and(b)in the case of second or subsequent conviction with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and with fine which may
extend to five thousand rupees.

### 23. Forfeiture of advertisement and advertisement material.–

Where any person has been convicted under this Act for the contravention of
the provision of section 5, the advertisement and the advertisement material
for cigarettes and other tobacco products may be forfeited to the Government
and such advertisement and advertisement material shall be disposed of in such
manner as may be prescribed by rules made under this Act.

### 24. Punishment for sale of cigarettes or any other tobacco products in
certain places or to persons below the age of eighteen years.–

(1)Any person who contravenes the provisions of section 6 shall be guilty of
an offence under this Act and shall be punishable with fine which may extend
to two hundred rupees.(2)All offences under this section shall be compoundable
and shall be tried summarily in accordance with the procedure provided for
summary trials in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).

### 25. Prevention, detention and place of trial of offences under sections 4
and 6.–

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, the Central Government or the State Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, authorise one or more persons who shall be competent to
act under this Act:Provided that the person so authorised may, if he has
reasonable ground for believing that any person has committed an offence under
section 4 or section 6, may detain such person unless the accused person
furnishes his name and address, and otherwise satisfies the officer detaining
him that he will duly answer any summons or other proceedings which may be
taken against him.(2)Any person detained under sub-section (1) shall forthwith
be taken before Magistrate to be dealt with according to law.(3)Any person
committing an offence under section 4 or section 6 shall be triable for such
offence in any place in which he may be or which the State Government may
notify in this behalf, as well as in any other place in which he is liable to
be tried under any law for the time being in force.(4)Every notification
issued under sub-sections (1) and (3) shall be published in the Official
Gazette, and a copy thereof shall be exhibited for information to the public
in some conspicuous place or places as the State Government may
direct.(5)Every person authorised under sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be
a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45
of 1860).

### 26. Offences by companies.–

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation.–For
the purposes of this section,–(a)"company" means a body corporate and includes
a firm or other association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a
firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 27. Offences to be bailable.–

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2
of 1974), an offence punishable under this Act shall be bailable.

### 28. Composition of offences.–

(1)Any offence committed under section 4 or section 6 may either before or
after the institution of the prosecution be compounded by such officer
authorised by Central Government or State Government and for an amount which
may not exceed two hundred rupees.(2)Where an offence has been compounded
under sub-section (1), the offender, if in custody, shall be discharged and no
further proceedings shall be taken against him in respect of such offence.

### 29. Protection of action taken in good faith.–

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government or any State Government or any officer of the Central Government or
any State Government for anything which is in good faith done or intended to
be done under this Act.

### 30. Power to add any tobacco products in the Schedule.–

The Central Government, after giving by notification in the Official Gazette,
not less than three months' notice of its intention so to do, may, by like
notification, add any other tobacco product in respect of which it is of
opinion that advertisements are to be prohibited and its production, supply
and distribution is required to be regulated under this Act, and thereupon the
Schedule shall in its application to such products be deemed to be amended
accordingly.

### 31. Power of Central Government to make rules.–

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.(2)Without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:–(a)specify the form and manner in which warning
shall be given in respect of cigarettes or other tobacco products under clause
(o) of section 3;(b)specify the maximum permissible nicotine and tar contents
in cigarettes or other tobacco products under the proviso to sub-section (5)
of section 7;(c)specify the manner in which the specified warning shall be
inscribed on each package of cigarettes or other tobacco products or its label
under sub-section (2) of section 8;(d)specify the height of the letter or
figure or both to be used in specified warning or to indicate the nicotine and
tar contents in cigarettes or other tobacco products under section
10;(e)provide for the manner in which entry into and search of any premises is
to be conducted and the manner in which the seizure of any package of
cigarettes or other tobacco products shall be made and the manner in which
seizure list shall be prepared and delivered to the person from whose custody
any package of cigarettes or other tobacco products has been seized;(f)provide
for any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Every
rule made under this Act and every notification made under section 30 shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament,
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be
comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before
the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive
sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule
or notification or both Houses agree that the rule or notification should not
be made, the rule or notification shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or notification.

### 32. Act not to apply to cigarettes of other tobacco products which are
exported.–

Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to any cigarette or other tobacco
products or package of cigarettes or other tobacco products which is
exported:Provided that nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorise
the export of any package of cigarettes or other tobacco products, not
containing the specified warning and indication of nicotine and tar contents
to any country if the law in force in that country requires that the same or
similar warning and nicotine and tar contents shall be specified on each
package of cigarettes or other tobacco products.Explanation.–For the purpose
of this section, any cigarette or other tobacco products or package of
cigarettes or other tobacco products shall be deemed to be exported before the
commencement of this Act, if the necessary steps for export have already been
taken notwithstanding that the actual export has not taken place.

### 33. Repeal and savings.–

(1)The Cigarettes (Regulation of Production, Supply and Distribution) Act,
1975 (49 of 1975), is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything
done or any action taken under the provisions of the aforesaid Act, shall, in
so far as such thing or action is not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, be deemed to have been done or taken under the provisions of this Act as
if the said provisions were in force when such thing was done or such action
was taken and shall continue in force accordingly until superseded by anything
done or any action taken under this Act.

## [See section 3(p)]

(1)Cigarettes(2)Cigars(3)Cheroots(4)Beedis(5)Cigarette tobacco, pipe tobacco
and hookah tobacco(6)Chewing tobacco(7)Snuff(8)Pan masala or any chewing
material having tobacco as one of its ingredients (by whatever name
called).(9)Gutka(10)Tooth powder containing tobacco.

