## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (ELEVENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1961

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (ELEVENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1961

## Act 11 of 1961

  * Published in Gazette of India on 24 November 1961 
  * Commenced on 19 December 1961 
  * [This is the version of this document from 24 November 1961.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Eleventh
Amendment) Bill, 1961 which was enacted as the Constitution (Eleventh
Amendment) Act, 1961_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS**

### 1. Under article 66(1) of the Constitution, the Vice-President has to be
elected by members of both Houses of Parliament assembled at a joint meeting.
The requirement that members of the two Houses should assemble at a joint
sitting for the election of the Vice-President seems to be totally unnecessary
and may also cause practical difficulties. It is, therefore, proposed to amend
this article to provide that the Vice-President will be elected by members of
an electoral college consisting of members of both Houses of Parliament. Under
article 54 of the Constitution, the President is elected by an electoral
college consisting of the elected members of both Houses of Parliament and of
the Legislative Assemblies of the States. Every effort is made to complete
such elections before the date of the Presidential election. It is, however,
possible that the elections to the two Houses of Parliament may not be
completed before the President or the Vice-President is elected. It is,
therefore, proposed to amend article 7 1 of the Constitution so as to make it
clear that the election of the President or the Vice-President cannot be
challenged on the ground of any vacancy for any reason in the appropriate
electoral college.

### 2. The Bill seeks to achieve these objects. The notes on clauses appended
to the Bill explain the provisions thereof.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Twelfth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1\. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Eleventh Amendment) Act,
1961.(2)Amendment of article 66.-In article 66 of the Constitution, in clause
(1), for the words "members of both Houses of Parliament assembled at a joint
meeting", the words "members of an electoral college consisting of the members
of both Houses of Parliament" shall be substituted.

### 3. Amendment of article 71.-

In article 71 of the Constitution, after clause (3), the following clause
shall be inserted, namely:-"(4) The election of a person as President or Vice-
President shall not be called in question on the ground of the existence of
any vacancy for whatever reason among the members of the electoral college
electing him.".[The Constitution (Eleventh Amendment) Act, 1961, eliminates
the need for members of both Houses of Parliament to meet in person to elect
the Vice-President. Instead, a new electoral college comprising members from
both Houses was created to carry out the election process. This change, which
added a new clause (4) to Article 71 of the Constitution, represents an
important step towards democratization and inclusivity in the Indian political
system. By making the process more efficient and streamlined, the amendment
enhances the functioning of the electoral process for the Vice-President. Also
refer ]

