## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Chennai Corporation Servants Conduct Rules, 1968

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Chennai Corporation Servants Conduct Rules, 1968

## Rule THE-CHENNAI-CORPORATION-SERVANTS-CONDUCT-RULES-1968 of 1968

  * Published on 9 February 1970 
  * Commenced on 9 February 1970 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 February 1970.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Chennai Corporation Servants Conduct Rules, 1968Published vide
Notification G.O.Ms. No. 192, Rural Development and Local Administration,
dated 9th February, 1970

### 1. Short title and application.

\- These rules may be called the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Corporation Servants
Conduct Rules, 1968.They shall apply to all persons appointed to Corporation
services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Corporation other
than members of All India Services and State Government services, who are
subject to the conduct rules applicable to their respective services, whether
on duty, leave or on foreign service.Unless otherwise, provided, these rules
shall not apply to the Corporation Legal Adviser and other officials who are
not full time officers, but are engaged by the Corporation to do specified
work without prejudice to the regular exercise of their profession in other
respects.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"Corporation"
means the Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.];(2)"Corporation servant"
means any person appointed to any service or post in connection with the
affairs of the Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.];Explanation. - A
Corporation servant whose services are placed by the Corporation at the
disposal of the State Government, a company, Corporation or Organisation or
another local authority shall, for the purposes of these rules, be deemed to
be a Corporation servant serving under the Corporation, notwithstanding that
his salary is drawn from sources other than from the funds of the Corporation
of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.].(3)"Head of the department" means the Commissioner,
Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
(Second Amendment) Order, 1969.];(4)"Members of the family" in relation to
Corporation servant includes-(i)the wife, child or step child of such
Corporation servant, whether residing with him or not and in relation to a
Corporation servant who is a woman, the husband residing with her and
dependent on her, and(ii)any other person related, whether by blood or by
marriage to the Corporation servant or to such Corporation servant's wife,
wife or husband, and wholly dependent on such Corporation servant, but does
not include a wife or husband legally separated from the Corporation servant,
or a child or step child who is no longer in any way dependent upon him or
her, or of whose, custody the Corporation servant has been deprived of by law.

### 3. Gifts.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in these rules, no Corporation servant shall,
except with the previous sanction of the Government, accept or permit his wife
or any other member of his family to accept from any person any gift:Provided
that the sanction of Government shall not be necessary for the acceptance
of-(a)gift from a person other than a person (friend or relative) of a value
not exceeding Rs. 50 (Rupees fifty only) or 1 /4th (one-fourth) of the monthly
emoluments of the Corporation servant concerned, whichever is less, on
occasions other than those covered by sub-clause (b);(b)gifts from a personal
friend of a value not exceeding Rs. 200 (Rupees two hundred only) on special
occasions, such as weddings, anniversaries, funerals and religious functions
when the making or receiving of such gifts is in conformity with the
prevailing religious or social customs;(c)gifts from relatives without any
monetary limit regarding their value on special occasions, such as weddings,
anniversaries, funerals and religious functions when the making or receiving
of such gifts is in conformity with the prevailing religious or social
customs.Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-rule, any towel, key or
other similar articles offered to a Corporation servant at the laying of a
foundation stone or the opening of a public building or any ceremonial
function shall be deemed to be a gift.(2)If any question arises, whether any
gift is one which can be accepted without the permission of the Government or
if a Corporation servant is in any doubt whether a gift offered to him is one
which can be accepted without the permission of the Government, a reference
shall be made to the Government through proper channel by such Corporation
servant and the decision of the Government thereon shall be final.(3)Nothing
in this rule shall be deemed to prevent any Corporation servant from sitting
at the request of any public body, for a portrait, bust, or statue not
intended for presentation to him.(4)Corporation servants shall not make a
habitual use of vehicles and animals belonging to persons other than a member
of their family or to travel, free of charge, in any vehicle plying for hire.

### 4. Public demonstrations in honour of Corporation servants.

\- No Corporation servant shall, except with the previous sanction of the
Government, receive any complimentary or valedictory address or accept any
testimonial or attend any meeting or entertainment held in his honour, or in
the honour of any other Corporation servant:Provided that nothing in this rule
shall apply to -(i)a farewell entertainment of a substantially private and
informal character held in honour of a Corporation servant or any other
Corporation servant on the occasion of his retirement or transfer, of any
person who has recently quit the service of the Corporation ; or(ii)the
acceptance of simple and inexpensive entertainments arranged by public bodies,
or institutions; or(iii)the sitting for, or acceptance of, a copy of a group
photograph of the officers, and servants of his office or department on the
occasion of his transfer or retirement.

### 5. Subscription.

(1)Save as provided in sub-rule (3), no Corporation servant shall, except with
the previous sanction of the Government or of such authority as may be
empowered by them in this behalf, ask for or accept contributions to or
otherwise associate himself with the raising of any funds in pursuance of any
object whatsoever.(2)Permission may, after due consideration, be accorded in
all cases where the Government support the institution concerned byway of
grants or otherwise.(3)In the case of Flag Day collections, Corporation
servants may participate on a voluntary basis.

### 6. Investments, lending and borrowing.

(1)No Corporation servant shall speculate in any investment.Explanation. - The
habitual purchase or sale of securities of a notoriously fluctuating value
shall be deemed to be speculation in investments within the meaning of this
sub-rule.(2)No Corporation servant shall make or permit his wife or any other
member of his family to make any investment likely to embarrass or influence
him in the discharge of his official duties.(3)If any question arises whether
a security or investment is of the nature referred to in sub-rule (1) or sub-
rule (2), the decision of the Government thereon shall be final.(4)No
Corporation servant shall, except with the previous sanction of the
Government, lend money to any person possessing land or valuable property
within the local limits of his authority or at interest to any personProvided
that a Corporation servant may make an advance of pay to a private servant, or
give a loan of a small amount free of interest to a personal friend or
relative, even if such person possesses land or valuable property within the
local limits of his authority.(5)No Corporation servant shall, save in the
ordinary course of business with a bank or a firm of standing, borrow money
from or otherwise place himself under pecuniary obligation to any person
within the local limits, of his authority, or any other person, with whom he
is likely to have official dealing nor shall he permit any member of his
family, except with the previous sanction of the Government, to enter into any
such transaction :Provided that a Corporation servant may accept a purely
temporary loan of small amount, free of interest, from a personal friend or
relative or operate a credit account with a bonafide tradesman.(6)When a
Corporation servant appointed or transferred to a post of such a nature as to
involve him in the breach of any of the provisions of sub-rule (4) or sub-rule
(5), he shall forthwith report the circumstances to the Government and shall,
thereafter, act in accordance with such orders as may be passed by the
Government.(7)Corporation servants may become members of, and place deposits
in,non-agricultural co-operative societies including the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.] State Cooperative Bank Limited and other Central Banks.(8)Corporation
servants may place deposits in, and purchase debentures of, the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.] Co-operative Central Land Mortgage Bank Limited, but shall not hold any
office therein or take any part in the management thereof.(9)A Corporation
servant may, with the previous sanction of the Head of the Department, become
a member of a land mortgage bank or house mortgage bank, provided that he
already owns land or house, as the case may be, in the area within the
jurisdiction of such bank, but shall not hold any office therein or take any
part in the management thereof.(10)If a Corporation servant is appointed or
transferred to any area within the jurisdiction of a land mortgage bank or
house mortgage bank of which he is a member, he shall, at once, bring the fact
to the notice of his immediate superior who, if he has authority to do so, may
re-post the Corporation servant to an area outside the jurisdiction of that
bank, or if he has no authority to do so, submit the case for the orders of
the officer having such authority.(11)Corporation servants may take out
insurance policies from, and become members, of the South India Co-operative
Insurance Society Limited.(12)Corporation servants may become members of Co-
operative House' Building Societies.Explanation. - Co-operative house building
societies aforesaid shall include all types of co-operative societies whose
object is the construction of houses for their members or the grant of loans
for such construction by their members.(13)Notwithstanding anything contained
in this rule, a Corporation servant may borrow money from a co-operative
society of which he is a member, provided that where the borrowing is on
personal security, the surety shall be of a status equal to or higher than
that of the borrower.(14)The prohibition against lending and borrowing of
money applied to all loans, credits, advances, supply of articles or
accommodation at unduly low rates or for insufficient consideration and to
sales of property for inordinately low prices.(15)The fact that a Corporation
servant lending money is acting as an executor, administrator or as a trustee
without profit or advantage to himself shall not exempt him from the operation
of this rule.(16)A Corporation servant who belongs to a joint Hindu family
carrying on the business of money lending as an ancestral profession is
exempted from the prohibition, provided he takes no active part in the
business and is not employed in a place in which the business of the joint
Hindu family is carried on.(17)A Corporation servant engaged in teaching is
prohibited from having pecuniary relations with any pupil or ex-pupil or
parent or guardian of any pupil or ex-pupil or with staff or establishments of
the school or college in which he is employed.

### 7. Movable, immovable and valuable property.

(1)No Corporation servant shall, except after notice to the prescribed
authority, acquire or dispose of any immovable property by lease, mortgage,
purchase, sale, gift, exchange or otherwise either in his own name or in the
name of any member of his family.Such a notice will be necessary even where
any immovable property is acquired by any member of the family of the
Corporation servant out of the resources of the Corporation servant:Provided
that any such transaction conducted otherwise than through regular or reputed
dealer, shall require the previous sanction of the prescribed
authority:Provided further that the previous sanction of the prescribed
authority shall not be necessary for the acquisition of immovable property
assigned by the Government to the Corporation servant.(2)A Corporation servant
who enters into transaction concerning any movable property exceeding five
hundred rupees in value, whether by way of purchase, sale or otherwise, shall
forthwith report such transaction to the prescribed authority:Provided that no
Corporation servant shall enter into any such transaction except with or
through a regular or reputed dealer or agent or with the previous sanction of
the said prescribed authority :Provided further that a Corporation servant,
who is about to quit the local limits of his official authority may, without
reference to the prescribed authority, dispose of any of his movable property
by circulating lists of it among the public generally or by causing it to be
sold by public auction.Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-rule, the
expression "movable property" includes the following property,
namely:-(a)Jewellery, insurance policies, shares, securities and
debentures;(b)loans, advances by such Corporation servant, whether secured or
not; or(c)motor cars, motor cycles, horses or any other means of conveyance;
and(d)refrigerators, radios and radiograms.For the purpose of sub-rules (1)
and (2), the Tamil Nadu State Housing Board constituted under the [Tamil Nadu]
[This Act was repealed and re-enacted as the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies
Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1983).] State Housing Board Act, 1961 [Tamil
Nadu] [This Act was repealed and re-enacted as the Tamil Nadu Co-operative
Societies Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1983).] Act 17 of 1961) or any
Housing Unit established by the said Board or a society registered or deemed
to be registered as a co-operative society under the [Tamil Nadu] [This Act
was repealed and re-enacted as the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1983
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1983).] Co-operative Societies Act, 1961 ([Tamil Nadu]
[This Act was repealed and re-enacted as the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies
Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1983).] Act 53 of 1961), shall be deemed to be
a regular or reputed dealer.(3)Every Corporation servant shall on his first
appointment to any of the Corporation services and to the posts of Assistant
Commissioners and Personal Assistant to the Commissioner under the Corporation
and thereafter at intervals of every twelve months submit a return as required
by sub-rule (7) in Form A appended to these rules of all immovable properties
owned, acquired or inherited by him or held by him on lease or mortgage either
in his own name or in the name of any member of his family or in the name of
any other person.(4)The Government or any authority or officer empowered by
them in this behalf may, at any time by general or special order require a
Corporation servant of such movable or immovable property held or acquired by
him or by any member of his family as maybe specified in the order. Such
statement shall, if so required by the Government or by the authority or
officer so empowered include details of the means by which or the source from
which such properly was acquired.(5)(a)The prescribed authority for the
purposes of this rule shall be the Commissioner, Corporation of [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).].(b)In respect of a Corporation servant
on foreign service or on deputation to any other local body or Government, the
prescribed authority shall be the Commissioner, Corporation of [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).].(6)Whenever a Corporation servant by
inheritance, succession or bequest becomes possessed of immovable property in
the place in which he is employed or of such interest in such immovable
properly as contemplated by this rule, he shall communicate all particulars
thereof through the usual channel to the prescribed authority.(7)Every member
of a Corporation service and every person holding the posts of Assistant
Commissioner and Personal Assistant to the Commissioner under the Corporation
shall submit not later than the 15th January each year, through the usual
channel to the prescribed authority, a statement in Form A appended to these
rules, showing all the immovable property of which he stood possessed or in
which he had an interest at the close of the preceding calendar year:Provided
that if in any year a Corporation servant has neither acquired nor
relinquished or otherwise disposed of any immovable property or any interest
in immovable property, he need not submit the statement referred to in this
sub-rule (7):Provided further that in respect of immovable property acquired
by any member of his family, a Corporation servant shall furnish a certificate
to the prescribed authority in the following form along with the statement of
immovable property referred to in this sub-rule.The immovable properties
mentioned in the statement annexed have been purchased by (here give the name
of the purchaser etc., and the nature of relationship to Corporation servant)
out of funds not belonging to me and have no responsibility in regard to the
transaction.(8)If a Corporation servant received an order of transfer to a
place in which he possesses or has an interest in immovable property, he
shall, at once, bring the fact to the notice of his immediate official
superiors.(9)The head of the department shall maintain a register in Form B
appended to these rules, showing all immovable property held by each
Corporation servant and shall revise it each year with reference to the
particulars furnished under sub-rule (7).(10)Any attempt to mislead and any
failure to give full and correct information shall render the Corporation
servant concerned liable to dismissal from Corporation service.(11)Tire
restriction on the acquisition and possession of immovable property shall
apply to the acquisition and possession of any personal interest in such
property and to the acquisition and possession of such property by a
Corporation servant in the name of any other person, but not to the
acquisition or possession of an interest as trustee, executor or administrator
only.(12)Except in accordance with the Standing Orders of the [Board of
Revenue] [By virtue of section 10(1) of the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue
Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980), any reference to the Board of
Revenue shall be deemed-to be a reference to the State Government of the
appropriate authority specified in the notification under sub-section (1)
section 4 of the said Act.], no Government land shall be sold or granted on
lease to any Corporation servant whether in permanent or temporary
employment.(13)(a)A Corporation servant shall not ordinarily be allowed to
acquire land within the city limits in which he is serving. Permission for
such acquisition shall be granted only in very special circumstances.(b)A
Corporation servant may usually be permitted to acquire immovable property
outside the city limits in which he is serving. But, when on transfer to a
place in which he holds immovable property, a Corporation servant makes the
report required by sub-rule (15). The authority responsible shall ordinarily
transfer him to another place, but if such transfer is not possible in the
public interest, may require to divest himself of such property.(c)An annual
statement shall be submitted to the Government by the Head of the Department
not later than the 15th January in each year, of cases in which special
permission has been granted by him,-(i)the acquisition by a Corporation
servant of immovable property in the place in which he is employed; and(ii)the
retention by a Corporation servant of immovable property in a place to which
he has been transferred.(d)Nothing contained in classes (a) to (c) shall apply
to the acquisition of land including house sites through the Tamil Nadu State
Housing Board constituted under the Tamil Nadu State Housing Board Act, 1961
(Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1961) or any Housing Unit established by the said Board
or a society registered or deemed to be registered as a co-operative society
under the [Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1961] [This Act was repealed
and re-enacted by the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu
Act 30 of 1983).] (Tamil Nadu Act 53 of 1961) or any other law for the time
being in force,(14)In the case of a family governed by the Marumakkathayam or
Aliyasantana Law, a junior member who is a Corporation servant shall not
ordinarily be required to obtain sanction when immovable property is acquired
by the managing member on behalf of the family, but this exception shall not
apply to any acquisition, even though made in the name of the Karnavan or
Yejman if it is shown that it is really intended to be the self acquired
property of the Corporation servant.(15)The annual return shall include all
immovable property acquired or registered in the name of the Corporation
servant either on his own account or as a trustee, executor or administrator,
or temple mirasdar, or acquired or registered in the name of or held or
managed by, his wife or by any other member of his family living with, or in
any way dependent on him. In the case of a Corporation servant who follows the
Marumakkathayam or Aliyasanthana Law, the statement shall include acquisition
of immovable property by his consort.

### 8. Private trade or employment.

(1)No Corporation servant shall, except with the previous sanction of the
Government, engage himself directly or indirectly in any trade or business or
undertake any employment:Provided that a Corporation servant may, without such
sanction, undertake honorary work of a social or charitable nature or
occasional work of a literary, artistic or scientific character, subject to
the condition that his official duties do not thereby suffer; but he shall not
undertake, or shall discontinue such work if so directed by the
Government:Provided further that nothing contained in this sub-rule shall be
deemed to require a Corporation servant who is nominated by the Governor as a
member of an official body or a non-official body or an organisation or who
seeks election as a member of a University body by virtue of the post of
Headmaster held by him to obtain the previous sanction of the Government for
undertaking and discharging his duties as such member.Explanation. -
Canvassing by a Corporation servant in support of the business of insurance
agency and such like owned or managed by his wife or any other member of his
family shall be deemed to be a breach of this sub-rule.(2)No Corporation
servant shall, except with the previous sanction of the Government,, take part
in the registration, promotion or management of any bank or company registered
under the Banking Companies Act, 1949 (Central Act X of 1949), or the Indian
Companies Act, 1913 (Central Act VII of 1913), or the Companies Act, 1956
(Central Act I of 1956), or any other law for the time being in force
:Provided that a Corporation servant may, subject to sub-rules (7) to (10),
take part in the registration, promotion or management of a co-operative
society registered or deemed to be registered under the [Tamil Nadu Co-
operative Societies Act, 1961] [This Act was repealed and re-enacted by the
Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1983).]
(Tamil Nadu Act 53 of 1961) or any other law for the time being in force or of
a literary, scientific or charitable society registered under the Societies
Registration Act, 1860 (Central Act 21 of 1860), or any other law for the time
being in force.(3)(a)A Corporation servant shall not act as Arbitrator in any
case without the sanction of the head of the department, unless he be so
directed to act by a Court having authority to appoint an Arbitrator.(b)No
Corporation servant shall act as an Arbitrator in any case which is likely to
come before him in any shape by virtue of executive office which he may be
holding.(c)If a Corporation servant acts as arbitrator at the private request
of disputants, he shall not accept any fees.(d)If he acts by appointment of a
Court of law, he may, notwithstanding anything contained in Subsidiary Rule 4
under Fundamental Rules 46 and 47, accept such fees, as the Court may
fix.(4)(a)A Corporation servant shall not, without the permission of the
Government, publish any book or engage himself habitually in literary or
artistic work of any kind.(b)Permission to publish a book shall ordinarily be
given subject to the condition that the Corporation servant does not use his
time and official influence for promoting the sale of copies of the
book.(c)Permission to accept remuneration on "royalty basis" from the
publishers shall be given in all cases except in the case of text books for
use in educational institutions. In the case of text books, permission to
accept remuneration shall be given subject to the condition that the
Corporation servant retains no interest in the sale of copies of the book and
that he receives only a lump sum as remuneration from the
publisher.Explanation. - For determining whether a book is a text book or is a
general book, the chief consideration shall be whether it is being submitted
to the Text Book Committee, in the case of text books for elementary and
secondary schools and whether it is a book written according to tire syllabus
prescribed by the University and is being submitted to the appropriate
University body for approval, in case of text books for colleges. A general
book which may later happen to be approved as a text book shall not be deemed
to be a text book for the purpose of this clause.(d)While applying to the
Government for permission to publish a book which relates to acts or policies
of Government, the Corporation servant-shall submit to the Government for
scrutiny a manuscript copy thereof.(e)No Corporation servant who is a member
of the Text Book Committee shall write or edit any text book for use in a
recognized school during his membership of the Committee.Explanation. - A
recognized school shall mean a school maintained by, or opened with the
sanction of the Government or to which recognition has been accorded under the
Tamil Nadu Educational Rules or under the rules framed under the Tamil Nadu
Elementary Education Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of 1920).(5)A Corporation
servant may, without the previous permission of the Commissioner, engage for
driving his car, the peon assigned to him, but such engagement shall be a
private engagement between the officer and the peon and shall not form part
of, or interfere in any maimer with the normal official duties of such
peon.(6)The employment of a Corporation servant or a person in the Class IV.
establishment by an officer in making purchases or in any private ma tiers in
which the receipt or expenditure of money is concerned is most strictly
prohibited. Nothing in this rule shall preclude an officer from employing a
Corporation servant or a person in the Class IV establishment for providing
for him a conveyance of necessary supplies while he is travelling on duty,
though in all such transactions constant vigilance is needed to prevent
cheating and extortion.(7)No Medical Officer shall maintain or have any
financial interest in a private nursing home, hospital or similar
establishment nor shall be habitually accommodate paying patients in his own
residence for more than 24 hours. He may, however, treat patients in a private
nursing home, provided that the home is not reserved for the admission of his
own cases and allows the admission of patients of any other registered medical
practitioner.(8)No Corporation servant shall accept a paid employment in any
company, mutual benefit society or co-operative society or act as an agent,
whether paid by salary or commission to any insurance company or
society:Provided that a Corporation servant may take part in the management of
a mutual benefit society, if he has first obtained the sanction of the head of
the department and a certificate from him to the effect that the work
undertaken will be performed without detriment to his official duties and such
Corporation servant does not accept any remuneration.(9)Corporation servants
shall be at liberty to take part in the promotion of co-operative societies,
but no Corporation servant shall, except with the sanction of the Government,
hold office in any co-operative society or serve on any committee appointed
for the management of its affairs unless the society is composed wholly of
Corporation servants or partly of Corporation servants and partly of employees
of Government:Provided that the Corporation servants may hold office in co-
operative house building societies or serve on any committee appointed for the
management of its affairs.Explanation. - Co-operative house building societies
aforesaid shall include all types of co-operative societies whose object is
the construction of houses for their members or the grant of loans for such
construction by their members.(10)Subject to the sanction and certificate
referred in sub-rule (8) and notwithstanding anything contained in Subsidiary
Rule 4 under Fundamental Rules 46 and 47, a Corporation servant who is a
member of co-operative society composed wholly of Corporation servants or
partly of Government may accept remuneration for keeping the accounts of the
society.(11)The head of the department may grant permission to Corporation
servants to attend and take part in such of the meetings, conferences and
committees in which the Government have agreed to participate.

### 9. Insolvency and habitual indebtedness.

\- A Corporation servant shall endeavor to avoid habitual indebtedness or
insolvency. If a Corporation servant is adjudged or declared insolvent, or has
incurred debts aggregating a sum which, in ordinary circumstances, he could
not repay within a period of two years or if a part of his salary is
frequently attached for a period of two years, or is attached for a sum which,
in ordinary circumstances, he could not repay within a period of two years, he
shall be presumed to have contravened this rule. But, he shall not be so
deemed if he proves that insolvency or indebtedness is the result of
circumstances, which, with the exercise of ordinary diligence, he could not
have foreseen or over which he had no control, and had not proceeded from
extravagant or dissipated habits. A Corporation servant who becomes the
subject of legal proceedings for insolvency shall forthwith report the full
facts to the head of the department.

### 10. Unauthorised communication of information.

(1)No Corporation servant shall, except in accordance with any general or
special order of the Government or in the performance in good faith of the
duties assigned to him, communicate, directly or indirectly, any official
document or information to any Corporation servant or any other person to whom
he is not authorized to communicate such document or information.(2)Sub-rule
(1) shall apply to the Corporation Legal Adviser and other officials who are
not full time officers, but are engaged by the Corporation to do specified
work without prejudice to the regular exercise of their profession in other
respects.

### 11. Connection with Press, Television or Radio.

(1)No Corporation servant shall, except with the previous sanction of the
Government, own wholly or in part or conduct or participate in the editing or
managing of any newspaper or other periodical publication.(2)No Corporation
servant shall, except with the previous sanction of the head of the department
or of any authority or officer empowered by them in this behalf or in the bona
fide discharge of his duties, contribute any article or write any letter
either anonymously or in his own name or in the name of any other person to
any newspaper or other periodical publication:Provided that no such sanction
shall be required if such contribution or writing is of a purely literary,
artistic or scientific character.(3)No Corporation servant shall, except with
the previous sanction of the head of the department or of any authority or
officer empowered by them in this behalf or in the bona fide discharge of his
duties, participate in a television programme or radio broadcast:.Provided
that no such sanction shall be required, if such television" programme or
radio broadcast is of a purely literary, artistic or scientific character or
if the Corporation servant concerned has responsibility at the policy making
level or at the implementation level for the subject of the television
programme or radio broadcast.(4)A Corporation servant who is invited or who
wishes to participate in a television programme or to deliver a radio
broadcast talk and has to obtain the previous sanction under sub-rule (3),
shall intimate to the head of the department through the proper channel the
particulars relating to the television programme or the subject of the radio
broadcast talk and if so required shall submit the full material relating to
the television programme or the full text of the radio broadcast talk for
their approval before participating in the television programme or before the
radio broadcast talk is delivered.(5)The provision of sub-rules (3) and (4)
shall apply mutatis mutandisto the playing of prepared "recitals" of
gramophone records.(6)This rule shall apply to the Corporation Legal Advisers
and other officials who are not full time officers, but are engaged by the
Corporation to do specified work without prejudice to the regular exercise of
their profession in other respects.

### 12. [ Criticism of Corporation Council, State Government and the Central
Government. [Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 2009, R.D. & L.A. dated the 30th
November 1978.]

(1)No Corporation servant shall, in any radio broadcast or in any document
published, anonymously or in his own name or in the name of any other person
or in any communication to the press or in any public utterance, make any
statement of fact or opinion-(i)which has the effect of an adverse criticism
on any current or recent policy or action of the Corporation Council, the
State Government or the Central Government;(ii)which is capable of
embarrassing the relations between the Corporation Council and the Government
of any State or Central Government;(iii)which is capable of embarrassing the
relations between the Central Government and the Government of any foreign
State :Provided that nothing in this rule shall apply to any statement made or
views expressed by a Corporation servant in his official capacity or in the
due performance of the duties assigned to him.(2)A Corporation servant shall
not, except in the discharge of his official duties, preside over, or take
part in the organisation or occupy a prominent position at, or address, any
non-official meeting or conference at which it is likely that speeches may be
made or resolutions may be proposed or passed criticising the action of the
Corporation Council or the Government or requesting the Corporation Council or
the Government to take certain action other than to make grants admissible
under Government rules or orders in support of educational or similar
institutions.Explanation. - Regularly convened meetings for the transaction of
their legitimate business of Corporation Council, Municipal Councils and
similar bodies established by law or created by the Government and of
associations of Corporation servants recognised by the Government and of
committees or branches of such bodies or associations and meetings called by
the Sheriff of [Chennai] are not "non-official" meetings for the purpose of
this rule.(3)Nothing contained in this rule shall be deemed to prohibit any
Corporation servant from participating in discussions at any private meeting
solely of Corporation servants or of any recognised association of Corporation
servants, of matters which affect the personal interests of such servants
individually or generally:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-rule
shall be construed to limit or abridge the power of the Corporation Council to
require any Corporation servant to publish and explain any policy or action of
the Government in such manner as may appear to them to be expedient or
necessary.(4)A Corporation servant who intends to publish any document or to
make any communication to the press or to deliver any public utterance
containing statements in respect of which any doubt as to the application of
the restrictions imposed by this rule may arise, shall submit to the
Corporation Council, a copy or draft of the document which he intends to
publish or of the utterance which he intends to deliver, and shall,
thereafter, act in accordance with such orders as may be passed by the
Corporation Council.(5)This rule shall apply to the Corporation Legal Advisors
and other officials who are not full time officers, but are engaged by the
Corporation to do specified work without prejudice to the regular exercise of
their profession in other respects.]

### 13. Evidence before Committee or any other authority.

(1)Save as provided in sub-rule (3), no Corporation servant shall, except with
the previous sanction of the Commissioner, give evidence in connection with
any inquiry conducted by any person, committee or authority.(2)Where any
sanction has been accorded under sub-rule (1), no Corporation servant giving
such evidence shall criticise the policy or any action of the Corporation
Council, Central Government or of a State Government.(3)Nothing in this rule
shall apply to-(a)evidence given at an enquiry before an authority appointed
by the Government, or by Parliament or by a State Legislature ; or(b)evidence
given in any judicial inquiry; or(c)evidence given at any departmental inquiry
ordered by the head of the department or the Government.(4)This rule shall
apply to the Corporation Legal Advisors and other officials who are not full
time officers, but are engaged by the Corporation to do specified work without
prejudice to the regular exercise of their profession in other respects.

### 14. Taking part in politics and elections.

(1)No Corporation servant shall be a member of, or be otherwise associated
with any political party or any organisation which takes part in politics nor
shall take part in, subscribe in aid of, or assist in any other manner, any
political movement or activity.(2)It shall be the duty of every Corporation
servant to endeavour to prevent any member of his family from taking part in,
subscribing in aid of, or assisting in any other manner, any movement or
activity, which is, or tends directly or indirectly to be subversive of the
Government as by law established or die Corporation and where a Corporation
servant is unable to prevent a member of his family from taking part in, or
subscribing in aid of, or assisting in any manner, any such movement or
activity, he shall make a report to that effect to the Government.(3)If any
question arises whether any movement or activity falls within the scope of
this rule, the decision of the Government thereon shall be final.(4)No
Corporation servant shall canvass or otherwise interfere or use his influence
in connection with, or take part in, an election to any legislature or local
authority:Provided that -(i)a Corporation servant qualified to vote at such
election may exercise his right to vote, but where he does so, he shall give
no indication of the manner in which he proposes to vote or has voted;(ii)a
Corporation servant shall not be deemed to have contravened the provisions of
this rule by reason only that he assists in the conduct of an election in the
due performance of a duty imposed on him by or under any law for the time
being in force.Explanation. - (1) Nothing contained in this sub-rule shall be
deemed to prohibit the wife of a Corporation servant or any other member of
his family living with, or in any way depending on him from standing for
election to any legislature or to any local authority and from canvassing for
other candidates.Explanation. - (2) The display by a Corporation servant on
his personal vehicle or residence of any electoral symbol shall amount to
using his influence in connection with an election within the meaning of this
sub-rule.(5)Seditious propaganda or the expressing of disloyal sentiments by a
Corporation servant shall be regarded as sufficient ground for dispensing with
his services. Such a conduct in the case of a pensioner shall be dealt with
under Article 351 of the Civil Service Regulations.(6)A Corporation servant
proposing or seconding the nomination of a candidate at an election or acting
as a polling agent shall be deemed to have committed a breach of this
rule.(7)The above rule shall apply to the Corporation Legal Advisors arid
other officials who are not full lime officers, but are engaged by the
Corporation to do specified work without prejudice to the regular service of
their profession in other respects.

### 15. Vindication of acts and character of Corporation servants.

(1)No Corporation servant shall, except with the previous sanction on the head
of the department, have recourse to any Court or to the press forthe
vindication of any official act which has been the subject matter of adverse
criticism or attack of defamatory character.Explanation. - Nothing in this
rule shall be deemed to prohibit a Corporation servant from vindicating his
private character or any act done by him in his private capacity.(2)No
Corporation servant shall, except with the previous sanction of the head of
the department, accept from any person or body of persons compensation of any
kind for any malicious prosecution brought against him or for any defamatory
attack made on his public acts of character, unless such compensation has been
awarded by a competent Court.

### 16. Membership of Service Associations.

(1)No Corporation servant shall be a member, representative or officer of any
association representing, or purporting to represent, Corporation servants or
any class of Corporation servants, unless such association satisfies the
following conditions, namely:-(a)Membership of the association shall be
confirmed to a distinct class of Corporation servants and shall be open to all
Corporation servants of that class.(b)The association shall not be in any way
connected with, or affiliated to,-(i)any association which does not; or(ii)any
federation or associations which do not, satisfy condition (a);(c)The
association shall not be in any way connected with any political party or
organisations, or engage in any political activity;(d)The association shall
not-(i)issue or maintain any periodical publication except in accordance with
any general or special order of the Government;(ii)except with the previous
sanction of the Government, publish any representation on behalf of its
members, whether in the press or otherwise;(iii)in respect of any election to
a legislative body, whether in India or elsewhere, or to a local authority or
body -(a)pay, or contribute towards, any expenses incurred in connection with
his candidature by a candidate for such election;(b)by any means support the
candidature of any person for such election; or(c)undertake or assist in the
registration of electors, or the selection of a candidate for such
election;(iv)maintain or contribute towards the maintenance of any member of a
legislative body, whether in India or elsewhere, or of any member of a local
authority or body; or(v)pay, on contribute towards the expenses of any trade
union which has constituted a fund under section 16 of the Indian Trade Unions
Act, 1926 (Central Act XVI of 1926):Provided that the Government may, for
reasons to be recorded in writing by general or special order, dispense with
conditions (a) and (b) in the case of any Association.(2)No Corporation
servant shall join or continue to be a member of any service association of
Corporation servants-(a)which has not, within a period of six months from its
formation, obtained the recognition of the Government; or(b)recognition in
respect of which has been refused or withdrawn by the Government:Provided that
the Corporation servant may join or continue to be a member of any service
association of Corporation servants, if such association is a branch of, or
affiliated to, any service association of Corporation servants which has
obtained the recognition of the Government or in respect of which recognition
has not been refused or withdrawn by the Government.

### 17. Employment under or with near relatives in service and employment of
near relatives in firms enjoying Corporation patronage.

(1)(a)Every member of a Corporation service shall inform the head of the
department of any reason that there may be, why it is undesirable in the
public interest that he should be employed in a particular circle or division
such as the near relationship of himself or his wife to any person or persons
residing in that circle or division.(b)Every member of a Corporation service
shall inform the head of the department if a member of a Corporation service
closely related to him is posted to work under him.(2)No Corporation servant
belonging to any State service shall, except with the previous sanction of the
Corporation, permit his son, daughter or dependent to accept employment with
any private firm with which he has official dealings or with any other firm
having official dealings with the Corporation:Provided that where the
acceptance of the employment cannot await the prior permission of the
Corporation or is otherwise considered urgent, the matter shall be reported to
the Corporation and the employment may be accepted provisionally subject to
the permission of the Corporation.(3)No Corporation servant shall, in the
discharge of his official duties, deal with any matter or give or sanction any
contract to any undertaking or any other person if any member of his family is
employed in that undertaking or under that person or if he or any member of
his family is interested in such matter or contract in any other manner and
the Corporation servant shall refer every such matter or contract to the head
of the department and the matter or contract shall, thereafter, be disposed of
according to the instructions of the authority to whom the reference is made.

### 18. Canvassing of non-official or other outside influence.

\- No Corporation servant shall bring or attempt to bring any political or
other outside influence to bear upon any superior authority to further his
interests in respect of matters pertaining to his service under the
Corporation.Explanation. - A Corporation servant causing his own case to be
made the subject of all interpellation in Corporation Council or the State
Legislature shall be deemed to have contravened this rule.

### 19. Bigamous marriages.

(1)No Corporation servant who has a wife living shall contract another
marriage without first obtaining the permission of the Commissioner,
notwithstanding that such subsequent marriage is permissible under the
personal law for the time being applicable to him.(2)No woman Corporation
servant shall marry any person who has a wife living, without first obtaining
the permission of the Commissioner.

### 20. Integrity and devotion to duty.

\- Every Corporation servant shall, at all times, maintain absolute integrity
and devotion to duty.

### 21. Strikes.

\- No Corporation servant shall engage himself in strike or in incitements
thereto or in similar activities.Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule,
the expression "similar activities" shall be deemed to include the absence
from work or neglect of duties without permission and with the object of
compelling something to be done by the Commissioner or the Government or any
demonstrative fast usually called "Hunger strike" for similar purposes.

### 22. Demonstration.

\- No Corporation servant shall engage himself or participate in any
demonstration which is prejudicial to the interests of the sovereignty and
integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign
states, public order, decency or morality, or which involves contempt of
Court, defamation or incitement to an offence.

### 23. Joining of Associations by Corporation servants.

\- No Corporation servant shall join or continue to be a member of an
association, the objects or activities of which are prejudicial to the
interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India or public order or
morality.

### 24. Consulting a medical practitioner for the purpose of obtaining leave.

\- It shall be the duty of every Corporation servant who consults a medical
practitioner with a view to obtain leave or an extension of leave on medical
certificate to disclose to that practitioner the fact of his having consulted
any other practitioner for the same purpose and the result of such
consultation. Omission on the part of any Corporation servant to do this or
any false statement made by him to a medical practitioner in this respect
shall entail serious departmental action.

### 25. Recommendation.

\- No Corporation servant shall, except by endorsement on a written
application submitted by a candidate officially through him, recommend to any
selecting, appointing or promoting authority, or to any individual who is a
member of any such authority, or of its staff, any candidate for any post in
the service of the Corporation.

### 26. Purchase of resignation.

\- Corporation servants are hereby prohibited from entering into any pecuniary
arrangement for the resignation by one of them of any office under the
Corporation for the benefit of the others. Any nomination or appointment
consequent upon such resignation shall be cancelled and such parties to the
arrangement as are still in the service shall be suspended, pending the orders
of the Government.

### 27. Representations to Ministers.

\- No Corporation servant shall make representations to Ministers direct or
send direct to Ministers advance copies of such representations made by him to
the Government through the proper official channel.

### 28. Refusal to receive pay.

\- Concerted or organised refusal on the part of the Corporation servants to
receive their pay shall entail serious disciplinary action.

### 29. Application for private employment.

(1)No person employed in any Corporation service or post in connection with
the affairs of the Corporation shall apply for private employment or signify
his willingness to accept such employment without having previously obtained
the permission in writing of the appointing authority in respect of the post
which he is holding :Provided that in the case of any such person who is on
leave preparatory to retirement, such permission may be given by the
appointing authority in respect of the post.(2)(a)Permission to apply for or
accept private employment shall normally be granted to a person who is on
leave preparatory to retirement unless the employment is in the trading
concern in India. Permission to apply for or accept private employment in a
trading concern in India shall be granted only in very exceptional cases and
may be subject to the condition of immediate retirement.(b)Permission to apply
for or accept private employment shall not be granted to any other person
unless the competent authority is satisfied that his premature resignation may
be accepted without detriment to the public service.(c)the previous approval
of the Corporation and the State Government shall be obtained in the case of
applications from person who have been given special and expensive training at
the cost of the Corporation and the State Government to increase their utility
to the Corporation and the Stale Government.(3)If a person who is refused
permission to apply for or accept private employment wishes to resign his
appointment under the Corporation, such resignation shall ordinarily be
accepted.(4)Where a person who is not on leave preparatory to retirement is
permitted to apply for or accept private employment, he shall resign his
appointment under the Corporation immediately on accepting such employment.

### 30. Application for posts.

\- A person in Corporation service under the administrative control of the
Corporation applying for a post under the State Government or another State
Government or the Government of India, shall submit his application through
the authority competent to appoint him to the post which he holds at the time
of making the application. Such authority shall decide whether the applicant
shall be permitted to apply. In the case of an application for a post under
the State Government or another State Government or the Government of India,
the appointing authority shall decide whether the application may be forwarded
or not and send the case to the State Government for orders with its
recommendation. In making a recommendation in this regard, the fact that the
applicant has been given special training wholly or partly at the cost of the
Corporation or the State Government shall also be taken into consideration.
Ordinarily applications may be forwarded unless it is considered that by so
doing, the interests of Corporation services are likely to suffer.

### 31. Interpretation.

\- If any question arises relating to the interpretation of these rules, it
shall be referred to the Government whose decision thereon shall be final.

### 32. Repeal and saving.

\- Nothing contained in these rules shall adversely affect any person holding
any of the posts referred to in these rules on the date of coming into force
of these rules.Form A[See sub-rules (3) and (7) of rule 7]Statement of
immovable property on first appointment for the year........................

1\. Name of the Officer (in full) and service to which theofficer belongs. |   
---|---  
2\. Name of the Officer and department in which employed. |   
3\. Present post held. |   
4\. Date of appointment. |   
5\. Present Pay. |   
  
Name and details of property

Name of District/ Taluk and village in whichproperty is situated | Housing and other buildings | Lands and other buildings | Present value | If not in own name  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  |   
  
How acquired? Whether by purchase, lease,mortgage, inheritance, gift or otherwise with date of acquisitionand name with details of person or persons from whom acquired | Annual income from the property |  Remarks (by what means and for what purpose theproperty was acquired should also be stated here)  
---|---|---  
(6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |   
  
Inapplicable clause to be struck out.In cases where it is not possible to
assess the value accurately, the approximate value in relation to present
condition may be indicated...................SignatureDate :Includes short
term lease also.Explanation. - The declaration form is required to be filled
in and submitted by every Corporation servant on first appointment to the
service and thereafter at an interval of every twelve months, giving
particulars of all immovable property owned, acquired or inherited by him or
held by him on lease, mortgage or otherwise either in his own name or in the
name of any member of his family or in the name of any other person.Form-B[See
sub-rule (9) of rule (7)]Register of immovable property and interest in,
immovable property held by, the corporation servant.

Name of the Corporation servant |  Date of entertainment in the corporationservice | Department in which employed | District division in which property is situated | Nature of property  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  |   
  
In whose name registered | When acquired, inherited etc. | By what means and for what purpose acquired |  Nature of interest possessed by the officerconcerned in such property | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---  
(8) | (9) | (10) | (11) | (12)  
|  |  |  | 

