## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Coimbatore Corporation Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1986

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Coimbatore Corporation Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1986

## Rule THE-COIMBATORE-CORPORATION-SERVICES-DISCIPLINE-AND-APPEAL-RULES-1986
of 1986

  * Published on 9 January 1987 
  * Commenced on 9 January 1987 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 January 1987.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Coimbatore Corporation Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules,
1986Published vide Notification G. O. Ms. No. 62, Municipal Administration and
Water Supply, dated 9th January 1987In exercise of the power conferred by sub-
section (1) of section 430, read with subsection (1) of section 108 of the
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981),
the Governor of Tamil Nadu makes the following rules, namely:-

### 1. Short title and application.

(1)These rules may be called the Coimbatore Corporation Services (Discipline
and Appeal) Rules, 1986.(2)They shall apply to-(i)every member of the service
holding posts in any of the categories in Classes I to IV;(ii)every member of
the service appointed to any of the categories in Classes I to IV under rule 8
of the General Rules in Part II of the Coimbatore Corporation Service
Rules;(iii)every member of the service appointed to any of the categories in
Class I to IV under rule 9 of the General Rules except to the extent otherwise
expressly provided in the contract or agreement subsisting between such member
and the Corporation.Explanation. - If any doubt arises as to the application
of these rules to any member of the service, the matter shall be referred to
the Government whose decision thereon shall be final.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the context, the
words and expressions not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning
assigned to them in Part I of the Coimbatore Corporation Service Rules,
1981.(2)"Appellate authority" means the authority competent to entertain and
pass orders setting aside or confirming or modifying an original order of the
disciplinary authority imposing any of the penalties specified in rule 3 or
the Government on any member of the service.(3)"Disciplinary authority" means
the authority competent to impose any of the penalties specified in rule 3 on
any member of the service.Explanation. - Where an appellate authority passes
an original order imposing any of the penalties specified in rule 3, he shall,
in respect of that order, be deemed to be the disciplinary authority.

### 3. Penalties.

\- The following penalties may, for good and sufficient reason, be imposed on
any member of the service, namely:-(1)Censure;(2)Withholding of increment or
promotion;(3)Reduction to a lower rank in the seniority list or to a lower
post or time-scale or to a lower-stage in a time-scale;(4)Recovery from pay of
the whole or part or any pecuniary loss caused to the Corporation or to any
other local body or the Government or the Central Government by negligence or
breach of orders;(5)Recovery from pay to the extent necessary of the monetary
value equivalent to the amount of reduction to a lower stage in a time scale
ordered, where such an order cannot be given effect to;(6)Recovery from pay to
the extent necessary of the monetary value equivalent to the amount of
reduction to a lower stage in a time scale ordered, where such an order cannot
be given effect to. Explanation. - In case of stoppage of increment with
cumulative effect, the monetary value equivalent to the amount of increment
ordered to be withheld may be recovered.(7)Compulsory retirement from the
service;(8)Removal from the service;(9)Dismissal from the
service;(10)Suspension, where a member of the service has already been
suspended under rule 8, to the extent considered necessary by the authority
imposing the penalty.The penalties mentioned in clauses (1), (2), (4) to (6)
and (10) shall be deemed to be minor penalties and those in (3), (7) to (9)
shall be deemed to be as major penalties.Explanation. -(i)The discharge of a
member of the service appointed on probation before the expiry or at the end
of the prescribed or extended period of probation; or(ii)of a member of the
service engaged under contract, in accordance with the terms of his contract;
or(iii)of a member of the service appointed otherwise than under contract to
hold a temporary appointment on the expiration of the period, of the
appointment,does not amount to removal or dismissal within the meaning of this
rule.Explanation 2. - The following shall not amount to a penalty within the
meaning of this rule, namely:-(a)Withholding of increments of pay of member of
the service for his failure to pass any departmental examination in accordance
with the rules or orders governing the post which he holds;(b)Non-promotion of
a member of the service, whether in a substantive or officiating capacity
after consideration of his case, to class or category for promotion to which
he is eligible;(c)Reversion of member of the service officiating in higher
class or category to a lower class or category on the ground that he is
considered to be unsuitable for such higher class or category or on any
administrative ground unconnected with his conduct;(d)Reversion of a member of
the service appointed on probation to any other class or category to his
permanent class or category during or at the end of the period of probation in
accordance with the terms of his appointment or to the rules and orders
governing such probation;(e)Replacement of service of a member of the service
whose services had been borrowed from a State Government or Central Government
or an authority under the control of a State Government or Central Government
or the authority from which the services of such member of the service had
been borrowed.(f)Compulsory retirement of a member of the service in
accordance with the provision relating to superannuation or retirement.

### 4. Disciplinary authority.

(1)The authority competent to impose the penalties specified in clauses (1),
(2), (4), (5), (6) and (10) of rule 3 on the members holding Class I and II
posts shall be the Commissioner.(2)The authority competent to impose the
penalties specified in clauses (3), (7) to (9) of rule 3 on the members
holding Class I and Class II posts shall be the Government.(3)The authority
competent to impose any of the penalties mentioned in rule 3 on the members
holding Class III and IV posts shall be the Commissioner.

### 5. Appellate authority.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 4, the appellate authority may
in respect of any specific penalty pass, an order imposing penalty on member
of the service in any specified case.(2)Where in any case the appellate
authority had imposed or declined to impose a penalty under this rule, the
disciplinary authority shall have no jurisdiction to proceed under these rules
in respect of the same case.(3)The fact that a disciplinary authority has
imposed or declined to impose a penalty in any case shall not debar the
appellate authority from exercising his powers under this rule in respect of
the same case(4)The order of the appellate authority imposing or declining to
impose a penalty in any case under this rule shall supersede any order passed
by ] the disciplinary authority in respect the same case.(5)The fact that a
disciplinary authority had dropped a charge against a member of the service as
not proved, shall not debar the appellate authority from reviving it for
reasons to be recorded in writing and taking suitable action on the charge so
revised.

### 6. Disciplinary authority in respect of members of the service promoted.

\- While as a member of the service had been promoted from Class III to Class
II, no penalty shall be imposed on him in respect of his work or conduct while
he was a member of the class from which he was promoted except by an authority
competent to impose punishments upon the members of Class II to which he had
been promoted.

### 7. Disciplinary authority in respect of members of the service reduced or
reverted.

\- Where a member of the service had been reduced or reverted from Class II to
Class III, no penalty shall be imposed upon him in respect of his work or
conduct while he was a member of the class from which he was reverted or
reduced except by an authority competent to impose the penalty upon a member
of Class II.

### 8. Procedure for imposing penalties.

(1)In every case where it is proposed to impose on a member of the service any
of the penalties specified in clause (1), (2), (4), (5), (6) and (10) of rule
3, shall be given a reasonable opportunity of making any representation that
he may desire to make and such representation, if any, shall be taken into
consideration before the order imposing the penalty is passed:Provided that
the requirement of this sub-rule shall not apply where it is proposed to
impose on a member of the service any of the penalties aforesaid on the basis
of facts which have led to his conviction by a Court martial or where the
member of the service concerned had absconded or where it is for other reasons
impracticable to communicate with them.(2)In every case where it is proposed
to impose on a member of the service any of the penalties specified in clauses
(3), (7), (8) and (9) or rule 3, of the grounds on which it is proposed to
take action shall be reduced to the form of a definite charge or charges or
charge which shall be communicated to the member of the service charged
together with a statement of the allegation on which each charge is based and
of any other circumstances which it is proposed to take into consideration in
passing order in the case. The member of the service so charged shall be
required within a reasonable time to put in a written statement of his defence
and to state whether he desires an oral inquiry as to be heard in person or
both. As oral enquiry shall be held of such an enquiry is desired by the
member of the service charged shall be entitled to cross-examine the witness,
to give evidence is person and to have such witness, called as he may wish
provided that the authority conducting the enquiry may, for special and
sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing refuse to call witness whether or
not the member of the sendee, charged desired or had an oral enquiry he shall
be heard in person at any stage if he so desires before-passing final orders.
A report of the enquiry or personal hearing, as the case may be, shall be
prepared by the authority holding the enquiry or personal hearing whether or
not such authority is competent to impose the penalty. Such report shall
contain a sufficient record of evidence, if any, and a statement of the
findings and the ground thereof.(3)After the enquiry or personal hearing
referred to in sub-rule (2) been completed and after the authority competent
to impose the penalty has arrived at a provisional conclusion in regard to.the
penalty to be imported, the member of the service charged shall be supplied
with a copy of the report of the enquiring authority referred to in that
clause and be called upon to show cause within a reasonable time, not
ordinarily exceeding one month, against the particular proposed to be
imposed.(4)Any representation in this behalf submitted by the member of the
service charged shall be taken into consideration before final orders are
passed, provided that such representation shall be based only on the evidence
adduced during the enquiry.Explanation. - An opportunity to show cause against
the imposition of any of the penalties Permanent employees referred to in sub-
rule (2) shall be given, after the authority competent to impose the penalty
arrives at the provisional conclusion in regard to the penalty to be imposed,
either by such authority in rank or under his direction by a subordinate
authority who is superior in rank to the member of the service on whom it is
proposed to impose the penalty.(5)The requirements of sub-rule (2) shall not
apply where it is proposed to impose on a member of the service any such
penalty as is referred to therein on the basis of the facts which have led to
his conviction is in a criminal Court (whether or not he has been sentenced by
such Court to any imprisonment), but he shall be given a reasonable
opportunity of making any representation that he may desire to make and such
representation, if any shall be taken into consideration before the order
imposing the penalty is passed.(6)The requirement of sub-rule (2) shall not
apply where it is proposed to impose on a member of the service any of the
penalties mentioned in Rule 13 on the basis of the facts which have led to his
conviction by a Court martial or where the member of the service has absconded
where it is for other reasons impracticable to communicate with him.(7)The
provisions of sub-rule (2) shall not apply where the Government are satisfied
that in the interest of the security of the state it is not expedient to
follow the procedure prescribed in that sub-rule.(8)All or any of the
provisions of sub-rule (1) and (2) may, in exceptional cases, for special and
sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing be waived whether there is
difficulty in observing exactly the requirements of the said sub-rules and
these requirements can be waived without in justice to the member of the
service charged. If any question arises whether it is reasonably practicable
to follow the procedure prescribed in sub-rule (2) the decision thereon of the
authority competent to dismiss or remove such member of the service or reduce
him rank, as the case may be shall be final.(9)A member of the service may be
placed under suspension from service where-(i)an inquiry into grave charge
against him is contemplated or is pending or(ii)a complaint against him of any
criminal offence is under investigation or trial and if such suspension is
necessary in the public interest.(10)A member of the sendee, who is detained
in custody whether on criminal charge or otherwise for a period longer than
forty eight hours, shall be deemed to have been suspended under this
rule.Provided a member of the service who has been placed under suspension
under sub-rule (9) and (10) shall be paid subsistence allowance at the rates
as applicable to Government servants of the same status from time to
time.(11)Where a penalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement from
service imposed upon a member of the service under suspension is set aside in
appeal Or Oh a review under these rules and the case is remitted for further
inquiry or action or with any other directions the order of suspension shall
be deemed to, have continued in force on and from the date of original order
of dismissal, removal, or compulsory retirement and shall remain in force
until further orders.(12)Where a penalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory
retirement from service imposed upon a member of the service is set aside or,
declared or rendered void in consequence of or by a decision of a Court of Law
and the disciplinary authority on a consideration of the circumstances of the
case, decides to hold a further inquiry against him on the allegations on
which the penalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement was
originally imposed, such member of a service shall be deemed to have been
placed under suspension by the appointing authority from the date of original
order-of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement and shall continue to
remain under suspension until further orders.(13)Where a member of the service
is suspended or is deemed to have been suspended (Whether in connection with
any disciplinary proceedings or otherwise) arid any other disciplinary
proceedings is commenced against him during the continuance of that
suspension, the authority competent to place him under suspension may for
reasons to be recorded by him in writing direct that such a member of the
service shall continue to be under suspension until the termination of all or
any of such proceedings or by the appellate authority or by the Government.

### 9. Maintenance of records.

\- The competent authority imposing penalty under these rules shall maintain a
record showing-(1)the allegation upon which action was taken against the
member of the service punished;(2)the charge framed, if any;(3)the
representation of the members of the service, if any, and evidence taken, if
any; and(4)the findings and the grounds thereof, if any.

### 10. Order of punishment to state grounds and to be communicated.

(1)All orders of punishment shall state the grounds on which they are based
and shall be communicated in writing to the member of the service against whom
they are passed.(2)Every order, notice and other process made or issued under
these rules, shall be served in person on the member of the service concerned
and sent to him by registered post acknowledgment due or if such member of the
service is not found, by leaving it at his last known place of residence or by
giving or tendering it to an adult member of his family or if none of the
means aforesaid is available by affixing it in some conspicuous part of his
last known place of residence.

### 11. Appeals.

\- Every member of the service shall have the right of appeal against an order
passed by an authority within a period of two months from the date on which
the orders was communicated to him-(1)imposing on him any of the penalties
specified in rule 3;(2)discharging him in accordance with the term of his
contract, if he has been engaged on a contract for a period exceeding three
years at the time when his services are terminated.

### 12. Appellate authority.

(1)Where penalties mentioned in clauses (1), (2), (4), (5), (6) and (10) of
rule 3 have been imposed by the Commissioner on a member of the service
holding Class I and Class II posts, the appeal shall lie to the Government,
and where the penalties mentioned in clauses (3), (7), (8) and (9) of rule 3
have been imposed by the Government on a member of the service holding Class I
or Class II post, such member of the service may, within two months on the
date on which the order is communicated to him, submit a revision petition,
and the Government shall, as far as possible, follow the procedure prescribed
for dealing with appeals.(2)Where any of the penalties mentioned in rule 3 has
been imposed by the Commissioner on a member of the service holding Class III
or Class IV posts, the appeal shall lie to the Appeal Committee.(3)The
Appointment Committee shall be the Appeal Committee.

### 13. Appeal to Government.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 12, where an original order
imposing specific penalty on a member of the service has been passed by the
appellate authority in exercises of the powers conferred by rule 5, an appeal
against such orders shall lie only to the State Government:Provided that where
the appellate authority who has passed the original order imposing the penalty
happens to be the State Government, the member of the service aggrieved by the
order may prefer a revision petition to the State Government to re-consider
the order. The State Government shall, thereupon review the records of the
case and pass such orders thereupon as it may appeal to them to be just or
expedient.

### 14. Procedure to be followed by the Appellate Authority.

(1)In the case of an appeal against an order imposing any of the penalties
specified in rule 3, the appellate authority shall consider-(i)whether the
facts on which the orders was based have been established;(ii)Whether the
facts established afford sufficient ground for taking action; and(iii)whether
the penalty is excessive, adequate or inadequate; and(iv)after such
consideration, shall pass such orders as it thinks proper.(2)Any error or
defect in the procedure followed in imposing a penalty may be disregarded by
the Appellate Authority if such authority considers for persons to be recorded
in writing that the error or defect was not material and has neither caused
injustice, to the member of service concerned nor affected the decision of the
case.

### 15. Appellate authority to decide appeals.

\- In the case of an appeal, the Appellate Authority shall pass orders as
appears to it just and equitable, having regard to all the circumstances of
the case-

### 16. Mode of preferring an appeal.

(1)Every member of the service preferring an appeal shall do so separately and
in his own name.(2)Every appeal preferred under these rules shall contain all
material statements and arguments relied on by the appellant shall contain no
disrespectful or improper language and shall be complete in itself. Every such
appeal be addressed to the authority to whom the appeal is preferred and shall
be submitted through the head of the office to which the appellant belongs or
belonged and through the authority from whose order the appeal is preferred.

### 17. Withholding of appeal.

\- An appeal may be withheld by an authority not lower than the authority from
whose order it is preferred, if-(1)it is an appeal in the case in which under
these rules no appeal lies; or(2)it does not comply with the provisions of
sub-rule (2) of rule 16 or(3)it is not preferred within two months after the
date on which the applicant was communicated of the order appealed against,
and no reasonable cause is shown for the delay; or(4)it is a repetition of a
previous appeal and is made to the same appellate authority by which such
appeal had been decided and no new Acts or circumstances are adduced which
afford grounds for re-consideration of the case; or(5)it is addressed to an
authority to which no appeal lies under these rule: Provided that in every
case in which an appeal is withheld, the appellant shall be informed of the
fact and the reasons for it:Provided further that an appeal withheld on
account of failure to comply with the provisions of sub-rule (2) of rule 16
may be re-submitted at any time within one month on the date on which the
appellant has been informed of the withholding of the appeal; and an appeal
re-submitted in a form which complies with these provision, shall not be
withheld'

### 18. No appeal to lie withholding of any appeal.

\- No appeal shall lie against the withholding of an appeal by a competent
authority.

### 19. Powers appellate authority or Government when no appeal is preferred.

\- The authority by whom an order imposing a penalty specified in rule 3 may
be reversed or altered in cases in which no appeal is preferred shall be the
appellate authority prescribed in the rules or the Government.

### 20. Forwarding of appeal and list of appeals withheld to Appellate
Authority.

(1)Every appeal which is not withheld under these rules shall be forwarded to
the appellate authority from whose order appeal is preferred with an
expression of opinion.(2)A list of appeals withheld under rule 17, with the
reason for with folding them, shall be forwarded half yearly by the
withholding authority to the appellate authority.

### 21. Powers of appellate authority to call for a withheld appeal.

\- An appellate authority may call for any appeal admissible under these rules
which has been withheld by a subordinate authority and may pass such orders
thereon as it considers fit.

### 22. Savings.

\- Nothing in these rules shall operate to deprive any member of the service
of any right of appeal, which he would have had if these rules had not been
made in respect of any order passed before they came in to force, shall be
deemed to be an appeal under these rules, and rule 14 shall apply as if the
appeal were against an order appealable under those rules.

### 23. Revision petition to Government.

\- Where the original order imposing any of the penalties specified in rule 3
had been imposed on a member of the service by the Government, such member
may, within two months on the date on which the order is communicated to him,
submit a revision petition to the Government against the order. In disposing
of such petition, the Government shall, as far as possible, follow the
procedure prescribed for dealing with appeals.

### 24. Powers of Government to pass order on completed disciplinary
proceedings.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the Government shall
have the power to call for the records relating to any disciplinary
proceedings which has been completed either by the disciplinary authority or
by the appellate authority and pass such orders on it as they may consider
just or expedient:Provided that before a penalty is imposed in case where it
has been imposed or a penalty which has been imposed is enhanced, the member
of the service concerned shall be given an opportunity to show cause as to why
penalty should not be imposed or enhanced, as the case may be.

