## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTEENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1966

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTEENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1966

## Act 018 of 1966

  * Published in Gazette of India on 16 May 1966 
  * Commenced on 27 August 1966 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 May 1966.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Twentieth
Amendment) Bill, 1966 which was enacted as the Constitution (Eighteenth
Amendment) Act, 1966_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** Article 3 of the
Constitution provides for the formation of new States and alteration of areas,
boundaries, or names of existing States.Before the Constitution (Seventh
Amendment) Act, 1956, was enacted, the expression "States" occurring in that
article meant Part A States, Part B States and also Part C States. By the
Seventh Amendment of the Constitution in 1956, the concept of "Union
territories" was introduced in our Constitution but article 3 was not amended
to include in terms "Union territories". It is considered proper to amend this
article to make it clear that "State" in clauses (a) to (e)of that article
(but not in the proviso) includes "Union territories". It is also considered
proper to make it clear that power under clause (a) of article 3 includes
power to form a new State or Union territory by uniting a part of a State or
Union territory to another State or Union territory.The Bill seeks to achieve
the above objects.An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it
enacted by Parliament in the Seventeenth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Eighteenth Amendment) Act, 1966.

### 2. Amendment of article 3.-

In article 3 of the Constitution, the following Explanations shall be inserted
at the end, namely:-Explanation I.-In this article in clauses (a) to (e),
"State" includes a Union territory, but in the proviso, "State" does not
include a Union territory.Explanation II.-The power conferred on Parliament by
clause (a) includes the power to form a new State or Union territory by
uniting a part of any State or Union territory to any other State or Union
territory.[The Constitution (Eighteenth Amendment) Act, 1966, revised Article
3 of the Constitution to give new meaning to the terms “State” and “Union
territories”. The modification clarified that in Article 3, the term “State”
in clauses (a) to (e) must include “Union territories”. However, this was not
applicable in the proviso. It further explained that the power under clause
(a) involves the authority of the Parliament for the formation of a new State
or Union territory. This may be done by joining a part of any State or Union
territory with some other State or Union territory. Article 3 of the Indian
Constitution was concerned with the establishment of new States. It also
provided for altering names, areas, or boundaries of existing States. Hence,
it needed modification to include the concept of “Union territories” within
the meaning of “State” in clauses (a) to (e), but not in the proviso. This
would allow the reorganization of Union territories. Therefore, this amendment
was crucial for the formation and rise of Union territories. Also refer ]

