## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-SEVENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1990

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-SEVENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1990

## Act 067 of 1990

  * Published in Gazette of India on 1 October 1990 
  * Commenced on 4 October 1990 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 October 1990.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Seventy-
sixth Amendment) Bill, 1990 (Bill No. 158 of 1990) which was enacted as THE
CONSTITUTION (Sixty-seventh Amendment) Act, 1990_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND
REASONS** Under clause (4) of article 356 of the Constitution, no Proclamation
issued under that article and approved by both the Houses of Parliament shall
remain in force for more than three years. However, under clause (5) of the
said article, a resolution approving the continuance in force of a
Proclamation issued under clause (1) of that article beyond a period of one
year cannot be passed by either House of Parliament unless the two conditions
relating to a Proclamation of Emergency being in operation in the whole or any
part of the State and the certificate by the Election Commission that the
continuation of the Proclamation issued under clause (1) is necessary on
account of difficulties in holding general elections to the Legislative
Assembly of the State as specified in that clause are met. The three year
period in the case of Proclamation issued on 11th May, 1987 with respect to
the State of Punjab was extended to three years and six months by the
Constitution (Sixty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1990 and clause (5) of article 356
was also suitably amended by that Act in the expectation that it would be
possible to hold elections to the Legislative Assembly of that State. The
prevailing circumstances in the State, however, still do not hold out
prospects for free and peaceful elections to the State Legislative Assembly.
Clause (4) of article 356 of the Constitution is, therefore, proposed to be
amended so as to facilitate the extension of the said Proclamation up to a
total period of four years in relation to the State of Punjab.

### 2. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Forty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.- This Act may be called the Constitution (Sixty-seventh
Amendment) Act, 1990.

### 2\. Amendment of article 356.-In article 356 of the Constitution, in
clause (4), in the third proviso, for the words "three years and six months",
the words "four years" shall be substituted.

[The Constitution (Sixty-Seventh Amendment) Act of 1990 , amended clause (5)
of Article 356 and lengthened the three-year time frame in the particular
instance of the Declaration made available on May 11, 1987, with regard to the
State of Punjab to 3 years and 6 months. In the hope that the State’s
Legislative Assembly polls were indeed able to go ahead. Unfortunately, the
then-current state of affairs in the State still didn’t offer much hope for
fair and peaceful election polls to the State Legislative Assembly. Therefore
it was recommended to change clause (4) of Article 356 of the Indian
Constitution to make it easier to extend the Proclamation mentioned above in
reference to the State of Punjab for a maximum of four years.Also Refer]

