## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (NINETY-FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 2003

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (NINETY-FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 2003

## Act 91 of 2003

  * Published in Gazette of India on 26 April 2003 
  * Commenced on 26 April 2003 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 April 2003.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS**

### 1. Demands have been made from time to time in certain quarters for
strengthening and amending the Anti-defection Law as contained in the Tenth
Schedule to the Constitution of India, on the ground that these provisions
have not been able to achieve the desired goal of checking defections. The
Tenth Schedule has also been criticised on the ground that it allows bulk
defections while declaring individual defections as illegal. The provisions
for exemption from disqualification in case of splits as provided in paragraph
3 of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution of India has, in particular, come
under severe criticism on account of its destablilising effect on the
Government.

### 2. The Committee on Electoral Reforms (Dinesh Goswami Committee) in its
report of May, 1990, the Law Commission of India in its 170th Report on
“Reform of Electoral Laws” (1999) and the National Commission to Review the
Working of the Constitution (NCRWC) in its report of March 31, 2002 have,
inter alia, recommended omission of said paragraph 3 of the Tenth Schedule to
the Constitution of India pertaining to exemption from disqualification in
case of splits. The NCRWC is also of the view that a defector should be
penalised for his action by debarring him from holding any public office as a
Minister or any other remunerative political post for at least the duration of
the remaining term of the existing Legislature or until, the next fresh
elections whichever is earlier. It is proposed to accept these suggestions.

### 3. The NCRWC has also observed that abnormally large Councils of Ministers
were being constituted by various Governments at Centre and States and this
practice had to be prohibited by law and that a ceiling on the number of
Ministers in a State or the Union Government be fixed at the maximum of 10% of
the total strength of the popular House of the Legislature.

### 4. In the light of the above, it is proposed to amend the Constitution by
omitting paragraph 3 of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution of India and to
provide that the size of the Council of Ministers should not be more than 10%
of the strength of House or Houses concerned whether Unicameral or Bicameral.
However, in case of smaller States like Sikkim, Mizoram and Goa having 32, 40
and 40 Members in the Legislative Assemblies respectively, a minimum strength
of seven Ministers is proposed.

### 5. The Bill seeks to achieve the objects mentioned above.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Fifty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1\. Short title.

This Act may be called the Constitution (Ninety-first Amendment) Act, 2003.

### 2\. Amendment of article 75.

In article 75 of the Constitution, after clause (1), the following clauses
shall be inserted, namely:--“(1A) The total number of Ministers, including the
Prime Minister, in the Council of Ministers shall not exceed fifteen percent
of the total number of members of the House of the People.(1B)A member of
either House of Parliament belonging to any political party who is
disqualified for being a member of that House under paragraph 2 of the Tenth
Schedule shall also be disqualified to be appointed as a Minister under clause
(1) for duration of the period commencing from the date of his
disqualification till the date on which the term of his office as such member
would expire or where he contest any election to either House of Parliament
before the expiry of suc period, till the date on which he is declared
elected, whichever i earlier.”.

### 3\. Amendment of article 164.

In article 164 of the Constitution, after clause (1), the following clauses
shall be inserted, namely:--“(1A) The total number of Ministers, including the
Chief Minister, in the Council of Ministers in a State shall not exceed
fifteen percent of the total number of members of the Legislative Assembly of
that State:Provided that the number of Ministers, including Chief Minister in
a State shall not be less than twelve:Provided further that where the total
number of Ministers including the Chief Minister in the Council of Ministers
in any State at the commencement of the Constitution (Ninety-first Amendment)
Act, 2003 exceeds the said fifteen per cent. or the number specified in the
first proviso, as the case may be, then, the total number of Ministers in that
State shall be brought in conformity with the provisions of this clause within
six months from such date as the President may by public notification
appoint.(1B)A member of Legislative Assembly of a State or either House of the
Legislature of a State having Legislative Council belonging to any political
party who is disqualified for being a member of that House under paragraph 2
of the Tenth Schedule shall also be disqualified to be appointed as a Minister
under clause (1) for duration of the period commencing from the date of his
disqualification till the date on which the term of his office as such member
would expire or where he contests any election to the Legislative Assembly of
a State or either House of the Legislature of a State having Legislative
Council, as the case may be, before the expiry of such period, till the date
on which he is declared elected, whichever is earlier.”.

### 4\. Insertion of new article 361B.

After article 361A of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:--Disqualification for appointment on remunerative political
post‘361B. A member of a House belonging to any political party who is
disqualified for being a member of the House under paragraph 2 of the Tenth
Schedule shall also be disqualified to hold any remunerative political post
for duration of the period commencing from the date of his disqualification
till the date on which the term of his office as such member would expire or
till the date on which he contests an election to a House and is declared
elected, whichever is earlier.Explanation.—For the purposes of this
article,--(a)the expression “House” has the meaning assigned to it in clause
(a) of paragraph 1 of the Tenth Schedule;(b)the expression “remunerative
political post” means any office—(i)under the Government of India or the
Government of a State where the salary or remuneration for such office is paid
out of the public revenue of the Government of India or the Government of the
State, as the case may be; or(ii)under a body, whether incorporated or not,
which is wholly or partially owned by the Government of India or the
Government of a State and the salary or remuneration for such office is paid
by such body, except where such salary or remuneration paid is compensatory in
nature.’.

### 5\. Amendment of the Tenth Schedule.

In the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution,--(a)in paragraph 1, in clause (b),
the words and figure “paragraph 3 or, as the case may be,” shall be
omitted;(b)in paragraph 2, in sub-paragraph (1), for the words and figures
“paragraphs 3, 4 and 5”, the words and figures “paragraphs 4 and 5”shall be
substituted;(c)paragraph 3 shall be omitted.**ANNEXURE** EXTRACTS FROM THE
CONSTITUTION OF INDIA* * * * *TENTH SCHEDULE[Articles 102(2) and
191(2)]Provisions as to disqualification on ground of defection

### 1\. Interpretation.—

In this Schedule, unless the context otherwise requires,--* * * *
*(b)“legislature party”, in relation to a member of a House belonging to any
political party in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 or paragraph
3 or, as the case may be, paragraph 4, means the group consisting of all the
members of that House for the time being belonging to that political party in
accordance with the said provisions.* * * * *

### 2\. Disqualification on ground of defection.—

(1)Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, a member of a House
belonging to any political party shall be disqualified for being a member of
the House—* * * * *

### 3\. Disqualification on ground of defection not to apply in case of
split.—

Where a member of a House makes a claim that he and any other members of his
legislature party constitute the group representing a faction which has arisen
as a result of a split in his original political party and such group consists
of not less than one-third of the members of such legislature party,--(a)he
shall not be disqualified under sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 2 on the
ground--(i)that he has voluntarily given up his membership of his original
political party; or(ii)that he has voted or abstained from voting in such
House contrary to any direction issued by such party or by any person or
authority authorised by it in that behalf without obtaining the prior
permission of such party, person or authority and such voting or abstention
has not been condoned by such party, person or authority within fifteen days
from the date of such voting or abstention; and(b)from the time of such split,
such faction shall be deemed to be the political party to which he belongs for
the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 2 and to be his original
political party for the purposes of this paragraph.* * * * *[The Constitution
(Ninety-first Amendment) Act, 2003, aimed to reduce the number of members
serving on the Council of Ministers, prohibit traitors from holding public
office and tighten the anti-betrayal regulations that had been adopted by the
fifty-second amendment. This Amendment added clause 1A in Article 164, which
states “the total number of Ministers, including the Chief Minister, in the
Council of Ministers in a State shall not exceed 15% of the total number of
members of the Legislative Assembly of that State. It also mentioned that the
number of Ministers, including the Chief Minister in a State shall not be less
than twelve”. Similarly, changes were made to article 75. As mentioned in it,
the PM shall be appointed by the president and the other Ministers shall be
appointed by the President on the advice of the PM. Lastly, The total number
of ministers, including the Prime Minister, in the COM shall not exceed 15% of
the total strength of the Lok Sabha.Also Refer)]

