## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTEENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1963

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTEENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1963

## Act 14 of 1963

  * Published in Gazette of India on 18 January 1963 
  * Commenced on 5 October 1963 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 January 1963.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Sixteenth
Amendment) Bill, 1963 which was enacted as the Constitution (Sixteenth
Amendment) Act, 1963_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The Committee on
National Integration and Regionalism appointed by the National Integration
Council recommended that article 19 of the Constitution be so amended that
adequate powers become available for the preservation and maintenance of the
integrity, and sovereignty of the Union. The Committee were further of the
view that every candidate for the membership of a State Legislature or
Parliament, and every aspirant to, and incumbent of, public office should
pledge himself to uphold the Constitution and to preserve the integrity and
sovereignty of the Union and that forms of oath in the Third Schedule to the
Constitution should be suitably amended for the purpose. It is proposed to
give effect to these recommendations by amending clauses (2), (3) and (4) of
article 19 for enabling the State to make any law imposing reasonable
restrictions on the exercise of the rights conferred by sub-clauses (a), (b)
and (c) of clause (1) of that article in the interests of the sovereignty and
integrity of India. It is also proposed to amend articles 84 and 173 and forms
of oath in the Third Schedule to the Constitution so as to provide that every
candidate for the membership of Parliament or State Legislature, Union and
State Ministers, Members of Parliament and State Legislatures, Judges of the
Supreme Court and High Courts and the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India
should take an oath to uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India.

### 2. The Bill seeks to achieve these objects.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Fourteenth year of the Republic of India as follows:

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Sixteenth Amendment) Act, 1963.

### 2\. Amendment of article 19.-

In article 19 of the Constitution,-(a)in clause (2), after the words "in the
interests of", the words "the sovereignty and integrity of India," shall be
inserted;(b)in clauses (3) and (4), after the words "in the interests of", the
words "the sovereignty and integrity of India or" shall be inserted.

### 3. Amendment of article 84.-

In article 84 of the Constitution, for clause (a), the following clause shall
be substituted, namely:-"(a) is a citizen of India, and makes and subscribes
before some person authorized in that behalf by the Election Commission an
oath or affirmation according to the form set out for the purpose in the Third
Schedule;".

### 4. Amendment of article 173.-

In article 173 of the Constitution, for clause (a), the following clause shall
be substituted, namely:-"(a) is a citizen of India, and makes and subscribes
before some person authorized in that behalf by the Election Commission an
oath or affirmation according to the form set out for the purpose in the Third
Schedule;".

### 5. Amendment of Third Schedule.-

In the Third Schedule to the Constitution,-(a)In Form I, after the words
"Constitution of India as by law established.", the words "that I will uphold
the sovereignty and integrity of India," shall be inserted;(b)for Form III,
the following shall be substituted, namely:---III(A)Form of oath or
affirmation to be made by a candidate for election to Parliament:--"I, A.B.,
having been nominated as a candidate to fill a seat in the Council of States
(or the House of the People) do swear in the name of God/solemnly affirm that
I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law
established and that I will uphold the sovereignty and integrity of
India.".(B)Form of oath or affirmation to be made by a member of
Parliament:-"I, A.B., having been elected (or nominated) a member of the
Council of States (or the House of the People) do swear in the name of
God/solemnly affirm that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the
Constitution of India as by law established, that I will uphold the
sovereignty and integrity of India and that I will faithfully discharge the
duty upon which I am about to enter." ';(c)in Forms IV, V and VIII, after the
words "the Constitution of India as by law established,", the words "that I
will uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India," shall be inserted;(d)for
Form VII, the following shall be substituted, namely:-VII(A)Form of oath or
affirmation to be made by a candidate for election to the Legislature of a
State:-"I, A.B., having been nominated as a candidate to fill a seat in the
Legislative Assembly (or Legislative Council), do swear in the name of
God/solemnly affirm that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the
Constitution of India as by law established and that I will uphold the
sovereignty and integrity of India.".(B)Form of oath or affirmation to be made
by a member of the Legislature of a State:-"I, A.B., having been elected (or
nominated) a member of the Legislative Assembly (or Legislative Council), do
swear in the name of God/solemnly affirm that I will bear true faith and
allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established, that I will
uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India and that I will faithfully
discharge the duty upon which I am about to enter." '.[The Constitution
(Sixteenth Amendment) Act, 1963, where it was recommended making advocacy of
secession a criminal offense and empowered the state to impose further
restrictions on the rights to freedom of speech and expression, to assemble
peacefully, and to form associations in the interests of the sovereignty and
integrity of India. The amendment included two provisions. First, the article
was amended to forbid anyone from expressing anything that would endanger
India’s integrity. Second, it allowed for the establishment of associations in
support of India’s sovereignty and integrity. Additionally, it recommended
that the oath forms in the Third Schedule of the Constitution be appropriately
modified for this purpose. Also Refer]

