## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (SEVENTIETH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1992

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (SEVENTIETH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1992

## Act 070 of 1992

  * Published in Gazette of India on 24 March 1992 
  * Commenced on 12 August 1992 
  * [This is the version of this document from 24 March 1992.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statament of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Seventy-
sixth Amendment) Bill, 1992 (Bill No. XXX of 1992) which was enacted as THE
CONSTITUTION (Seventieth Amendment) Act, 1992_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND
REASONS** While considering the Constitution (Seventy-fourth Amendment) Bill,
1991 and the Government of National Capital Territory Bill, 1991, views were
expressed in both the Houses of Parliament in favour of including also the
elected members of the Legislative Assemblies of Union territories in the
electoral college for the election of the President under article 54 of the
Constitution. At present article 54 relating to the election of the President
provides for an electoral college consisting of only the elected Members of
Parliament as well as the Legislative Assemblies of the States (not Union
territories). Similarly, article 55 providing for the manner of such election
also speaks of Legislative Assemblies of States. Accordingly, an Explanation
is sought to be inserted in article 54 to provide that reference to "State" in
articles 54 and 55 would include the National Capital Territory of Delhi and
the Union territory of Pondicherry for constituting the electoral college for
election of the President. This would enable the elected members of the
Legislative Assembly created for the Union territory of Pondicherry under the
provisions of article 239A and of the proposed Legislative Assembly of the
National Capital Territory of Delhi under article 239AA to be included in the
electoral college.

### 2. THE CONSTITUTION (Seventy-fourth Amendment) Bill, 1991 which was
enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991 received assent
of the President on 21st December, 1991. The said Bill as originally
introduced in the Lok Sabha sought to incorporate in article 239AA a sub-
clause (b) to clause (7). This proposed sub-clause was subsequently dropped
since inclusion of the said sub-clause would have necessitated ratification of
the Bill by the Legislatures of not less than one-half of the States and
thereby delayed the early constitution of a Legislative Assembly for the Union
territory of Delhi. The said sub-clause (clause 3 of the present Bill) is
sought to be inserted in the present Constitution (Amendment) Bill with
retrospective effect i.e. from 21st December, 1991. Ratification by States is
also proposed to be obtained for the clause along with ratification for the
other clause of the Bill which seeks to amend article 54.

### 3. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above proposals.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Forty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Seventieth Amendment) Act,
1992.(2)Section 3 of this Act shall be deemed to have come into force on the
21st day of December, 1991 and section 2 shall come into force on such date as
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2\. Amendment of article 54.-

In article 54 of the Constitution, the following Explanation shall be inserted
at the end, namely:-`Explanation.-In this article and in article 55, "State"
includes the National Capital Territory of Delhi and the Union territory of
Pondicherry.'.

### 3\. Amendment of article 239AA.-

In article 239AA of the Constitution,-(i)in clause (7), for the brackets and
figure "(7)", the brackets, figure and letter "(7) (a)" shall be
substituted;(ii)in clause (7) as so amended, the following sub-clause shall be
inserted, namely:-"(b) Any such law as is referred to in sub-clause (a) shall
not be deemed to be an amendment of this Constitution for the purposes of
article 368 notwithstanding that it contains any provision which amends or has
the effect of amending, this Constitution.".[The Constitution (Seventieth
Amendment) Act, 1992, incorporated the elected members of the Pondicherry
Legislative Assembly into the President’s Electoral College. The Electoral
College for the presidential election will now include the National Capital
Territory of Delhi and the Union Territory of Pondicherry.Also Refer]

