## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (TWENTY-FOURTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1971

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (TWENTY-FOURTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1971

## Act 24 of 1971

  * Published in Gazette of India on 22 July 1971 
  * Commenced on 5 November 1971 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 July 1971.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Twenty-
fourth Amendment) Bill, 1971 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Twenty-
fourth Amendment) Act, 1971_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The Supreme
Court in the well-known Golak Nath's case [1967, 2 S.C.R. 762] reversed, by a
narrow majority, its own earlier decisions upholding the power of Parliament
to amend all parts of the Constitution including Part III relating to
fundamental rights. The result of the judgment is that Parliament is
considered to have no power to take away or curtail any of the fundamental
rights guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution even if it becomes necessary
to do so for giving effect to the Directive Principles of State Policy and for
the attainment of the objectives set out in the Preamble to the Constitution.
It is, therefore, considered necessary to provide expressly that Parliament
has power to amend any provision of the Constitution so as to include the
provisions of Part III within the scope of the amending power.

### 2. The Bill seeks to amend article 368 suitably for the purpose and makes
it clear that article 368 provides for amendment of the Constitution as well
as procedure therefor. The Bill further provides that when a Constitution
Amendment Bill passed by both Houses of Parliament is presented to the
President for his assent, he should give his assent thereto. The Bill also
seeks to amend article 13 of the Constitution to make it inapplicable to any
amendment of the Constitution under article 368.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Twenty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Twenty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1971.

### 2\. Amendment of article 13.-

In article 13 of the Constitution, after clause (3), the following clause
shall be inserted, namely:--"(4) Nothing in this article shall apply to any
amendment of this Constitution made under article 368.".

### 3. Amendment of article 368.-

Article 368 of the Constitution shall be re-numbered as clause (2) thereof,
and-(a)for the marginal heading to that article, the following marginal
heading shall be substituted, namely:-"Power of Parliament to amend the
Constitution and procedure therefor.";(b)before clause (2) as so re-numbered,
the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-"(1) Notwithstanding anything
in this Constitution, Parliament may in exercise of its constituent power
amend by way of addition, variation or repeal any provision of this
Constitution in accordance with the procedure laid down in this
article.";(c)in clause (2) as so re-numbered, for the words "it shall be
presented to the President for his assent and upon such assent being given to
the Bill", the words "it shall be presented to the President who shall give
his assent to the Bill and thereupon" shall be substituted;(d)after clause (2)
as so re-numbered, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-"(3)
Nothing in article 13 shall apply to any amendment made under this
article.".[The Constitution (Twenty-Four Amendment) Act, 1971, enables
Parliament to dilute Fundamental Rights through Amendments of the
Constitution. It also amended Article 368 to provide expressly that Parliament
has power to amend any provision of the Constitution. The amendment further
made it obligatory for the President to give his assent, when a Constitution
Amendment Bill was presented to him. The government has argued that the 24th
Amendment will help to implement the Directive Principles of State Policy.
However, a large section of constitutional experts would believe that the
undisputed authority of Parliament is a threat to the democratic process in
the country. In the Indian Constitution, the balance of legislative power is
vital, and the power of amendment conferred to parliament to alter such
regulations is often considered an important one. Important Verdict-
Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala I.C. Golaknath and Ors. vs State of
Punjab and Anrs.. However, the Supreme Court has ruled that the 24th Amendment
Act is Constitutional. The ruling has several important implications. While it
confirms that the 24th Amendment Act is valid, it establishes some significant
constituent features like Judicial review and basic features of the
Constitution. Also refer]

