## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Cattle-Trespass (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1957

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Cattle-Trespass (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1957

## Act 20 of 1957

  * Published on 2 December 1957 
  * Commenced on 2 December 1957 
  * [This is the version of this document from 2 December 1957.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Cattle-Trespass (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1957Tamil Nadu Act 20 of
1957Statement of Objects and Reasons. - The functions required to be performed
by the Magistrate of the District under sections 4, 5, 12, 14, 17 and 31 of
the Cattle-Trespass Act, 1871 are being performed by the Collector of the
District, as till the separation of the Judiciary from-the Executive, the
Collector of the District was also the Magistrate of the District. After the
separation, the Collector is no longer the District Magistrate. There is
another officer of the Judicial Department who is called the District
Magistrate. The Bill seeks to make it clear that the functions mentioned above
are those of the Collector of the District.The Bill also seeks to provide for
appeal against an order of compensation passed by a Magistrate under section
22 of the Cattle-Trespass Act, 1871.Received the assent of the Governor on the
2nd December, 1957 and published in the Fort St. George Gazette, on 11th
December, 1957An Act to amend the Cattle-Trespass Act, 1871 (Central Act I of
1871) in its application to the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
words 'State of Madras' by Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as
amended by Tamil Nadu Adaptation of laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.].Whereas it is expedient to amend the Cattle-Trespass Act, 1871 (Central
Act I of 1871) in its application to the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the words 'State of Madras' by Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969
as amended by Tamil Nadu Adaptation of laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
for the purposes hereinafter appearing;Be it enacted in the Eighth Year of the
Republic of India as follows :-

### 1. Short title.

\- This Act may be called the Cattle-trespass [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.] (Amendment) Act, 1957.

### 2. Amendment of Central Act 1 of 1871.

\- In sections 4, 5, 12, 14, 17 and 31 of the Cattle-Trespass Act, 1871
(Central Act 1 of 1871) hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), for the
words 'Magistrate of the District' wherever they occur, the words 'District
collector' shall be substituted.

### 3. Insertion of new section 22-A in Central Act I of 1871.

\- After section 22 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:"22-A. Appeal against order of compensation. - (1) Any person
who has been ordered by a Magistrate under section 22 to pay compensation may
appeal from the order, as if such person had been convicted on a trial held by
such Magistrate.(2)When an order for payment of compensation to a complainant
is made in a case which is subject to appeal under sub-section (1), the
compensation shall not be paid to him before the period allowed for the
presentation of the appeal has elapsed, or, if an appeal is presented, before
the appeal has been decided and, where such order is made in a case which is
not so subject to appeal, the compensation shall not be paid before the
expiration of one month from the date of the order."

