## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-SIXTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1987

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-SIXTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1987

## Act 056 of 1987

  * Published in Gazette of India on 6 May 1987 
  * Commenced on 23 May 1987 
  * [This is the version of this document from 6 May 1987.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Fifty-
seventh Amendment) Bill, 1987 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Fifty-
sixth Amendment) Act, 1987_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The
Government of India have proposed to constitute the territories comprised in
the Goa District of the Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu as the State of
Goa and the territories comprised in the Daman and Diu districts of that Union
territory as a new Union territory of Daman and Diu. In this context, it is
proposed that the Legislative Assembly of the new State of Goa shall consist
of forty members. The existing Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of
Goa, Daman and Diu has thirty elected members and three nominated members. It
is intended to make this Assembly with the exclusion of two members
representing Daman and Diu Districts, the provisional Legislative Assembly for
the new State of Goa until elections are held on the expiry of the five year
term of the existing Assembly. It is, therefore, proposed to provide that the
Legislative Assembly of the new State of Goa shall consist of not less than 30
members.

### 2. In order to give effect to the above proposal, it is necessary to make
a special provision in the Constitution. This Bill accordingly seeks to amend
the Constitution. A separate Bill for the re-organisation of the existing
Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu so as to form the new State of Goa is
also being introduced.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Thirty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Fifty-sixth Amendment) Act,
1987.(2)It shall come into force on such date_674 as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2\. Insertion of new article 371-I.-

After article 371H of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:-"371-I. Special provision with respect to the State of Goa.-
Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the Legislative Assembly of the
State of Goa shall consist of not less than thirty members.".[The Constitution
(fifty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1987, helped in changing the status of Goa from a
Union territory to a full-fledged state. The introduction of Article371-I
played a crucial role in assigning statehood identity to Goa. It helped the
place become one of India’s most resided-in states and the most visited
tourist attractions on a global level. As an independent state, personal
growth, education, and tourism were emphasized as part of developmental
projects. Konkani language was promoted. There was a gradual increase in the
population. This Amendment Act also allowed Daman and Diu to attain the status
of the separate Union territory of the Union of India.Also Refer]

