## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-THIRD AMENDMENT) ACT, 1986

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-THIRD AMENDMENT) ACT, 1986

## Act 053 of 1986

  * Published in Gazette of India on 1 August 1986 
  * Commenced on 14 August 1986 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 August 1986.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Fifty-third
Amendment) Bill, 1986 (Bill No. 88 of 1986) which was enacted as THE
CONSTITUTION (Fifty-third Amendment) Act, 1986_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND
REASONS** On the 30th June, 1986, a Memorandum of Settlement on Mizoram was
signed by the Government of India and the Government of Mizoram with the Mizo
National front which envisages among other things the conferment of statehood
on the Union territory of Mizoram subject to the other stipulations contained
in the Memorandum. Paragraph 4.2 of the Memorandum provides that to give
effect to the decision "all the necessary legislative and administrative
measures will be undertaken, including those for the enactment of Bills for
the amendment of the Constitution and other laws for the conferment of
statehood as aforesaid, to come into effect on a date to be notified by the
Central Government".

### 2. Paragraph 4.3 of the Memorandum provides as follows:-

Acts of Parliament shall not apply to the new State of Mizoram unless so
decided by the Mizoram Legislature with regard to-(i)religious or social
practices of Mizos;(ii)Mizo customary law and procedure;(iii)administration of
civil and criminal justice involving decisions according to Mizo Customary
law;(iv)ownership and transfer of land.The above provision will not, however,
apply in the case of Central Acts which are in force in the Union territory of
Mizoram immediately before the date on which THE CONSTITUTION (Amendment) Act
comes into force.

### 3. The Memorandum also provides that the Legislative Assembly of the
proposed new State of Mizoram will consist of not less than forty members.

### 4. As the matters specified in paragraphs 2 and 3 are peculiar to the
proposed new State of Mizoram, provisions with respect thereto have to be made
in the Constitution itself. This Bill accordingly seeks to amend the
Constitution to provide for the aforesaid matters. A separate Bill for the
establishment of the new State relatable to article 2 is also being
introduced.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Thirty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Fifty-third Amendment) Act,
1986.(2)It shall come into force on such date_672 as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2\. Insertion of new article 371G.-

After article 371F of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:-"371G. Special provision with respect to the State of
Mizoram.-Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution,-(a)no Act of
Parliament in respect of-(i)religious or social practices of the
Mizos,(ii)Mizo customary law and procedure,(iii)administration of civil and
criminal justice involving decisions according to Mizo customary
law,(iv)ownership and transfer of land, shall apply to the State of Mizoram
unless the Legislative Assembly of the State of Mizoram by a resolution so
decides:Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to any Central Act in
force in the Union territory of Mizoram immediately before the commencement of
THE CONSTITUTION (Fifty-third Amendment) Act, 1986;(b)the Legislative Assembly
of the State of Mizoram shall consist of not less than forty members.".[The
Constitution (Fifty-Third Amendment) Act, 1986, aims to keep a check against
unwanted interference by the Central Government. The act protects the
interests of the community conduct and social relationship laws that apply to
the State of Mizoram.Previously, under the Northeast Areas (Reorganization)
Act, 1971, Mizoram had been declared a distinct Union territory in 1972. The
region was known for instances of violent insurgency. Signing an accord for
establishing Mizo peace was the only way to reinstate peace and harmony in the
State. The interests of the Mizo community had to be protected. This was
achieved through the insertion of Article 371G into the Indian Constitution.
This came to be known as The Constitution (Fifty-Third Amendment), 1986. A
treaty was finalized between the Union Government, State Government, and the
Mizo National Front (MNF) on June 30, 1986. Following this, Mizoram attained
its identity as the 23rd State of India in the year 1987.Also Refer]

