## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-EIGHTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1991

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-EIGHTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1991

## Act 068 of 1991

  * Published in Gazette of India on 7 March 1991 
  * Commenced on 12 March 1991 
  * [This is the version of this document from 7 March 1991.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Seventy-
fifth Amendment) Bill, 1991 (Bill No. 48 of 1991) which was enacted as THE
CONSTITUTION (Sixty-eighth Amendment) Act, 1991_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND
REASONS** Under clause (4) of article 356 of the Constitution, no Proclamation
issued under that article and approved by both the Houses of Parliament shall
remain in force for more than three years. However, under clause (5) of the
said article, a resolution approving the continuance in force of a
Proclamation issued under clause (1) of that article beyond a period of one
year cannot be passed by either House of Parliament unless the two conditions
relating to a Proclamation of Emergency being in operation in the whole or any
part of the State and the certificate by the Election Commission that the
continuation of the Proclamation issued under clause (1) is necessary on
account of difficulties in holding general elections to the Legislative
Assembly of the State as specified in that clause are met. The three year
period in the case of Proclamation issued on 11th May, 1987 with respect to
the State of Punjab was extended to three years and six months by the
Constitution (Sixty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1990 and clause (5) of article 356
was also suitably amended by that Act in the expectation that it would be
possible to hold elections to the Legislative Assembly of that State. In
October, 1990 it was felt that it was not conducive to hold free and fair
elections to the Punjab State Legislative Assembly. Therefore, clause (4) of
article 356 was again amended by THE CONSTITUTION (Sixty-seventh Amendment)
Act, 1990 to enable extension of President's Proclamation issued on 11th May,
1987 for a total period of four years.

### 2. Despite pressure from the security forces, the terrorist violence has
been continuing in Punjab. Therefore, the prevailing circumstances still do
not hold out prospects for fair, free and peaceful elections to the
Legislative Assembly of Punjab. Clause (4) of article 356 of the Constitution
is, therefore, proposed to be amended so as to facilitate the extension of the
said Proclamation up to a total period of five years in relation to the State
of Punjab.

### 3. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Forty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.- This Act may be called the Constitution (Sixty-eighth
Amendment) Act, 1991.

### 2\. Amendment of article 356.-In article 356 of the Constitution, in
clause (4), in the third Proviso, for the words "four years", the words "five
years" shall be substituted.

[The Constitution (Sixty-eighth Amendment) Act, 1991, altered Clause (4) of
Article 356 of the Constitution for the third time. It enabled the
aforementioned Proclamation regarding the State of Punjab to be prolonged for
a total of five years. However, under clause (5) of the said article, a
resolution approving the continuance in force of a Proclamation issued under
clause (1) of that article beyond a period of one year cannot be passed by
either House of Parliament unless the two conditions relating to a
Proclamation of Emergency being in operation in the whole or any part of the
State and the certificate by the Election Commission that the continuation of
the Proclamation issued under clause (1) is necessary on account of
difficulties in holding general elections to the Legislative Assembly of the
State as specified in that clause are met. Therefore, the prevailing
circumstances still do not hold out prospects for fair, free and peaceful
elections to the Legislative Assembly of Punjab.Also Refer]

