## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-FOURTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1990

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-FOURTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1990

## Act 064 of 1990

  * Published in Gazette of India on 2 April 1990 
  * Commenced on 16 April 1990 
  * [This is the version of this document from 2 April 1990.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Sixty-fifth
Amendment) Bill, 1990 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Sixty-fourth
Amendment) Act, 1990_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** Under clause (4)
of article 356 of the Constitution, no Proclamation issued under that article
and approved by both the Houses of Parliament shall remain in force for more
than three years. However, under clause (5) of the said article a resolution
approving the continuance in force of a Proclamation issued under clause (1)
of that article beyond a period of one year cannot be passed by either House
of Parliament unless the two conditions relating to a Proclamation of
Emergency being in operation in the whole or any part of the State and the
certificate by the Election Commission that the continuation of the
Proclamation issued under clause (1) is necessary on account of difficulties
in holding general elections to the Legislative Assembly of the State as
specified in that clause are met. The three year period in the case of
Proclamation issued on 11th May, 1987 with respect to the State of Punjab
would be over on 10th May, 1990 and the said two conditions are also not
fulfilled. The prevailing circumstances in the State do not hold out good
prospects for free and peaceful elections to the State Legislative Assembly.
The representatives of various political parties who attended the All-Party
Meeting convened by the Governor of Punjab at Chandigarh recently were also of
the view that congenial conditions should be created first before holding the
elections to the State Legislative Assembly. Clauses (4) and (5) of article
356 of the Constitution are, therefore, proposed to be amended so as to
facilitate the extension of the said Proclamation up to a total period of
three years and six months in relation to the State of Punjab.

### 2.

The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.An Act further to amend the
Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Forty-first Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Sixty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1990.

### 2\. Amendment of article 356.-

In article 356 of the Constitution,-(a)in clause (4), after the second
proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:-`Provided also that
in the case of the Proclamation issued under clause (1) on the 11th day of
May, 1987 with respect to the State of Punjab, the reference in the first
proviso to this clause to "three years" shall be construed as a reference to
"three years and six months".';(b)in clause (5), the following proviso shall
be inserted at the end, namely:-"Provided that nothing in this clause shall
apply to the Proclamation issued under clause (1) on the 11th day of May, 1987
with respect to the State of Punjab.[The Constitution (Sixty-fourth Amendment)
Act, 1990, aimed to address the pressing issues in the State of Punjab and
proposed to amend Article 356 to facilitate the extension of Proclamations
related to the region. The amendment of the Indian Constitution added a
proviso to Article 356(4) to allow for the extension of the President’s Rule
for a total period of three years and six months in the state of Punjab.Also
Refer]

