## Union of India - Act

## The Collection of Statistics Act, 2008

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Collection of Statistics Act, 2008

## Act 07 of 2009

  * Published in Gazette of India on 7 January 2009 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 August 2017.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE COLLECTION OF STATISTICS (AMENDMENT)ACT, 2017 (Act 21 of 2017) on 4 August 2017] 

An Act to facilitate the collection of statistics on economic, demographic,
social, scientific and environmental aspects, and for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-ninth
Year of the Republic of India as follows:–

## Chapter I  
PRELIMINARY

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.—

(1)This Act may be called the Collection of Statistics Act, 2008.(2)It extends
to the whole of India :Provided that it shall apply to the State of Jammu and
Kashmir in so far as it relates to statistics pertaining to matters falling
under any of the entries specified in List I (Union List) or List III
(Concurrent List) in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution as applicable to
that State.(3)It shall come into force on such date2 as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.–

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,–(a)"agency" includes a
person or persons engaged by the appropriate Government, directly or by
outsourcing, for collection of statistics;(b)"appropriate Government"
means–(i)any Ministry or Department in the Central Government; or(ii)any
Ministry or Department in a State Government or Union territory
Administration; or(iii)any local government that is to say, Panchayats or
Municipalities, as the case may be, in relation to the collection of
statistics under a direction issued by it under section 3;(c)"informant" means
any person, who supplies or is required to supply statistical information and
includes a owner or occupier or person in-charge or his authorised
representative in respect of persons or a firm registered under the Indian
Partnership Act, 1932 (9 of 1932) or a co-operative society registered under
any Co-operative Societies Act or a company registered under the Companies
Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or a society registered under the Societies Registration
Act, 1860 (21 of 1860) or any association recognised or registered under any
law for the time being in force;(d)"information schedule" means any book,
document, form, card, tape, disc or any storage media on which information
required is entered or recorded or is required to be entered or recorded for
statistical purposes under this Act;(da)"nodal officer" means the officer
designated as a nodal officer under sub-section (1) of section
3A;(e)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(f)"sampling"
means a statistical procedure by which information relating to a particular
field of inquiry is derived by applying statistical techniques to information
obtained in respect of a proportion of the total number of persons or units
concerned relevant to the field of inquiry;(g)"statistical survey" means a
census or a survey, whereby information is collected from all the informants
in the field of inquiry or from a sample thereof, by an appropriate Government
under this Act or any other relevant Act, wholly or primarily for the purposes
of processing and summarising by appropriate statistical
procedures;(h)"statistics" means statistics derived by collecting, classifying
and using statistics, specially in or for large quantities or numbers by
appropriate Government from statistical surveys, administrative and
registration records, and other forms and papers, the statistical analysis of
which are, whether in a published or unpublished form;(i)"statistics officer"
means any officer appointed under section 4 for the purposes of any direction
issued under section 3 of this Act.

## Chapter II  
COLLECTION OF STATISTICS

### 3. Collection of statistics.–

The appropriate Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
direct that the statistics on economic, demographic, social, scientific and
environmental aspects shall be collected through a statistical survey or
otherwise, and thereupon the provisions of this Act shall apply in relation to
those statistics:Provided that–(a)nothing contained in this section shall be
deemed to authorise a State Government or Union territory Administration or
any local government to issue any direction with respect to the collection of
statistics relating to any matter falling under any of the entries specified
in List I (Union List) in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution; or(b)where
the Central Government has issued any direction under this section for the
collection of statistics relating to any matter, no State Government or Union
territory Administration or any local government shall, except with the
previous approval of the Central Government, issue any similar direction for
so long as the collection of such statistics by the Central Government remain
to be completed; or(c)where a State Government or Union territory
Administration or any local government has issued a direction under this
section for the collection of statistics relating to any matter, the Central
Government shall not issue any similar direction for so long as the collection
of such statistics by the State Government remain to be completed, except in
cases where such statistics have to be collected with reference to two or more
States or Union territories.

### 3A. Nodal officer.–

(1)The Central Government or a State Government or Union territory
Administration shall designate one of its officers as a nodal officer for the
purposes of statistics under this Act.(2)The nodal officer shall coordinate
and supervise such statistical activities in the Central Government or the
State Government or Union territory Administration, as the case may be, in
which he is designated, and shall exercise such other powers and perform such
other duties, as may be prescribed.

### 4. Powers of appropriate Government to appoint statistics officer, etc.–

(1)The appropriate Government may appoint or cause to appoint an officer to be
the statistics officer for any geographical unit for the purpose of collecting
any statistics directed by it.(2)The appropriate Government may appoint any
agency or persons working in such agencies to take, or aid in, or supervise
the collection of the statistics within any specified geographical unit and
such agencies or persons, when so appointed, shall be bound to serve
accordingly.(3)The appropriate Government may employ on contract basis any
agency or company or organisation or association or person, on such terms and
conditions and on such safeguards as may be prescribed, for the purpose of
collecting the statistics directed by it.(4)The appropriate Government may
delegate to any statistics officer, as it thinks fit, the power of appointing
agencies or persons working in such agencies or employing on contract basis
any agency or company or organisation or association of persons, conferred on
it by sub-sections (2) and (3) within the geographical unit for which such
statistics officer is appointed.(5)The appropriate Government may, by order
specify the form, the particulars required or the interval within which, and
the statistics officer to whom, the statistical information by the informants
shall be furnished.(6)The appropriate Government may, by order published in
the Official Gazette, delegate to any statistics officer, as it thinks fit,
any power conferred under sub-section (5) for the purpose of the collection of
statistics under a direction issued by it under section 3.

### 5. Power of statistics officer to call for information.–

The statistics officer may, for the purpose of collection of statistics on any
specified subject in any geographical unit for which the said officer was
appointed–(a)serve or cause to be served on any informant a notice in writing
asking him to furnish the information specified under sub-section (5) of
section 4 or cause a information schedule to be given to any informant for the
purpose of its being filled up; or(b)cause all questions relating to the
subject to be asked from any informant; or(c)seek information through tele fax
or telephone or e-mail or in any other electronic mode or in a combination of
different modes for different sets of information so specified.

### 6. Duty of informants.–

The informants who are asked to furnish any information under the provisions
of this Act shall be bound to furnish the information so asked in the
prescribed manner to the best of knowledge or belief; and in cases where only
a portion of a particular class or group of persons or units is asked to
furnish information because of any sampling procedure, it shall not be
adefence in failure on the part of any informant to furnish that information,
if so asked.

### 7. All agencies to assist.–

Every agency shall render such help and assistance and furnish such
information to the statistics officer or a person or an agency authorised by
him in writing, as he may require for the discharge of his functions, and
shall make available for inspection and examination ofsuch records, plans and
other documents, as may be necessary.

### 8. Right of access to records or documents.–

The statistics officer or any person authorised by him in writing in this
behalf shall, for the purposes of collection of any statistics under this Act,
have access to any relevant record or document in the possession of any
informant required to furnish any information under this Act, and may enter at
any reasonable time any premises where he believes such record or document is
kept and may inspect or take copies of relevant records or documents or ask
any question necessary for obtaining any information required to be furnished
under this Act.

## Chapter III  
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION IN CERTAIN CASES AND RESTRICTIONS OF THEIR USE

### 9. Security of information.–

(1)The statistics officer or any person or agencies authorised under this Act
shall, for statistical purposes, use any information furnished under section 6
in such manner as may be prescribed.(2)No person other than a person engaged
in the work of collection of statistics under this Act or preparation of
statistics resultant to such collection shall be permitted to see any
information schedule or any answer to a question asked, except for the
purposes of a prosecution under this Act.(3)No information contained in any
information schedule and no answer to any question asked shall, except for the
purposes of a prosecution under this Act, be separately published, or
disclosed without suppressing the identification of informants to any
agency.(4)All statistical information published by any agency shall be
arranged in such a manner so as to prevent any particulars becoming
identifiable by any person (other than the informant by whom those particulars
were supplied) as the particulars relating to the informant who supplied it,
even through the process of elimination, unless–(a)that informant has
consented to their publication in that manner; or(b)their publication in that
manner could not reasonably have been foreseen by the concerned agency or any
employee thereof.(5)For the purposes of sub-section (4), the Central
Government may make such rules or make such arrangement, as it may consider
necessary.

### 10. Appropriate Government authorised to disclose certain information.–

Notwithstanding the provisions contained in section 9 of this Act, the
appropriate Government may disclose the following information,
namely:–(a)information supplied by informant in respect of which disclosure is
consented to in writing by the informant or by any person authorised by the
said informant;(b)information otherwise available to the public under any Act
or as a public document;(c)information in the form of an index or list of the
names and addresses of informants together with the classification, if any,
allotted to them and the number of persons engaged.

### 11. Disclosure of information schedules for bona fide research or
statistical purposes.–

(1)Notwithstanding the provisions contained in section 9 of this Act, the
appropriate Government may disclose individual returns or formats or
information schedules to other agency or person or institutions or
universities solely for bona fide research or statistical purposes pursuant to
their functions and duties.(2)No individual return or information schedule
shall be disclosed pursuant to this section unless–(a)the name and address of
the informant by whom the schedule or related information was supplied is
deleted;(b)every agency or person or institutions or Universities involved in
the research or statistical project makes a declaration to use the schedules
disclosed to them only for bona fide research or statistical purposes;
and(c)the appropriate Government, making such disclosure is satisfied that the
security of the schedules and any information contained therein shall not be
impaired.(3)The published results of any research or statistical project shall
not divulge any more information than what the agency authorised for
collection of statistics could publish under this Act.(4)Every agency or
person or institutions or universities to whom any individual return or
information schedule is disclosed under this section shall comply with
directions given by the agency authorised for collection of statistics making
the disclosure relating to the schedules and any information contained
therein.

### 12. Disclosure of historical documents.–

Notwithstanding anything contained in section 9 of this Act, the appropriate
Government may release such documents relating to information schedules, which
in its opinion have attained historical importance.

### 13. Security of recorded information.–

The statistics officer or any person or agency authorised for collection of
statistics shall, while copying or recording any statistical information
collected pursuant to this Act from individual returns, information schedules,
worksheets or any other confidential source by means of cards, tapes, discs,
film or any other method, whether using encoded or plain language symbols for
processing, storage or reproduction of particulars, take and cause to take
such steps as are necessary to ensure that the security provisions of this Act
are complied with.

### 14. Restrictions on use of information.–

Save as otherwise provided under this Act,–(a)no information obtained pursuant
to this Act and no copy of the information in the possession of any informant
shall be disclosed or used as evidence in any proceedings whatsoever; and(b)no
person who has access to any information because of his official position in
the collection of any statistics shall be compelled in any proceedings
whatsoever to give oral testimony regarding the information or to produce any
schedule, document, or record with respect to any information obtained in the
course of administering this Act, except in the manner provided under this
Act.

## Chapter IV  
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

### 15. Penalty for neglect or refusal to supply particulars.–

(1)Whoever, fails to produce any books of account, vouchers, documents or
other business records or whoever neglects or refuses to fill in and supply
the particulars required in any information schedule or return given or sent
to him or whoever neglects or refuses to answer any question or inquiry
addressed to him as may be required under or for the purposes of any provision
of this Act and the rules made thereunder, shall be punishable with a fine
which may extend to one thousand rupees or, in the case of a company, with a
fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.(2)The conviction of a person or
company for an offence shall not relieve him or it of the obligations under
sub-section (1) and if after the expiry of fourteen days from the date of
conviction, he or it still fails to give the required particulars or continues
to neglect or refuses to fill in and supply the particulars or to answer the
question or inquiry, then he or it shall be punishable with a further fine
which may extend to one thousand rupees or, in the case of a company, with a
fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, for each day after the first
during which the failure continues.

### 16. Penalty for making false statement.–

Whoever, wilfully makes any false or misleading statement or material omission
in any information schedule or return filled in or supplied, or in answer to
any question asked to him under this Act or the rules made thereunder, shall
be punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months or with a fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or, in the case
of a company, with a fine which may extend to five thousand rupees or with
both.

### 17. Penalty for mutilation or defacement of information schedule.–

Whoever, destroys, defaces, removes, or mutilates any information schedule,
form, or other document containing particulars collected under this Act or
requesting any such particulars, shall be punishable with simple imprisonment
for a term which may extend to six months or with a fine which may extend to
two thousand rupees or, in the case of a company with a fine which may extend
to ten thousand rupees or with both.

### 18. Penalty for obstruction of employees.–

Whoever, interferes with, hinders, or obstructs any employee in the exercise
of any power or duty conferred by this Act, shall be punishable with simple
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with a fine which
may extend to two thousand rupees or, in the case of a company with a fine
which may extend to ten thousand rupees or with both.

### 19. Penalty for other offences.–Whoever–

(a)acts in contravention of or fails to comply with any provision of this Act
or any requirement imposed under this Act; or(b)wilfully deceives or attempts
to deceive any statistics officer or any agency or any employee thereof, shall
be punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months or with a fine which may extend to two thousand rupees or, in the case
of a company, with a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees or with
both.

### 20. Penalty for failure to carry out duties and functions by employees.–

If any person employed in the execution of any duty or functions under this
Act,–(a)omits without lawful excuse to carry out his duty, or knowingly makes
any false declaration, statement or return; or(b)pretends performance of his
duties or obtains or seeks to obtain information which he is not authorised to
obtain; or(c)fails to keep inviolate the secrecy of the information gathered
or entered in the information schedules collected pursuant to this Act and,
except as permitted under this Act, divulges the contents of any schedule
filled in or any information furnished by any informant under this Act, shall
be punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months or with a fine which may extend to two thousand rupees or, in the case
of a company, with a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees or with
both.

### 21. Penalty for impersonation of employee.–

Whoever, not being authorised to collect statistics under the provisions of
this Act, by words, conduct or demeanor pretends that he is authorised to do
so, shall be punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend
to six months or with a fine which may extend to two thousand rupees or, in
the case of a company, with a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees or
with both.

### 22. General penalty.–

Whoever, commits an offence under this Act for which no penalty is prescribed
elsewhere than in this section, shall be punishable with simple imprisonment
for a term which may extend to six months or with a fine which may extend to
two thousand rupees or, in thecase of a company, with a fine which may extend
to ten thousand rupees or with both.

### 23. Offences by companies.–

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent
the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company
and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or
connivance of, or is attributable to, any neglect on the part of any director,
manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation.–For the purpose of this section–(a)''company'' means
any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals;
and(b)''Director'', in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 24. Cognizance of offences.–

No court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act except on a
complaint made by the appropriate Government or an officer authorised in this
behalf by such appropriate Government or, as the case may be, the statistics
officer, and no court inferior to that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a
Judicial Magistrate of the first class shall try any offence punishable under
this Act.

### 25. Sanction for prosecution for offence.–

No prosecution for an offence committed by any informant shall be instituted
except by or with the sanction of the statistics officer, and no prosecution
for an offence committed by persons other than informants shall be instituted
except by or with the consent of the appropriate Government.

### 26. Power of court to try cases summarily.–

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2
of 1974), all offences under this Act shall be tried in a summary way by a
Judicial Magistrate of the first class or by a Metropolitan Magistrate and the
provisions of sections

### 262. to 265 (both inclusive) of the said Code shall, as far as may be,
apply to such trial:

Provided that when in the course of, a summary trial under this section it
appears to the Magistrate that the nature of the case is such that it is, for
any reason, undesirable to try the case summarily, theMagistrate shall after
hearing the parties, record an order to that effect and thereafter recall any
witness who may have been examined and proceed to hear or rehear the case in
the manner provided by the said Code.

## Chapter V  
POWER IN RESPECT OF CORE STATISTICS

### 27. Power in respect of core statistics.–

Without prejudice to the provisions contained in this Act, the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare from time to
time any subject for the collection of statistics of national importance as
‘core statistics’ and make such arrangement, as it may consider necessary, for
regulating the collection and dissemination of statistics on the subject so
declared.

## Chapter VI  
M ISCELLANEOUS

### 28. Power to give directions.–

The Central Government may give directions to any State Government or Union
territory Administration or to any local government that is to say Panchayats
or Municipalities, as to the carrying into execution of this Act in the State
or Union territory or Panchayats or Municipalities, as the case may be.

### 29. Public servants.–

Any statistics officer and any person authorised for the collection of
statistics or preparation of official statistics under the provisions of this
Act shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of
the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 30. Bar of jurisdiction.–

No civil court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in
respect of any matter which the appropriate Government or the statistics
officer or the agency is empowered by or under this Act to determine, and no
injunction shall be granted by any court or other authority in respect of any
action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under
this Act.

### 31. Protection of action taken in good faith.–

No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against the appropriate
Government or agency or any statistics officer or other officers or employees
in respect of anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act or the rules or directions issued thereunder.

### 32. Overriding effect.–

The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force
except in relation to the conduct of human population census as per the
directions, if any, issued under the Census Act, 1948 (37 of 1948).

### 33. Power to make rules.–

(1)The Central Government may, [subject to the condition of previous
publication] by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying
out the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, the Central Government may make rules under
this section for all or any of the following matters, namely:–(a)principles
for coordinating as effectively as possible to achieve the objectives of
section 3 including nomination and registration of statistics officers by the
Central Government and also to avoid unnecessary duplication in the collection
of statistics;(aa)the coordination and supervision of statistical activities
by the nodal officer and the powers and duties of the nodal officer under sub-
section (2) of section 3A;(b)the terms, conditions and safeguards under which
any person or agency or company or organisation or association may be engaged
by the appropriate Government for the purpose of collection of statistics
under sub-section (3) of section 4;(c)principles for prescribing the form and
manner in which the information may be required to be furnished;(d)principles
for prescribing the manner in which the right of access to documents and the
right of entry conferred by section 8 may be exercised;(da)the manner of use
of information under sub-section (1) of section 9;] and(e)any other matter
which is to be or may be prescribed under this Act.(3)Every rule made by the
Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is
made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree
in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule
should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule.

### 34. Repeal and savings.–

(1)The Collection of Statistics Act, 1953 (32 of 1953) is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken
under the said Act shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the
corresponding provisions of this Act.(3)All rules made under the said Act
shall continue to be in force and operate till new rules are made under this
Act.

