## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation (Duty on Transfer of Property)
Rules, 1985

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation (Duty on Transfer of Property)
Rules, 1985

## Rule THE-COIMBATORE-CITY-MUNICIPAL-CORPORATION-DUTY-ON-TRANSFER-OF-
PROPERTY-RULES-1985 of 1985

  * Published on 19 August 1985 
  * Commenced on 19 August 1985 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 August 1985.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation (Duty on Transfer of Property)
Rules, 1985Published vide Notification G.O. Ms. No. 697, Municipal
Administration and Water Supply, dated 19th August 1985

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules maybe called the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation (Duty on
Transfer of Property) Rules, 1985.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,-(i)"Government" means the Government of Tamil Nadu;(ii)"instrument"
means an instrument of sale, exchange, gift, mortgage with possession or lease
in perpetuity of immovable property on which transfer duty is leviable under
section 164(b)(v) of the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981
(Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981);(iii)"Local Authority" means the City Municipal
Corporation of Coimbatore;(iv)"Stamp Act" means the Indian Stamp Act, 1899
(Central Act II of 1899) as in force in the State of Tamil Nadu;(v)"transfer
duty" means the duty on transfer of property leviable under sections 164 and
165 of the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25
of 1981); and(vi)all words and expressions not defined in these rules shall
have the meanings, respectively, assigned to them by the Stamp Act and the
rules made thereunder.

### 3. Provisions of the Stamp Act to apply to transfer duty.

\- (i) All the provisions of the Stamp Act and the rules made thereunder
shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the transfer duty as may be
applied m relation to the duty chargeable under that Act;(ii)Where the
transfer duty or any portion thereof is less than ten paise, such duty shall
not be collected.

### 4. Duties of registering officers in regard to particulars to be set forth
in instruments.

\- (i) Whenever an instrument is presented for registration to any registering
officer, he shall see whether the particulars referred to in section 27 of the
Stamp Act are set forth in the instruments separately as required by the said
section 27 read with section 165 (a) of the Coimbatore City Municipal
Corporation Act, 1981(Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981) and shall also ensure that
the Local Authority within whose jurisdiction the property concerned is
situated, is set forth clearly in the instrument;(ii)If the said particulars
be not so separately set forth in the instrument, the registering officer
shall keep the instrument pending for want of those particulars instead of
impounding it. Such particulars may be obtained subsequently and the
instrument be impounded, if deficitly stamped, and be forwarded to the
District Collector calling his attention to section 64 of the Stamp Act read
with section 165(b) of the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981
(Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981);(iii)The duty leviable on an instrument of
exchange shall be regulated as follows, namely:-(a)if the values of the
properties exchanged are unequal, the duty shall be levied on the value of the
property of the greater value; and(b)if the value of the properties exchanged
are equal, the duty shall be levied on the value of anyone of the property.

### 5. Maintenance and consolidation of accounts in respect of transfer duty.

(1)(a)The registration offices having original jurisdiction within the
Municipal limits of Coimbatore shall alone account the credits directly under
the head Coimbatore Municipal Corporation. All other offices shall show the
collection under outside the sub-District and separate intimations sent to the
registering officers concerned to allocate the surcharge duty to the
municipality;(b)the duty levied on art instrument of exchange shall be
distributed among the local authorities by the District Registrar at the
headquarter of the revenue districts, concerned are to be forwarded to the
Accountant General, Tamil Nadu, [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.].(2)In the case of instruments which do not
come into hands of; registering officers owing to the fact that they are not
compulsorily registrable under section 17 of the [Indian Registration Act,
1908] [Short title changed as the Registration Act, 1908.] (Central Act XVI of
1908), the District Collector before whom any such instrumentis produced under
section 31 or 41 of the Stamp Act or who impounds any such instrument under
section 38 of the Act, shall keep an account of the duty paid in respect of
each such instrument showing separately the duty imposed by the Stamp Act and
the transfer duty and forward to the District Registrar of Assurances
concerned within a period of one month after the close of each quarter, a
quarterly consolidated amount with the particulars in the case of each such
instrument regarding the names of the executant and claimant, the date of
execution, the nature of the transaction, the amount of consideration, the
value of the property, or the amount secured by the mortgage, as the case may
be, and the description of the property situated within the limits of the city
of Coimbatore.(3)If, in any case, it is impossible to recover the full duty
payable on any instrument, then only such portion of the duty realised on such
instrument as in excess of the duty imposed by the Stamp Act shall be treated
in the account referred in this rule as transfer duty.

### 6. Collector to forward quarterly statement of refunds of transfer duty to
the District Registrar concerned.

\- Every District Collector who sanctions a refund of the transfer duty paid
on any instrument shall forward to the District Registrar of Assurances
concerned within a period of one month after the close of each quarter a
statement of instruments in respect of which such refunds were sanctioned
during the quarter noting therein the amount of the transfer duty refunded and
the particulars referred to in sub-rule (2) of rule 5 in respect of each
instrument.

### 7. District Registrar to sent intimation to Collector in respect of the
amount payable to local authorities quarterly.

(1)Intimation regarding the amount payable quarterly to the Coimbatore. City
Municipal Corporation in respect of the instruments referred to in sub-rules
(1) and (2) of rule 5 shall be sent by the District Registrar of Coimbatore to
the Collector of Coimbatore and the Inspector General of Registration,
[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration
of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] within one month after the
close of each quarter.(2)Intimation regarding the amount of deduction on
account of the collection of the transfer duty to be credited to the
Government shall, at the same time, be sent by the District Registrar of
Coimbatore to the inspector General of Registration, [Chennai] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996
(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]. The intimation sent by the District Registrar
shall contain the particulars of the amount payable to each local authority
and that to be adjusted to the Registration Department distinctly and
separately.(3)The amount payable to the local authority concerned shall
represent the transfer duty paid less a deduction of ten per cent thereon on
account of the charges for the collection of transfer duty and the amount of
refunds referred to in rule 6, if any.(4)In calculating the net amount payable
to each local authority, the net amount should be rounded to the nearest five
paise.

### 8. Payments to Local Authority by Collectors.

\- The Collector of Coimbatore shall check the arithmetic accuracy of the
figures sent by the District Registrar, Coimbatore with reference to rule 7
and prepare a consolidated bill with full details as to the amount due to the
Corporation as transfer duty as furnished by the District Registrar and sent
it to the Treasury Officer for issue of a cheque in favour of the
Commissioner, Corporation of Coimbatore. The Collector shall obtain credited
to the Corporation's funds. The Collector of Coimbatore shall also send an
intimation to the Inspector General of Registration of the full details of the
amount due to the Corporation as paid by means of Treasury cheques issued by
the Treasury Officer, Coimbatore.(2)The Treasury Officer concerned shall sent
an intimation to the Inspector General of Registration [Chennai] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996
(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).], of such adjustment of the amount payable.(3)The
District Registrar of Coimbatore shall likewise prepare a consolidated bill
for the amount of collection charges forming five per cent of the gross
collections as arrived at by them with reference to rule 7 to be credited to
the Government and send it to the Treasury Officer who shall credit the amount
to the head of the Registration Department that may be specified, from time to
time.

