## Union of India - Act

## The Central Agricultural University Act, 1992

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Central Agricultural University Act, 1992

## Act 40 of 1992

  * Published on 26 December 1992 
  * Commenced on 26 December 1992 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 August 2016.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE CENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2016 (Act 45 of 2016) on 19 August 2016] 

The Central Agricultural University Act, 1992ACT NO. 40 OF 1992

### 1217.

Since the establishment of the first Agricultural University at Pantnagar in
Uttar Pradesh, all the States except eight have established Agricultural
Universities. Though each State was encouraged to set up an Agricultural
University, the size and population of States in North Eastern Region do not
warrant a separate Agricultural University for each State in that Region.2\.
The manpower, requirement by 2000 AD for all North-Eastern States excluding
Assam is estimated to be 500 agricultural graduates and 300 each in other
areas of specialisation such as horticultural, forestry, animal production,
veterinary science, fisheries, agricultural engineering and home science.3\.
The Indian Council of Agricultural Research had appointed a Committee under
the National Agricultural Research Project to study the agricultural situation
in North-Eastern Region. Study disclosed that the said States had vast
potential for agricultural development and, if tapped properly, could lead to
increased agricultural production and productivity which will utlimately lead
to prosperity and well being of the people.4\. Bonded on economic and
population considerations, poor production and productivity in the Region, the
Committee had recommended for establishment of a Central Agricultural
University for that Region to be fully funded and technically support by the
Indian Council of Agricultural Research.5\. With the establishment of the
Central Agricultural University a long and cherished desire of the people in
the region will be fulfilled for the furtherance of the advancement of
learning and prosecution of the research in agriculture and allied sciences in
that Region.[26th December, 1992]An Act to provide for the establishment and
incorporation of a University for the North-Eastern region for the development
of agriculture and for the furtherance of the advancement of learning and
prosecution of research in agriculture and allied sciences in that region.BE
it enacted by Parliament in the Forty-third Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Central Agricultural University Act, 1992.(2)It
shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

Came into force w.e.f. 26-1-1993: Vide Notfin. NO. S.O. 72 (E), dated
25-1-1993.  
---  
  
### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, and in all Statutes made hereunder, unless the context otherwise
requires,--(a)"Academic Council" means the Academic Council of the
University;(b)"academic staff" means such categories of staff as are
designated as academic staff by the Ordinances;(c)"agriculture" means the
basic and applied sciences of the soil and water management, crop production
including production of all garden crops, control of plants, pests and
diseases, horticulture including floriculture, animal husbandry including
veterinary and dairy science, fisheries, forestry including farm forestry,
homescience, agricultural engineering and technology, marketing and processing
of agricultural and animal husbandry products, land use and
management;(d)"Board" means the Board of Management of the
University;(e)"Board of Studies" means the Board of Studies of the
University;(f)"Chancellor" means the Chancellor of the University;(g)"college"
means a constituent college of the University whether located at the
headquarters, campus or elsewhere;(h)"Department" means a Department of
Studies of the University;(i)"employee" means any person appointed by the
University and includes teachers and other staff of the
University;(j)"extension education" means the educational activities concerned
with the training of orchardists, farmers and other groups serving
agriculture, horticulture, fisheries and improved practices related thereto
and the various phases of scientific technology related to agriculture and
agricultural production including post harvest technology and
marketing;(k)"Faculty" means Faculty of the University;(l)"North-Eastern
region" means the North-Eastern region of India comprising the States of
Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, [Nagaland] [Inserted by Act 45
of 2016.], Sikkim and Tripura;(m)"Ordinances" means the Ordinances of the
University;(n)"Regulations" means the Regulations made by any authority of the
University;(o)"Research Advisory Committee" means the Research Advisory
Committee of the University;(p)"Statutes" means the Statutes of the
University;(q)"student" means a person enrolled in the University for
undergoing a course of studies for obtaining a degree, diploma or other
academic distinction duly instituted;(r)"teachers" means Professors, Associate
Professors, Assistant Professors, Teaching Faculty Members and their
equivalent appointed for imparting instruction or conducting research or
extension education programmes or combination of these in the University,
college or any institute maintained by the University and designated as
teachers by the Ordinances;(s)"University" means the Central Agricultural
University established under this Act;(t)"Vice-Chancellor" means the Vice-
Chancellor of the University;(u)"Visitor" means the Visitor of the University.

### 3. The University.

(1)There shall be established a University by the name of the "Central
Agricultural University".(2)The headquarters of the University shall be at
Imphal in the State of Manipur and it may also establish compuses at such
other places within its jurisdiction as it may deem fit.(3)The first
Chancellor and the first Vice-Chancellor and the first members of the Board,
the Academic Council and all persons who may hereafter become such officers or
members, so long as they continue to hold such office or membership are hereby
constituted a body corporate by the name of the Central Agricultural
University.(4)The University shall have perpetual succession and a common seal
and shall sue and be sued by the said name.

### 4. Objects of the University.

The objects of the University shall be--(a)to impart education in different
branches of agricultural and allied sciences as it may deem fit;(b)to further
the advancement of learning and prosecution of research in agriculture and
allied sciences;(c)to undertake programmes of extension education in the
States under its jurisdiction; and(d)to undertake such other activities as it
may, from time to time, determine.

### 5. Powers of the University.

The University shall have the following powers, namely:--(i)to make provision
for instructions in agricultural and allied sciences;(ii)to make provision for
conduct of research in agricultural and allied branches of learning;(iii)to
make provision for dissemination of the findings of research and technical
information through extension programmes;(iv)to grant, subject to such
conditions as it may determine, diplomas or certificates to, and confer
degrees or other academic distinctions on the basis of examination, evaluation
or any other method of testing, on persons, and to withdraw any such diplomas,
certificates, degrees or other academic distinction for good and sufficient
cause;(v)to confer honorary degrees or other distinctions in the manner
prescribed by the Statutes;(vi)to provide lectures and instructions for field
workers, village leaders and other persons not enrolled as regular students of
the University and to grant certificates to them as may be prescribed by the
Statutes;(vii)to co-operate or collaborate or associate with any other
University or authority or institution of higher learning in such manner and
for such purposes as the University may determine;(viii)to establish and
maintain colleges relating to agriculture, fisheries, dairying, veterinary
medicine and animal science, homescience, agricultural engineering, forestry
and allied sciences;(ix)to establish and maintain such campuses, special
centres, specialised laboratories, libraries, museums or other units for
research and instruction as are, in its opinion, necessary for the furtherance
of its objects;(x)to create teaching, research and extension education posts
and to make appointments thereto;(xi)to create administrative, ministerial and
other posts and to make appointments thereto;(xii)to institute and award
fellowships, scholarships, studentships, medals and prizes;(xiii)to determine
standards of admission to the University, which may include examination,
evaluation or any other method of testing;(xiv)to provide and maintain
residential accommodation for students and employees;(xv)to supervise the
residences of the students of the University and to make arrangements for
promoting their health and general welfare;(xvi)to lay down conditions of
service of all categories of employees, including their code of
conduct;(xvii)to regulate and enforce discipline among the students and the
employees, and to take such disciplinary measures in this regard as it may
deem necessary;(xviii)to fix, demand and receive such fees and other charges
as may be prescribed by the Statutes;(xix)to borrow, with the approval of the
Central Government on the security of its property, money for the purpose of
the University;(xx)to receive benefactions, donations and gifts and to
acquire, hold, manage and dispose of any property, movable or immovable,
including trust and endowment properties for its purposes;(xxi)to do all such
other acts and things as may be necessary, incidental or conducive to the
attainment of all or any of its objects.

### 6. Jurisdiction.

(1)The jurisdiction and responsibility of the University with respect to
teaching, research and programmes of extension education at the University
level, in the field of agricultural shall extend to the States of Arunachal
Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, [Nagaland] [Inserted by Act 45 of
2016.], Sikkim and Tripura.(2)All colleges, research and experimental stations
or other institutions coming under the jurisdiction and authority of the
University shall be its constituent units under the full management and
control of its officers and authorities and no such units shall be recognised
as affiliated units.(3)The University may assume responsibility for the
training of field extension workers and others and may develop such training
centres as may be required in various parts of the States under its
jurisdiction.

### 7. University open to all classes, castes and creed.

The University shall be open to persons of either sex and of whatever caste,
creed, race or class, and it shall not be lawful for the University to adopt
or impose on any person, any test whatsoever of religious belief or profession
in order to entitle him to be appointed as a teacher of the University or to
hold any other office therein or be admitted as a student in the University or
to graduate thereat or to enjoy or exercise any privilege thereof:Provided
that nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the University from
making special provisions for the employment or admission of women,
handicapped or of persons belonging to the weaker sections of the society and,
in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. 287

### 8. The Visitor.

(1)The President of India shall be the Visitor of the University.(2)Subject to
the provisions of sub-sections (3) and (4), the Visitor shall have the right
to cause an inspection to be made, by such person or persons as he may direct,
of the University, its buildings, laboratories, libraries, museums, workshops
and equipments, and of any institution or college and also of the examination,
instruction and other work conducted or done by the University, and to cause
an inquiry to be made in like manner in respect of any matter connected with
the administration and finances of the University.(3)The Visitor shall, in
every case, give notice to the University of his intention to cause an
inspection or inquiry to be made and the University shall, on receipt of such
notice, have the right to make, within thirty days from the date of receipt of
the notice or such other period as the Visitor may determine, such
representations to him as it may consider necessary.(4)After considering the
representations, if any, made by the University, the Visitor may cause to be
made such inspection or inquiry as is referred to in sub-section (2).(5)Where
an inspection or inquiry has been caused to be made by the Visitor, the
University shall be entitled to appoint a representative who shall have the
right to appear in person and to be heard on such inspection or inquiry.(6)The
Visitor may address the Vice-Chancellor with reference to the results of such
inspection or inquiry together with such views and advice with regard to the
action to be taken thereon as the Visitor may be pleased to offer and on
receipt of the address made by the Visitor, the Vice-Chancellor shall
communicate forthwith to the Board the results of the inspection or inquiry
and the views of the Visitor and the advice tendered by him upon the action to
be taken thereon.(7)The Board shall communicate through the Vice-Chancellor to
the Visitor such action, if any, as it proposes to take or has been taken by
it upon the results of such inspection or inquiry.(8)Where the Board does not,
within a reasonable time, take action to the satisfaction of the Visitor, the
Visitor may, after considering any explanation furnished or representation
made by the Board, issue such directions as he may think fit and the Board
shall be bound to comply with such directions.(9)Without prejudice to the
foregoing provisions of this section, the Visitor may, by an order in writing,
annul any proceeding of the University which is not in conformity with this
Act, the Statutes or the Ordinances:Provided that before making any such
order, he shall call upon the University to show cause why such an order
should not be made and, if any cause is shown within a reasonable time, he
shall consider the same.(10)The Visitor shall have such other powers as may be
specified by the Statutes. 288

### 9. Officers of the University.

The following shall be the officers of the University, namely:--(1)the
Chancellor;(2)the Vice-Chancellor;(3)Deans;(4)Directors;(5)the
Registrar;(6)the Comptroller; and(7)such other officers as may be prescribed
by the Statutes.

### 10. The Chancellor.

(1)The Chancellor shall be appointed by the Visitor in such manner as may be
prescribed by the Statutes.(2)The Chancellor shall, by virtue of his office,
be the Head of the University.(3)The Chancellor shall, if present, preside at
the convocations of the University held for conferring degrees.

### 11. The Vice-Chancellor.

(1)The Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the Visitor in such manner as may
be prescribed by the Statutes.(2)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the principal
executive and academic officer of the University and shall exercise general
supervision and control over the affairs of the University and give effect to
the decisions of all the authorities of the University.(3)The Vice-Chancellor
may, if he is of opinion that immediate action is necessary on any matter,
exercise any power conferred on any authority of the University by or under
this Act and shall report to such authority the action taken by him on such
matter:Provided that if the authority concerned is of opinion that such action
ought not to have been taken, it may refer the matter to the Visitor whose
decision thereon shall be final:Provided further that any person in the
service of the University who is aggrieved by the action taken by the Vice-
Chancellor under this sub-section shall have the right to appeal against such
action to the Board within three months from the date on which decision on
such action is communicated to him and thereupon the Board may confirm, modify
or reverse the action taken by the Vice-Chancellor.(4)The Vice-Chancellor, if
he is of opinion that any decision of any authority of the University is
beyond the powers of the authority conferred by the provisions of this Act,
the Statutes or the Ordinances or that any decision taken is not in the
interest of the University, may ask the authority concerned to review its
decision within sixty days of such decision and if the authority refuses to
review the decision either in whole or in part or no decision is taken by it
within the said period of sixty days, the matter shall be referred to the
Visitor whose decision thereon shall be final.(5)The Vice-Chancellor shall
exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed
by the Statutes or the Ordinances. 289

### 12. Deans and Directors.

Every Dean and every Director shall be appointed in such manner and shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the
Statutes.

### 13. The Registrar.

(1)The Registrar shall be appointed in such manner as may be prescribed by the
Statutes.(2)The Registrar shall have the power to enter into agreements, sign
documents and authenticate records on behalf of the University and shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the
Statutes.

### 14. The Comptroller.

The Comptroller shall be appointed in such manner and shall exercise such
powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 15. Other officers.

The manner of appointment and powers and duties of the other officers of the
University shall be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 16. Authorities of the University.

The following shall be the authorities of the University, namely:--(1)the
Board;(2)the Academic Council;(3)the Finance Committee;(4)the Research
Programme Committee;(5)the Extension Education Advisory Committee;(6)the Board
of Studies; and(7)such other authorities as may be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 17. The Board.

(1)The Board shall be the principal executive body of the University.(2)The
constitution of the Board, the term of office of its members and its powers
and functions shall be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 18. The Academic Council.

(1)The Academic Council shall be the principal academic body of the University
and shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, the Statutes and Ordinances,
have the control and general regulation of, and be responsible for, the
maintenance of standards of learning, education, instruction, evaluation and
examination within the University and shall exercise such other powers and
perform such other functions as may be conferred or imposed upon it by the
Statutes.(2)The constitution of the Academic Council and the term of office of
its members shall be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 19. The Finance Committee.

The constitution, powers and functions of the Finance Committee shall be
prescribed by the Statutes.

### 20. The Research Programme Committee.

The constitution, powers and functions of the Research Programme Committee
shall be prescribed by the Statutes. 290

### 21. The Extension Education Advisory Committee.

The constitution, powers and functions of the Extension Education Advisory
Committee shall be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 22. The Board of Studies.

The constitution, powers and functions of the Board of Studies shall be
prescribed by the Statutes.

### 23. Faculties.

The University shall have such Faculties as may be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 24. Other authorities.

The constitution, powers and functions of other authorities of the University
referred to in clause (7) of section 16 shall be such as may be prescribed by
the Statutes.

### 25. Power to make Statutes.

Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Statutes may provide for all or any
of the following matters, namely:--(a)the constitution, powers and functions
of the authorities of the University, as may be constituted from time to
time;(b)the appointment and continuance in office of the members of the said
authorities, the filling up of vacancies of members, and all other matters
relating to those authorities for which it may be necessary or desirable to
provide;(c)the appointment, powers and duties of the officers of the
University and their emoluments;(d)the appointment of teachers, academic staff
and other employees of the University and their emoluments;(e)the appointment
of teachers and academic staff working in any other University or organisation
for a specific period for undertaking a joint project;(f)the conditions of
service of employees including provision for pension, insurance and provident
fund, the manner of termination of service and disciplinary action;(g)the
principles governing the seniority of service of the employees of the
University;(h)the procedure for arbitration in cases of dispute between
employees or students and the University;(i)the procedure for appeal to the
Board by any employee or student against the action of any officer or
authority of the University;(j)the establishment and abolition of Departments,
Centres, colleges and institutions;(k)the conferment of honorary
degrees;(l)the withdrawal of degrees, diplomas, certificates and other
academic distinctions;(m)the institution of fellowships, scholarships,
studentships, medals and prizes;(n)the delegation of powers vested in the
authorities or officers of the University;(o)the maintenance of discipline
among the employees and students;(p)all other matters which by this Act are to
be, or may be, prescribed by the Statutes.

### 26. Statutes how to be made.

(1)The first Statutes are those set out in the Schedule.(2)The Board may from
time to time make Statutes or may amend or repeal the Statutes referred to in
sub-section (1):Provided that the Board shall not make, amend or repeal any
Statute affecting the status, powers or constitution of any authority of the
University until such authority has been given an opportunity of expressing an
opinion in writing on the proposed changes, and any opinion so expressed shall
be considered by the Board.(3)Every Statute or any amendment or repeal of a
Statute shall require the assent of the Visitor who may assent thereto or
withhold assent therefrom or remit it to the Board for consideration.(4)A
Statute or a Statute amending or repealing an existing Statute shall have no
validity unless it has been assented to by the Visitor.(5)Notwithstanding
anything contained in the foregoing sub-sections, the Visitor may amend or
repeal the Statutes referred to in sub-section (1), during the period of three
years immediately after the commencement of this Act.(6)Notwithstanding
anything contained in the foregoing sub-sections, the Visitor may direct the
University to make provisions in the Statutes in respect of any matter
specified by him and if the Board is unable to implement such direction within
sixty days of its receipt, the Visitor may, after considering the reasons, if
any, communicated by the Board for its inability to comply with such
direction, make or amend the Statutes suitably.

### 27. Power to make Ordinances.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Statutes, the Ordinances may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:--(a)the admission of
students to the University and their enrolment as such;(b)the courses of study
to be laid down for all degrees, diplomas and certificates of the
University;(c)the medium of instruction and examination;(d)the award of
degrees, diplomas, certificates and other academic distinctions, the
qualifications for the same and the means to be taken relating to the granting
and obtaining of the same;(e)the fees to be charged for courses of study in
the University and for admission to the examinations, degrees, diplomas and
certificates of the University;(f)the conditions for award of fellowships,
scholarships, studentships, medals and prizes;(g)the conduct of examinations,
including the term of office and manner of appointment and the duties of
examining bodies, examiners and moderators;(h)the conditions of residence of
the students;(i)the special arrangements, if any, which may be made for the
residence, discipline and teaching of women students and the prescribing of
special courses of studies for them;(j)the appointment and emoluments of
employees other than those for whom provision has been made in the
Statutes;(k)the establishment of special centres, specialized laboratories and
other committees;(l)the manner of co-operation and collaboration with other
Universities and authorites including learned bodies or associations;(m)the
creation, composition and functions of any other body which is considered
necessary for improving the academic life of the University;(n)such other
terms and conditions of service of teachers and other academic staff as are
not prescribed by the Statutes;(o)the management of colleges and institutions
established by the University;(p)the setting up of a machinery for redressal
of grievances of employees; and(q)all other matters which by this Act or the
Statutes may be provided for by the Ordinances.(2)The first Ordinances shall
be made by the Vice-Chancellor with the previous approval of the Central
Government and the Ordinances so made may be amended or repealed at any time
by the Board in the manner prescribed by the Statutes.

### 28. Regulations.

The authorities of the University may make Regulations, consistent with this
Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances for the conduct of their own business and
that of the committees appointed by them and not provided for by this Act, the
Statutes or the Ordinances in the manner prescribed by the Statutes.

### 29. Annual report.

(1)The annual report of the University shall be prepared under the direction
of the Board, which shall include, among other matters, the steps taken by the
University towards the fulfilment of its objects and shall be submitted to the
Board on or after such date as may be prescribed by the Statutes and the Board
shall consider the report in its annual meeting.(2)The Board shall submit the
annual report to the Visitor along with its comments, if any.(3)A copy of the
annual report as prepared under sub-section (1), shall also be submitted to
the Central Government, which shall, as soon as may be, cause the same to be
laid before both Houses of Parliament.

### 30. Annual accounts.

(1)The annual accounts of the University shall be prepared under the
directions of the Board and shall, once at least every year and at intervals
of not more than fifteen months, be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India or by such persons as he may authorise in this behalf.(2)A
copy of the annual accounts together with the audit report thereon shall be
submitted to the Board and the Visitor along with the observations of the
Board.(3)Any observations made by the Visitor on the annual accounts shall be
brought to the notice of the Board and the observations of the Board, if any,
shall be submitted to the Visitor.(4)A copy of the annual accounts together
with the audit report as submitted to the Visitor, shall also be submitted to
the Central Government, which shall, as soon as may be, cause the same to be
laid before both Houses of Parliament.(5)The audited annual accounts after
having been laid before both Houses of Parliament shall be published in the
Official Gazette.

### 31. Conditions of service of employees.

(1)Every employee of the University shall be appointed under a written
contract, which shall be lodged with the University and a copy of which shall
be furnished to the employee concerned.(2)Any dispute arising out of the
contract between the University and any employee shall, at the request of the
employee, be referred to a Tribunal of Arbitration consisting of one member
appointed by the Board, one member nominated by the employee concerned and an
umpire appointed by the Visitor.(3)The decision of the Tribunal shall be
final, and no suit shall lie in any civil court in respect of the matters
decided by the Tribunal.(4)Every request made by the employee under sub-
section (2) shall be deemed to be a submission to arbitration upon the terms
of this section within the meaning of the Arbitration Act, 1940 (2 of
1940).(5)The procedure for regulating the work of the Tribunal shall be
prescribed by the Statutes.

### 32. Procedure of appeal and arbitration in disciplinary cases against
students.

(1)Any student or candidate for an examination whose name has been removed
from the rolls of the University by the orders or resolution of the Vice-
Chancellor, Discipline Committee or Examination Committee, as the case may be,
and who has been debarred from appearing at the examinations of the University
for more than one year, may, within ten days of the date of receipt of such
orders or copy of such resolution by him, appeal to the Board and the Board
may confirm, modify or reverse the decision of the Vice-Chancellor or the
Committee, as the case may be.(2)Any dispute arising out of any disciplinary
action taken by the University against a student shall, at the request of such
student, be referred to a Tribunal of Arbitration and the provisions of sub-
sections (2), (3), (4) and (5) of section 31 shall, as far as may be, apply to
a reference made under this sub-section. 294

### 33. Right to appeal.

Every employee or student of the University or of a college or institution
maintained by the University shall, notwithstanding anything contained in this
Act, have a right to appeal, within such time as may be prescribed by the
Statutes, to the Board against the decision of any officer or authority of the
University or any college or an institution, as the case may be, and thereupon
the Board may confirm, modify or reverse the decision appealed against.

### 34. Provident and pension funds.

(1)The University shall constitute for the benefit of its employees such
provident or pension fund or provide such insurance schemes as it may deem fit
in such manner and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the
Statutes.(2)Where such provident fund or pension fund has been so constituted,
the Central Government may declare that the provision of the Provident Funds
Act, 1925 (19 of 1925), shall apply to such fund, as if it were a Government
provident fund.

### 35. Disputes as to constitution of University authorities.

If any question arises as to whether any person has been duly appointed as, or
is entitled to be, a member of any authority of the University, the matter
shall be referred to the Visitor whose decision thereon shall be final.

### 36. Constitution of Committees.

Where any authority of the University is given power by this Act or the
Statutes to appoint Committees, such Committees shall, save as otherwise
provided, consist of the members of the authority concerned and of such other
person, if any, as the authority in each case may think fit.

### 37. Filling of casual vacancies.

All casual vacancies among the members (other than ex officio members) of any
authority of the University shall be filled, as soon as may be, by the person
who appointed or co-opted the member whose place has become vacant and person
appointed or co-opted to a casual vacancy shall be a member of such authority
or body for the residue of the term for which the person whose place he fills
would have been a member.

### 38. Proceedings of University authorities not invalidated by vacancy.

No act or proceedings of any authority of the University shall be invalid
merely by reason of the existence of a vacancy or vacancies among its members.

### 39. Protection of action taken in good faith.

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Board,
any authority or officer or other employee of the University for anything
which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of any of the
provisions of this Act, the Statutes or the Ordinances. 295

### 40. Mode of proof of University records.

A copy of any receipt, application, notice, order, proceeding, resolution of
any authority or Committee of the University, or other documents in possession
of the University, or any entry in any register duly maintained by the
University, if verified by the Registrar, shall be received as prima facie
evidence of such receipt, application, notice, order, proceeding, resolution
or documents or the existence of entry in the register and shall be admitted
as evidence of the matters and transactions therein where the original thereof
would, if produced, have been admissible in evidence, notwithstanding anything
contained in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872.) or in any other law
for the time being in force.

### 41. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear
to it to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty:Provided that
no such order shall be made under this section after the expiry of three years
from the commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this section shall
be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament.

### 42. Transitional provisions.

Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act and the Statutes,--(a)the first
Chancellor and the first Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the Visitor and
shall hold office for a term of five years;(b)the first Registrar and the
first Comptroller shall be appointed by the Visitor and each of the said
officers shall hold office for a term of three years;(c)the first members of
the Board shall be nominated by the Visitor and shall hold office for a term
of three years;(d)the first members of the Academic Council shall be nominated
by the Visitor and shall hold office for a term of three years:Provided that
if any vacancy occurs in the above offices or authorities, the same shall be
filled by appointment or nomination, as the case may be, by the Visitor, and
the person so appointed or nominated shall hold office for so long as the
officer or member in whose place he is appointed or nominated would have held
office, if such vacancy had not occurred.

### 43. Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations to be published in the Official
Gazette and to be laid before Parliament.

(1)Every Statute, Ordinance or Regulation made under this Act shall be
published in the Official Gazette.(2)Every Statute, Ordinance or Regulation
made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before
each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty
days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive
sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the
session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the Statute, Ordinance or Regulation or both Houses agree that
the Statute, Ordinance or Regulation should not be made, the Statute,
Ordinance or Regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such modified
form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that Statute, Ordinance or Regulation.(3)The
power to make Statutes, Ordinances or Regulations shall include the power to
give retrospective effect from a date not earlier than the date of
commencement of this Act, to the Statutes, Ordinances or Regulations or any of
them but no retrospective effect shall be given to any Statute, Ordinance or
Regulation so as to prejudicially affect the interests of any person to whom
such Statutes, Ordinances or Regulations may be applicable.THE SCHEDULE(See
section 26)THE STATUTES OF THE UNIVERSITY

### 1\. The Chancellor. (1) The Chancellor shall be appointed by the Visitor
from a panel of not less than three persons recommended by the Board from
amongst persons of eminence in education in general and agricultural sciences
in particular:

Provided that if the Visitor does not approve of any of the persons so
recommended he may call for fresh recommendations from the Board.(2)The
Chancellor shall hold office for a term of five years and shall not be
eligible for reappointment:Provided that notwithstanding the expiry of his
term of office, the Chancellor shall continue to hold office until his
successor enters upon his office.

### 2\. The Vice-Chancellor (1) The Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the
Visitor from a panel of not less than three persons who shall be recommended
by a Committee as constituted under clause (2):

Provided that if the Visitor does not approve of any of the persons included
in the panel, he may call for a fresh panel.(2)The Committee referred to in
clause (1), shall consist of a nominee of the Visitor, the Director-General of
the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and the Secretary to the North-
Eastern Council, set-up under section 3 of the North-Eastern Council Act, 1971
(84 of 1971) and the nominee of the Visitor shall be the convener of the
Committee.(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall be a whole-time salaried officer of the
University.(4)The Vice-Chancellor shall hold office for a term of five years
from the date on which he enters upon his office, or until he attains the age
of sixty-five years, whichever is earlier, and he shall not be eligible for
reappointment:Provided that notwithstanding the expiry of the said period of
five years, he shall continue in office until his successor is appointed and
enters upon his office:Provided further that the Visitor may direct any Vice-
Chancellor after his term has expired, to continue in office for such period,
not exceeding a total period of one year, as may be specified by him.(5)The
emoluments and other conditions of service of the Vice-Chancellor shall be as
follows:-(i)The Vice-Chancellor shall be paid a monthly salary and allowances
other than the house rent allowance, at the rates fixed by the Central
Government from time to time and he shall be entitled, without payment of
rent, to use a furnished residence throughout his term of office and no charge
shall fall on the Vice-Chancellor in respect of the maintenance of such
residence.(ii)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to such terminal benefits
and allowances as may be fixed by the Board with the approval of the Visitor
from time to time:Provided that where an employee of the University or a
college or an institution maintained by it, or of any other University or any
Institution maintained by or affiliated to such other University, is appointed
as the Vice-Chancellor, he may be allowed to continue to contribute to any
provident fund of which he is a member and the University shall contribute to
the account of such person in that provident fund at the same rate at which
the person had been contributing immediately before his appointment as the
Vice-Chancellor:Provided further that where such employee had been a member of
any pension scheme, the University shall make the necessary contribution to
such scheme.(iii)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to travelling allowance
at such rates as may be fixed by the Board.(iv)The Vice-Chancellor shall be
entitled to leave on full pay at the rate of thirty days in a calendar year
and the leave shall be credited to his account in advance in two half-yearly
instalments of fifteen days each on the 1st day of January and July every
year;Provided that if the Vice-Chancellor assumes or relinquishes charge of
the office of the Vice-Chancellor during the currency of a half year, the
leave shall be credited proportionately at the rate of two and-a-half days for
each completed month of service.(v)In addition to the leave referred to in
sub-clause (iv), the Vice-Chancellor shall also be entitled to half pay leave
at the rate of twenty days for each completed year of service. This half pay
leave may also be availed of as commuted leave on full pay on medical
certificate. When commuted leave is availed, twice the amount of half pay
leave shall be debited against half pay leave due.(6)If the office of the
Vice-Chancellor becomes vacant due to death, resignation or otherwise, or if
he is unable to perform his duties due to ill-health or any other cause, the
senior-most Dean or Director, as the case may be, shall perform the duties of
the Vice-Chancellor until a new Vice-Chancellor assumes office or until the
Vice-Chancellor attends to the duties of his office, as the case may be.

### 3\. Powers and duties of the Vice-Chancellor. (1) The Vice-Chancellor
shall be ex officio Chairman of the Board, the Academic Council and the
Finance Committee and shall, in the absence of the Chancellor, preside at the
convocations held for conferring degrees.

(2)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to be present at, and address, any
meeting of any authority of the University, but shall not be entitled to vote
thereat unless he is a member of such authority.(3)It shall be the duty of the
Vice-Chancellor to see that this Act, the Statutes, the Ordinances and the
Regulations are duly observed, and he shall have all the powers necessary to
ensure such observance.(4)The Vice-Chancellor shall exercise control over the
affairs of the University and shall give effect to the decisions of all the
authorities of the University.(5)The Vice-Chancellor shall have all the powers
necessary for the proper maintenance of discipline in the University and he
may delegate any such powers to such person or persons as he may deem
fit.(6)The Vice-Chancellor shall have the power to convene or cause to be
convened the meetings of the Board, the Academic Council and the Finance
Committee.

### 4\. Deans of colleges. (1) Every Dean of a college shall be appointed by
the Vice-Chancellor from among the Professors in the college for a period of
five years and he shall be eligible for reappointment:

Provided that a Dean on attaining the age of sixty years shall cease to hold
office as such:Provided further that if at any time there is no Professor in a
college, the Vice-Chancellor, or a Dean authorised by the Vice-Chancellor in
this behalf, shall exercise the powers of the Dean of the college.(2)When the
office of the Dean is vacant or when the Dean is, by reason of illness,
absence or any other cause, unable to perform duties of his office, the duties
of the office shall be performed by such person as the Vice-Chancellor may
appoint for the purpose.(3)The Dean shall be the Head of the college and shall
be responsible for the conduct and maintenance of the standards of teaching
and research in the college and shall have such other functions as may be
prescribed by the Ordinances.(4)The Dean shall have the right to be present
and to speak at any meeting of the Board of Studies or Committees of the
college, as the case may be, but shall not have the right to vote thereat
unless he is a member thereof.

### 5\. Director Instruction. (1) The Director Instruction shall be appointed
by the Board on the recommendation of a Selection Committee constituted for
the purpose and he shall be a whole-time salaried officer of the University.

(2)The Director Instruction shall hold office for a term of five years and
shall be eligible for reappointment:Provided that the Director Instruction on
attaining the age of sixty years shall cease to hold office as such.(3)The
Director Instruction shall be responsible for planning coordination and
supervision for all educational programmes in the various faculties of the
University.

### 6\. The Director of Research. (1) The Director of Research shall be
appointed by the Board on the recommendation of a Selection Committee
constituted for the purpose and he shall be a whole-time salaried officer of
the University.

(2)The Director of Research shall hold office for a term of five years and
shall be eligible for reappointment:Provided that the Director of Research on
attaining the age of sixty years shall cease to hold office as such.(3)The
Director of Research shall be responsible for the supervision and coordination
of research programmes in the University.

### 7\. The Director of Extension Education. (1) The Director of Extension
Education shall be appointed by the Board on the recommendation of a Selection
Committee constituted for the purpose and he shall be a whole-time salaried
officer of the University.

(2)The Director of Extension Education shall hold office for a term of five
years and shall be eligible for reappointment:Provided that the Director of
Extension Education on attaining the age of sixty years shall cease to hold
office as such.(3)The Director of Extension Education shall be responsible for
the supervision and coordination of all Extension Education Programmes of the
University.

### 8\. Registrar. (1) The Registrar shall be appointed by the Board on the
recommendation of a Selection Committee constituted for the purpose and shall
be a whole-time salaried officer of the University.

(2)He shall be appointed for a term of five years and shall be eligible for
reappointment.(3)The emoluments and other terms and conditions of service of
the Registrar shall be such as may be prescribed by the Ordinances:Provided
that the Registrar shall retire on attaining the age of sixty years:Provided
further that a Registrar shall, notwithstanding his attaining the age of sixty
years, continue in office until his successor is appointed and enters upon his
office or until the expiry of a period of one year, whichever is
earlier.(4)When the office of the Registrar is vacant or when the Registrar
is, by reason of illness, absence, or any other cause, unable to perform the
duties of his office, the duties of the office shall be performed by such
person as the Vice-Chancellor may appoint for the purpose.(5)(a)The Registrar
shall have power to take disciplinary action against such of the employees,
excluding teachers, as may be specified in the order of the Board and to
suspend them pending inquiry, to administer warnings to them or to impose on
them the penalty of censure or the withholding of increment:Provided that no
such penalty shall be imposed unless the person concerned has been given a
reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be
taken in regard to him.(b)An appeal shall lie to the Vice-Chancellor against
any order of the Registrar imposing any of the penalties specified in sub-
clause (a).(c)In a case where the inquiry discloses that a punishment beyond
the power of the Registrar is called for, the Registrar shall, upon conclusion
of the inquiry, make a report to the Vice-Chancellor along with his
recommendations:Provided that an appeal shall lie to the Board against an
order of the Vice-Chancellor imposing any penalty.(6)The Registrar shall be ex
officio Secretary of the Board and the Academic Council, but shall not be
deemed to be a member of any of these authorities.(7)It shall be the duty of
the Registrar--(a)to be the custodian of the records, the common seal and such
other property of the University as the Board shall commit to his charge;(b)to
issue all notices convening meetings of the Board, the Academic Council and of
any Committees appointed by those authorities;(c)to keep the minutes of all
the meetings of the Board, the Academic Council and of any Committees
appointed by those authorities;(d)to conduct the official correspondence of
the Board and the Academic Council;(e)to arrange for and superintend the
examinations of the University in accordance with the manner prescribed by the
Ordinances;(f)to supply to the Visitor, copies of the agenda of the meetings
of the authorities of the University as soon as they are issued; and the
minutes of such meetings;(g)to represent the University in suits or
proceedings by or against the University, sign powers-of-attorney and verify
pleadings or depute his representatives for the purpose; and(h)to perform such
other duties as may be specified in the Statutes, the Ordinances or the
Regulations or as may be required from time to time, by the Board or the Vice-
Chancellor.

### 9\. The Comptroller. (1) The Comptroller shall be appointed by the Board
on the recommendation of a Selection Committee constituted for the purpose and
he shall be a whole-time salaried officer of the University.

(2)He shall be appointed for a term of five years and shall be eligible for
reappointment.(3)The emoluments and other terms and conditions of service of
the Comptroller shall be such as may be prescribed by the Ordinances:Provided
that a Comptroller shall retire on attaining the age of sixty years:Provided
further that the Comptroller shall, notwithstanding his attaining the age of
sixty years, continue in office until his successor is appointed and enter
upon his office or until the expiry of a period of one year, whichever is
earlier.(4)When the office of the Comptroller is vacant or when the
Comptroller is, by reason of illness, absence or any other cause, unable to
perform the duties of his office, the duties of the office shall be performed
by such person as the Vice-Chancellor may appoint for the purpose.(5)The
Comptroller shall be ex officio Secretary of the Finance Committee, but shall
not be deemed to be a member of such Committee.(6)The Comptroller
shall--(a)exercise general supervision over the funds of the University and
shall advise it as regards its financial policy; and(b)perform such other
financial functions as may be assigned to him by the Board or as may be
prescribed by the Statutes or the Ordinances.(7)Subject to the control of the
Board, the Comptroller shall--(a)hold and manage the property and investments
of the University including trust and endowed property;(b)ensure that the
limits fixed by the Board for recurring and non-recurring expenditure for a
year are not exceeded and that all moneys are expended on the purpose for
which they are granted or allotted;(c)be responsible for the preparation of
annual accounts and the budget of the University and for their presentation to
the Board;(d)keep a constant watch on the state of the cash and bank balances
and on the state of investments;(e)watch the progress of the collection of
revenue and advise on the methods of collection employed;(f)ensure that the
registers of buildings, land, furniture and equipment are maintained up-to-
date and that stock-checking is conducted, of equipment and other consumable
materials in all offices, Specialised Laboratories, Colleges and Institutions
maintained by the University;(g)bring to the notice of the Vice-Chancellor
unauthorised expenditure and other financial irregularities and suggest
disciplinary action against persons at fault; and(h)call for from any office,
Laboratory, College or Institution maintained by the University any
information or returns that he may consider necessary for the performance of
his duties.(8)Any receipt given by the Comptroller or the person or persons
duly authorised in this behalf by the Board for any money payable to the
University shall be sufficient discharge for payment of such money.

### 10\. Heads of Departments. (1) Each Department shall have a Head who shall
be not below the rank of an Associate Professor and whose duties and functions
and terms and conditions of appointment shall be prescribed by the Ordinances:

Provided that if there is more than one Professor in any Department, the Head
of the Department shall be appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the
Vice-Chancellor from among the Professors:Provided further that in the case of
Departments where there is only one Professor, the Board shall have the option
to appoint, on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor, either the Professor
or an Associate Professor as the Head of the Department:Provided also that in
a Department where there is no Professor, an Associate Professor may be
appointed as the Head of the Department by the Board on the recommendation of
the Vice-Chancellor:Provided also that if there is no Professor or Reader, in
a Department, the Dean of College concerned shall act as the Head of the
Department.(2)It shall be open to a Professor or an Associate Professor to
decline the offer of appointment as the Head of the Department.(3)A Professor
or an Associate Professor appointed as the Head of the Department shall hold
office as such for a period of three years and shall be eligible for
reappointment.(4)A Head of a Department may resign his office at any time
during his tenure of office.(5)A Head of a Department shall perform such
functions as may be prescribed by the Ordinances.

### 11\. Librarians. (1) Every Librarian shall be appointed by the Board on
the recommendation of the Selection Committee constituted for the purpose and
he shall be a whole-time salaried officer of the University.

(2)Every Librarian shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may
be assigned to him by the Board.

### 12\. Constitution, powers and functions of the Board.. (1) The Board shall
consist of the following members, namely:--

(i)the Vice-Chancellor, ex officio Chairman;(ii)two secretaries from amongst
the secretaries in charge of the Departments of Agriculture and Forests of a
State in the North-Eastern region to be nominated by the Visitor by rotation
in the alphabetical order to represent that State;(iii)two eminent scientists
to be nominated by the Visitor;(iv)two distinguished persons representing
Agro-based industries to be nominated by the Visitor;(v)the Deputy Director-
General (Education) representing the Indian Council of Agricultural
Research;(vi)the Secretary to the North-Eastern Council set up under section 3
of the North-Eastern Council Act, 1971 (84 of 1971);(vii)one Dean of college
and one Director to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor on rotational
basis;(viii)two persons representing farmers in the States of the North-
Eastern region to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor by rotation in the
alphabetical order of those States;(ix)an industrialist or a manufacturer
having special knowledge in agricultural development to be nominated by the
Visitor;(x)one woman social worker representing women social organisation in
the North-Eastern region;(xi)an Advisor (Agriculture), Planning
Commission;(xii)a distinguished authority on forestry, social forestry or
environment management to be nominated by the Visitor;(xiii)three persons not
below the rank of Joint Secretary representing respectively the Departments of
the Central Government dealing with Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Forestry; and(xiv)the Registrar of the University, Secretary.(2)The term of
office of the members of the Board, other than ex officio members, shall be
two years.(3)The Board shall have the power of management and administration
of the revenue and property of the University and the conduct of all
administrative affairs of the University not otherwise provided for.(4)Subject
to the provisions of this Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances, the Board
shall, in addition to all other powers vested in it, have the following
powers, namely:--(i)to create teaching and academic posts, to determine the
number and emoluments of such posts and to define the duties and conditions of
service of teachers and other academic staff and Deans of colleges, Directors
and heads of other institutions maintained by the University;(ii)to appoint
such teachers and other academic staff, as may be necessary, and Deans of
colleges, Directors and heads of other institutions maintained by the
University on the recommendation of the Selection Committee constituted for
the purpose and to fill up temporary vacancies therein;(iii)to create
administrative, ministerial and other necessary posts and to make appointments
thereto in the manner prescribed by the Ordinances;(iv)to grant leave of
absence to any officer of the University other than the Chancellor and the
Vice-Chancellor, and to make necessary arrangements for the discharge of the
functions of such officer during his absence;(v)to regulate and enforce
discipline among employees in accordance with the Statutes and the
Ordinances;(vi)to manage and regulate the finances, accounts, investments,
property, business and all other administrative affairs of the University, and
for that purpose to appoint such agents as it may think fit;(vii)to fix limits
on the total recurring and the total nonrecurring expenditure for a year on
the recommendations of the Finance Committee;(viii)to invest any money
belonging to the University, including any unapplied income, in such stocks,
funds, shares or securities, from time to time, as it may think fit or in the
purchase of immovable property in India, with the like powers of varying such
investment from time to time;(ix)to transfer or accept transfers of any
movable or immovable property on behalf of the University;(x)to provide
buildings, premises, furniture and apparatus and other means needed for
carrying on the work of the University;(xi)to enter into, vary, carry out and
cancel contracts on behalf of the University;(xii)to entertain, adjudicate
upon, and, if thought fit, to redress any grievances of the employees and
students of the University;(xiii)to appoint examiners and moderators and, if
necessary, to remove them, and to fix their fees, emoluments and travelling
and other allowances, after consulting the Academic Council;(xiv)to select a
common seal for the University and provide for the custody and use of such
seal;(xv)to make such special arrangements as may be necessary for the
residence and discipline of women students;(xvi)to delegate any of its powers
to the Vice-Chancellor, the Deans, Directors, the Registrar or the Comptroller
or such other employee or authority of the University or to a committee
appointed by it as it may deem fit;(xvii)to institute fellowships,
scholarships, studentships, medals and prizes;(xviii)to provide for the
appointment of Visiting Professors, Emeritus Professors, Consultants and
Scholars and determine the terms and conditions of such appointment;
and(xix)to exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be
conferred or imposed on it by the Act, or the Statutes.

### 13\. Quorum for meetings of the Board. Seven members of the Board shall
form a quorum for a meeting of the Board.

### 14\. Constitution and powers of the Academic Council. (1) The Academic
Council shall consist of the following members, namely:--

(i)the Vice-Chancellor, ex officio Member;(ii)all the Deans of the colleges of
the University;(iii)the Director of Research of the University;(iv)the
Director of Extension Education of the University;(v)the Director
Instruction;(vi)a Librarian to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor on
rotational basis;(vii)five outstanding teachers to be co-opted from outside
the University representing different Faculties;(viii)seven heads of the
Department to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor;(ix)the Education Officer or
his representative to be nominated by the North-Eastern Council set up under
section 3 of the North-Eastern Council Act, 1971 (84 of 1971);(x)the Registrar
of the University, ex officio Member-Secretary.(2)The term of office of the
members of the Academic Council other than ex officio members shall be two
years.(3)Subject to the Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances, the Academic
Council shall, in addition to all other powers vested in it, have the
following powers, namely:--(a)to exercise general supervision over the
academic policies of the University and to give directions regarding methods
of instructions, co-operative teaching among colleges and institutions,
evaluation of research or improvements in academic standards;(b)to bring about
inter-college coordination to establish or appoint committees or boards, for
taking up projects on an inter-college basis;(c)to consider matters of general
academic interest either on its own initiative or on a reference by a college
or the Board and to take appropriate action thereon; and(d)to frame such
regulations and rules consistent with the Statutes and the Ordinances
regarding the academic functioning of the University, discipline, residences,
admissions, award of fellowsnips and studentships, fees, concessions,
corporate life and attendance.

### 15\. Quorum for meetings of the Academic Council. Nine members of the
Academic Council shall form a quorum for a meeting of the Academic Council.

### 16\. Board of Studies. (1) Each Department shall have a Board of Studies.

(2)The constitution of a Board of Studies and the term of office of its
members shall be provided by the Ordinances.(3)The functions of a Board of
Studies shall be to approve subjects for research for various degrees and
other requirements of research degrees and to recommend to the concerned Board
in the manner prescribed by the Ordinances--(a)courses of studies and
appointment of examiners for courses, but excluding research
degrees;(b)appointment of supervisors of research; and(c)measures for the
improvement of the standard of teaching and research:Provided that the above
functions of a Board of Studies shall, during the period of three years
immediately after the commencement of the Act, be performed by the Department.

### 17\. Finance Committee. (1) The Finance Committee shall consist of the
following members, namely:--

(i)the Vice-Chancellor;(ii)the Financial Adviser, Indian Council of
Agricultural Research;(iii)three persons to be nominated by the Board, out of
whom at least one shall be a member of the Board;(iv)three persons to be
nominated by the Visitor; and(v)the Comptroller of the University, Member-
Secretary.(2)Five members of the Finance Committee shall form a quorum for a
meeting of the Finance Committee.(3)The members of the Finance Committee,
other than ex officio members, shall hold office for a term of three
years.(4)A member of the Finance Committee shall have the right to record a
minute of dissent if he does not agree with any decision of the Finance
Committee.(5)The Finance Committee shall meet at least twice a year to examine
the accounts and to scrutinise proposals for expenditure.(6)Every proposal
relating to creation of posts, and those items which have not been included in
the Budget, should be examined by the Finance Committee before they are
considered by the Board.(7)The annual accounts and the financial estimates of
the University prepared by the Comptroller shall be laid before the Finance
Committee for consideration and comments and thereafter submitted to the Board
for approval.(8)The Finance Committee shall recommend limits for the total
recurring expenditure and the total non-recurring expenditure for the year,
based on the income and resources of the University (which, in the case of
productive works, may include the proceeds of loans).

### 18\. Selection Committees. (1) There shall be a Selection Committee for
making recommendations to the Board for appointment to the posts of teachers,
Comptroller, Registrar, Librarian, Deans of colleges, Directors and heads of
other institutions maintained by the University.

(2)The Selection Committee for appointment to the posts specified in column 1
of the Table below shall consist of the Vice-Chancellor, Director Instruction,
Director of Research, Director of Extension Education, a nominee of the
Visitor and the persons specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of
the said Table:TABLE

Professor | (i) The Head of the Department concerned if he is a Professor.  
---|---  
| (ii) One Professor to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor.  
| (iii) Three persons not in the service of the University, nominated by the
Board, out of a panel of names recommended by the Academic Council for their
special knowledge of, or interest in, the subject with which the Professor
will be concerned.  
Associate Professor/Assistant Professor | (i) The Head of the Department concerned.  
| (ii) One Professor to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor.  
| (iii) Two persons not in the service of the University, nominated by the
Board, out of a panel of names recommended by the Academic Council for their
special knowledge of, or interest in, the subject with which the Associate
Professor/Assistant Professor will be concerned.  
Registrar, Comptroller | (i) Two members of the Board nominated by it; and  
| (ii) One person not in the service of the University, nominated by the
Board.  
Librarian | Two persons not in the service of the University, who have special knowledge of the subject of the Library Science/Library Administration to be nominated by the Board.  
Dean of college, | Three persons not in the service of Directors or head of the University of whom two shall be other institution nominated by the Board and one by the maintained by the University Academic Council for their special knowledge of, or interest in, a subject in which instruction is being provided by the college or institution.  
  
NOTE: 1. Where the appointment is being made for an inter-disciplinary
project, the head of the project shall be deemed to be the Head of the
Department concerned.NOTE: 2.. The Professor to be nominated shall be
Professor concerned with the speciality for which the selection is being made
and that the Vice-Chancellor shall consult the Head of the Department and the
Dean of college before nominating the Professor,(3)The Vice-Chancellor, or in
his absence, his nominee shall preside at the meetings of a Selection
Committee:Provided that the meetings of the Selection Committee shall be fixed
after prior consultation with, and subject to the convenience of Visitor's
nominee and the persons nominated by the Board under clause (2):Provided
further that the proceedings of the Selection Committee shall not be valid
unless,--(a)where the number of Visitor's nominee and the persons nominated by
the Board is four in all, at least three of them attend the meeting;
and(b)where the number of Visitor's nominee and the persons nominated by the
Board is three in all, at least two of them attend the meeting.(4)The meeting
of a Selection Committee shall be convened by the Vice-Chancellor or in his
absence by his nominee.(5)The procedure to be followed by a Selection
Committee in making recommendations shall be laid down in the Ordinances.(6)If
the Board is unable to accept the recommendations made by a Selection
Committee, it shall record its reasons and submit the case to the Visitor for
final orders.(7)Appointments to temporary posts shall be made in the manner
indicated below:--(i)If the temporary vacancy is for a duration longer than
one academic session, it shall be filled on the advice of the Selection
Committee in accordance with the procedure indicated in the foregoing
clauses:Provided that if the Vice-Chancellor is satisfied that in the
interests of work it is necessary to fill the vacancy, the appointment may be
made on a purely temporary basis by a local Selection Committee referred to in
sub-clause (ii) for a period not exceeding six months.(ii)If the temporary
vacancy is for a period less than a year, an appointment to such vacancy shall
be made on the recommendation of a local Selection Committee consisting of the
Dean of the college concerned, the Head of the Department and a nominee of the
Vice-Chancellor:Provided that if the same person holds the offices of the Dean
and the Head of the Department, the Selection Committee may contain two
nominees of the Vice-Chancellor:Provided further that in case sudden casual
vacancies of teaching posts caused by death or any other reason, the Dean may,
in consultation with the Head of the Department concerned, make a temporary
appointment for a month and report to the Vice-Chancellor and the Registrar
about such appointment.(iii)No teacher appointed temporarily shall, if he is
not recommended by a regular Selection Committee for appointment under the
Statutes, be continued in service on such temporary employment, unless he is
subsequently selected by a local Selection Committee or a regular Selection
Committee, for a temporary or permanent appointment, as the case may be.

### 19\. Special mode of appointment. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained
in Statute 18, the Board may invite a person of high academic distinction and
professional attainments to accept a post of Professor or Associate Professor
or any other academic post in the University, as the case may be, on such
terms and conditions as it deems fit, and on the person agreeing to do so
appoint him to the post.

(2)The Board may appoint a teacher or any other academic staff working in any
other University or organisation for undertaking a joint project in accordance
with the manner laid down in the Ordinances.

### 20\. Appointment for a fixed tenure. The Board may appoint a person
selected in accordance with the procedure laid down in Statute 18 for a fixed
tenure on such terms and conditions as it deems fit.

### 21\. Recognised teachers. (1) The qualifications of recognised teachers
shall be such as may be prescribed by the Ordinances.

(2)All applications for the recognition of teachers shall be made in such
manner as may be laid down in the Ordinances.(3)No teacher shall be recognised
as a teacher except on the recommendation of a Selection Committee constituted
for the purpose in the manner laid down in the Ordinances.(4)The period of
recognition of a teacher shall be determined by the Ordinances made in that
behalf.(5)The Academic Council may, by a special resolution passed by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting,
withdraw recognition from a teacher:Provided that no such resolution shall be
passed until notice in writing has been given to the person concerned calling
upon him to show cause, within such time as may be specified in the notice,
why such resolution should not be passed and until his objections, if any, and
any evidence he may produce in support of them have been considered by the
Academic Council.(6)Any person aggrieved by an order of withdrawal under
clause (5) may, within three months from the date of communication to him of
such order, appeal to the Board which may pass such orders thereon as it
thinks fit.

### 22\. Committees. (1) The authorities of the University specified in
section 16 may appoint as many standing or special committees as it may deem
fit, and may appoint to such committees persons who are not members of such
authority.

(2)Any such committee appointed under clause (1) may deal with any subject
delegated to it subject to confirmation by the authority appointing it.

### 23\. Terms and conditions of service and code of conduct of the teachers,
etc.. (1) All the teachers and other academic staff of the University shall,
in the absence of any agreement to the contrary, be governed by the terms and
conditions of service and code of conduct as are specified in the Statutes,
the Ordinances and the Regulations.

(2)Every teacher and member of the academic staff of the University shall be
appointed on a written contract, the form of which shall be prescribed by the
Ordinances.(3)A copy of every contract referred to in clause (2) shall be
deposited with the Registrar.

### 24\. Terms and conditions of service and code of conduct of other
employees. All the employees of the University, other than the teachers and
other academic staff of the University, shall, in the absence of any contract
to the contrary, be governed by the terms and conditions of service and code
of conduct as are specified in the Statutes, the Ordinances and the
Regulations.

### 25\. Seniority list. (1) Whenever, in accordance with the Statutes, any
person is to hold an office or be a member of an authority of the University
by rotation according to seniority, such seniority shall be determined
according to the length of continuous service of such person in his grade and,
in accordance with such other principles as the Board may, from time to time,
prescribe.

(2)It shall be the duty of the Registrar to prepare and maintain, in respect
of each class of persons to whom the provisions of these Statutes apply, a
complete and up-to-date seniority list in accordance with the provisions of
clause (1).(3)If two or more persons have equal length of continuous service
in a particular grade or the relative seniority of any person or persons is
otherwise in doubt, the Registrar may, on his own motion and shall, at the
request of any such person, submit the matter to the Board whose decision
thereon shall be final.

### 26\. Removal of employees of the University. (1) Where there is an
allegation of misconduct against a teacher, a member of the academic staff or
other employee of the University, the Vice-Chancellor, in the case of the
teacher or member of the academic staff, and the authority competent to
appoint (hereinafter referred to as the appointing authority) in the case of
other employee, may, by order in writing, place such teacher, member of the
academic staff or other employee, as the case may be, under suspension and
shall forthwith report to the Board the circumstances in which the order was
made:

Provided that the Board may, if it is of the opinion, that the circumstances
of the case do not warrant the suspension of the teacher or a member of the
academic staff, revoke such order.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in the
terms of the contract of appointment or of any other terms and conditions of
service of the employees, the Board in respect of teachers and other academic
staff, and the appointing authority, in respect of other employees, shall have
the power to remove a teacher or a member of the academic staff, or as the
case may be, other employees on grounds of misconduct.(3)Save as aforesaid,
the Board, or as the case may be, the appointing authority, shall not be
entitled to remove any teacher, member of the academic staff or other employee
except for a good cause and after giving three months' notice or on payment of
three months' salary in lieu thereof.(4)No teacher, member of the academic
staff or other employee shall be removed under clause (2) or clause (3) unless
he has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action
proposed to be taken in regard to him.(5)The removal of a teacher, member of
the academic staff or other employee shall take effect from the date on which
the order of removal is made:Provided that where the teacher, member of the
academic staff or other employee is under suspension at the time of his
removal, such removal shall take effect from the date on which he was placed
under suspension.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing
provisions of this Statute, a teacher, member of the academic staff or other
employee may resign,--(a)if he is a permanent employee, only after giving
three months' notice in writing to the Board or the appointing authority, as
the case may be, or by paying three months' salary in lieu thereof;(b)if he is
not a permanent employee, only after giving one month's notice in writing to
the Board or, as the case may be, the appointing authority or by paying one
month's salary in lieu thereof:Provided that such resignation shall take
effect only on the date on which the resignation is accepted by the Board or
the appointing authority, as the case may be.

### 27\. Honorary degrees. (1) The Board may, on the recommendation of the
Academic Council and by a resolution passed by a majority of not less than
two-thirds of the members present and voting, make proposals to the Visitor
for the conferment of honorary degrees:

Provided that in case of emergency, the Board may, on its own motion, make
such proposals.(2)The Board may, by a resolution passed by a majority of not
less than two-thirds of the members present and voting, withdraw, with the
previous sanction of the Visitor, any honorary degree conferred by the
University.

### 28\. Withdrawal of degrees, etc.. The Board may, by a special resolution
passed by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present and
voting, withdraw any degree or academic distinction conferred on, or any
certificate or diploma granted to, any person by the University for good and
sufficient cause:

Provided that no such resolution shall be passed until a notice in writing has
been given to that person calling upon him to show cause within such time as
may be specified in the notice why such a resolution should not be passed and
until his objections, if any, and any evidence he may produce in support of
them, have been considered by the Board.

### 29\. Maintenance of discipline among students of the University. (1) All
powers relating to discipline and disciplinary action in relation to students
of the University shall vest in the Vice-Chancellor.

(2)The Vice-Chancellor may delegate all or any of his powers as he deems
proper to such officers as he may specify in this behalf.(3)Without prejudice
to the generality of his powers relating to the maintenance of discipline and
taking such action, as may seem to him appropriate for the maintenance of
discipline, the Vice-Chancellor may, in exercise of his powers, by order,
direct that any student or students be expelled, or rusticated, for a
specified period, or be not admitted to a course or courses of study in a
college, institution or Department of the University for a stated period, or
be punished with fine for an amount to be specified in the order, or be
debarred from taking an examination or examinations conducted by the
University, college, institution or Department for one or more years, or that
the results of the student or students concerned in the examination or
examinations in which he or they have appeared be cancelled.(4)The Deans of
colleges, institutions and Heads of teaching departments in the University
shall have the authority to exercise all such disciplinary powers over the
students in their respective colleges, institutions and teaching Departments
in the University as may be necessary for the proper conduct of such colleges,
institutions and teaching in the Departments.(5)Without prejudice to the
powers of the Vice-Chancellor, the Deans and other persons specified in clause
(4), detailed rules of discipline and proper conduct shall be made by the
University. The Deans of colleges, institutions and Heads of teaching
Departments in the University may also make the supplementary rules as they
deem necessary for the aforesaid purposes.(6)At the time of admission, every
student shall be required to sign a declaration to the effect that he submits
himself to the disciplinary jurisdiction of the Vice-Chancellor and other
authorities of the University.

### 30\. Maintenance of discipline among students of colleges, etc.. All
powers relating to discipline and disciplinary action in relation to students
of a college or an institution maintained by the University, shall vest in the
Dean of the college or institution, as the case may be, in accordance with the
procedure prescribed by the Ordinances.

### 31\. Advisory Committee. Every college or institution maintained by the
University shall have an Advisory Committee consisting of not more than
fifteen persons which shall consist of, among others, three teachers including
the Dean of the college or institution, and two teachers of the University
nominated by the Board.

### 32\. Convocations. Convocations of the University for the conferring of
degrees or for other purposes shall be held in such manner as may be
prescribed by the Ordinances.

### 33\. Acting Chairman. When no provision is made for a Chairman to preside
over a meeting of any authority of the University or any committee of such
authority or when the Chairman so provided for is absent, the members present
shall elect one from among themselves to preside at such meeting.

### 34\. Resignation. Any member, other than an ex officio member of the
Board, Academic Council or any other authority of the University or any
committees of such authority may resign by letter addressed to the Registrar
and the resignation shall take effect as soon as such letter is received by
the Registrar.

### 35\. Disqualifications. (1) A person shall be disqualified for being
chosen as, and for being, a member of any of the authorities of the
University,--

(i)if he is of unsound mind;(ii)if he is an undischarged insolvent;(iii)if he
has been convicted by a court of law of an offence involving moral turpitude
and sentenced in respect thereof to imprisonment for a period of not less than
six months.(2)If any question arises as to whether a person is or had been
subjected to any of the disqualifications mentioned in clause (1), the
question shall be referred to the Visitor and his decision thereon shall be
final and no suit or other proceeding shall lie in any civil court against
such decision.

### 36\. Residence condition for membership and office. Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Statutes, a person who is not ordinarily resident in
India shall be eligible to be an officer of the University or a member of any
authority of the University.

### 37\. Membership of authorities by virtue of membership of other bodies.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Statutes, a person who holds any
post in the University or is a member of any authority of the University in
his capacity as a member of a particular authority or as the holder of a
particular appointment shall hold such office or membership only for so long
as he continues to be a member of that particular authority or the holder of
that particular appointment, as the case may be.

### 38\. Alumni Association. (1) There shall be an Alumni Association for the
University.

(2)The subscription for membership of the Alumni Association shall be
prescribed by the Ordinances.(3)No member of the Alumini Association shall be
entitled to vote for stand for election unless he has been a member of the
Association for at least one year prior to the date of the election and is a
degree holder of the University of at least five years standing:Provided that
the condition relating to the completion of one year's membership shall not
apply in the case of the first election.

### 39\. Students' Council. (1) There shall be constituted in the University,
a students, Council for every academic year, consisting of--

(i)the Director Instruction who shall be the Chairman of the Students,
Council;(ii)all students who have won prizes in the previous academic year in
the fields of studies, fine arts, sports and extension work;(iii)twenty
students to be nominated by the Academic Council on the basis of merit in
studies, sports, activities and all-round development of personality:Provided
that any student of the University shall have the right to bring up any matter
concerning the University before the Students' Council if so permitted by the
Chairman, and he shall have the right to participate in the discussions at any
meeting when the matter is taken up for consideration.(2)The functions of the
Students' Council shall be to make suggestions to the appropriate authorities
of the University in regard to the programmes of studies, students welfare and
other matters of importance in regard to the working of the University in
general and such suggestions shall be made on the basis of consensus of
opinion.(3)The Students' Council shall meet at least once in an academic year
preferably in the beginning of that year.

### 40\. Ordinances how made. (1) The first Ordinances made under sub-section
(2) of section 27 may be amended or repealed at any time by the Board in the
manner specified below.

(2)No Ordinance in respect of the matters enumerated in section 27, other than
those enumerated in clause (n) of sub-section (1) thereof, shall be made by
the Board unless a draft of such Ordinance has been proposed by the Academic
Council.(3)The Board shall not have power to amend any draft of any Ordinance
proposed by the Academic Council under clause (2) but may reject the proposal
or return the draft to the Academic Council for reconsideration, either in
whole or in part, together with any amendment which the Board may
suggest.(4)Where the Board has rejected or returned the draft of an Ordinance
proposed by the Academic Council, the Academic Council may consider the
question afresh and in case the original draft is reaffirmed by a majority of
not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting and more than half
the total number of members of the Academic Council, the draft may be sent
back to the Board which shall either adopt it or refer it to the Visitor whose
decision shall be final.(5)Every Ordinance made by the Board shall come into
effect immediately.(6)Every Ordinance made by the Board shall be submitted to
the Visitor within two weeks from the date of its adoption. The Visitor shall
have the power to direct the University within four weeks of the receipt of
the Ordinance to suspend the operation of any such Ordinance and he shall, as
soon as possible, inform the Board about his objection to the proposed
Ordinance. The Visitor may, after receiving the comments of the University,
either withdraw the order suspending the Ordinance or disallow the Ordinance,
and his decision shall be final.

### 41\. Regulations. (1) The authorities of the University may make
Regulations consistent with the Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances for the
following matters, namely:--

(i)laying down the procedure to be observed at their meetings and the number
of members required to form a quorum;(ii)providing for all matters which are
required by the Act, the Statutes or the Ordinances to be prescribed by
Regulations;(iii)providing for all other matters concerning such authorities
or committees appointed by them and not provided for by the Act, the Statutes
or the Ordinances.(2)Every authority of the University shall make Regulations
providing for the giving of notice to the members of such authority of the
dates of meeting and of the business to be considered at meetings and for the
keeping of a record of the proceedings of meetings.(3)The Board may direct the
amendment in such manner as it may specify, of any Regulation made under the
Statutes or the annulment of any such Regulation.

### 42\. Delegation of powers. Subject to the provisions of the Act and the
Statutes, any officer or authority of the University may delegate his or its
powers to any other officer or authority or person under his or its respective
control and subject to the condition that overall responsibility for the
exercise of the powers so delegated shall continue to vest in the officer or
authority delegating such powers.

