## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (FORTY-FIFTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1980

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (FORTY-FIFTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1980

## Act 45 of 1980

  * Published in Gazette of India on 16 January 1980 
  * Commenced on 14 April 1980 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 January 1980.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Forty-fifth
Amendment) Bill, 1980 (Bill No. 1 of 1980) which was enacted as THE
CONSTITUTION (Forty-fifth Amendment) Act, 1980_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND
REASONS** Article 334 of the Constitution lays down that the provisions of the
Constitution relating to the reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes and
the Scheduled Tribes and the representation of the Anglo-Indian community by
nomination in the Lok Sabha and in the Legislative Assemblies of the States
shall cease to have effect on the expiration of a period of thirty years from
the commencement of the Constitution. Although the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes have made considerable progress in the last thirty years, the
reasons which weighed with the Constituent Assembly in making provisions with
regard to the aforesaid reservation of seats and nomination of members, have
not ceased to exist. It is, therefore, proposed to continue the reservation
for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes and the representation of
Anglo-Indians by nomination for a further period of ten years.

### 2. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Thirtieth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Forty-fifth Amendment) Act,
1980.(2)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 25th day of January,
1980.

### 2\. Amendment of article 334.-

In article 334 of the Constitution for the words "thirty years"; the words
"forty years" shall be substituted.[The Constitution (Forty-Fifth Amendment)
Act, 1980, increased the time of seat reservations for the Scheduled Castes
(SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) as well as gave the special representation of
the Anglo-Indian community in the Lok Sabha and the State Legislative
Assemblies for a further duration of ten years, or up to January 26, 1990.
Article 334 of the Constitution had originally required the reservation of
seats to cease in 1960, but this was extended to 1970 by the 8th Amendment,
and the 23rd Amendment extended this period to 1980. The 45th Amendment
extended the period of reservation to 1990.The period of reservation was
extended to 2000, 2010, 2020 and 2030 by the 62nd, 79th, 95th and 104th
Amendments respectively. Also Refer]

