## Union of India - Act

## The Cost And Works Accountants (Nomination Of Members To The Council)
Rules, 2006

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Cost And Works Accountants (Nomination Of Members To The Council) Rules,
2006

## Rule THE-COST-AND-WORKS-ACCOUNTANTS-NOMINATION-OF-MEMBERS-TO-THE-COUNCIL-
RULES-2006 of 2006

  * Published on 18 August 2066 
  * Commenced on 18 August 2066 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 August 2066.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Cost And Works Accountants (Nomination Of Members To The Council) Rules,
2006Published vide G.S.R. 488(E), dated 18.8.2066, published in the Gazette of
India, Extraordinary, Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 19.8.2006.

### 7.

/415In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (2) of
section 38-A, read with sub-section (2) of section 9, the Cost and Works
Accountants Act, 1959 (23 of 1959), the Central Government hereby makes the
following rules, namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement

.-(1) These rules may be called the Cost and Works Accountants (Nomination of
Members to the Council) Rules, 2006.(2)They shall come into force on the date
of their publication in the Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions

.-(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, "Act" means the
Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959;(2)All other words and expressions used
and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Field of consideration for nominations

.-The Central Government shall make nominations to the Council under clause
(b) of sub-section (2) of section 9 of the Act from amongst-(a)persons who are
holding a position in Government of India not below the rank of a director,
or(b)persons of eminence from the fields of law, banking, economics, business,
finance, industry, management, public affairs or in any other matter which in
the opinion of the Central Government may be useful for the profession of cost
and works accountants:Provided that the person so nominated should not be a
member of the Institute.Explanation.-For the purpose of this rule, "holding
position under Government of India" shall also include a person holding
position under the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, Reserve Bank of
India or any other organisation under the control of Government of India.

