## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (ONE HUNDRED AND FOURTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 2019

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (ONE HUNDRED AND FOURTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 2019

## Act 104 of 2019

  * Published in Gazette of India on 21 January 2019 
  * Commenced on 22 January 2019 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 January 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Seventieth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (One Hundred and Fourth Amendment)
Act, 2019.(2)It shall come into force on the 25th day of January, 2020.

### 2. Amendment of article 334.

In article 334 of the Constitution,—(a)for the marginal heading, the following
marginal heading shall be substituted, namely:—“Reservation of seats and
special representation to cease after certain period”;(b)in the long line,
after clauses (a) and (b), for the words "seventy years", the words "eighty
years in respect of clause (a) and seventy years in respect of clause (b)"
shall be substituted.[The Constitution (One Hundred and Fourth Amendment) Act,
2019, ensures that individuals from socially and educationally backward
classes have equal opportunities for education and public employment, thereby
promoting social and economic equality. The Act extends the reservation for
socially and educationally backward classes in educational institutions and
public employment until 2030. The socially and educationally backward classes
under the Act include Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Other Backward
Classes. The cessation of reservation of the Anglo-Indian group in Lok Sabha
and state Legislative Assemblies is a debated topic. BJP-led government has
scrapped it stating appropriate representation of the community is achieved.
Other than this policy or the rule of reservation for SCs and Scheduled Tribes
has always been a bone of contention. Special Protection provided,
reservations in legislature granted to them, etc are hot topics for
debates.Also Refer]

