## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-FIFTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1986

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-FIFTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1986

## Act 055 of 1986

  * Published in Gazette of India on 1 December 1986 
  * Commenced on 23 December 1986 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 December 1986.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Fifty-fifth
Amendment) Bill, 1986 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Fifty-fifth
Amendment) Act, 1986_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The Government of
India have proposed to confer statehood on the Union territory of Arunachal
Pradesh. It has also been proposed as follows:-(i)Having regard to the
sensitive location of Arunachal Pradesh, the Governor of the proposed new
State shall have special responsibility with respect to law and order in the
State and in the discharge of his functions thereto, the Governor shall, after
consulting the Council of Ministers, exercise his individual judgment as to
the action to be taken and this special responsibility of the Governor shall
cease when the President by order so directs;(ii)the Legislative Assembly of
the new State of Arunachal Pradesh shall consist of forty members. But as it
is proposed to make the existing thirty-member Legislative Assembly of the
Union territory of Arunachal Pradesh to be the provisional Legislative
Assembly for the new State of Arunachal Pradesh until elections are held on
the expiry of the five year term of the existing Assembly, it is proposed to
provide that the Legislative Assembly of the new State of Arunachal Pradesh
shall consist of not less than thirty members.

### 2. In order to give effect to the above proposals, it is necessary to make
special provisions in the Constitution. This Bill accordingly seeks to amend
the Constitution to provide for the aforesaid matters. A separate Bill for the
establishment of the new State relatable to article 2 is also being
introduced.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Thirty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Fifty-fifth Amendment) Act,
1986.(2)It shall come into force on such date_673 as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2\. Insertion of new article 371H.-

After article 371G of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:-"371H. Special provision with respect to the State of
Arunachal Pradesh.- Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution,-(a)the
Governor of Arunachal Pradesh shall have special responsibility with respect
to law and order in the State of Arunachal Pradesh and in the discharge of his
functions in relation thereto, the Governor shall, after consulting the
Council of Ministers, exercise his individual judgment as to the action to be
taken:Provided that if any question arises whether any matter is or is not a
matter as respects which the Governor is under this clause required to act in
the exercise of his individual judgment, the decision of the Governor in his
discretion shall be final, and the validity of anything done by the Governor
shall not be called in question on the ground that he ought or ought not to
have acted in the exercise of his individual judgment:Provided further that if
the President on receipt of a report from the Governor or otherwise is
satisfied that it is no longer necessary for the Governor to have special
responsibility with respect to law and order in the State of Arunachal
Pradesh, he may by order direct that the Governor shall cease to have such
responsibility with effect from such date as may be specified in the
order;(b)the Legislative Assembly of the State of Arunachal Pradesh shall
consist of not less than thirty members.".About us Contact us Feedback Visitor
Summary Help Link to Us Newsletter Tell a Friend Website Policy Sitemap[The
Constitution (Fifty-fifth Amendment) Act, 1986,introduced Article 371H into
the Constitution of India. Article 371H contained adequate provisions for the
newly designated State of Arunachal Pradesh. Being located at a sensitive
spot, it is the fundamental duty of the concerned government to ensure the
special protection of the societies, the people, and their rights. It can be
achieved through the aid of government support. The Legislative powers along
with the duties of the Governor, Council of Ministers, the authority of the
President, etc. would help in the protection and maintenance of law and order.
This would ensure that cooperative societies thrive in the newly formed State
of Arunachal Pradesh, despite being geographically in a sensitive zone.Also
Refer]

