## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (TWENTY-NINTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1972

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (TWENTY-NINTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1972

## Act 029 of 1972

  * Published in Gazette of India on 24 May 1972 
  * Commenced on 9 June 1972 
  * [This is the version of this document from 24 May 1972.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Thirty-
second Amendment) Bill, 1972 which was enacted as the Constitution (Twenty-
ninth Amendment) Act, 1972_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The Kerala
Land Reforms Act, 1963 (Act 1 of 1964), in the principal land reform law in
the State of Kerala and was included in the Ninth Schedule to the
Constitution. In the course of implementation, the State Government faced
serious practical difficulties and to overcome them, that Act was extensively
amended by the Kerala Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 1969 (Act 35 of 1969) and
by the Kerala and Reforms (Amendment) Act, 1971 (Act 25 of 1971). Certain
crucial provisions of the principal Act as amended were challenged in the High
Court of Kerala and in the Supreme Court, creating a climate of uncertainty in
the effective implementation of land reforms. Although the High Court of
Kerala has generally upheld the scheme of land reforms envisaged in the
principal Act as amended, a few vital provisions have been struck down by the
High Court. Even in regard to the provisions upheld by the High Court, the
affected parties had moved the Supreme Court in appeal. Some persons also
moved the Supreme Court in original petitions challenging certain provisions
of the Act. The Supreme Court in its judgments delivered on 26th and 28th
April, 1972, have generally uphold the scheme of land reforms as envisaged in
the principal Act as amended but agreed with the High Court invalidating
certain crucial provisions. It is feared that this will have far-reaching
adverse affects on the implementation of the programme of land reforms in the
State and thousands of tenants will be adversely affected by some of the
provisions which have been either struck down or rendered ineffective. It is
also apprehended that certain observations of the Supreme Court in the
judgments might open the flood-gates of litigation much to the detriment of
thousands of Kudikidappukars in the State who will not be able to defend
themselves in protracted legal proceedings. Further, appeals have been
preferred against the judgment of the Kerala High Court invalidating certain
important provisions of the principal Act as amended [e.g. sections 4A (1)(a)
and (b), 7, 7D(1) and 103] and they are pending in the Supreme Court.

### 2. It is, therefore, proposed to include the Kerala Land Reforms
(Amendment) Act, 1969 and the Kerala Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 1971 in the
Ninth Schedule to the Constitution so that they may have the protection under
article 31B and any uncertainty or doubt that may arise in regard to the
validity of those Acts is removed. The Bill seeks to achieve this object.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Twenty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Twenty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1972.

### 2\. Amendment of Ninth Schedule.-

In the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution, after entry 64 and before the
Explanation the following entries shall be inserted, namely:-"65. The Kerala
Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 1969 (Kerala Act 35 of 1969).

### 66. The Kerala Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 1971 (Kerala Act 25 of
1971.".

[The Constitution (Twenty-Ninth Amendment) Act, 1972, which aimed to expand
the ninth schedule of the Indian Constitution, included laws from Kerala
focused on land reform. Specifically, it added two acts to the schedule: the
Kerala Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 1969 (Kerala Act 35 of 1969) and the
Kerala Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 1971 (Kerala Act 25 of 1971). However,
the legality of the 29th Amendment was challenged in a case brought by a
petitioner whose land was subject to seizure under Kerala's Land Reforms. The
petitioner also questioned the validity of the 24th and 25th Constitutional
Amendments, which they claimed impacted their fundamental rights. This case
led to the development of the idea of the fundamental structure of the
Constitution. Ultimately, seven judges out of 13 ruled in favor of upholding
the legitimacy of the 29th Amendment, although its validity was not upheld
completely. Important Verdict-Kesavananda Bharati vs State Of Kerala And Anr ]

