## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (FORTY-FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 1976

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (FORTY-FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 1976

## Act 41 of 1976

  * Published in Gazette of India on 18 August 1976 
  * Commenced on 7 September 1976 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 August 1976.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Forty-third
Amendment) Bill, 1976 which was enacted as the Constitution (Forty-first
Amendment) Act, 1976_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** Article 316(2) of
the Constitution provides that the Chairman and Members of a State Public
Service Commission or Joint Commission shall retire at 60 or hold office for a
term of six years from the date on which they enter service, whichever is
earlier. This was the position when the Constitution came into force.
Subsequently, while the age of retirement of the High Court Judges was raised
to 62, that of the Chairman and the Members of the State Public Service
Commissions remained unchanged.The same article provides that one-half of the
members of every Public Service Commission shall be employees of the
Government of India or the Government of a State. The age of retirement of
Government employees was 55 originally but was later raised to 58 in the case
of All-India Services, Central Government servants and the Government servants
of several States. Membership of the Commission is no attraction, therefore,
to them, as they will have only two years to serve on the Commission which
position is not desirable from the point of view of the efficient functioning
of the Commission.Academicians like University Professors are eligible for
appointment to the State Public Service Commissions. The age of retirement of
University Professors has been recently raised to 60. It will not be
attractive for these academicians to serve on a Public Service Commission if
the age of retirement remains sixty. The Chairman/Members of a State Public
Service Commission are forbidden to serve under the Government of India or a
State Government after retirement. Consequently, no eminent academician will
be eager to accept appointment on the Commission unless the age of retirement
is raised to 62.The proposal is to raise the age of retirement of the Chairman
and Members of the State Public Service Commissions to 62. The Bill seeks to
give effect to this proposal.An Act further to amend the Constitution of
India.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-seventh Year of the Republic
of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Forty-first Amendment) Act, 1976.

### 2. Amendment of article 316.-

In article 316 of the Constitution, in clause (2), for the words "sixty
years", the words "sixty-two years" shall be substituted.[The Constitution
(Forty-First Amendment) Act, 1976, changed the retirement age of the Chairman
and members of the State Public Service Commissions from 60 to 62 years, by
amending Article 316(2) of the Constitution. However, it was later amended to
58 for employees of the All-India Services, the Central Government, and many
State governments. Consequently, they are not interested in joining the
Commission because they will only have two years to serve, which is seen as
undesirable for the efficient functioning of the Commission.Also Refer]

