## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Chennai Corporation (Superior) Service Pension Rules, 1970

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Chennai Corporation (Superior) Service Pension Rules, 1970

## Rule THE-CHENNAI-CORPORATION-SUPERIOR-SERVICE-PENSION-RULES-1970 of 1970

  * Published on 9 March 1972 
  * Commenced on 9 March 1972 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 March 1972.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Chennai Corporation (Superior) Service Pension Rules, 1970Published vide
Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 491, Rural Development and Local Administration,
dated 9th March, 1972, Published in Part 5 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, dated 12th April 1971

### 1. Short title and application.

(1)These rules may be called the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.] Corporation (Superior) Service Pension
Rules, 1970.(2)They shall apply to the Assistant Commissioner, Personal
Assistant to the Commissioner and the holders of the posts of Class I-A, Class
I-B and Class II in the Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).] except to the members of the All India Services who are subject
to the pension rules applicable to them and other officials who are not full
time officers, but are engaged by the Corporation to do specified work,
without prejudice to the regular exercise of their profession in their
respects.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Government"
means the Government of Tamil Nadu ;(b)"Corporation" means the Corporation of
[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration
of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).](c)"Corporation Officer" means
Assistant Commissioner, Personal Assistant to the Commissioner and the holders
of the posts of Class I-A, Class I-B and Class II in the establishment of the
Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).].Explanation. - A Government servant or a member of the Indian
Administrative Service, whose services are placed at the disposal of the
Corporation, for the purpose of these rules, shall not be a "Corporation
Officer" serving under the Corporation notwithstanding that his salary and
allowances are drawn from the funds of the Corporation;(d)"service" means
Corporation service;(e)"pension" and "gratuity" will have the same meaning as
defined in the Tamil Nadu Pension Code;(f)"retirement benefits" includes
pension or gratuity and death-cum-gratuity, where admissible;(g)"Audit
Officer" means the Examiner of Local Fund Accounts, [Chennai] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1996).].(2)All other words and expressions used in these rules
and not defined herein, but defined in the Tamil Nadu Pension Code, or in the
Fundamental Rules or in the Tamil Nadu Leave Rules, 1933 shall have the
meaning, respectively assigned to them, in the said Code or rules.

### 3. Sanctioning authority.

\- Pension and gratuity under these rules shall be granted by the Government.

### 4. General condition.

\- Future good conduct of the pensioner is an implied condition of every grant
of pension under these rules and its continuance.

### 5. Limitation.

(1)A member of the service cannot earn two pensions in the same office at the
same time or by the same continuous service.(2)Two officers may not
simultaneously count service in respect of the same office in the Corporation
establishment.

### 6. Removal, dismissal or resignation from service.

(1)No retirement benefits may be granted lo a member of the service who has
been dismissed or removed from the service or who has resigned from the
service :Provided that if the circumstances of the case so warrant, the
Government may grant to a member of the service who has been dismissed or
removed from the service, a compassionate allowance not exceeding two-thirds
of the retirement benefit which would have been admissible to him, if he had
been invalidated and not dismissed or removed from the service.(2)Where a
member or the service is required to retire or resign from the service as a
condition of his appointment under a statutory authority or other body, he
shall be granted the retirement benefits to which he would have been entitled
to, if he had been invalidated from the service and not resigned or retired.

### 7. Recovery from pension.

(1)The Government reserve to themselves the right of withholding or
withdrawing a pension or any part of it, whether permanently or for a
specified period, and the right of ordering the recovery from pension of the
whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the Corporation if the pensioner
is found in departmental or judicial proceedings to have been guilty of grave
misconduct or to have caused pecuniary loss to the Corporation by misconduct
or negligence during his service including service rendered on re-employment
after retirement:Provided that -(a)such department proceedings, if not
instituted while the pensioner was in service, whether before his retirement
or during his re-employment, shall, after the final retirement of the officer,
be deemed to be a proceeding under this rule and shall be concluded by the
authority by which it was commenced in the same manner as if the officer had
continued in service;(b)such departmental proceedings, if not instituted while
the officer was in service, whether before his retirement or during his re-
employment-(i)shall not be instituted save with the sanction of the
Government;(ii)shall not be in respect of an event which took; place more than
four years before such institution; and(iii)shall be conducted by such
authority and in such place or places as the Government may direct and in
accordance with the procedure applicable to the departmental proceedings in
which an order of dismissal from service may be made in relation to the
officer during his service; and(c)no such judicial proceedings, if not
instituted while the pensioner was in service, whether before his retirement
or during bis re-employment shall be instituted in respect of a cause of
action which arose on an event which took place more than four years before
such institution.Explanation. - For the purposes of this rule-(a)departmental
proceedings shall be deemed to be instituted on the date on which the
statement of charges framed against the pensioner is issued to him, or if the
pensioner has been placed under suspension from an earlier date, on such date;
and(b)a judicial proceeding shall be deemed to be instituted-(i)in the case of
criminal proceedings on the date on which a complaint or report of police
officer on which the magistrate takes cognizance, is made; and(ii)in the case
of civil proceeding, on the date on which the plaint is presented in the
Court.(2)The decision of the Government on any question of withholding or
withdrawing the whole or any part of the pension shall be final.

### 8. Compulsory retirement as a measure of penalty.

\- A member of the service, who, as a measure of penalty, is compulsorily
retired from the sendee by the Government in accordance with the provisions of
the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Corporation
(Superior) Service (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, may be granted
retirement benefits on the basis of the qualifying service on the date of such
compulsory retirement on the same scales as laid down for the Government
servants of similar standing and status.

### 9. Re-employment of pensioners.

\- A pensioner who is in receipt of a superannuation or retiring pension shall
not be re-employed or continue to be employed in service except on public
grounds. The general principle governing the fixation of pay of the individual
on re-employment in the same or similar post is to allow him to draw his
pension in full and in addition such pay as shall bring his total emoluments
up to the rate of pay drawn by him on the date of retirement. In the case,
however, of a pensioner re-employed in a lower post, his pay plus pension
during re-employment shall be limited to the pay drawn by him at the time of
retirement or to the maximum of the post in which he is re-employed whichever
is less. A re-employed pensioner may, in addition, be allowed to draw the
special pay attached to the post in which he is re-employed.In the case of
persons who are governed by the Tamil Nadu Liberalised Pension Rules, 1960,
the pay on re-employment shall be reduced not only by the pension admissible
to them, but also by the pension equivalent of the death-cum-retirement
gratuity payable to them. A pensioner re-employed shall be considered to be
purely temporary for all purposes.

### 10. Regulations governing the grant of pension.

\- The relevant provisions in the Tamil Nadu Pension Code as amended by the
Government, from time to time, in regard to the regulations governing the
following, shall be applicable to the Corporation Officers subject to the
restrictions contained in the proviso to section 86(1) of the [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919
(Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1919):-(i)Qualifying service.(ii)Counting of periods of
leave as qualifying service.(iii)Periods not qualifying as service for
pension.(iv)Interruption in service and condonation of break in
service.(v)Conditions of grant of pension.(vi)Allowances reckoned for pension.

### 11. Invalid pension.

(1)Where the Government have reason to believe that a member of the service is
suffering from-(a)a contagious disease, or(b)a physical or mental disability
which, in their opinion, interferes with the efficient discharge of his
duties, they may direct him to undergo medical examination with a view to
retire him from service on invalid pension.A member of the service also may,
if he feels that he is not in a fit state of health to discharge his duties,
apply to the Government for retirement on invalid pension.(2)An invalid
pension and death-cum-retirement gratuity, where admissible, shall be granted
to a member of service who having appeared under the directions of the
Government or on his own application before a duly constituted Medical Board,
is certified by that Medical Board, by or bodily or mental infirmity, to be
permanently incapacitated for further service.(3)The medical certificate of
incapacity shall be attested by the Medical Board to be convened by the Chief
Administrative Medical Officer of the State in which the member of the service
is on duty or on leave. The Chief Administrative Medical Officer shall,
wherever practicable, preside over such Board.(4)In the Medical Board,
although unable to discover any specific disease in the member of the service,
considers him incapacitated for further service by general disability while
still under the age of fifty-five years, it shall give detailed reasons for
its opinion. Wherever possible a second medical opinion shall, in such case,
be obtained.Explanation. - In a case of this kind, a statement giving the
grounds on which it is proposed to invalidate a member of the service shall be
forwarded to the Medical Board by the Corporation under whom he is
serving.(5)A certificate that inefficiency is due to old age or natural decay
from advancing years shall not be deemed to be sufficient reasons for retiring
a member of the service on invalid pension.(6)The medical certificate shall be
in the Medical Form No. 127 (Civil Medical Form No. 32).

### 12. Restrictions on the grant of invalid pension.

(1)A member of the service who is discharged from the service on grounds other
than those specified in rule 11, shall have no claim to invalid pension or
death-cum-retirement gratuity, even though he produces medical evidence of
incapacity for service.(2)If the incapacity is directly due to irregular or
intemperate habits, no invalid pension or death-cum-retirement gratuity shall
be granted to a member of the service. If it has not been directly caused by
such habits, but has been accelerated or aggravated by them, it shall be for
the Government to decide what reduction, if any, shall be made on this account
in the retirement benefits otherwise admissible.Explanation I. - The mere fact
that a member of the service has suffered from syphilis taken by itself is not
sufficient to bring his case under the operation of this rule.Explanation II.
- Unsoundness of mind caused by drug habits shall be taken as sufficient to
bring his case under the operation of this rule.Explanation III. - The
expression "irregular or intemperate habits" means incapacity on account of
drug habits or on account of diseases resulting from immoral habits. Cases
where incapacity was due to other causes, and the like work at irregular hours
during war and after due to exigencies of service and not due to own volition
shall not come under the purview of this rule.

### 13. Retirement from service of a member of the service in certain cases
and grant of leave.

(1)A member of the service who has been declared by a Medical Board to be
permanently incapacitated for further service shall, if he is in service, be
invalidated from service from the date of relief which shall be arranged
without delay on receipt of the report of the Medical Board, or if he is
granted leave under sub-rule (2) on the expiry of such leave :Provided that if
he is on leave at the time of receipt of the, report of the Medical Board, he
shall be invalidated from service on the expiry of that leave or extension of
leave, if any, granted to him under sub-rule (2).(2)A member of the service in
respect of whom a Medical Board has reported that there is no reasonable
prospect of his ever being fit to return to duty, may not be granted leave
except as follows :-(a)If the Medical Board is unable to say with certainty
that the member of the service shall never again be fit for service, leave not
exceeding twelve months in all shall be granted to him. Such leave shall not
be extended without further reference to the Medical Board.(b)If a member of
the service has been declared by the Medical Board to be completely and
permanently incapacitated for further service, in special cases, leave or an
extension of leave may be granted to him as debited against the leave account,
if such leave is due to him provided that the amount of leave so granted,
together with any period of duty beyond the date on which the Medical Board
signed their report, shall not exceed six months.

### 14. Superannuation pension.

\- Every Corporation Officer shall retire on superannuation on attaining the
age of fifty-eight years:Provided that nothing contained in this rule shall
apply to the employment in the public interest with the previous sanction of
the Government for a period not exceeding one year at a time, of persons who
have retired from service after attaining the age of fifty-eight years
:Provided further that with the previous sanction of the Government, a person,
who has been suspended pending enquiry into serious charges against him, may
be retained in service beyond fifty-eight years up to the date on which orders
are passed on the charges.A superannuation pension shall be granted to a
member of the service who is required to retire under this rule.

### 15. Retiring pension.

(1)A member of the service may, after giving at least three months previous
notice in writing to the Government, retire from the service on the date on
which he completes thirty years of qualifying service on or any date
thereafter to be specified in the notice.(2)The Government may, with the
consent of the Corporation Council and after giving him at least three month's
previous notice in writing, require a member of the service to retire from the
service on the date on which he completes thirty years of qualifying service
or on any date thereafter to be specified in the notice.(3)A retiring pension
and death-cum-retirement gratuity shall be granted to a member of the service
who retires under sub-rule (1) or who is retired under sub-rule (2).

### 16. Compensation pension.

(1)If an officer is selected for discharge owing to the abolition of a
permanent post, he shall, unless he is appointed to another post the
conditions of which are deemed by the authority competent to discharge him to
be at least equal to those of his own, have the option-(a)of taking any
compensation pension or gratuity to which he may be entitled for the service
he has already rendered, or(b)of accepting another appointment or transfer to
another establishment even on a lower pay, if offered and continuing to count
his previous service for pension.(2)If an officer is transferred to a non-
qualifying appointment in the interest of the public service and under orders
of a competent authority, he shall be entitled to a compensation pension if
discharged on abolition of that appointment.

### 17. Amount of gratuity or pension.

\- The amount of invalid, superannuation or retiring pension or gratuity
admissible under rules 11,14 and 15 shall be settled in accordance with the
principles laid down in the relevant provisions in the Tamil Nadu Pension Code
as amended by the .Government, from time to time.

### 18. Conditions for grant of retirement benefits.

(1)The full retirement benefits admissible under these rules shall not be
given as a matter of course or unless the service has been thoroughly
satisfactory.(2)If the service has not been thoroughly satisfactory, the
authority sanctioning the pension should make such reduction in the amount as
it thinks fit:Provided that the retirement benefits once granted shall not be
reduced on the ground that proof of the service not having been thoroughly
satisfactory became available after the sanction.(3)Any case in which
retirement benefits or compassionate allowance has been sanctioned shall not
unless there are special grounds for doing so, be reopened on the ground that
the amount sanctioned is less than the maximum admissible under these
rules.Explanation I. - This rule shall not be used directly to effect a penal
recovery, but Government shall be justified in making proof of a specific
instance of fraud or negligence on the part of a member of the service, the
ground for a finding that his service has not been thoroughly satisfactory
within the meaning of the rule for the purpose of reducing his retirement
benefits.Explanation II. - The measure of the reduction in the amount of
retirement benefits made under this rule shall be to the extent by which the
service of the member of the service as a whole failed to reach a thoroughly
satisfactory standard and the reduction in the amount of retirement benefits
shall not be equated with the amount of loss to Corporation on account of
negligence or fraud of the member of the service.Explanation III. - This rule
contemplates permanent reduction in the amount of retirement benefits
ordinarily admissible and does not admit of the reduction of pension payable
in respect of any one particular year.

### 19. Liberalised Pension Scheme and Family Pension.

\- In G. O. Ms. No. 657, Rural Development and Local Administration, dated the
20th March 1962 and G. O. Ms. No. 2500, Rural Development and Local
Administration, dated 22nd November 1965, the Government have sanctioned the
adoption of the Tamil Nadu Liberalised Pension Scheme and the Family Pension
Scheme to the members of service in Corporation establishment. The orders
shall apply to the Corporation Officers who retire or retired from service on
or after the 1st July 1960 or after the 1st April 1964, respectively. The
scheme enunciated in G. O. Ms. No. 1085, Finance (Pension), dated the 3rd
October 1960 and G. O. Ms. No. 959, Finance (Pension), dated the 29th July
1964 as subsequently amended, from time to time, shall apply mutatis
mutandisto the Corporation Officers.

### 20. Commutation of pension.

\- A member of the service may commute his pension under such conditions and
to such extent in accordance with the regulations governing the procedure for
commutation of pensions as laid down in the Tamil Nadu Pension Code.

### 21. Miscellaneous.

\- (i) The Commissioner, Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).] shall be responsible for the correct and up to date maintenance
of the service book of every Corporation Officer and he shall record an annual
certificate of verification in the service book as soon as and the end of
every year.(ii)Applications for the grant of retirement benefits under these
rules shall be in the form prescribed by the Government for their
employees.(iii)A pension under these rules shall be payable from the date on
which the member of service quits service or from the date of his application
for pension, whichever is later:Provided that where satisfactory explanation
is forthcoming for the delay in making an application for pension, the
Government may allow the pension to take effect from the date on which the
member of the service quits service.(iv)The claim of a member of the service
to the retirement benefits shall be regulated by the rules in force at the
time when the member of the service retires or is retired or discharged from
service or where the member of service dies while in service immediately
before death.

### 22. Procedure for sanction of pension.

\- The application for pension/gratuity shall be sent to the Commissioner,
Corporation who shall forward it to the "Audit Officer". The Audit Officer
shall check the amount of pension/gratuityThe Pension Payment Order shall be
issued by the Commissioner, Corporation who shall be Pension Disbursing
Authority.

### 23. Interpretation.

\- If any question arises relating to the applicability of the provisions of
the Tamil Nadu Pension Code and the interpretation of these rules, it shall be
referred to the Government whose decision thereon shall be final.

### 24. Source of grant of retirement benefits.

\- Under rule 5 of the Financial Rules in Schedule V to the [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919
(Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1919), the expenditure on the payment of pension and
gratuity to its employees under these rules shall be met from the funds of the
Corporation.

