## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 1988

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 1988

## Act 061 of 1988

  * Published in Gazette of India on 9 December 1988 
  * Commenced on 28 March 1989 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 December 1988.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Sixty-second
Amendment) Bill, 1988 (Bill No. 129 of 1988) which was enacted as THE
CONSTITUTION (Sixty-first Amendment) Act, 1988_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND
REASONS** Article 326 of the Constitution provides that the elections to the
House of the People and to the Legislative Assembly of every State shall be on
the basis of adult suffrage, that is to say, a person should not be less than
21 years of age. It has been found that many of the countries have specified
18 years as the voting age. In our country some of the State Governments have
adopted 18 years of age for elections to the local authorities. The present-
day youth are literate and enlightened and the lowering of the voting age
would provide to the unrepresented youth of the country an opportunity to give
vent to their feelings and help them become a part of the political process.
The present-day youth are very much politically conscious. It is, therefore,
proposed to reduce the voting age from 21 years to 18 years.

### 2. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Thirty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.- This Act may be called the Constitution (Sixty-first
Amendment) Act, 1988.

### 2\. Amendment of article 326.-In article 326 of the Constitution, for the
words "twenty-one years", the words "eighteen years" shall be substituted.

[The Constitution (Sixty-first Amendment) Act, 1988, reduced the voting age
for elections for Indian citizens from 21 years to 18 years. The voting age
for an Indian citizen was decided as 21 years on the basis of adult suffrage.
In simple words, any person below the age of 21 was not allowed to cast a vote
in the elections for the Lok Sabha and the Legislative Assembly of each State.
With the introduction of this Amendment, a chance was given to unrepresented
youths to express their views and emotions out in the open, thus inspiring
them to participate in the political process.Also Refer]

