## Union of India - Act

## THE CRIMINAL PROCEDURE (IDENTIFICATION) ACT, 2022

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# THE CRIMINAL PROCEDURE (IDENTIFICATION) ACT, 2022

## Act 11 of 2022

  * Published in Gazette of India on 18 April 2022 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 April 2022.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act to authorise for taking measurements of convicts and other persons for
the purposes of identification and investigation in criminal matters and to
preserve records and for matters connected therewith and incidental thereto.BE
it enacted by Parliament in the Seventy-third Year of the Republic of India as
follows:—

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Criminal Procedure (Identification) Act,
2022.(2)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)"Magistrate"
means,—(i)in relation to a metropolitan area, the Metropolitan
Magistrate;(ii)in relation to any other area, the Judicial Magistrate of the
first class; or(iii)in relation to ordering someone to give security for his
good behaviouror maintaining peace, the Executive Magistrate;(b)"measurements"
includes finger-impressions, palm-print impressions, foot-print impressions,
photographs, iris and retina scan, physical, biological samples and their
analysis, behavioural attributes including signatures, handwriting or any
other examination referred to in section 53 or section 53A of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973;(c)"police officer" means the officer-in-charge of a
police station or an officer not below the rank of Head
Constable;(d)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(e)"prison officer" means an officer of prison not below the rank of Head
Warder.(2)Words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the
Indian Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 shall have the same
meanings respectively assigned to them in those Codes.

### 3. Taking of measurement.

Any person, who has been,—(a)convicted of an offence punishable under any law
for the time being in force; or(b)ordered to give security for his good
behaviour or maintaining peace under section 117 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 for a proceeding under section 107 or section 108 or section
109 or section 110 of the said Code; or(c)arrested in connection with an
offence punishable under any law for the time being in force or detained under
any preventive detention law,shall, if so required, allow his measurement to
be taken by a police officer or a prison officer in such manner as may be
prescribed by the Central Government or the State Government:Provided that any
person arrested for an offence committed under any law for the time being in
force (except for an offence committed against a woman or a child or for any
offence punishable with imprisonment for a period not less than seven years)
may not be obliged to allow taking of his biological samples under the
provisions of this section.

### 4. Collection, storing, preservation of measurements and storing, sharing,
dissemination, destruction and disposal of records.

(1)The National Crime Records Bureau shall, in the interest of prevention,
detection, investigation and prosecution of any offence under any law for the
time being in force,—(a)collect the record of measurements from State
Government or Union territory Administration or any other law enforcement
agencies;(b)store, preserve and destroy the record of measurements at national
level;(c)process such record with relevant crime and criminal records;
and(d)share and disseminate such records with any law enforcement agency, in
such manner as may be prescribed.(2)The record of measurements shall be
retained in digital or electronic form for a period of seventy-five years from
the date of collection of such measurement:Provided that where any person, who
has not been previously convicted of an offence punishable under any law with
imprisonment for any term, has had his measurements taken according to the
provisions of this Act, is released without trial or discharged or acquitted
by the court, after exhausting all legal remedies, all records of measurements
so taken shall, unless the court or Magistrate, for reasons to be recorded in
writing otherwise directs, be destroyed from records.(3)The State Government
and Union territory Administration may notify an appropriate agency to
collect, preserve and share the measurements in their respective
jurisdictions.

### 5. Power of Magistrate to direct a person to give measurements.

Where the Magistrate is satisfied that, for the purpose of any investigation
or proceeding under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 or any other law for
the time being in force, it is expedient to direct any person to give
measurements under this Act, the Magistrate may make an order to that effect
and in that case, the person to whom the order relates shall allow the
measurements to be taken in conformity with such directions.

### 6. Resistance to allow taking of measurements.

(1)If any person who is required to allow the measurements to be taken under
this Act resists or refuses to allow taking of such measurements, it shall be
lawful for the police officer or prison officer to take such measurements in
such manner as may be prescribed.(2)Resistance to or refusal to allow the
taking of measurements under this Act shall be deemed to be an offence under
section 186 of the Indian Penal Code.

### 7. Bar of suit.

No suit or any other proceeding shall lie against any person for anything
done, or intended to be done in good faith under this Act or any rule made
thereunder.

### 8. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government or the State Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
provisions, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:—(a)the manner of taking measurements under section 3;(b)the manner of
collection, storing, preservation of measurements and sharing, dissemination,
destruction and disposal of records under sub-section (1) of section 4;(c)the
manner of taking of measurements under sub-section (1) of section 6;(d)any
other matter which is to be prescribed, or in respect of which provision is to
be made.(3)Every rule made by the Central Government under this Act shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament,
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be
comprised in one session or two or more successive sessions, and if, before
the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive
sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule
or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule.(4)Every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid,
as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of the State Legislature
where it consists of two Houses, or where such Legislature consists of one
House, before that House.

### 9. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order, published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as appear to
it to be necessary for removing the difficulty:Provided that no such order
shall be made under this section after the expiry of threeyears from the
commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this section shall be laid,
as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament.

### 10. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Identification of Prisoners Act, 1920 is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken or
purported to have done or taken including any rule, regulation, or any
proceedings taken, any rule made or any direction given or any proceedings
taken or any penalty or fine imposed under the repealed Act shall, in so far
as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, be deemed to have
been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act.(3)The
mention of particular matters in sub-section (2) shall not be held to
prejudice or affect the general application of section 6 of the General
Clauses Act, 1897 with regard to the effect of repeal.

