## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Chennai City Civil Court Act, 1892

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Chennai City Civil Court Act, 1892

## Act 7 of 1892

  * Published on 26 May 2010 
  * Commenced on 26 May 2010 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 May 2010.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Chennai City Civil Court Act, 1892Central Act No. 7 of 1892Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Madras City Civil Court Act, 1894 (Central Act VII of
1892). - The object of this Act is to constitute what may be called a regular
side of the Madras Court of Small Causes, for the trial: (1) of suits of the
nature of Small Causes but of a value exceeding the limit of Rs. 2,000 fixed
by section 18 of the Presidency Small Cause Courts Act, 1882; and (2) of suits
not of the nature of Small Causes. Till the passing of this Act, all such
suits had to be instituted in the High Court, and the result had been found to
be not merely a great waste of judicial power, but also a practical denial of
justice to suitors who were unable to bear the expense of a trial in the High
Court. It was, therefore, proposed to confer by this Act on the Small Cause
Court jurisdiction in all such suits with the exception of a few defined
classes of value not exceeding Rs. 5,000; and it was further proposed to give
power to the Governor in Council with the previous sanction of the Governor-
General in Council to raise this limit of value, from time to time, to any sum
not exceeding 10,000 rupees.The provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, were
to apply to all these cases and appeals from the decrees and orders passed on
the Regular side of the Small Cause Court, where appeals are ordinarily
allowed by law, would lie to the High Court. Originally when the Bill was
introduced into the Council, it was not proposed to abrogate the jurisdiction
vested in the High Court with regard to such cases, that if a suit cognizable
by a Small Cause Court was unnecessarily instituted in the High Court, the
plaintiff would be debarred from recovering the costs from the defendant;
while, if his suit failed, he would have to pay costs to the defendant on the
most liberal scale.The Bill was subsequently modified constituting a separate
Court as City Civil Court instead of the regular side of the Court of Small
Causes.For Statement of Objects and Reasons and Report of the Select
Committee, See page 9 of Part V of Gazette of India, 1892, Pt. V, page 9; for
further report see ibid., page 49; and for the final Report, See ibid, page 59
for Proceedings in Council, see ibid., 1891, Pt. VI, page 119; ibid., 1892,
Pt. VI; pages 6,13,20,23,37,57 and 61.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Madras City Civil Court and Presidency Small Cause Courts (Amendment) Act,
1945 (Madras Act I of 1945). - Clause (1) of the proviso to section 16 of the
Madras City Civil Court Act, 1892, provides that if any suit or other
proceeding is instituted in the High Court which in the opinion of the Judge
who tries the same ought to have been instituted in the City Civil Court, no
costs shall be allowed to a successful plaintiff and a successful defendant
shall be allowed his costs "as between attorney and client". A somewhat
similar provision occurs in section 22 of the Presidency Small Cause Court
Act, 1882. As a result of the amendments made in 1941 to the High Court Fees
Rules, the system of taxation of costs as between attorney and client was
abolished. The High Court, therefore, recommended that proviso (1) to section
16 of the Madras City Civil Court Act and section 22 of the Presidency Small
Cause Courts Act should be amended so as to provide that in the cases referred
to, the successful defendant should be allowed costs at the maximum admissible
under the Madras High Court Fees Rules for suits set down for final disposal.
The Government accepted the recommendation of the High Court and a Bill to
give effect to it was published for criticism. No objection or suggestion was
received. His Excellency the Governor has therefore enacted the Madras City
Civil Court and Presidency Small Cause Courts (Amendment) Act, 1945.Statement
of Objects and Reasons - Madras City Civil Court (Amendment) Act, 1971 (Tamil
Nadu Act 18 of 1971). - The original jurisdiction of the City Civil Court,
Madras, has been raised from time to time from rupees five thousand in 1948 to
fifty thousand in 1967. No such revision has been made in respect of the
appellate jurisdiction of the Principal Judge of the City Civil Court, Madras.
Though the appellate jurisdiction of the District Court extends up to rupees
ten thousand, the appellate jurisdiction of the City Civil Court, Madras
remains at rupees five thousand. It is, therefore, considered necessary to
amend the Madras City Civil Court Act, 1992 to enhance the monetary limit of
the appellate jurisdiction of the City Civil Court (Principal Judge) from
rupees five thousand to rupees ten thousand as in the case of District Courts
with a view to reduce the volume of the work in the High Court.2\. The Bill
seeks to achieve the above objects.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil
Nadu Civil Courts and the Madras City Civil Court (Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1995). - The Committee constituted by the Government of India
under the Chairmanship of justice Thiru Malimath, has given its
recommendations to tackle the problem of increase in cases in courts and the
consequential delay in the disposal of cases.2\. The said recommendations were
discussed at the Law Minister's Conference held in 1992 and also in the Chief
Ministers' and Chief Justices' Conference held in December 1993. Various
measures including the upward revision of the Pecuniary Jurisdiction of the
hierarchy of courts has been proposed as one of the measures to tackle the
mounting problem of accumulation of arrears in the Courts of Law.3\.
Accordingly, the Government have examined the question of revision of
pecuniary jurisdiction of courts in Tamil Nadu in consultation with the High
Court, Madras. Based on the proposal of the High Court, Madras, the Government
have decided to enhance the pecuniary jurisdiction of various Civil Courts
subordinate to the High Court in the State by amending the Tamil Nadu Civil
Courts Act, 1873 (Central Act III of 1873) and the Madras City Civil Court
Act, 1892 (Central Act VII of 1892), suitably.4\. The Bill seeks to give
effect to the above decision.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Civil Courts and the Chennai City Civil Court (Amendment) Act, 2003 (Tamil
Nadu Act I of 2004). - The Registrar General, High Court, Madras has brought
to the notice of the Government that there is an uneven distribution of works
among the subordinate courts in the State and in order to avoid this situation
and ensure early disposal of cases, he has recommended for the enhancement of
the monetary limit of the Original Jurisdiction and Appellate Jurisdiction of
the Courts subordinate to High Court. The Government have accepted the
recommendation of the Registrar General, High Court, Madras and decided to
amend the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts Act, 1873 (Central Act III of 1873) and the
Chennai City Civil Court Act, 1892 (Central Act VII of 1892) suitably for the
purposes.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.An Act to
establish an additional Civil Court for the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.]. Whereas it is expedient to
establish an additional Civil Court for the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.]. It is hereby enacted as
follows:-

### 1. Title.

(1)This Act may be called the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.] City Civil Court Act, 1892.(2)[* * *] [The word
'and' and sub-section (2) were repealed by the Central Act XVII of 1914.]

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless there is something repugnant in the subject or
context,-(1)"City Courts" means the Court established under the next following
section;(2)"City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by Tamil Nadu
Act 28 of 1996.]" means the area within the local limits for the time being of
the ordinary original civil jurisdiction of the High Court;(3)"High Court"
means the High Court of Judicature at [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.]; and(4)"Small Causes Court" means the
Court of Small Causes of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1996.].

### 3. Constitution of the City Court.

\- The [State Government] [The words 'Provincial Government' were substituted
for the words 'Local Government' by the Adaptation Order of 1937 and the word
'State' was substituted for 'Provincial' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.]
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, establish a Court, to be called
the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996.] City Civil Court, with jurisdiction to receive, try and dispose of all
suits and other proceedings of a civil nature not exceeding two thousand five
hundred rupees in value and arising within the City of [Chennai] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.], except suits or
proceedings which are cognizable-(a)by the High Court as a court of Admiralty
or Vice-Admiralty or as a Colonial Court of Admiralty, or as a court having
testamentary, intestate or matrimonial jurisdiction, or(b)by the Court for the
relief of insolvent debtors, or(c)by the Small Cause Court.

### 3A. [ Power of State Government to enhance the jurisdiction of the City
Court. [Section 3-A was inserted by section 2 of the (Tamil Nadu Act I of
1935).]

\- Subject to the exceptions specified in section 3, the [State Government]
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, invest the City Court with
jurisdiction to receive, try and dispose of all suits and other proceedings of
a civil nature arising within the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.] and of such value not exceeding of
[ten lakhs of rupees] [Substituted for 'one lakh' by Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1995
w.e.f. 1st December, 1995.] as may be specified in the notification.]

### 4. [ Powers of Judges of City Court. [This section was substituted for the
original section by Tamil Nadu Act X of 1955 with effect from 1st July, 1955.]

(1)The City Court shall consist of a Principal Judge and such number of
Additional or Assistant Judges as the State Government may from time to time
appoint.(2)[ The jurisdiction of an Assistant Judge extends to all suits and
proceedings of a civil nature not otherwise exempted from his cognizance, of
which the amount or value of the subject matter does not exceed [ten lakh
rupees]. The jurisdiction of the Principal Judge and Additional Judge extends
to all like suits and proceedings, of which the amount or value of the subject
matter exceeds [ten lakh rupees] [Substituted 'five lakh rupees' by Act No. 19
of 2010, dated 26.5.2010.] but does not exceed [twenty-five lakh rupees]
[Substituted 'ten lakh rupees' by Act No. 19 of 2010, dated 26.5.2010.].(3)The
Principal Judge may, from time to time, make such arrangements as he may think
fit for the distribution of the business of the Court among the various Judges
thereof.]

### 5. Judge of Civil Court to be Judge of Small Cause Court.

(1)Every person appointed a Judge of the City Court shall be, by virtue of his
office, a Judge of the Small Cause Court with respect to cases cognizable by
that Court.(2)Every such Judge shall be liable to perform any duties of a
Judge of the Small Cause Court which the Chief Justice of the High Court may
require him to perform.

### 6.

[x x x] [This section was omitted by Chennai City Civil Court (Amendment) Act,
1955 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1955).]

### 7. [ Ministerial Officers. [This section was substituted for the original
section 7 by the Adaptation Order of 1937]

(1)There shall be appointed to the City Court as many clerks, bailiffs and
other Ministerial Officers as the [State] Government may, from time to time,
consider necessary.(2)The clerks, bailiffs and other Ministerial officers so
appointed shall exercise such powers and discharge such duties of a
ministerial nature as [x x x] [The words 'the Judge or, when the Court consist
of more than one Judge', were omitted by section 5 of the Chennai City Civil
Court (Amendment) Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1955).] the Principal Judge,
may, from time to time, direct.]

### 8. Questions arising in suits, etc., under this Act to be determined
according to the law administered by the High Court.

\- All questions which arise in suits or other proceedings under this Act in
the City Court shall be dealt with and determined according to the law for the
time being administered by the High Court in the exercise of its ordinary
original civil jurisdiction.

### 9.

[Omitted by section 86 of the Tamil Nadu Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act,
1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XIV of 1955), which came into force on the 19th May
1955.]

### 10. Process-fees.

\- Fees chargeable for serving of executing processes issued by the City
Court, or served of executed under its direction of control, shall be such as
the High Court may prescribe with the approval of the [State Government] [This
expression was substituted for the expression ',State Government of Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970, zvhich was deemed to have come
into force on the 14th January, 1969.]. [x x x] [The words 'and the sanction
of the Governor-General in Council' were omitted by the Decentralization Act,
1914 (Centra! Act IV of 1914).]

### 11. Appointment of Receivers.

\- The powers conferred by Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Civil Procedure
[Central Act XIV of 1882] [See now the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central
Act V of 1908).] on High Courts and District Courts as to the appointment of
Receivers, may be exercised by the City Court or any Judge thereof.

### 12.

[Repealed by the Repealing Act, 1938 (Central Act I of 1938)].

### 13.

[Omitted by section 86 of the Tamil Nadu Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act,
1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XIV of 1955); which came into force on the 19th May,
1955.]

### 14. Allowance for fees paid in City Court in cases removed to High Court.

\- When, under section 13 of the Letters Patent for the High Court, dated the
twenty-eighth day of December 1865, or under section 25 of the Code of Civil
Procedure [Central Act XIV of 1882] [See now the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(Central Act V of 1908).], the High Court has removed for trial by itself any
suit from the City Court, fees on the scale for the time being in force in the
High Court as a Court of ordinary original civil jurisdiction shall be payable
in that Court in respect of the suit and proceedings therein:Provided that, in
the levy of any such fees which, according to the practice of the Court, are
credited to the Government, credit shall be given to the plaintiff in the suit
for any fee which in the City Court he has already paid under the [Court-fees
Act, 1870] [Repealed in its application to the State of Tamil Nadu by Tamil
Nadu Act XIV of 1955.] (Central Act VII of 1870), on the plaint.

### 15. [ Appeals. [This section was substituted for the original section by
section 6 of the Chennai City Civil Court (Amendment) Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu
Act X of 1955).]

(1)An appeal shall lie to the High Court from any decree or order appealable
under the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of
1908), in any suit or proceeding [x x x] where the decree or order appealed
from was passed by the Principal Judge or an Additional Judge.(2)[ An appeal
shall lie to the Principal Judge from any decree or order appealable under the
provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) passed
in any suit or proceeding-(a)where the amount or value of the subject matter
does not exceed five thousand rupees-(i)by a Judge other than the Principal
Judge before the 1st July 1955; or(ii)by an Assistant Judge on or after the
1st July 1955; or(b)where such amount or value does not exceed ten thousand
rupees, by an Assistant Judge, on or after the date of the commencement of the
[Chennai] City Civil Court (Amendment) Act, 1971.][(2-A) An appeal shall lie
to the Principal Judge from any decree of order appealable under the
provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908),
passed in any suit or proceeding by a Judge other than the Principal Judge or
an Additional Judge -(a)before the 1st day of December 1995, where the amount
or value of the subject matter does not exceed one lakh of rupees;(b)on or
after the 1st day of December 1995, where the amount or value of the subject
matter does riot exceed three lakhs of rupees; and(c)on or after the 1st day
of December 1995, except when the amount or value of the subject matter of the
suit exceeds rupees three lakhs in which case appeal shall lie to the High
Court.(2-B) All appeals pending in the High Court on the date of publication
of the Chennai City Civil Court (Amendment) Act, 1997 in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette which the amount or value of the subject matter of such
appeal exceeds orle lakh of rupees but does not exceed three lakhs of rupees
and which would be within the cognizance of the Chennai Civil Court under the
provisions of the principal Act, as amended by this Act, shall stand
transferred to the Chennai City Civil Court.] [Sections (2-A) and (2-B) were
substituted for sub-section (2-A) by the Chennai Civil Court (Amendment) Act,
1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1997).][(2-C) All Appeals pending in the High Court
of which the amount or value of the subject matter of such Appeals exceeds
three lakh of rupees but does not exceed five lakh of rupees shall stand
transferred to the Chennai City Civil Court.] [Inserted by Act No. 19 of 2010,
dated 26.5.2010.][(2-D)] [Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 2004.] An appeal
shall lie to the Principal Judge from any decree or order, appealable under
the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908),
if passed in any suit or proceeding by an Assistant Judge on or after the date
of the commencement of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts and Chennai City Civil
Court (Amendment) Act, 2003.] [This sub-section was substituted for the
original- sub-section by the Chennai City Civil Court (Amendment) Act, 1971
(Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1971).](3)A second appeal shall lie to the High Court
from any decree passed by the Principal or an Additional Judge in the exercise
of his appellate jurisdiction on all or any of the grounds mentioned in
section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of
1908).(4)Subject in other respects to the provisions of the [Indian Limitation
Act, 1908] [See now the Limitation Act, 1963 (Central Act 36 of 1963).]
(Central Act IX of 1908), the period of limitation for an appeal from a decree
or order in any of the cases specified in sub-sections (1) and (3) shall be
ninety days and in any of the cases specified in sub-section (2) shall be
thirty days.(5)The Principal Judge may, from time to time, transfer for
disposal appeals preferred under sub-section (2) to any Additional Judge and
may at any time withdraw such transferred appeals and dispose of them himself.

### 16. Saving of original civil jurisdiction of High Court.

\- Nothing in this Act contained shall affect the original civil jurisdiction
of the High Court:Provided that -(1)if any suit or other proceeding is
instituted in the High Court which, in the opinion of the Judge who tries the
same (whose opinion shall be final), ought to have been instituted in the City
Court, no costs shall be allowed to a successful plaintiff and a successful
defendant shall be allowed the costs [at the maximum admissible under the
Madras High Court Fees Rules for suits set down for final disposal]
[Substituted for the words 'as between attorney and client', by section 2 of
the Chennai City Civil Court and Presidency Small Cause Courts (Amendment)
Act, 1945 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1945). This was permanently re-enacted by
section 2 of, and the First Schedule to, the Tamil Nadu Re-enacting and
Repealing (Nod). Act, 1948 (Tamil Nadu Act VII 1948).];(2)in any suit or other
proceeding pending at any time in the High Court, any Judge of such Court may,
at any stage thereof, make an order transferring the same to the City Court if
in his opinion such suit or proceeding is within the jurisdiction of that
Court and should be tried therein;(3)in any suit or other proceeding so
transferred, the Court-fees Act, 1870, [Central Act VII of 1870] [Repealed in
its application to the State of Tamil Nadu by section 87 of the Tamil Nadu
Court-fees and Suits Vacation Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XIV of 1955).] shall
apply, credit being given for any fees levied in the High Court.

### 17. Seal to be used.

\- The City Court shall use a seal of such form and dimensions as may be for
the time being prescribed by the [State Government] [The words 'Provincial
Government' were substituted for the words 'Local Government' by the
Adaptation Order of 1937 and the word 'State' was substituted for 'Provincial'
by the Adaptation Order of 1950.].

### 18. Holidays and vacations.

(1)The [x x x] [The words 'Judge of the City Court, or, when the Court
consists of more than one Judge, the' were omitted by section 7 of the Chennai
City Civil Court (Amendment) Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1955).] Principal
Judge, shall, at the commencement of each year, draw up a list of holidays and
vacations to be observed in the Court, and shall submit the same for the
approval of the [State Government] [The words 'Provincial Government' were
substituted for the words 'Local Government' by the Adaptation Order of 1937
and the word 'State' was substituted for 'Provincial' by the Adaptation Order
of 1950.].(2)Such list, when it has received such approval, shall be published
in the Official Gazette, and the said holidays and vacations shall be observed
accordingly.

