## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (NINETY-FOURTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 2006

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (NINETY-FOURTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 2006

## Act 94 of 2006

  * Published in Gazette of India on 12 June 2006 
  * Commenced on 13 June 2006 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 June 2006.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Constitution of IndiaBe it enacted by Parliament
in the Fifty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Received the assent of the President on June 12, 2006 and published in
the Gazette of India, Extra., Part II, Section 1.

Prefatory Note-Statement of Objects and Reasons.- Proviso to clause (1) of
Article 164 of the Constitution provides that there shall be a Minister in
charge of tribal welfare who may in addition be in charge of the welfare of
the Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes or any other work in the States of
Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa.

### 2. The new States of Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand came into being with the
enactment of the Madhya Pradesh Reorganization Act, 2000 and the Bihar
Reorganization Act, 2000, with effect from 1st November, 2000 and 15th
November, 2000, respectively. Consequent upon the creation of the States of
Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, a sizable portion of the Scheduled Areas of the
erstwhile State of Madhya Pradesh stands transferred to Chhattisgarh and the
entire Scheduled Areas of the former Bihar State stand transferred to the
newly formed Jharkhand State and the Scheduled Areas were redefined as per the
Scheduled Areas (States of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh) Order,
2003 (C.O. 192). Further, as per census figures of 2001, the percentage of the
Scheduled Tribes population to total population in the four States are as
follows:-

Name of the State | Percentage of the Scheduled Tribes population to total  
---|---  
(_i_) | Bihar | 0.9  
(_ii_) | Jharkhand | 26.3  
(_iii_) | Chhattisgarh | 31.8  
(_iv_) | Madhya Pradesh | 20.3  
  
### 3. As there are no Scheduled Areas in Bihar now and the fraction of
population of the Scheduled Tribes is very small, it is proposed to exclude
Bihar from the purview of the said proviso and also proposed to extend the
provisions of clause (1) of Article 164 to the newly formed States of
Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand.

### 4. This Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.

### 1\. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Ninety-fourth Amendment) Act, 2006.

### 2\. Amendment of Article 164.-

In Article 164 of the Constitution, in clause (1), in the proviso, for the
word "Bihar", the words "Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand" shall be substituted.[The
Constitution (Ninety-fourth Amendment) Act, 2006, mandates the appointment of
a minister in charge of tribal welfare in the states of Chhattisgarh and
Jharkhand. Bihar was exempted from the requirement to have a minister for
tribal welfare under the Constitution, and Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh were
granted the same relief. As per Article 164, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya
Pradesh, and Odisha are now covered under the scope of this provision.Also
Refer]

