## Union of India - Act

## The Central Boards Of Revenue Act, 1963

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Central Boards Of Revenue Act, 1963

## Act 54 of 1963

  * Published on 30 December 1963 
  * Commenced on 30 December 1963 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 December 1963.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Central Boards Of Revenue Act, 1963ACT NO. 54 OF 1963

### 1317.

The object of this Bill is to replace the Central Board of Revenue Act, 1924,
by this law which provides for the constitution of two Boards named,
respectively, as the Central Board of Direct Taxes and the Central Board of
Excise and Customs. Owing to the very considerable expansion of the Union
revenue administration since 1924, substantial strengthening of the Board of
Revenue at the Centre as well as its functional bifurcation has become a
matter of urgent necessity. Such separation has also been recommeded by the
Direct Taxes Administration Enquiry Committee and more recently, by the
Central Excise Reorganisation Committee. The Bill seeks to give effect to
those recommendations which have since been accepted by Government - See
Gazette of India, 1963, Pt. II, Section 2, Extra, p. 775.[30th December,
1963]An Act to provide for the constitution of separate Boards of Revenue for
Direct Taxes and for [Indirect Taxes and Customs] [Substituted 'Excise and
Customs' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.] and to
amend certain enactments for the purpose of conferring powers and imposing
duties on the said Boards.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Fourteenth Year
of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963.(2)it shall
come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, appoint.

Enforced w.e.f. 1st January, 1964 ; vide Notification No. S. O. 3606, dated
30-12-1963 Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Pt. 11, See. 3 (ii), p. 897.  
---  
  
### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)Board " means the
Central Board of Direct Taxes or [the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and
Customs] [Substituted 'the Central Board of Excise and Customs' by Finance
Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.] constituted under section 3
;(b)Central Board of Revenue " means the Central Board of Revenue constituted
under the Central Board of Revenue Act, 1924 (4 of 1924);(c)"direct tax"
means-(1)any duty leviable or tax chargeable under-(i)The Estate Duty Act,
1953 (34 of 1953);(ii)The Wealth-tax Act, 1957 (27 of 1957);(iii)The
Expenditure-tax Act, 1957 (29 of 1957); [The Expenditure-tax Act, 1957
repealed by Finance Act 13 of 1966. w.e.f. 1.4.1966](iv)The Gift-tax Act, 1958
(18 of 1958);(v)The Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961);(vi)[ The Super Profits
Tax Act, 1963 (14 of 1963)] [The Super Profits Tax Act 1963 been repealed by
Finance Act 13 of 1966. w.e.f. 1.4.1966][* * *] [Omitted by Act 45 of 1947,
Section 30 (23-9-74)](vii)[ the Interest-tax Act, 1974 (45 of 1974)] [Inserted
by Intrest Act, Act 45 of 1974 s. 30 w.e.f.23.9.1974](viii)[ The Hotel-
Receipts Tax Act, 1980 (54 of 1980)] [Inserted by Hotel-Receipts Tax Act, 1980
(54 of 1980) Section 37 w.e.f.9.12.1980. ](ix)[ The Expenditure-tax Act, 1987;
and] [Inserted by Expenditure-tax Act, 1987, Act 35 1987, Section 33 (w.e.f.
1.11.1987) ](2)any other duty of tax which, having regard to its nature or
incidence, may be declared by the Central Government, by notification in the
Official Gazette, to be a direct tax.

### 3. Constitution of separate Central Boards for Direct Taxes and for
[Indirect Taxes and Customs] [Substituted 'Excise and Customs' by Finance Act,
2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.].

(1)The Central Government shall, in place of the Central Board of Revenue,
constitute two separate Boards of Revenue to be called the Central Board of
Direct Taxes and the Central Board of [Indirect Taxes and Customs]
[Substituted 'Excise and Customs' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018)
dated 29.3.2018.], and each such Board shall, subject to the control of the
Central Government, exercise such powers and perform such duties, as may be
entrusted to that Board by the Central Government or by or under any
law.(2)Each Board shall consist of such number of persons [not exceeding
seven] [Substituted by Act 25 of 1978, Section 27 (w.e.f 21. 6. 1978)] as the
Central Government may think fit to appoint.

### 4. Procedure of the Board.

(1)The Central Government may make rules for the purpose of regulating the
transaction of business by each Board and every order made or act done in
accordance with such rules shall be deemed to be the order or act, as the case
may be, of the Board.(2)Every rule made under this section shall be laid as
soon as may be after it is made before each House of Parliament while it is in
session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the
session in which it is so laid or the session immediately following, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that
any modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule.

### 5. Amendment of certain enactments.

(1)In the Estate Duty Act, 1953, (34 of 1953) the Wealth-tax Act, 1957, (27 of
1957) the Expenditure-tax Act, 1957,(29 of 1957) the Gift-tax Act, 1958, (18
of 1958)the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and the Super Profits Tax Act,
1963,(14 of 1963) for the words and figures " Central Board of 'Revenue
constituted under the Central Board of Revenue Act, 1924" (4 of 1924) or
"Central Board of Revenue", wherever they occur, the words and figures
"Central Board of Direct Taxes constituted under the Central Boards of Revenue
Act, 1963" shall be substituted.(2)In the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944,
(1 of 1944) and the Customs Act, 1962, (52 of 1962) for the words and figures
"Central Board of Revenue constituted under the Central Board of Revenue Act,
1924 (4 of 1924) " or " Central Board of Revenue " wherever they occur, the
words and figures " Central Board of [Indirect Taxes and Customs] [Substituted
'Excise and Customs' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated
29.3.2018.] constituted under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 shall be
substituted.(3)The functions entrusted to the Central Board of Revenue by or
under any other enactment shall--(a)if such functions relate to matters
connected with direct taxes, be discharged by the Central Board of Direct
Taxes ; and(b)if such functions relate to any other matter, unless they are
entrusted by the Central Government to the Central Board of Direct Taxes, be
discharged by the Central Board of [Indirect Taxes and Customs] [Substituted
'Excise and Customs' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated
29.3.2018.].

### 6. Transfer of certain proceedings.

(1)Every proceeding pending at the commencement of this Act, before the
Central Board of Revenue shall--(a)if it is a proceeding relating to direct
taxes, stand transferred to the Central Board of Direct Taxes; and(b)in any
other case, stand transferred to the Central Board of [Indirect Taxes and
Customs] [Substituted 'Excise and Customs' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of
2018) dated 29.3.2018.].(2)If any question arises as to whether any proceeding
stands transferred to the Central Board of Direct Taxes or to the Central
Board of [Indirect Taxes and Customs] [Substituted 'Excise and Customs' by
Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.], it shall be referred
to the Central Government whose decision thereon shall be final.(3)In any
legal proceeding pending at the commencement of this Act to which the Central
Board of Revenue is a party,--(a)if it is a proceeding relating to direct
taxes, the Central Board of Direct Taxes shall be deemed to be substituted for
the Central Board of Revenue in such proceeding; and(b)if it is a proceeding
relating to any other matter, the Central Board of [Indirect Taxes and
Customs] [Substituted 'Excise and Customs' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of
2018) dated 29.3.2018.] shall be deemed to be substituted for the Central
Board of Revenue in such proceeding.

### 7. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions not inconsistent with the purposes of this Act, as appear to
it to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty.(2)An order under
sub-section (1) may be made so as to have retrospective effect from a date not
earlier than the date of the commencement of this Act.

### 8. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Central Board of Revenue Act, 1924, (4 of 1924) is hereby
repealed.(2)Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall affect any appointment,
assessment, order (including quasi-judicial order) or rule made, or exemption,
approval or recognition granted, or any notice, notification, direction or
instruction issued, or any duty levied, or penalty or fine imposed, or
confiscation adjudged, or any form prescribed, or any other thing done or
action taken by the Central Board of Revenue under any law and any such
appointment, assessment, order, rule, exemption, approval, recognition,
notice, notification, direction, instruction, duty, penalty, fine,
confiscation, form, thing or action shall be deemed to have been made,
granted, issued, levied, imposed, adjudged, prescribed, done or taken by the
Central Board of Direct Taxes, or as the case may be, by the Central Board of
[Indirect Taxes and Customs] [Substituted 'Excise and Customs' by Finance Act,
2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.] and shall continue to be in force
unless and until it is revised, withdrawn or superseded by the concerned
Board.

