## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (TWENTY-SIXTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1971

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (TWENTY-SIXTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1971

## Act 026 of 1971

  * Published in Gazette of India on 31 July 1971 
  * Commenced on 28 December 1971 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 July 1971.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Twenty-sixth
Amendment) Bill, 1971 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Twenty-sixth
Amendment) Act, 1971STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONSThe concept of rulership,
with privy purses and special privileges unrelated to any current functions
and social purposes, is incompatible with an egalitarian social order.
Government have, therefore, decided to terminate the privy purses and
privileges of the Rulers of former Indian States. It is necessary for this
purpose, apart from amending the relevant provisions of the Constitution, to
insert a new article therein so as to terminate expressly the recognition
already granted to such Rulers and to abolish privy purses and extinguish all
rights, liabilities and obligations in respect of privy purses. Hence this
Bill.An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by
Parliament in the Twenty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:---

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Twenty-sixty Amendment) Act, 1971.

### 2. Omission of articles 291 and 362.-

Articles 291 and 362 of the Constitution shall be omitted.

### 3. Insertion of new article 363A.-

After article 363 of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:---"363A.Recognition granted to Rulers of Indian States to
cease and privy purses to be abolished.- Notwithstanding anything in this
Constitution or in any law for the time being in force-(a)The Prince, Chief or
other person who, at any time before the commencement of THE CONSTITUTION
(Twenty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1971, was recognised by the President as the
Ruler of an Indian State or any person who, at any time before such
commencement, was recognised by the President as the successor of such Ruler
shall, on and from such commencement, cease to be recognised as such Ruler or
the successor of such Ruler;(b)on and from the commencement of the
Constitution (Twenty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1971, privy purse is abolished and
all rights, liabilities and obligations in respect of privy purse are
extinguished and accordingly the Ruler or, as the case may be, the successor
of such Ruler, referred to in clause (a) or any other person shall not be paid
any sum as privy purse.".

### 4. Amendment of article 366.-

In article 366 of the Constitution, for clause (22), the following clause
shall be substituted, namely:-(22)"Ruler" means the Prince, Chief or other
person who, at any time before the commencement of THE CONSTITUTION (Twenty-
sixth Amendment) Act, 1971, was recognised by the President as the Ruler of an
Indian State or any person who, at any time before such commencement, was
recognised by the President as the successor of such Ruler;'.[The Constitution
(Twenty-Sixth Amendment) Act, 1971, its aim was to abolish the practice of
privy purses and thereby make the political system more democratic. In return
for surrendering their powers, Articles 291 and 362 guaranteed royal families
a tax-free privy purse which was approximately one-fourth of what they had
earlier earned. Thus, Article 291 and Article 362 which restricted equality
and social justice of the democratic system were removed from the
Constitution. Additionally, article 366 was amended and Article 33A inserted.
Therefore, the decision was made to eliminate privy pursues and privileges
that were enjoyed by former rulers of India. All the rights, liabilities, as
well as obligations regarding the purses of the privy, were abolished.
Important Verdict-Shri Raghunathrao Ganpatrao vs Union Of India ]

