## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Code of Criminal Procedure (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2003

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Code of Criminal Procedure (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2003

## Act 29 of 2003

  * Published on 17 September 2003 
  * Commenced on 17 September 2003 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 September 2003.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Code of Criminal Procedure (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2003Tamil Nadu Act
29 of 2003Statement of Objects and Reasons. - According to sub-section (2) of
section 167 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974),
no Magistrate shall authorise detention of an accused person in any custody
unless the accused is produced before him. Therefore, as per the above said
provision, accused persons have to be physically produced before the
Magistrate by the police for authorising the detention of the accused. It
involves the expenditure of Government money and manpower. In order to save
the money and manpower, the Government have decided to introduce the
electronic video linkage facility in the Courts and prisons and to produce the
accused person before the Magistrate through such electronic video linkage.
The Government have decided to amend sub-section (2) of the said section 167
for the purpose.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 9th May 2003.Received the assent of the President on
the 17th September 2003 and published in Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 22nd September 2003.An Act further
to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, in its application to the State
of Tamil Nadu.Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil
Nadu in the Fifty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

\- This Act may be called the Code of Criminal Procedure (Tamil Nadu
Amendment) Act, 2003.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil
Nadu.(3)It shall come into force at once.

### 2. Amendment of section 167.

\- In section 167 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of
1974),-(1)in the proviso to sub-section (2), in clause (b), after the
expression "produced before him", the expression "either in person or through
the medium of electronic video linkage" shall be added;(2)in the Explanation-
II under sub-section (2), after the expression "an accused person was
produced", the expression "in person or, as the case may be, through the
medium of electronic video linkage" shall be inserted.

