## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTY SECOND AMENDMENT) ACT, 2000

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTY SECOND AMENDMENT) ACT, 2000

## Act 82 of 2000

  * Published in Gazette of India on 22 December 1999 
  * Commenced on 8 September 2000 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 December 1999.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Eighty
Eighth Amendment) Bill 1999 which was enacted as the Constitution (Eighty
Second Amendment) Act 2000_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes had been enjoying the facility of
relaxation of qualifying marks and standards of evaluation in matters of
reservation in promotion. The Supreme Court in its judgment dated 1-10-1996 in
the case of S. Vinod Kumar Vs. Union India held that such relaxations in
matters of reservation in promotion were not permissible under article 16(4)
of the Constitution in view of the command contained in article 335 of the
Constitution. The Apex Court also held that the law on the subject of
relaxations of qualifying marks and standards of evaluation in matters of
reservation in promotion is one laid down by the nine-judge Constitution Bench
of the Supreme Court in the case of Indira Sawhney and others Vs. Union of
India and others. Para 831 of Indira Sawhney judgment also held such
relaxations as being not permissible under article 16(4) in view of the
command contained in article 335 of the Constitution. In order to implement
the judgments of the Supreme Court, such relaxations had to be withdrawn with
effect from 22.07.1997.

### 2. In view of the adverse effect of the order dated 22.07.1997 on the
interests of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, representations had been
received by the Government from several quarters including the Members of
Parliament. Considering the various representations, the Government has
reviewed the position and decided to move for constitutional amendment with a
view to restore the relaxations which were withdrawn vide instructions issued
by the Department of Personnel and Training on 22.07.1997.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Fifty-first year of the Republic of India as follows :

### 1. Short title: This Act may be called the Constitution (Eighty-second
Amendment) Act, 2000

### 2\. Amendment of article 335: In Article 335 of the Constitution, the
following proviso shall be inserted at the end, namely :

"Provided that nothing in this article shall prevent in making of any
provision in favour of the members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
Tribes for relaxation in qualifying marks in any examination or lowering the
standards of evaluation, for reservation in matters of promotion to any class
or classes of services or posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or
of a State".[The Constitution (Eighty-second Amendment) Act, 2000, provides
that nothing in Article 355 shall prevent the state from making any provisions
in favor of members of SC/ST for relaxation of qualifying scores for exams,
services, or promotions. Members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
have benefited from the relaxation of qualifying marks as well as assessment
requirements in areas of reservation in promotion. In the case of S. Vinod
Kumar vs Union of India, the Supreme Court ruled that, in light of the
directive in Article 335 of the Constitution, such relaxations in the rules
governing reservations in promotions were not permissible under Article 16(4)
of the Constitution. The Supreme Court's Constitution Bench of nine judges
heard the case of Indira Sawhney and others vs Union of India and others, and
established that exemptions of qualifying marks and norms of evaluation in
matters of reservation in promotion were not allowed, according to the
decision of the Supreme Court.Also Refer ]

