## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (TENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1961

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (TENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1961

## Act 10 of 1961

  * Published in Gazette of India on 30 April 1956 
  * Commenced on 16 August 1961 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 April 1956.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Tenth
Amendment) Bill, 1961 (Bill No. 43 of 1961) which was enacted as THE
CONSTITUTION (Tenth Amendment) Act,1961_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS**
The people and the Varishta Panchayat of Free Dadra and Nagar Haveli have
repeatedly affirmed their request to the Government of India for integration
of their territories with the Union of India to which they rightly belong.
Their request was recently embodied in a formal Resolution adopted by the
Varishta Panchayat on the 12th June, 1961.In deference to the desire and
request of the people of Free Dadra and Nagar Haveli for integration of their
territories with the Union of India, the Government of India have decided that
these territories should form part of the Union of India.It is proposed to
specify these areas expressly as the Union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli
by amending the First Schedule to the Constitution. It is further proposed to
amend clause (1) of article 240 of the Constitution to include therein the
Union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli in order to enable the President to
make regulations for the peace, progress and good government of the
territory.The Bill seeks to give effect to these proposals.An Act further to
amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twelfth
Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Tenth Amendment) Act, 1961.(2)It
shall be deemed to have come into force on the 11th day of August, 1961.

### 2. Amendment of the First Schedule to the Constitution.-

In the First Schedule to the Constitution, under the heading "THE UNION
TERRITORIES", after entry 6, the following entry shall be inserted,
namely:-"7. Dadra and Nagar Haveli: The territory which immediately before the
eleventh day of August, 1961 was comprised in Free Dadra and Nagar Haveli.".

### 3. Amendment of article 240.-

In article 240 of the Constitution, in clause (1), after entry (b), the
following entry shall be inserted, namely:-"(c) Dadra and Nagar Haveli.".[The
Constitution (Tenth Amendment) Act, 1961, incorporated Dadra and Nagar Haveli
as the seventh Union territory of India, by amending the First Schedule to the
Constitution. It also amended clause (1) of article 240 of the Constitution to
include the Union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli in order to enable the
President to “make regulations for the peace, progress and good government of
the territory”. Also refer ]

