## Union of India - Act

## The Customs Brokers Licensing Regulations, 2013

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Customs Brokers Licensing Regulations, 2013

## Rule THE-CUSTOMS-BROKERS-LICENSING-REGULATIONS-2013 of 2013

  * Published on 21 June 2013 
  * Commenced on 21 June 2013 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 June 2013.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Customs Brokers Licensing Regulations, 2013Published vide Notification No.
G.S.R. 395(E), 21st June, 2013, No. 65/2013-Customs (N.T.)Ministry of
Finance(Department of Revenue)G.S.R. 395(E). - In exercise of the powers
conferred by sub-section (2) of section 146 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of
1962), and in supersession of the Customs House Agents Licensing Regulations
2004, except as respect things done or omitted to be done before such
supersession, the Central Board of Excise and Customs hereby makes the
following regulations, namely:

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These regulations may be called the Customs Brokers Licensing Regulations,
2013.(2)They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the
Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Act"
means the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962);(b)"company" means a company as
defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);(c)"Customs Broker" means a
person licensed under these regulations to act as agent for the transaction of
any business relating to the entry or departure of conveyances or the import
or export of goods at any Customs Station;(d)"firm", "firm name", "partner"
and "partnership" shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them
in the Indian Partnership Act 1932 (9 of 1932), but the expression "partner"
shall also include any person who, being a minor, has been admitted to the
benefits of partnership;(e)"Form" means form appended to these
regulations;(f)'Schedule' means the schedule annexed to these
regulations;(g)"section" means a section of the Act; and(h)the words and
expressions used herein and not defined in these regulations but defined in
the Act shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in the said
Act.

### 3. Customs Brokers to be licensed.

\- No person shall carryon business as a Customs Broker relating to the entry
or departure of a conveyance or the import or export of goods at any Customs
Station unless such person holds a licence granted under these
regulations:Provided that no licence under these regulations shall be required
by -(a)an importer or exporter transacting any business at a Customs Station
solely on his own account;(b)any employee of any person or a firm transacting
business generally on behalf of such person or firm, and holding an identity
card or a temporary pass issued by the Deputy Commissioner of Customs or
Assistant Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be; and(c)an agent employed
for one or more vessels or aircraft's in order solely to enter or clear such
vessels or aircraft's for work incidental to his employment as such agent.

### 4. Invitation of application.

(1)The Directorate General of Inspection of Customs and Central Excise
(DGICCE) shall in the month of April of every year invite applications for
conducting examination and subsequent grant of licence to act as Customs
Broker in Form A by publication in two leading national daily newspapers in
English and Hindi.(2)The application for a licence to act as a Customs Broker
in a Customs Station in Form A shall be made to the Commissioner of Customs
having jurisdiction over the area where the applicant intends to carry on his
business.

### 5. Conditions to be fulfilled by the applicants.

\- The applicant for a licence to act as a Customs Broker in a Customs
Station, shall prove to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of Customs,
that:-(a)he is a citizen of India;(b)he is a person of sound mind;(c)he is not
adjudicated as insolvent;(d)he has neither been convicted by a competent court
for an offence nor any criminal proceeding is pending against him in any court
of law; and(e)he has not been penalised for any offence under the Act, the
Central Excise Act, 1944 and the Finance Act, 1994.(f)an individual applicant
or in case the applicant is a firm or company its partner or director or an
authorised employee who may handle the Customs work shall:(i)be a graduate
from a recognised University, and(ii)possess a professional degree such as
Masters or equivalent degree in Accounting, Finance or Management,
[CA/MBA/LLB/CMA/FCMA] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 9(E), dated
5.1.2016 (w.e.f. 21.6.2013).] or Diploma in Customs Clearance work from any
Institutes or University recognised by the Government or is having at least
two years experience in transacting Customs Broker work as G-Card holder;(g)he
is a retired Group A officer from the Indian Customs and Central Excise
Services having a minimum of five years experience in Group 'A' service;(h)the
applicant has financial viability as evidenced by a certificate issued by a
Scheduled Bank or such other proof acceptable to the Commissioner of Customs
in terms of possession of assets of value of not less than five lakhs
rupees:Provided that for the purpose of his satisfaction, the Commissioner of
Customs may make enquiries as may be deemed fit.

### 6. Examination of the applicant.

(1)An applicant, who satisfies the requirements of regulation 5, shall be
required to appear for a written as well as oral examination conducted by the
DGICCE:Provided that an applicant who has already passed the examination
referred to in regulation 9 of the Custom House Agents Licensing Regulation,
1984 and regulation 8 of the Custom House Agents Licensing Regulation, 2004
shall not be required to appear for any further examination.(2)The written
examination shall be conducted on specified dates in month of January of each
year for which intimation shall be sent individually to applicants in advance
before the date of examination and the result of the said examination shall be
declared by end May each year.(3)The applicant who is declared successful in
the written examination shall be called for an oral examination on specified
dates in month of June of each year, the result of which shall be declared in
the month of July of each year.(4)The applicant shall be required to clear
written examination as well as oral examination.(5)An applicant who fails to
clear the oral examination within two years from date of declaration of result
of the related written examination, shall be treated as having failed in the
examination.(6)An applicant shall be allowed a maximum period of seven years
from the date of original application within which he shall pass both written
and oral examinations and no further extension shall be granted.(7)The
examination may include questions on the following:(a)preparation of various
kinds of bills of entry, bills of export, shipping bills, and other clearance
documents;(b)arrival entry and clearance of vessels;(c)tariff classification
and rates of duty;(d)determination of value of imported and export
goods;(e)conversion of currency;(f)nature and description of documents to be
filed with various kinds of bills of entry, shipping bills and other clearance
documents;(g)procedure for assessment and payment of duty including refund of
duty paid;(h)examination of goods at Customs stations;(i)prohibitions on
import and export;(j)bonding procedure and clearance from bond;(k)re-
importation and conditions for free re-entry;(l)drawback and export promotion
schemes including Special Economic Zone scheme;(m)offences under the
Act;(n)provisions of the allied Acts including the Indian Explosives Act, 1884
(4 of 1884), Destructive Insects and Pests Act 1914 (2 of 1914), Dangerous
Drugs Act, 1930 (2 of 1930), Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 (23 of 1940),
Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), Copy Right Act, 1957 (14 of 1957), Trade
and Merchandise Marks Act 1958 (43 of 1958), Arms Act 1959 (54 of 1959),
Patents Act, 1970 (39 of 1970), Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances
Act, 1985 (61 of 1985), Foreign Trade (Development and Regulations) Act, 1992
(22 of 1992), Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999), Design Act,
2000 (16 of 2000) and Food Safety and Standard Act, 2006 (No. 34 of 2006) in
so far as they are relevant to clearance of goods through
customs;(o)provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (49 of
1998);(p)procedure for appeal and revision applications under the Act;
and(q)on line filing of electronic bills of entry and shipping bills vide the
Indian Customs and Central Excise Electronic Commerce or Electronic data
interchange gateway (ICEGATE) and Indian Customs Electronic data Interchange
System (ICES).(7)The Commissioner of Customs shall satisfy himself that the
individual applicant or in cases where applicant is a firm or company its
partner or Director or authorised employees who may be engaged for handling
the customs work shall possess satisfactory knowledge of English and the local
language of the Customs Station:Provided that in case of a person deputed to
work extensively in the docks, knowledge of English shall not be compulsory.
Knowledge of Hindi shall be considered as desirable qualification.

### 7. Grant of licence.

(1)The Commissioner of Customs shall, on payment of fee of five thousand
rupees grant licence in Form B to an applicant who has passed the oral
examination within two months of the date of declaration of the said
results.(2)The applicant who has been granted licence under sub-regulation (1)
shall be eligible to work as Customs Broker in all Customs Stations subject to
intimation in Form C to the Commissioner of Customs of the Customs Station
where he intends to transact business. A copy of this intimation shall also be
sent to the Commissioner of Customs who has issued the licence in Form B.

### 8. Execution of bond and furnishing of security.

(1)Before granting the licence under regulation 7, the Commissioner of Customs
shall require the successful applicant to enter into the bond in Form D and
where specified a surety bond in Form E for due observance of these
regulations and furnish a bank guarantee, a postal security or National Saving
Certificate in the name of Commissioner of Customs for an amount of five lakhs
rupees for carrying out the business as Customs Broker.(2)In cases where a
postal security or National Saving Certificate is furnished, the benefit of
interest accruing thereon shall accrue to the Customs Broker concerned.

### 9. Period of validity of a licence.

(1)A licence granted under regulation 7 shall be valid for a period of ten
years from the date of issue and shall be renewed from time to time in
accordance with the procedure specified in sub-regulation (2):Provided that a
licence granted to a Customs Broker, authorised under the Authorised Economic
Operator Programme referred to in Board's Circular No. 28/2012-Customs dated
16.11.2012, shall not require renewal till such time the said authorisation is
valid.(2)The Commissioner of Customs may, on an application made by the
licensee before the expiry of the validity of the licence under sub-regulation
(1), renew the licence for a further period of ten years from the date of
expiration, if the performance of the licensee is found to be satisfactory
with reference, inter alia, to the obligations specified in this regulation
including the absence of instances of any complaints of misconduct.(3)The fee
for renewal of a licence shall be five thousand rupees.

### 10. Licence not transferable.

\- Every licence granted or renewed under these regulations shall be deemed to
have been granted or renewed in favour of the licensee, and no licence shall
be sold or otherwise transferred.

### 11. Obligations of Customs Broker.

\- A Customs Broker shall-(a)obtain an authorisation from each of the
companies, firms or individuals by whom he is for the time being employed as a
Customs Broker and produce such authorisation whenever required by the Deputy
Commissioner of Customs or Assistant Commissioner of Customs, as the case may
be;(b)transact business in the Customs Station either personally or through an
employee duly approved by the Deputy Commissioner of Customs or Assistant
Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be;(c)not represent a client in any
matter to which the Customs Broker, as a former employee of the Central Board
of Excise and Customs gave personal consideration, or as to the facts of which
he gained knowledge, while in Government service;(d)advise his client to
comply with the provisions of the Act and in case of non-compliance, shall
bring the matter to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner of Customs or
Assistant Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be;(e)exercise due
diligence to ascertain the correctness of any information which he imparts to
a client with reference to any work related to clearance of cargo or
baggage;(f)not withhold information contained in any order, instruction or
public notice relating to clearance of cargo or baggage issued by the
Commissioner of Customs, from a client who is entitled to such
information;(g)promptly pay over to the Government, when due, sums received
for payment of any duty, tax or other debt or obligations owing to the
Government and promptly account to his client for funds received for him from
the Government or received from him in excess of Governmental or other charges
payable in respect of the clearance of cargo or baggage on behalf of the
client;(h)not procure or attempt to procure directly or indirectly,
information from the Government records or other Government sources of any
kind to which access is not granted by the proper officer;(i)not attempt to
influence the conduct of any official of the Customs Station in any matter
pending before such official or his subordinates by the use of threat, false
accusation, duress or the offer of any special inducement or promise of
advantage or by the bestowing of any gift or favour or other thing of
value;(j)not refuse access to, conceal, remove or destroy the whole or any
part of any book, paper or other record, relating to his transactions as a
Customs Broker which is sought or may be sought by the Commissioner of
Customs;(k)maintain upto date records such as bill of entry, shipping bill,
transhipment application, etc. and all correspondence and other papers
relating to his business as Customs Broker and also accounts including
financial transactions in an orderly and itemised manner as may be specified
by the Deputy Commissioner of Customs or Assistant Commissioner of Customs, as
the case may be; and keep them current;(l)immediately report the loss of
licence granted to him to the Commissioner of Customs;(m)discharge his duties
as a Customs Broker with utmost speed and efficiency and without any
delay;(n)verify antecedent, correctness of Importer Exporter Code (IEC)
number, identity of his client and functioning of his client at the declared
address by using reliable, independent, authentic documents, data or
information; and(o)inform any change of postal address, telephone number,
e-mail etc. to the Deputy Commissioner of Customs or Assistant Commissioner of
Customs, as the case may be within one month of such change.

### 12. Change in directors of company etc.

\- In case a company holding a licence under regulation 7 undergoes any change
in the directors, or managing director, such change shall forthwith be
communicated by such licensee to the Commissioner of Customs within one month
of such change.

### 13. Change in constitution of any firm or a company.

(1)In the case of any firm or a company, holding a licence under these
regulations, any change in the constitution thereof shall be reported by such
firm or company, as the case may be, to the Commissioner of Customs as early
as possible, and any such firm or a company indicating such change shall make
a fresh application to the said Commissioner of Customs within a period of
sixty days from the date of such change for the grant of licence under
regulation 7, and the Commissioner of Customs may, if there is nothing adverse
against such firm or company, as the case may be, grant a fresh
licence:Provided that if the existing firm or company moves an application for
such changes, then such firm or company may be allowed to carryon the business
of Customs Broker with the approval of the Commissioner of Customs till such
time as a decision is taken on the fresh application of such firm or
company.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in Sub-regulation (1), in case
of any firm or a company where a licence has ceased to be in force because of
the death or retirement of any partner or director or an authorised employee
has passed the examination referred to in regulation 6, the firm or the
company may apply for replacement of the name of the demised person by the
name of another partner, director or authorised employee who has passed the
examination referred to in regulation 6:Provided that if there is no such
person in the firm or company, then such firm or company, as the case may be,
may authorise any other partner, director or authorised employee who is a 'G'
card holder, referred to in sub-regulation (7) of regulation 17, to pass the
examination referred to in regulation 6 within a period of two years from the
date of the demise or retirement of such person, and the firm or company may
be permitted to carry on the business of a Customs Broker with the approval of
the Commissioner of Customs till such time such partner, director or
authorised employee passes the said examination.

### 14. Change in the constitution of a concern.

(1)Where a licence granted or renewed under these regulations in favour of a
person, not being a firm or a company, changes the constitution of his concern
to a firm or a company, such new firm or new company may, pending the grant of
a licence in accordance with these regulations, be permitted to act as Customs
Broker through an employee duly qualified as per regulation 6, with the
approval of the Commissioner of Customs.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-regulation (1), where a licence granted or renewed under these
regulations in favour of a person who has ceased to be in force because of the
death of that person, his legal heir, who is a major and a 'H' card holder,
referred to in sub-regulation (7) of regulation 17, may be permitted to work
as a Customs Broker with the approval of the Commissioner of Customs, and such
legal heir shall be required to pass the examination referred to in regulation
6 within a period of two years from the date of demise of the original
licensee.

### 15. Engagement of persons qualified in the examination referred to in
regulation 6, etc.

(1)A person who has qualified in the examination referred to in regulation 6
may engage himself in the work relating to the clearance of goods through
customs on behalf of a firm or a company licenced under regulation 7, provided
that at any given time he shall not engage himself on behalf of more than one
such firm or company.(2)Any change in the persons qualified in the examination
referred to in regulation 6 and actually engaged in the work in the Customs
Station on behalf of a licencee firm or company shall be communicated
forthwith by the firm or the company, as the case may be, to the Deputy
Commissioner of Customs or Assistant Commissioner of Customs, and no new
person other than 'F', 'G' or 'H' card holders, referred to in sub-regulation
(7) of regulation 17, shall be allowed to work in the Customs Station as a
duly authorised employee on behalf of that firm or company.

### 16. Inspection of accounts.

\- All records and accounts that are required to be maintained under these
regulations shall be preserved for at least five years and shall be made
available at any time for inspection of officers authorised for this purpose.

### 17. Employment of persons.

(1)A Customs Broker may, having regard to the volume of business transacted by
him, employ any number of persons to assist him after verifying their
antecedent and identity at the declared address by using reliable,
independent, authentic documents, data or information:Provided that the
minimum educational qualification of such persons so employed shall be 10+2,
or equivalent.(2)Appointment of a person referred to in sub-regulation (1)
shall be made only after obtaining the approval of the Deputy Commissioner of
Customs or Assistant Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be, who shall in
granting approval, take into consideration the antecedents and any other
information pertaining to the character of such person.(3)The person referred
to in sub-regulation (1) shall, within four attempts from the date of his
appointment, pass an examination conducted by the said Deputy Commissioner of
Customs or Assistant Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be, and the
examination shall be such as to ascertain the adequacy of knowledge of such
person regarding the provisions of the Act subject to which goods and baggage
are cleared through Customs.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
regulation (3), a person who is employed under a Customs Broker and who has
passed the examination referred to sub-regulation (3) may, on his appointment
under any other Customs Broker, with the approval of the Deputy Commissioner
of Customs or Assistant Commissioner of Customs, be exempted from passing of
such examination.(5)Where the Customs Broker has authorised any person
employed by him to sign documents relating to his business on his behalf, he
shall file with the Deputy Commissioner of Customs or Assistant Commissioner
of Customs, as the case may be, a written authority in this behalf and give
prompt notice in writing if such authorisation is modified or withdrawn.(6)A
Customs Broker shall authorise only such employee who has passed the
examination referred to in regulation 6 of these regulations to sign
declaration on the bills of entry, shipping bills and annexure thereof.(7)The
Deputy Commissioner of Customs or Assistant Commissioner of Customs, as the
case may be, shall issue a photo-identity card to every person employed by a
Customs Broker, -(i)in Form F, in case he has passed the examination referred
to in regulation 6;(ii)in Form G, in case he has passed the examination
referred to in sub-regulation (3);(iii)in Form H, in case he has not passed
the examination referred to in sub-regulation (3);and every such person shall,
at all times when he transacts the work at the Customs Station, carry photo
identity card with him and produce it for inspection on demand by any officer
of the Customs Station.(8)The photo identity card in Form H shall not be
withdrawn from an employee of a Customs Broker even if he fails to pass the
examination referred to in sub-regulation (3).(9)The Customs Broker shall
exercise such supervision as may be necessary to ensure the proper conduct of
his employees in the transaction of business and he shall be held responsible
for all acts or omissions of his employees during their employment.

### 18. Revocation of licence or imposition of penalty.

\- The Commissioner of Customs may, subject to the provisions of regulation
20, revoke the licence of a Customs Broker and order for forfeiture of part or
whole of security, or impose penalty not exceeding fifty thousand rupees on a
Customs Broker on any of the following grounds, namely :-(a)failure of to
comply with any of the conditions of the bond executed by him under regulation
8;(b)failure to comply with any of the provisions of these regulations, within
his jurisdiction or anywhere else;(c)committing any misconduct, whether within
his jurisdiction or anywhere else which in the opinion of the Commissioner
renders him unfit to transact any business in the Customs
Station;(d)adjudicated as an insolvent;(e)of unsound mind; and(f)has been
convicted by a competent court for an offence involving moral
turpitude:Provided that the imposition of penalty or any action taken under
these regulations shall be without prejudice to the action that may be taken
against the Customs Broker or his employee under the provisions of the Customs
Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) or any other law for the time being in force.

### 19. Suspension of licence.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in regulation 18, the Commissioner of
Customs may, in appropriate cases where immediate action is necessary, suspend
the licence of a Customs Broker where an enquiry against such agent is pending
or contemplated.(2)Where a licence is suspended under sub-regulation (1), the
Commissioner of Customs shall, within fifteen days from the date of such
suspension, give an opportunity of hearing to the Customs Broker whose licence
is suspended and may pass such order as he deems fit either revoking the
suspension or continuing it, as the case may be, within fifteen days from the
date of hearing granted to the Customs Broker:Provided that in case the
Commissioner of Customs passes an order for continuing the suspension, the
further procedure thereafter shall be as provided in regulation 20.

### 20. Procedure for revoking licence or imposing penalty.

(1)The Commissioner of Customs shall issue a notice in writing to the Customs
Broker within a period of ninety days from the date of receipt of an offence
report, stating the grounds on which it is proposed to revoke the licence or
impose penalty requiring the said Customs Broker to submit within thirty days
to the Deputy Commissioner of Customs or Assistant Commissioner of Customs
nominated by him, a written statement of defense and also to specify in the
said statement whether the Customs Broker desires to be heard in person by the
said Deputy Commissioner of Customs or Assistant Commissioner of
Customs.(2)The Commissioner of Customs may, on receipt of the written
statement from the Customs Broker, or where no such statement has been
received within the time-limit specified in the notice referred to in sub-
regulation (1), direct the Deputy Commissioner of Customs or Assistant
Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be, to inquire into the grounds which
are not admitted by the Customs Broker.(3)The Deputy Commissioner of Customs
or Assistant Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be, shall, in the course
of inquiry, consider such documentary evidence and take such oral evidence as
may be relevant or material to the inquiry in regard to the grounds forming
the basis of the proceedings, and he may also put any question to any person
tendering evidence for or against the Customs Broker, for the purpose of
ascertaining the correct position.(4)The Customs Broker shall be entitled to
cross-examine the persons examined in support of the grounds forming the basis
of the proceedings, and where the Deputy Commissioner of Customs or Assistant
Commissioner of Customs declines to examine any person on the grounds that his
evidence is not relevant or material, he shall record his reasons in writing
for so doing.(5)At the conclusion of the inquiry, the Deputy Commissioner of
Customs or Assistant Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be, shall
prepare a report of the inquiry and after recording his findings thereon
submit the report within a period of ninety days from the date of issue of a
notice under sub-regulation (1).(6)The Commissioner of Customs shall furnish
to the Customs Broker a copy of the report of the Deputy Commissioner of
Customs or Assistant Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be, and shall
require the Customs Broker to submit, within the specified period not being
less than thirty days, any representation that he may wish to make against the
said report.(7)The Commissioner of Customs shall, after considering the report
of the inquiry and the representation thereon, if any, made by the Customs
Broker, pass such orders as he deems fit either revoking the suspension of the
license or revoking the licence of the Customs Broker or imposing penalty not
exceeding the amount mentioned in regulation 22 within ninety days from the
date of submission of the report by the Deputy Commissioner of Customs or
Assistant Commissioner of Customs, under sub-regulation (5) :Provided that no
order for revoking the license shall be passed unless an opportunity is given
to the Customs Broker to be heard in person by the Commissioner of Customs.

### 21. Appeal by Customs Broker.

\- A Customs Broker, who is aggrieved by any order passed by the Commissioner
of Customs under these regulations, may prefer an appeal under section 129A of
the Act to the Customs, Central Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal
established under sub-section (1) of section 129 of the Act.

### 22. Penalty.

\- A Customs Broker, who contravenes any provisions of these regulations or
who fails to comply with any provision of these regulations shall be liable to
a penalty which may extend to fifty thousand rupees.

### 23. Prohibition.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, the Commissioner
of Customs may prohibit any Customs Broker from working in one or more
sections of the Customs Station, if he is satisfied that such Customs Broker
has not fulfilled his obligations as laid down under regulation 11 in relation
to work in that section or sections.

### 24. Membership of associations.

\- Each Customs Broker shall enroll himself as a member of the Customs Brokers
Association, if there is one registered in the Customs Station and recognised
by the Commissioner of Customs.Form-A[see sub-regulation (1) of regulation
4]Application Form for Grant of Customs Broker's Licence under section 146 of
the Customs Act, 1962

1 | Name of the applicant :-  
---|---  
2 | Full address of the applicant:-  
3 |  Names and address of each of the partners ofthe firm or the directors of the company, as the, case may be, incase the applicant is a firm or a company :-  
4 |  Name(s) of its partner/partners ordirector/directors who will actually be engaged in the work asCustoms Broker, in case the applicant is a firm or a company:-  
5 |  Educational qualification of each of the persons, who may beengaged as Customs Broker:-  
| Declaration:  
(a) |  I have working knowledge of English/local language (.............. ) /Hindi.  
(b) |  I have not earlier applied for a licence to actas Customs Broker and no such application was rejected/accepted.  
(c) |  The firm or company by whom the undersigned isemployed have earlier held a Customs House Agent or CustomsBroker's Licence under Customs House Licensing Regulation, 1984or Customs House Licensing Regulation, 2004 or these regulationsand it was cancelled or suspended/not cancelled or suspended.  
(d) |  The undersigned / the person proposed to beemployed by me have been/have not been penalised, convicted orprosecuted under any of the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962(52 of 1962), the Central Excise Act 1944 (1 of 1994), and theFinance Act, 1944.  
  
List of documents furnished in accordance with regulation 5 Customs Brokers
licensing Regulation, 2013:

S.No. | Educational | Financial  
---|---|---  
1. |  |   
2. |  |   
3. |  |   
4. |  |   
  
I/We hereby affirm the I/we have read the Customs Brokers Licensing
Regulations, 2013 and agree to abide by them.Date:Signature of
applicantForm-B[see regulation 7]Licence for Customs BrokerLicence No
................Valid upto .................M/s./Sarvashri/Shri
............................................................ address
.......................... is/are hereby authorised to transact business as
Customs Broker all over India subject to the conditions laid down in this
licence. Further, in the case of firm or a company, the Customs Broker's work
shall be transacted through one of the following persons:-

| Name of person(s) | Specimen Signature(s)  
---|---|---  
1. | _____________________ | _____________________  
2. | _____________________ | _____________________  
3. | _____________________ | _____________________  
4. | _____________________ | _____________________  
5. | _____________________ | _____________________  
  
Customs Station of issue:Signature of the Commissioner of Customs(with
seal)Date of issue:Conditions of the LicenseThis license is issued subject to
the following conditions:(A)The Licensee shall, -

### 1\. not sell or transfer licence to any other person.

### 2\. obtain an authorisation from each of the companies, firms or
individuals by whom he is for the time being employed as Customs Broker and
produce such authorisation whenever required by the Deputy Commissioner or
Assistant Commissioner of Customs.

### 3\. transact business in the Customs Station either personally or through
an employee duly approved by the Deputy Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner
of Customs, designated by the Commissioner of Customs.

### 4\. in the event of the licence being lost, report the same immediately to
the Commissioner of Customs.

### 5\. ensure that he discharges his duties as Customs Broker with utmost
speed and efficiency and without any delay.

### 6\. comply with the obligations specified in regulation 11 of the Customs
Brokers Licensing Regulations, 2013.

(B)This licence shall be valid for a period of ten years from the date of
issue and shall be renewed from time to time in accordance with the procedure
provided in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9 of the Customs Brokers
Licensing Regulations, 2013.Form-C[see sub-regulation (2) of regulation
7]Intimation by Customs Broker to work at another Customs Station

1. | Name of the Customs Broker:  
---|---  
2. | Full address of the Customs Broker:-  
3. | Customs Broker Licence No. and Custom House of issue:-  
4. |  Name and address of each of the partners of the firm or thedirectors of the company, as the case may be, in case theapplicant is a firm or a company :-  
5. |  Name(S) of its partner/partners or director/directors Whowill actually be engaged in the work as Customs Brokers, in casethe applicant is a firm or a company:-  
6. |  Educational qualifications of each of the persons, who willactually be engaged in the work as Customs Broker:-  
  
I/We hereby affirm the I/we have read the Customs Brokers Licensing
Regulations, 2013 and agree to abide by them.Signature of
applicant(s)__________________________________Date:....................Form-D[see
regulation 8]Bond No.......... of 20......Know all men by these present that
we are held and firmly bound to the President of India in the sum of
Rs................... for payment whereof we hereby bind ourselves, and each
us bind himself and each of our heirs, executors and administrators firmly by
these presents dated this ................ day of ..................... in the
year two thousand .....................Whereas the said
....................... has been authorised to act as a Customs Broker under
section 146 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), and the said
.................... has agreed to enter into this bond as required by the
Customs Brokers Licensing Regulations, 2013 (hereafter referred to as the said
regulations).And whereas the said ................. has deposited the sum of
Rs. 5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakhs) only with the President of India as
security for his faithful behaviour and that of his employees as regard the
said regulations.Now the condition of the above written bond is such that if
the said and his employees do at all times, whilst holding, such licence as
aforesaid, behave themselves in a faithful manner as regards the said
regulations and if the said .................. and their executors or
administrators do at all times make good to the President of India all and
every sums of money which being due to the Government shall be reason of the
misfeasance or negligence of the said ..................... or of his
employees have not been paid to the President of India then the above written
bond shall be void; otherwise the same shall be and remain in full force and
virtue and it is hereby agreed and declared that the President of India may
apply the said sum of Rs. 5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakh) only deposited as
aforesaid in making good to the President of India all and every sums due to
the Government by reason of the misfeasance or negligence of the said
.................... or his employees as aforesaid.And it is hereby agreed
that the said sum of Rs. 5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakh) only shall remain with
the President of India for twelve calendar months after the date upon which
the said .................... shall cease to act as Customs Broker as security
for the payment of any sums due to the Government by any reason of any
misfeasance or negligence of the said ...................... or his employees
which may not be discovered until after the said date and that this bond shall
be and remain in full force and virtue until the expiration of the said term
of twelve months. It is also agreed and declared that the President of India
may apply the above sum of Rs. 5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakh) only in making
good wholly or in part any short collection of duty or other charges in
respect of any transaction made by the said ..................... on behalf of
importers or exporters in the event of such sums remaining unpaid, even after
issue of demands under section 28 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of
1962).Signed, sealed and delivered by the above named on this day, the
..................... of 20 ...... in the presence of witnesses.

### 1\. ...................

### 2\. ...................

Accepted for and on behalf of the President of IndiaSignature of the
Commissioner of Customs(with seal)Date:Form-E[see regulation 8]Surety Bond
No....... of 20......Know all men by these presents that we ..............
(A)............. and ................ (B)................ are held and firmly
bound to the President of India in the sum of Rs. 5,00,000/- (Rupees Five
Lakh) only for payment whereof we hereby bind ourselves and each of us binds
himself and each of our heirs, executors and administrators firmly by these
presents dated this day............ of .................. in the year two
thousand and ........................Whereas the said ...................
(A)................... has been authorised to act as a Customs Broker under
section 146 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) and the said
................... (B) .................... has agreed to enter into this
bond as required by rules made under the said section:Now the condition of the
above written bond is such that if the said ....................
(A)............... both at all times whilst holding such authorisation as
aforesaid behave himself in a faithful and incorrupt manner as regards the
Customs Brokers Licensing Regulations, 2013 and the officers, and if the said
................... (A) and .................. (B).................. their
executors, or administrators some or one of them do, and shall at all time
make good to the President of India all and every sums of money which being
due to the Government shall by reason of the misfeasance or negligence of the
said ..................... (A) ................ have not been paid to the
President of India then the above written bond shall be void; otherwise the
same shall remain in full force and virtue.Signed, sealed and delivered by the
above named in the presence of witnesses.

### 1\. .......................

### 2\. .......................

Executed before me this ................. of ............ 20...Signature of
the Commissioner of Customs(with seal)Form-F[see regulations 6 and clause (i)
of sub-regulation (6) of regulation 17]Customs Broker Licence
No.................Identity Card

Photo with signature and seal of Deputy/ Assistant Commissioner of Customs  
---  
  
M/s./Sarvashri/Shri:Designation (Proprietor, Partner, Director,
Employee):Issued at:Valid upto:Name of the Customs Broker:Type of Customs
Broker (Proprietorship/Firm/Pvt./Public Ltd./Others)Photo with signature and
seal of Deputy/Assistant Commissioner of CustomsSpecimen signature of the
Customs Broker:I ............................. have passed the examination
conducted under regulation 6 of the Customs Brokers Licensing Regulations,
2013.Signature of the Deputy/Assistant Commissioner of Customs(With
seal)(Photo to be supplied by the Customs Broker)Form-G[see clause (iii) of
sub-regulation (6) of regulation 17]Valid upto ......................Identity
Card

| Photo with signature and seal of Deputy/ Assistant Commissioner of Customs  
---|---  
  
Shri .................. of .............. having been registered in the books
of this office authorised employee of Shri/Sarvashri .................... of
............ the having been authorised by him/them to transact business at
the .................. Custom House on his/their behalf is hereby permitted to
do so for a period of ............. years with effect from .................
or until the cancellation of the licence issued to his principal, whichever is
earlier.He has passed the examination conducted under Sub-regulation (6) of
regulation 17 of the Customs Brokers Licensing Regulations 2013.Specimen
Signature of employees ...............Name of the Customs Broker
................Customs Station .................Dated the ......... 20
.......Signature of the Deputy Commissioner/Assistant Commissioner of
Customs(With seal)(Photo to be supplied by the Customs Broker)Form-H[see
clause (iii) of sub-regulation (6) of regulation 17]Valid upto
......................Identity-Cum-Authority Card

| Photo with signature and seal of Deputy/ Assistant Commissioner of Customs  
---|---  
  
Shri .................. of ..................... having been registered in the
books of this office as employee of Shri/Sarvashri /M/s ......................
(Customs Broker Licence No.............), for assisting the Customs Broker or
his authorised employee(s).Specimen Signature of employees
...................Name of the Customs Broker ....................Customs
Station ...............Dated the .......... 20.....Signature of the Deputy
Commissioner/Assistant Commissioner of Customs(With seal)(Photo to be supplied
by the Customs Broker)

