## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (NINETY-FIFTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 2009

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (NINETY-FIFTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 2009

## Act 95 of 2009

  * Published in Gazette of India on 18 January 2010 
  * Commenced on 25 January 2010 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 January 2010.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Constitution (95th Amendment) Act, 2009An Act further to amend the
Constitution of IndiaBe it enacted by Parliament in the Sixtieth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-Prefatory Note-Statement of Objects and
Reasons.-Article 334 of the Constitution lays down that the provisions of the
Constitution relating to the reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes and
the Scheduled Tribes and the representation of the Anglo-Indian community by
nomination in the House of the People and the Legislative Assemblies of the
States shall cease to have effect on the expiration of the period of sixty
years from the commencement of the Constitution. In other words, these
provisions will cease to have effect on the 25th January, 2010, if not
extended further.

### 2. Although the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes have made
considerable progress in the last sixty years, the reasons which weighed with
the Constituent Assembly in making provisions with regard to the aforesaid
reservation of seats and nomination of members have not ceased to exist. It
is, therefore, proposed to continue the reservation for the Scheduled Castes
and the Scheduled Tribes and the representation of the Anglo-Indian community
by nomination for a further period of ten years.

### 3. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Ninety-fifth Amendment) Act,
2009.(2)It shall come into force on the 25th day of January, 2010.

### 2\. Amendment of Article 334.-

In Article 334 of the Constitution, for the words "sixty years", the words
"seventy years" shall be substituted.[The Constitution (Ninety-fifth
Amendment) Act, 2009, extended the reservation of seats for the Scheduled
Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and representation of the Anglo-Indians in the
Lok Sabha and the State Legislative Assemblies for another ten years, i.e., up
to 26 January 2020. Article 334 of the Constitution had originally mandated
that the reservation of elected seats must cease in 1960, but this was
extended to 1970 by the 8th Amendment. The period of reservation was
subsequently extended to 1980, 1990, 2000, and 2010 by the 23rd, 45th, 62nd,
and 79th Amendments, respectively. The 95th Amendment further extended the
period of reservation to 2020, and the 104th Amendment extended it to
2030.Also Refer]

