## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Criminal Law (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1997

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Criminal Law (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1997

## Act 47 of 1997

  * Published on 11 August 1997 
  * Commenced on 11 August 1997 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 August 1997.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Criminal Law (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1997Tamil Nadu Act 47 of
1997Statement of Objects and Reasons. - In the Criminal Law Amendment
Ordinance, 1944 (Central Ordinance XXXVIII of 1944), in the Schedule, item 2
provides for the attachment of the property of a person who has committed an
offence under section 406 or section 408 or section 409 of the Indian Penal
Code (Central Act XLV of 1860) in respect of the properties entrusted by
Central or State Government, or any local authority. Item 4 of the Schedule
provides for attachment of the property of a person who has committed an
offence under section 417 or 420 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of
1860), against a person who is in the Central or Slate Governments or in a
local authority.2\. Now the Government have decided to enlarge the scope of
the said Ordinance so as to attach any property of any person who has
committed the offence under the said sections 405, 408, 409, 417 or 420 of the
Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).3\. The Bill seeks to give effect
to the above decision.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 22nd April 1997.Received the
assent of the President on the 11th August 1997 and published in Part IV-
Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 12th
August 1997.An Act to amend the Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1944, in its
application to the State of Tamil Nadu.Be it enacted by the Legislative
Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-eighth year of the Republic
of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Criminal Law (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act,
1997.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come
into force at once.

### 2. Amendment of Central Ordinance XXXVIII of 1944.

\- In the Schedule to the Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1944 (Central
Ordinance XXVIII of 1944),-(1)in item 2, the expression beginning with the
words "where the property" and ending with the words "department or authority"
shall be omitted.(2)in item 4, the expression beginning with the words "where
the person" and ending with the words "department or authority" shall be
omitted.

