## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (THIRTIETH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1972

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (THIRTIETH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1972

## Act 30 of 1972

  * Published in Gazette of India on 28 May 1972 
  * Commenced on 22 February 1973 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 May 1972.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Thirtieth
Amendment) Bill, 1972 which was enacted as the Constitution (Thirtieth
Amendment) Act, 1973_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** This Bill seeks to
give effect to the recommendations of the Law Commission of India in its
Forty-fourth and Forty-fifth Reports on Civil Appeals to the Supreme Court on
certificate of fitness. At present an appeal lies to the Supreme Court, inter
alia, on a certificate given by a High Court that the amount or the value of
the subject-matter of dispute is not less than twenty thousand rupees or that
the judgment, decree or final order involves, directly or indirectly, some
claim or question respecting property of the like amount. The valuation cannot
be the rational yardstick for a right to appeal. An important question of law
can arise even in suits of small value and the test of valuation results in
cases without merit going up to the Supreme Court. The Law Commission
recommended that clauses (a) and (b) of article 133(1) of the Constitution
should be omitted and that an appeal should lie to the Supreme Court only if
the High Court certifies that the case involves a substantial question of law
of general importance and that in the opinion of the High Court the said
question needs to be decided by the Supreme Court. The amendment of the
article accordingly would curtail the number of appeals which are filed in the
Supreme Court merely on the valuation test being satisfied, without any merit
in them. The Bill seeks to achieve this object.An Act further to amend the
Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament the Twenty-third Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Thirtieth Amendment) Act,
1972.(2)It shall come into force on such date_665 as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Amendment of article 133.-

In article 133 of the Constitution, for clause (1), the following clause shall
be substituted, namely:-(1)An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from any
judgment, decree or final order in a civil proceeding of a High Court in the
territory of India if the High Court certifies-(a)that the case involves a
substantial question of law of general importance; and(b)that in the opinion
of the High Court the said question needs to be decided by the Supreme
Court.".

### 3. Special provision as to pending proceedings, etc.-

(1)Nothing in this Act shall affect-(a)any appeal under sub-clause (a) or sub-
clause (b) or sub-clause (c) of clause (1) of article 133 of the Constitution
which immediately before the commencement of this Act was pending before the
Supreme Court; or(b)any appeal preferred on or after the commencement of this
Act against any judgement, decree or final order in a civil proceeding of a
High Court by virtue of a certificate given by the High Court before the
commencement of this Act under sub-clause (a) or sub-clause (b) or sub-clause
(c) of clause (1) of article 133.and every such appeal may be heard and
disposed of or, as the case may be, entertained, heard and disposed of by the
Supreme Court as if this Act had not been passed.(2)Subject to the provisions
of sub-section (1), no appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court under clause (1)
of article 133 of the Constitution from any judgment, decree or final order
arising out of a suit or other civil proceeding which was instituted or
commenced in any court before the commencement of this Act unless such appeal
satisfies the provisions of that clause as amended by this Act.[The
Constitution (Thirtieth Amendment) Act, 1972, changed the basis for appeals in
civil cases before the Supreme Court of India from a value criterion to one
based on important legal issues. It came into effect on June 9, 1972. This
amendment modified Article 133 of the Constitution and enabled the Law
Commission of India to implement the suggestions provided in its 44th and 45th
reports on civil appeals to the Supreme Court regarding certificates of
fitness. The purpose of this amendment is to require appeals of civil matters
to the Supreme Court to raise a substantial question of law in order to be
deemed fit for consideration. This change was based on the Law Commission's
recommendations and aims to streamline the process for hearing civil appeals
in the Supreme Court.Also Refer](https://blog.examarly.com/upsc/30th-
amendment-of-indian-constitution/)]

