## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTY-THIRD AMENDMENT) ACT, 2000

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTY-THIRD AMENDMENT) ACT, 2000

## Act 83 of 2000

  * Published in Gazette of India on 16 December 1999 
  * Commenced on 8 September 2000 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 December 1999.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution(Eighty Sixth
Amendment) Bill 1999 which was enacted as the Constitution (Eighty Third
Amendment) Act 2000_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The Constitution
(Seventy-third Amendment) Act, 1992 was brought into force with effect from
the 24th April, 1993. The said Act provided that within one year from date of
commencement of that Act, all the States shall amend their local laws to bring
them in conformity with the new provisions under the Constitution. This
exercise will required to be completed before the 23rd April, 1994.

### 2. Article 243D provides for reservation for the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes in every Panchayat. Arunachal Pradesh is a State inhabited
fully by indigenous tribal people. No Scheduled Castes exist in the State. No
reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes has been made in the State
Legislative Assembly and no provisions exist under any law to that effect.
There is also no reservation for the Scheduled Castes in State Government
services.

### 3. The Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation, 1873 and the Chin Hill
Regulations, 1896 provide special protection and safeguard for the peaceful
existence of the indigenous tribal people of Arunachal Pradesh. These laws
probihit the entry of outsiders in the tribal area without "Inner Line
Permit". Only the indigenous tribal people are allowed to participate in the
democratic process.

### 4. The tribal society in Arunachal Pradesh is, casteless where social
equality among men and women has prevailed over centuries and ages. Since no
Scheduled Castes exist in the State and the State of Arunachal Pradesh is
singularly free from the caste system, it is proposed to insert a new clause
(3A) in article 243M of the Constitution of India, to exempt the State of
Arunachal Pradesh from the application of article 243D relating to the
reservation of seats in Panchayats for the Scheduled Castes.

### 5. This will provide a legal and constitutional basis for Panchayat Raj
Institutions in Arunachal Pradesh in accordance with the socio-political ethos
of the State.

### 6. The Bill seeks to achieve the aforesaid objective.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Fifty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:

### 1. Short title: This Act may be called the Constitution (Eighty-third
Amendment) Act, 2000

### 2\. Amendment of article 243M:

In article 243M of the Constitution, after clause (3), the following clause
shall be inserted namely:-"(3A) Nothing in article 243D, relating to
reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes, shall apply to the State of
Arunachal Pradesh.".[The Constitution (Eighty-third Amendment) Act, 1992,
removed the requirement for reservation of seats in Panchayats for members of
Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes in the state of Arunachal Pradesh. This
state is exclusively composed of members of tribal societies. Under the new
law, the state's name was changed to Arunachal Pradesh Tribal Development
Council.Also Refer]

