## Union of India - Act

## The Companies (Profits) Surtax Act, 1964

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Companies (Profits) Surtax Act, 1964

## Act 7 of 1964

  * Published on 2 May 1964 
  * Commenced on 2 May 1964 
  * [This is the version of this document from 2 May 1964.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Companies (Profits) Surtax Act, 1964Act No. 7 of 1964

### 1490.

Object and Reasons.-The object of this Bill is to impose a special tax on
companies (other than those which have no share capital) on their excess
profits, namely, the amount by which the total income of a company as reduced
by certain types of income and certain sums and the income-tax and super-tax
payable by it exceeds a sum of ten per cent. of its capital reserves and
certain borrowed moneys or a sum of Rs. 2 lakhs, whichever is higher.Act 41 of
1975.- The object of this Bill is to amend the income-tax Act, 1961, the
Wealth Tax Act, 1957, the Gift Tax Act, 1958 and the Companies (Profits)
Surtax Act, 1964. The proposals relating to the amendments to these enactments
have been formulated after a detailed examination of the recommendations of
the Direct Taxes Enquiry Committee (Wanchoo Committee) and the Forty-seventh
Report of the Law Commission on the Trial and Punishment of Social and
Economic Offences, the latter in so far as they relate to direct taxes.
Opportunity has been taken to sponsor some amendments on the basis of
suggestions received from various other quarters as well. Technical
difficulties arising in the operation of some of the provisions of these
enactments have also been taken into account in formulating these
proposals.2\. The main objective of the amendments proposed to be made are to
unearth black-money and prevent its proliferation; to fight and curb tax
evasion; to check avoidance of tax through various legal devices, including
the formation of trusts and diversion of income or wealth to members of
family; to reduce tax arrears and to ensure that in future, tax arrears do not
accumulate; to rationalise the exemptions and deductions available under the
relevant enactments, and to streamline the administrative set-up and make it
functionally efficient.[2nd May, 1964]An Act to impose a special tax on the
profits of certain companies.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Fifteenth Year
of the Republic of India as follows :-

### 1. Short title and extent.-

(1)This Act may be called the Companies (Profits) Surtax Act, 1964.(2)It
extends to the whole of India.

### 2. Definitions.-

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)[(1) "advance surtax"
means the surtax payable under section 7-A;] [Inserted by act 16 of 1981,
section 35][(1-A)] [Cl. (1) is renumbered as Cl. (1A) by Act 16 of 1981,
section 35] "assessee" means a person by whom surtax on any other sum of money
is payable under this Act and includes every person in respect of whom any
proceeding under this Act has been taken for the assessment of his chargeable
profits or of the amount of refund due to him or of the chargeable profits of
any other person in respect of which he is assessable or of the amount of
refund due to such other person;(2)"assessment" includes re-
assessment;(3)"assessment year" means the period of twelve months commencing
on the 1st day of April, every year;(4)"Board" means the Central Board of
direct Taxes constituted under the Central Board of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of
1963);(5)"chargeable profits" means the total income of an assessee computed
under the income of an as computed under the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961)
for any previous year or years, as the case may be, and adjusted in accordance
with the provisions of the First Schedule;(6)"Income-tax Act" means the
Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961);(7)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules
made under this Act;[(7-A) "regular assessment" means as assessment made under
section 6.] [Inserted by Act 16 of 1981, section 35](8)"statutory deduction"
means an amount equal to [fifteen per cent] [Substituted for the word "ten per
cent" by Act 66 of 1976, section 29] of the capital of the company as computed
in accordance with the provisions of the Second Schedule, or an amount of two
hundred thousand rupees, whichever is greater:Provided that where the previous
year is longer or shorter than a period of twelve months, the aforesaid amount
of [fifteen per cent] [Substituted for the word "ten per cent" by Act 66 of
1976, section 29] or, as the case may be, of two hundred thousand rupees shall
be increased or decreased proportionately:Provided further that where a
company has different previous years in respect of its income, profits and
gains, the aforesaid increase or decrease, as the case may be, shall be
calculated with reference to the length of the previous years of the longest
duration; and(9)all other words and expressions used herein but not defined
and defined in the Income-tax Act shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in that Act.

### 3. [ Tax authorities.- [Substituted by Act 04 of 1988, section 188]

(1)The income-tax authorities specified in section 116 of the Income-tax Act
shall be the authorities for the purpose of this Act and every such authority
shall exercise the powers and perform the functions of a tax authority under
this Act in respect of any company, and for this purpose his jurisdiction
under this Act shall be the same sas that he has under the Income-tax Act by
virtue of orders or directions issued under section 120 of that Act (including
orders or directions assigning concurrent jurisdiction) or under any other
provision of that Act.(2)The Board may, from time to time issue such orders,
instructions and directions to other tax authorities as it may deem fit for
the proper administration of this Act, and such authoritiese and all other
persons employed in the execution of this Act shall observe and follow such
orders, instructions and directions of the Board:Provided that no such orders,
instructions or directions shall be issued-(a)so as to require any tax-
authority to make a particular assessment or to dispose of a particular case
in a particular manner; or(b)so as to interfere with the discretion of the
Commissioner (Appeals) in the exercise of his appellate functions.]

### 4. Charge of Tax.-

Subject to the provisions contained in this Act, there shall be charged on
every company for every assessment year commencing on and from the first day
of April, 1964 [but before the first day of April, 1988] [Inserted by Act 23
of 1986, section 47], a tax (in this Act referred to as the surtax) in respect
of so much of its chargeable profits of the previous year or previous years,
as the case may be, as exceed the statutory deduction, at the rate or rates
specified in the Third Schedule.

### 5. Return of chargeable profits.-

(1)In the case of every company whose chargeable profits assessable under this
Act exceeded during the previous year the amount of statutory deduction, its
principal officer, or where in the case of a non-resident company any person
has been treated as its agent under section 163 of the Income-tax Act, such
person, shall furnish a return of the chargeable profits of the company during
the previous year in the prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner
and setting forth such other particulars as may be prescribed, before the 30th
day of September of the assessment year:Provided that on a application made in
this behalf, the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax
Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187] may, in his discretion, extend the
date for the furnishing of the return.(2)In the case of any company which in
the [Assessing Officer's] [Substituted for the words Income-tax Officer by Act
04 of 1988, section 187] opinion is assessable under this Act, the Income-tax
Officer may, before the end of the relevant assessment year, serve a notice
upon its principal officer, or where in the case of a non-resident company any
person has been treated as its agent under section 163 of the Income-tax Act,
upon such person requiring him to furnish within thirty days from the date of
service of the notice a return of the chargeable profits of the company during
the previous year in the prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner
and setting forth such other particulars as may be prescribed :Provided that
on a application made in this behalf, the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for
the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187] may, in his
discretion, extend the date for the furnishing of the return.(3)Any assessee
who has not furnished a return during the time allowed under sub-section (1)
or sub-section (2), or having furnished a return under sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) discovers any omission of wrong statement therein, may furnish a
return or a revised return, as the case may be, at any time before the
assessment is made.

### 6. Assessment.-

(1)For the purposes of making an assessment under this Act, the [Assessing
Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988,
section 187] may serve on any person who has furnished a return under sub-
section (1) of section 5 or upon whom a notice has been served under sub-
section (2) of section 5 (whether a return has been furnished or not) a notice
requiring him on a date therein to be specified, to produce or cause to be
produced such accounts or documents or evidence as the [Assessing Officer]
[Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section
187] may require for the purposes of this Act and may from time to time serve
further notices requiring the production of such further accounts or documents
or other evidence as he may require.(2)The [Assessing Officer] [Substituted
for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187], after
considering such accounts, documents or evidence, if any, as he has obtained
under sub-section (1) and after taking into account any relevant material
which he has gathered, shall, by an order in writing, assess the chargeable
profits and the amount of the surtax payable on the basis of such assessment.

### 7. Provisional assessment.-

(1)The [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by
Act 04 of 1988, section 187], before proceeding to make an assessment under
section 6 (in this section referred to as the regular assessment) may, at any
time after the expiry of the period allowed under sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) of section 5 for the furnishing of the return and whether the
return has or has not been furnished, proceed to make in a summary manner a
provisional assessment of the chargeable profits and the amount of the surtax
payable thereon.(2)Before making such provisional assessment, the [Assessing
Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988,
section 187] shall give notice in the prescribed form to the person on whom
the provisional assessment is to be made of his intention to do so, and shall
with the notice forward a statement of the amount of the proposed assessment,
and the said person shall be entitled to deliver to the [Assessing Officer]
[Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section
187] at any time within fourteen days of the service of the said notice a
statement of his objections, if any, to the amount of the proposed
assessment.(3)On expiry of the said fourteen days from the date of service of
the notice referred to tin sub-section (2), or earlier, if the assessee agrees
to the proposed provisional assessment, the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted
for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187] may, after
taking into account the objections, if any, made under sub-section (2), make a
provisional assessment, and shall furnish a copy of the order of the
assessment to the assessee :Provided that assent to the amount of the
provisional assessment, or failure to make objection to it, shall in no way
prejudice the assessee in relation to the regular assessment.(4)There shall be
no right of appeal against a provisional assessment made under this
section.(5)After a regular assessment has been made, any amount paid or deemed
to have been paid towards the provisional assessment made under this section
shall be deemed to have been paid towards the regular assessment; and where
the amount paid or deemed to have been paid towards the provisional assessment
exceeds the amount payable under the regular assessment, the excess shall be
refunded to the assessee.

### 7A. [ Advance payment of surtax.- [Inserted by Act 16 of 1981, section 36]

(1)In this section,(a)"chargeable amount", in relation to any previous year,
means so much of the chargeable profits of the previous year as exceed the
statutory deduction;(b)"current chargeable amount", in relation to the advance
surtax payable by a company during any financial year, means the chargeable
amount of the company of the period which would be the previous year of the
assessment year immediately following that financial year.(2)Surtax shall be
payable, in accordance with the provisions of this section, in advance during
the financial year in respect of the chargeable amount of the period which
would be the previous year for the immediately following assessment
year.(3)The amount of advance surtax payable by an assessee in the financial
year shall be computed as follows :(a)the chargeable amount of the latest
previous year in respect of which the assessee has been assessed by way of
regular assessment shall first be ascertained;(b)in a case where the
chargeable amount of the latest previous year being a year later than the
previous year referred to in clause (a) on the basis of which a provisional
assessment has been made under section 7 exceeds the chargeable amount
referred to in clause (a), the chargeable amount referred to in clause (a)
shall be substituted by the chargeable amount on the basis of which such
provisional assessment has been made;(c)surtax shall be calculated on the
chargeable amount referred to in clause (a) or, as the case may be, in clause
(b), at the rates specified in the Third Schedule.(4)Subject to the provisions
of this section, advance surtax shall be payable in three equal instalments on
the following dates during the financial year, namely :(a)the 15th day of
June, the 15th day of September and the 15th day of December, in the case of
an assessee whose chargeable amount to the extent of 75 per cent thereof or
more is derived from a source or sources for which the previous year (relevant
to the assessment year next following the financial year aforesaid) ends on or
before the 31st day of December;(b)the 15th day of September, the 15th day of
December and the 15th day of March, in any other case :Provided that where, in
respect of any class of assessees, the Board has, in exercise of the powers
conferred by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 211 of the Income-tax
Act, authorised the payment of the last instalment of advance tax on the 15th
day of March during the financial year instead of on the 15th day of December,
the last instalment of advance surtax in the case of such assessees shall also
be payable on the 15 day of March during the financial year.(5)Every company
shall, in each financial year, on or before the date on which the first
instalment, or where it has not previously been assessed by way of regular
assessment under this Act, on or before the date on which the last instalment
of advance surtax is due in its case under sub-section (4), if it is likely to
have any current chargeable amount, send to the [Assessing Officer],(a)where
it has been previously assessed by way of regular assessment under this Act, a
statement of advance surtax payable by it computed in the manner laid down in
sub-section (3), or(b)where it has not previously been assessed by way of
regular assessment under this Act, an estimate of(i)the current chargeable
amount, and(i)in a case falling under clause (a), as accords with the
statement in equal instalments on the dates applicable in its case under sub-
section (4); and(ii)in a case falling under clause (b), as accords with the
estimate in equal instalments on such of the dates applicable in its case as
have not expired, or in one sum if only the last of such dates has not
expired.(ii)the advance surtax payable by it on the amount specified in (i)
above calculated in the manner laid down in sub-section (3), and shall pay
such amount of advance surtax,(6)Where a company which is required to send a
statement under clause (a) of sub-section (5) estimates on or before the date
on which the first instalment of advance surtax is due in its case under
sub=section (4) that, by reason of its current chargeable amount being likely
to be less than the chargeable amount on which advance surtax is payable by it
under sub-section (5) or for any other reason, the amount of advance surtax
computed in the manner laid down in sub-section (3) on the current chargeable
amount would be less than the amount of advance surtax payable by it under
sub-section (5), it may send to the e [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the
words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187], in lieu of such
statement, an estimate of(i)the current chargeable amount, and(ii)the advance
surtax payable by it on the current chargeable amount calculated in the manner
laid down in sub-section (3), and shall pay such amount of advance surtax as
accords with its estimate in equal instalments on the dates applicable in its
case under sub-section (4).(7)Where a company which has sent a statement under
clause (a) of sub-section (5) estimates on or before the date on which the
last instalment of advance surtax is due in its case that, by reason of its
current chargeable amount being likely to be less than the chargeable amount
on which advance surtax is payable by it under sub-section (5) or for any
other reason, the amount of advance surtax computed in the manner laid down in
sub-section (3) on the current chargeable amount would be less than the amount
of advance surtax payable by it under sub-section (5), it may, at its option,
send to the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax
Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187] an estimate of-(i)the current
chargeable amount, and(ii)the advance surtax payable by it on the current
chargeable amount calculated in the manner laid down in sub-section (3), and
shall pay such amount of advance surtax as accords with its estimate in equal
instalments on such of the dates applicable in its case under sub-section (4)
as have not expired, or in one sum if only the last of such dates has not
expired.(8)In the case of any company which is liable to pay advance surtax
under sub-section (5) or sub-section (6) or, as the case may be, sub-section
(7), if, by reason of the current chargeable amount being likely to be greater
than the chargeable amount on which the advance surtax so payable by it has
been computed or for any other reason, the amount of advance surtax computed
in the manner laid down in sub-section (3) on the current chargeable amount
(which shall be estimated by the company) exceeds the amount of advance surtax
so payable by it by more than twenty per cent of the latter amount, it shall,
on or before the date on which the last instalment of advance surtax is
payable by it. send to the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words
"Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187] an estimate of(i)the
current chargeable amount, and(ii)the advance surtax payable by it on the
current chargeable amount calculated in the manner laid down in sub-section
(3), and shall pay such amount of advance surtax as accords with its estimate
on such of the dates applicable in its case under sub-section (4) as have not
expired, by instalments which may be revised according to sub-section
(9):Provided that where in respect of any company the Commissioner has, in
exercise of the powers conferred by the first proviso to sub-section (4) of
section 209A, or the first proviso to sub-section (3A) of section 212, of the
Income-tax Act, extended the date for furnishing the estimate referred to in
the said sub-section (4) or, as the case may be, the said sub-section (3 A)
and the company has paid the. advance surtax which it is liable to pay under
sub-section (5) of sub-section (6) or, as the case may be, sub-section (7) on
or before the date on which the last instalment of advance surtax is due in
its case, the company shall pay, on or before the date as so extended, the
amount by which the advance surtax already paid by it falls short of the
advance surtax payable in accordance with its estimate.(9)The company may send
a revised estimate of the advance surtax payable by it on or before any one of
the dates specified in sub-section (4) and adjust any excess or deficiency in
respect of any instalment already paid in a subsequent instalment or in
subsequent instalments.(10)Every statement or estimate under this section
shall be sent in the prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner.]

### 7B. [ Interest payable by Government.- [Inserted by Act 16 of 1981,
section 36]

The Central Government shall pay simple interest at [fifteen per cent] per
annum on the amount by which the aggregate sum of any instalments of advance
tax paid during any financial year in which they are payable under section 7-A
exceeds the amount of the tax determined on regular assessment, from the 1st
day of April next following the said financial year to the date of the regular
assessment for the assessment year immediately following the said financial
year.]

### 7C. [ Interest payable by assessee.- [Inserted by Act 16 of 1981, section
36]

(1)Where, in any financial year, a company has paid advance surtax under
section 7-A on the basis of its own estimate (including revised estimate), and
the advance surtax so paid is less than eighty-three and one-third per cent of
the assessed surtax, simple interest at the rate of [fifteen per cent] per
annum from the 1st day of April next following the said financial year up to
the date of the regular assessment shall be payable by the company upon the
amount by which the advance surtax so paid falls short of the assessed
surtax.(2)Where, on making the regular assessment, the `[Assessing Officer]
[Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section
187] finds-(a)that any such company as is referred to in clause (a) of sub-
section (5) of section 7A has not sent the statement referred to in that
clause or the estimate in lieu of such statement referred to in sub-section
(6) of that section; or(b)that any such company as is referred to in clause
(b) of sub-section (5) of section 7A has not sent the estimate referred to in
that clause, simple interest at the rate of [fifteen per cent] [Substituted
for the word "twelve per cent" by Act 67 of 1984, section 77] per annum from
the 1st day of April next following the financial year in which the advance
surtax was payable in accordance with the said sub-section (5) or sub-section
(6) up to the date of the regular assessment shall be payable by the company
upon the amount equal to the assessed surtax.(3)Where, on making the regular
assessment, the '[Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax
Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187] finds that any company which is
required to send an estimate under sub-section (8) of section 7A has not sent
the estimate referred to therein, simple interest at the rate of [fifteen per
cent] [Substituted for the word "twelve per cent" by Act 67 of 1984, section
77] per annum from the 1st day of April next following the financial year in
which the advance surtax was payable in accordance with the said sub-section
(8) up to the date of the regular assessment shall be payable by the company
upon the amount by which the advance surtax paid by it falls short of the
assessed surtax.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing sub-
sections, where provisional assessment is made under section 7(i)interest
shall be calculated in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) or
sub-section (2) or, as the case may be, sub-section (3) up to the date on
which the surtax provisionally assessed is paid; and(ii)thereafter interest
shall be calculated at the rate of [fifteen per cent] [Substituted for the
word "twelve per cent" by Act 67 of 1984, section 77] per annum on the amount
by which the surtax provisionally assessed falls short of the assessed
surtax.(5)In such cases and under such circumstances as may be prescribed, the
[Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04
of 1988, section 187] may reduce or waive the interest payable by the company
under this section.(6)Where, as a result of an order under section 11, or
section 12, or section 13, or section 17, or section 18 read with section 260
or section 262 of the Income-tax Act, the amount on which interest was payable
under this section has been reduced, the interest shall be reduced accordingly
and the excess interest paid, if any, shall be refunded.(7)In this section and
section 9A, "assessed surtax" means the surtax determined on the basis of the
regular assessment without making any deduction therefrom.]

### 7D. [ Interest payable by assessee in case of under-estimate, etc.-
[Inserted by Act 16 of 1981, section 36]

Where, on making the regular assessment, the '[Assessing Officer] finds that
any company has under section 7-A underestimated the advance surtax payable by
it and thereby reduced the amount payable in either of the first two
instalments, he may direct that the company shall pay simple interest at
[fifteen per cent] [Substituted for the word "twelve per cent" by Act 67 of
1984, section 77] per annum for the period during which the payment was
deficient, on the difference between the amount paid in each such instalment
and the amount which should have been paid, having regard to the aggregate
advance surtax actually paid during the year.Explanation.- For the purposes of
this section, any instalment due before the expiry of six months from the
commencement of the previous year in respect of which it is to be paid shall
be deemed to have become due fifteen days after the expiry of the said six
months.]

### 8. Profit escaping assessment.- If-

(a)the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by
Act 04 of 1988, section 187] has reason to believe that by reason of the
omission or failure on the part of the assessee to make a return under section
5 for any assessment year or to disclose fully and truly all material facts
necessary for this assessment for any assessment year, chargeable profits for
that year have escaped assessment or have been under-assessed or assessee at
too low a rate or have been made the subject of excessive relief under this
Act, or(b)notwithstanding that there has been no omission or failure as
mentioned in clause (a) on the part of the assessee, the [Assessing Officer]
[Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section
187] has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe
that chargeable profits assessable for any assessment year have escaped
assessment or have been under-assessed or assessed at too low a rate or have
been the subject of excessive relief under this Act, be may, in cases falling
under clause (a) at any time, and in cases he may, in cases clause (b) at any
time within four years of the end of that assessment year, serve on the
assessee a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be
included in a notice under section 5, and may proceed to assess or re-assess
the amount chargeable to surtax, and the provisions of this Act shall, so far
as may be, apply as if the notice were a notice issued under that section.

### 9. Penalties.-

If the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by
Act 04 of 1988, section 187], in the course of any proceedings under this Act,
is specified that any person has, without reasonable cause, failed to furnish
the return required under section 5, or to produce or cause to be produced the
accounts, documents or other evidence required by the [Assessing Officer]
[Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section
187] under sub-section (1) of section 6, or has concealed the particulars of
the chargeable profits or has furnished inaccurate particulars of such
profits, he may direct that such person shall pay, by way of penalty, in
addition to the amount of surtax payable, a sum not exceeding -(a)where the
person has failed to furnish the return required under section 5, the amount
of [surtax chargeable under the provisions of this Act] [Substituted for the
word "Surtax payable" by Act 26 of 1974, section 20];-(b)in any other case,
the amount of surtax which would have been avoided if the return made had been
accepted as correct :Provided that the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for
the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187] shall not
imposed any penalty under this section without the previous authority of the
[Deputy Commissioner] [Substituted for the words "Inspecting Assistant
Commissioner" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187].

### 9A. [ False estimate of, or failure to pay, advance surtax.-

(1)If the Income-tax Officer, in the course of any proceedings in connection
with the regular assessment for any assessment year, is satisfied that any
assessee(a)has furnished under clause (a) of sub-section (5) of section 7A a
statement of advance surtax payable by him which he knew or had reason to
believe to be untrue, or(b)has without reasonable cause failed to furnish a
statement of the advance surtax payable by him in accordance with the
provisions of clause (a) of sub-section (5) of section 7A, he may direct that
such assessee shall, in addition to the amount of surtax, if any, payable by
him, pay-by way of penalty a sum(i)which, in the case referred to in clause
(a), shall not be less than ten per cent but shall not exceed one and a half
times the amount by which the surtax actually paid during the financial year
immediately preceding the assessment year under the provisions of section 7A
falls short of(1)eighty-three and one-third per cent of the assessed surtax,
or(2)the amount which would have been payable by way of advance surtax if the
assessee had furnished a correct and complete statement in accordance with the
provisions of clause (a) of sub-section (5) of section 7A, whichever is
less;(ii)which in the case referred to in clause (b). shall not be less than
ten per cent but shall not exceed one and a half times of eighty-three and
one-third per cent of the assessed surtax.(2)If the Income-tax Officer, in the
course of any proceedings in connection with the regular assessment for any
assessment year, is satisfied that any assessee(a)has furnished under clause
(b) of sub-section (5) or sub-section (6) or sub-section (7) or sub-section
(9) of section 7 A. an estimate of the advance surtax payable by him which he
knew or had reason to believe to be untrue, or(b)has furnished under sub-
section (8) of section 7A, an estimate of the advance surtax payable by him
which he knew or had reason to believe to be untrue, or(c)has without
reasonable cause failed to furnish and estimate of the advance surtax payable
by him in accordance with the provisions of clause (b) of sub-section (5) of
section 7-A, or(d)has without reasonable cause failed to furnish an estimate
of advance surtax payable by him in accordance with the provisions of sub-
section (8) of section 7A, he may direct that such assessee shall, in addition
to the amount of surtax, if any, payable by him, pay by way of penalty a
sum(i)which, in the case referred to in clause (a), shall not be less than ten
per cent but shall not exceed one and a half times the amount by which the
surtax actually paid during the financial year immediately preceding the
assessment year under the provisions of section 7A falls short of(1)eighty-
three and one-third per cent of the assessed surtax, or(2)where a statement
under clause (a) of sub-section (5) of section 7 A was furnished by the
assessee, the amount payable under such statement, whichever is
less;(ii)which, in the case referred to in clause (b), shall not be less than
ten per cent. but shall not exceed one and a half times the amount by which
the surtax actually paid during the financial year immediately preceding the
assessment year under the provisions of section 7A falls short of eighty-three
and one-third per cent of the assessed surtax;(iii)which, in the case referred
to in clause (c), shall not be less than ten per cent but shall not exceed one
and a half times of eighty-three and one-third per cent of the assessed
surtax; and(iv)which, in the case referred to in clause (d), shall not be less
than ten per cent, but shall not exceed one and a half times the amount of
surtax payable in accordance with a statement under clause (a) or an estimate
under clause (b) of sub-section(5)of section 7 A or an estimate in lieu of a
statement under sub-section (6) of that section falls short of eighty-three
and one-third per cent. of the assessed sur tax.Explanation.- Where the
Commissioner has, in exercise of the powers conferred by the first proviso to
sub-section (4) of section 209A, or the first proviso to sub-section (3A) of
section 212, of the Income-tax Act, extended the date for furnishing the
estimate referred to in the said sub-section (4) or, as the case may be, the
said sub-section (3A) and the date so extended falls beyond the financial year
immediately preceding the assessment year, then, the amount of surtax paid by
the assessee on or before the date so extended shall, for the purposes of
clause (ii) of sub-section (2) also be regarded as surtax actually paid during
that financial year.]

### 10. Opportunity of being heard.-

No order imposing a penalty under section 9 [or section 9A] [Inserted by Act
16 of 1981, section 37] shall be made unless the assessee has been given a
reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 11. Appeals to the [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner (Appeal)]
[Substituted for the words "Appellate Assistant Commissioner" by the Act 2 of
1977, section 39 ].-

(1)Any person objecting to the amount of surtax for which he is liable as
assessed by the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax
Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187] or denying his liability to be
assessed under this Act, or objecting to any penalty or fine imposed by the
[Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04
of 1988, section 187], or to the amount allowed by the [Assessing Officer]
[Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section
187] by way of any relief under any provisions of this Act, or to any refusal
by the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by
Act 04 of 1988, section 187] to grant relief or to an order of rectification
or amendment having the effect of enhancing the assessment or reducing the
refund or to an order refusing to allow the claim made by the assessee for a
rectification under section 13 or amendment under section 14 may appeal to the
[Chief Commissioner or Commissioner (Appeal)]. [Substituted for the words
"Appellate Assistant Commissioner" by the Act 2 of 1977, section 39 ](2)Every
appeal shall be in the prescribed form and shall be verified in the prescribed
manner.(3)An appeal shall be presented within thirty days of the following
date, that is to say -(a)where the appeal relates to assessment or penalty or
fine, the date of service of the notice of demand relating to the assessment
or penalty or fine, or(b)in any other case, the date on which the intimation
of the order sought to be appealed against is served :Provided that the [Chief
Commissioner or Commissioner (Appeal)] [Substituted for the words "Appellate
Assistant Commissioner" by the Act 2 of 1977, section 39 ] may admit in appeal
after the expiration of the said period if he is specified that the appellate
had sufficient cause for not presenting it within that period.(4)The [Chief
Commissioner or Commissioner (Appeal)] [Substituted for the words "Appellate
Assistant Commissioner" by the Act 2 of 1977, section 39 ] shall hear and
determine the appeal and, subject to the provisions of this Act, pass such
orders as he thinks fit and such orders may include an order enhancing the
assessment or penalty :Provided that an order enhancing the assessment or
penalty shall not be made unless the person affected thereby has been given a
reasonable opportunity of showing cause against such enhancement.(5)The
procedure to be adopted in the hearing and determination of the appeals shall,
with any necessary modification, be in accordance with the procedure
applicable in relation to income-tax.

### 11A. [ Transfer of certain pending appeals.- [Inserted by Act 29 of 1977,
Section 39]

Every appeal under this Act which is pending immediately before the appointed
day before and Appellate Assistant Commissioner or a Commissioner and any
matter arising out of or connected with such appeal and which is so pending
shall stand transferred on that day to the [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner
(Appeal)] and the Commissioner (Appeals) may proceed with such appeal or
matter from the stage at which it was on that day:Provided that the appellant
may demand that before proceeding further with the appeal or matter the
previous proceeding or any part thereof be reopened or that he be re-
heard.Explanation.- In this section, "appointed day" means the date appointed
under section 39 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1977.]

### 12. Appeals for Appellate Tribunal.-

(1)Any assessee aggrieved by an order passed by a Commissioner under section
16, or an order passed by an [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner (Appeal)]
[Substituted for the words "Appellate Assistant Commissioner" by the Act 2 of
1977, section 39 ] under any provision of this Act, may appeal to the
Appellate Tribunal against such order.(2)The Commissioner may, if he objects
to any order passed by the [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner (Appeal)]
[Substituted for the words "Appellate Assistant Commissioner" by the Act 2 of
1977, section 39 ] under any provision of this Act, direct the [Assessing
Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988,
section 187] to appeal to the Appellate Tribunal against the order.(3)Every
appeal under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be filed within sixty
days of the date on which the order sought to be appealed against is
communicated to the assessee or to the [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner
(Appeal)] [Substituted for the words "Appellate Assistant Commissioner" by the
Act 2 of 1977, section 39 ], as the case may be.(4)The [Assessing Officer]
[Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section
187] or the assessee, as the case may be, on receipt of notice that an appeal
against the order of the [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner (Appeal)]
[Substituted for the words "Appellate Assistant Commissioner" by the Act 2 of
1977, section 39 ] has been preferred under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)
by the other party may, notwithstanding that he may not have appealed against
such order or any part thereof, within thirty days of the receipt of the
notice, file a memorandum of cross-objections, verified in the prescribed
manner, against any part of the order the [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner
(Appeal)] [Substituted for the words "Appellate Assistant Commissioner" by the
Act 2 of 1977, section 39 ] and such memorandum shall be disposed of by the
Appellate Tribunal as if it were an appeal presented within the time specified
in sub-section (3).(5)The Appellate Tribunal may an appeal or permit the
filing of a memorandum of cross-objections after the expiry of the relevant
period referred to in sub-section (3) or sub-section (4), if it is specified
that there was sufficient cause for not presenting it within that period.(6)An
appeal to the Appellate Tribunal shall be in the prescribed form and shall be
verified in the prescribed manner and, shall, except in the case of an appeal
referred to in sub-section (2) or a memorandum of cross-objections referred to
in sub-section (4), be accompanied by a fee of [two hundred rupees]
[Substituted for the word "one hundred and twenty five rupees" by Act 16 of
1981, section 40].(7)Subject to the provisions of this Act, in hearing and
making an order on any appeal under this section, the Appellate Tribunal shall
exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as it exercises and
follows in hearing and making an order on any appeal under the Income-tax Act.

### 13. Rectification of mistakes.-

(1)With a view to rectifying any mistake apparent from the record, the
Commissioner, the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax
Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187], the [Chief Commissioner or
Commissioner (Appeal)] [Substituted for the words "Appellate Assistant
Commissioner" by the Act 2 of 1977, section 39 ] and the Appellate Tribunal
may, of his or its, own motion or on an application by the assessee in this
behalf, amend any order passed by him or it in any proceeding under this Act
within four years of the date on which such order was passed.(2)An amendment
which has the effect of enhancing the assessment or reducing a refund or
otherwise increasing the liability of the assessee shall not be made under
this section unless the authority concerned has given notice to the assessee
of its intention so to do and has allowed the assessee a reasonable
opportunity of being heard.(3)Where an amendment is made under this section,
the order shall be passed in writing by the authority concerned.(4)Subject to
the other provisions of this Act, where any such amendment has the effect of
reducing the assessment, the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words
"Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187] shall make any refund
which may be due to such assessment.(5)Where any such amendment has the effect
of enhancing the assessment or reducing the refund already made, the
[Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04
of 1988, section 187] shall serve on the assessee a notice of demand in the
prescribed form specifying the sum payable.

### 14. Other amendments.-

Where as a result of any order made under [section 154, 155, 250, 254, 260,
263 or 264] [Substituted for the words and figures "Section 154 and 155" by
Act 42 of 1970, section 73] of the Income-tax Act, it is necessary to
recompute the chargeable profits determined in any assessment under this Act,
the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act
04 of 1988, section 187] may proceed to recompute the chargeable profits, and
determine the surtax payable or refundable on the basis of such recomputation
and make the necessary amendment and the provisions of section 13 shall, so
far as may be, apply thereto, the period of four years specified in sub-
section (1) of that section being reckoned [from the end of the financial year
in which the order passed under the aforesaid sections of the Income-tax Act
was passed.] [Sub for the words "from the date of the order passed under the
aforeside sections of the Income-tax Act" by the Act 67 of 1984, section 79]

### 15. Surtax deductible in computing distributable income under Income Tax
Act.-

Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (i) of section 109 of the Income-
tax, in computing the distributable income of a company for the purposes of
Chapter XI-D of that Act, the surtax payable by the company for any assessment
year shall be deductible from the total income of the company assessable for
that assessment year.

### 16. Revision of order prejudicial to revenue.-

(1)The [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner] [Substituted for the word
"Commissioner" by the Act 04 of 1988, section 187] may call for and examine
the record of any proceeding under this Act, and if he considers that any
order passed therein by the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the words
"Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187] is erroneous in so far as
it is prejudicial to the interests of the revenue, he may, after giving the
assessee as opportunity of being heard and after making or causing to be made
such inquiry as he deems necessary, pass such order thereon as the
circumstances of the case justify, including an order enhancing or modifying
the assessment, or cancelling the assessment and directing a fresh
assessment.[Explanation.- [Inserted by Act 67 of 1984, section 80] For the
removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that, for the purposes of this sub-
section, an order passed by the [Assessing Officer] shall include an order
passed by the [Deputy Commissioner] [Substituted for the words "Inspecting
Assistant Commissioner" by Act 04 of 1988, section 187] in exercise of the
powers or in performance of the functions of an [Assessing Officer]
[Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section
187] conferred on, or assigned to, him under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of
section 125 or under sub-section (1) of section 125-A of the Income-tax Act as
applied by section 18 of this Act.](2)[ No order shall be made under sub-
section (1) after the expiry of two years from the end of the financial year
in which the order sought to be revised was passed.] [Substituted by Act 04 of
1988, section 187](3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), an
order in revision under this section may be passed at any time in the case of
an order which has been passed in consequence of, or to give effect to, any
finding or direction contained in an order of the Appellate Tribunal, the High
Court or the Supreme Court.Explanation.- In computing the period of limitation
for the purposes of sub-section (2), any period during which any proceeding
under this section is stayed by an order or injunction of any court shall be
excluded.

### 17. Revision of orders by [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner]
[Substituted for the word "Commissioner" by the Act 04 of 1988, section 187].-

(1)The [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner] may, either of his own motion or
on an application by the assessee for revision, call for the record of any
proceeding under this Act which has been taken by an [Assessing Officer]
[Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section
187] [* * * *] [Word "or Appellate Assistant Commissioner" is omitted by Act
29 of 1977, section 39 ] subordinate to him and may make such inquiry or cause
such inquiry to be made and, subject to the provisions of this Act, may pass
such order thereon, not being an order prejudicial to the assessee, as the
thinks fit.(2)The [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner] [Substituted for the
word "Commissioner" by the Act 04 of 1988, section 187] shall not of his own
motion revise any order under this section if the order has been made more
than one year previously.(3)In the case of an application for revision under
this section by the assessee, the application shall be made within one year
from the date on which the order in question was communicated to him or the
date on which he otherwise came to know of it, whichever is earlier :Provided
that the [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner] [Substituted for the word
"Commissioner" by the Act 04 of 1988, section 187] may, if he is specified
that the assessee was prevented by sufficient cause from making the
application within that period, admit an application made after the expiry of
that period.(4)The [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner] [Substituted for the
word "Commissioner" by the Act 04 of 1988, section 187] shall not revise any
order under this section in the following cases -(a)[ where an appeal against
the order lies to the Commissioner (Appeals) or to the Appellate Tribunal but
has not been made and the time within which such appeal may be made has not
expired, or, in the case of an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal, the assessee
has not waived his right of appeal; or [Substituted by the Act 29 of 1977,
section 39](b)where the order is pending on an appeal before the Commissioner
(Appeals);](5)Every application by an assessee for revision under this section
shall be accompanied by a fee of twenty-five rupees.Explanation 1.- An order
by the [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner] declining to interfere shall, for
the purposes of this section, be deemed not to be an order prejudicial to the
assessee,[* * * * * * *] [Word "or Appellate Assistant Commissioner" is
omitted by Act 29 of 1977, section 39]

### 18. Application and provision of Income Tax Act.-

The provisions of the following sections and Schedules of the Income-tax Act
and the Income-tax (Certificate Proceedings) Rules, 1962, as in force from
time to time, shall apply with such modifications, if any, as may be
prescribed, as if the said provisions and the rules referred to surtax instead
of to income-tax [* * * * *] [The words "and super-tax" omitted by Act 10 of
1967, section 74]:-[2(44)] [Sub for the figure and bracket "2(44)" by the Act
32 of 1971, section 38], [[116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 129] [Substituted for "131
to 136 (both inclusive)" by the Act 20 of 1967, section 36(b)], 131, 132,
132A, [132B] [Substituted for "287 to 292 (both inclusive)" b Act 20 of 1967,
section 36(b)], 133 to 136 (both inclusive)], 138, 140, 156, 160, 161, 162,
163, 166, 167, 170, 173, 175, 176, 178, 179, [228 to 229] [Substituted for
"2(44)" by Act 32 of 1971, section 38] (both inclusive), 231, 232, 233, 237 to
242 (both inclusive), 244, 245, 254 to 262 (both inclusive), 265, 266, 268,
269, 281, [281B] [Substituted for "287 to 292 (both inclusive)" by Act 20 of
1967, Section 36(b)], 282, 284, [287, 288, 288A, 288B, 289 to 293 (both
inclusive),] [Substituted for "287 to 292 (both inclusive)" by Act 20 of 1967,
Section 36(b)] the Second Schedule and the Third Schedule :Provided that
references in the said provisions and the rules to the "assessee" shall be
construed as references to an assessee as defined in this Act.

### 19. Income-tax papers to be available for the purpose of this Act.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Income-tax Act, all information
contained in any statement or return made or furnished under the provisions of
that Act or obtained or collected for the purposes of that Act may be used for
the purposes of this Act.(2)All information contained in any statement or
return made or furnished under the provisions of this Act or obtained or
collected for the purposes of this Act may be used for the purposes of the
Income-tax Act.

### 20. Failure to deliver returns, etc.-

If any person fails without reasonable cause to furnish in due time any return
under sub-section (2) of section 5, or to produce, or cause to be produced,
any accounts or documents required to be produced under section 6, he shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, and with a
further fine which may extend to ten rupees for every day during which the
default continues.

### 21. False statements.-

If a person makes in any return furnished under section 5, any statement which
is false, and which he either knows or believes to be false, or does not
believe to be true, he shall be punishable with simple imprisonment which may
extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or
with both.

### 22. Abetment of false returns, etc.-

If a person makes or induces in any manner another person to make and deliver
any account, statement or declaration relating to chargeable profit liable to
surtax which is false and which he either knows to be false or does not
believe to be true, he shall be punishable with simple imprisonment which may
extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or
with both.

### 23. Institution of proceedings and composition of offences.-

(1)A person shall not be proceeded against for an offence under section 20 or
section 21 or section 22 or under the Indian Penal Code (65 of 1860) except at
the instance of the [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner] [Substituted for the
word "Commissioner" by the Act 04 of 1988, section 187].(2)The [Chief
Commissioner or Commissioner] [Substituted for the word "Commissioner" by the
Act 04 of 1988, section 187] may, either before or after the institution of
proceedings, compound any offence punishable under section 20 or section 21 or
section 22.

### 24. Power to make exemption, etc, in relation to certain union
territories.-

If the Central Government considers it necessary or expedient so to do for
avoiding any hardship or anomaly or removing any difficulty that may arise as
a result of the application of this Act to the Union territories of Dadra and
Nagar Haveli, Goa, Daman and Diu and Pondicherry, the Central Government may,
by general or special order, make an exemption, reduction in rate or other
modification in respect of surtax in favour of any class of assessees or in
regard to the whole or any part of the chargeable profits of any class of
assessees.

### 24A. [ Agreement with foreign countries.- [Substituted by Act 16 of 1972,
section 57]

The Central Government may enter into an agreement with the Government of any
country outside India-(a)for the granting of relief in respect of chargeable
profits on which have been paid both surtax under this Act and tax of a
similar character or income-tax on such profits in that country, or(b)for the
avoidance of double taxation of chargeable profits under this Act and under
any law relating to the taxation of income or profits in force in that
country, or(c)for exchange of information for the prevention of evasion or
avoidance of surtax chargeable under this Act or the tax chargeable under the
corresponding law in force in that country or investigation of cases of such
evasion or avoidance, or(d)for recovery of tax under this Act and under any
law relating to the taxation of income or profits in force in that country,
and may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make such provision as may
be necessary for implementing the agreement.]

### 24AA. [ Power to make exemption, etc. in relation to participation In the
business of prospecting for extraction, etc., of mineral oils.- [Inserted by
Act 16 of 1981, section 42]

(1)If the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so
to do in the public interest, it may, by notification in the official Gazette,
make an exemption, reduction in rate or other modification in respect of
surtax in favour of any class of foreign companies specified in sub-section
(2) or in regard to the whole or any part of the chargeable profits of such
class of companies.Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-section,
"foreign company" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (4) of
section 80B of the Income-tax Act.(2)The foreign companies referred to in sub-
section (1) are the following, namely :-(a)foreign companies with whom the
Central Government has entered into agreement for the association or
participation of that Government or any person authorised by that Government
in any business consisting of the prospecting for or extraction or production
of mineral oils; and(b)foreign companies providing any services or facilities
or supplying any ship, aircraft, machinery or plant (whether by way of sale or
hire) in connection with any business consisting of the prospecting for or
extraction or production of mineral oils carried on by that Government or any
person specified by that Government in this behalf by notification in the
official Gazette.(3)Every notification issued under this section shall be laid
before each House of Parliament.Explanation.- For the purpose of this section,
"mineral oil" includes petroleum and natural gas.]

### 25. Power to make rules.-

(1)The Board may, subject to the control of the Central Government, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes
of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely :-(a)the form in which returns under section 5 may be
furnished and the manner in which they may be verified;(b)the form in which
notice for making provisional assessment shall be given;(c)the form in which
appeals under section 11 or section 12 may be filed and the manner in which
they shall be verified;(cc)[ the circumstances in which, the conditions
subject to which and the manner in which, the [Commissioner (Appeals)]
[Inserted by Act 16 of 1972, section 58] may permit an appellan to produce
evidence which he did not produce or which he was not allowed to produce
before the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted for the word "Income-tax Officer"
by the Act 04 of 1988, section 187];](d)the procedure to be followed on
applications for rectification of mistakes and applications for refunds;(dd)[
the procedure to be followed in calculating interest payable by assessees or
interest payable by the Government to assessees under this Act including the
rounding off of the period for which such interest is to be calculated in
cases where such period includes a fraction of a month, and specifying the
circumstances in which and the extent to which petty amounts of interest
payable by assessees may be ignored;] [Inserted by Act 42 of 1970, section
74](e)any other matter which by this Act is to be, or may be, prescribed.(2A)[
The power to make rules conferred by this section shall included the power to
give retrospective effect, from a date not earlier than the date of
commencement of this Act, to the rules or any of them and, unless the contrary
is permitted (whether expressly or by necessary implication), no retrospective
effect shall be given to any rule so as to prejudicially affect the interests
of assessees.] [Inserted by Act 26 of 1974, section 21](3)The Central
Government shall cause every rule made under this section to be laid as soon
as may be after it is made before each House of Parliament while it is in
session for a total period of thirty days, which may be comprised in one
session [or in two or more successive sessions,] [Substituted by Act Act 41 of
1975, section 124] and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so
laid or the session [immediately following the session or the successive
sessions aforeside,] [Substituted by Act Act 41 of 1975, section 124] both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, that rule shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so however that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule.

### 26. Saving.-

Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to any company which has no share
capital.-THE FIRST SCHEDULE[See section 2 (5)]RULES FOR COMPUTING THE
CHARGEABLE PROFITSIn computing the chargeable profits of a previous year, the
total income computed for that year under the Income-tax Act shall be adjusted
as follows :-

### 1\. Income, profits and gains and other sums falling within the following
clauses shall be excluded from such total income, namely :-

(i)any income chargeable under the Income-tax Act under the head "Capital
gains";(ii)any compensation or other payment as is referred to in clause (ii)
of section 28 of the Income-tax Act;(iii)profits and gains of any business of
life insurance ;(iv)any income referred to in sub-section (2) of section 41 of
the Income-tax Act;(v)[* * * *] [omitted by Act 20 of 1967, section 36
(c)](vi)income chargeable under the Income-tax Act under the head "Interest on
securities" derived from any security of the Central Government issued or
declared to be income-tax free or from any security of a State Government
issued income-tax free, the income-tax whereon is payable by the State
Government;(vii)[ any amount equal to the fifty per cent. sum in respect of
which a deduction of income-tax is allowed under the provisions of section 80G
of the Income-tax Act;] [Substituted by Act 20 of 1967, section 36(c)
](viii)income by way of dividends from an Indian company or a company which
has made the prescribed arrangements for the declaration and payment of
dividends within India ;(ix)income by way of royalties received from
Government or a local authority or any Indian concern;(x)in the case of a non-
resident company which has not made the prescribed arrangements for the
declaration and payment of dividends within India, its income by way of any
interest or fees for rendering technical services received from Government or
a local authority or any Indian concern;(xi)in the case of a banking company
-(a)any sum which during the previous year is transferred by it to a reserve
fund under sub-section (1) of section 17 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949
(10 of 1949) or is deposited by it with the Reserve Bank of India under sub-
clause (ii) of clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of that Act, not
exceeding the amount required under the aforesaid provisions to be so
transferred or deposited, as the case may be, or(b)any sum transferred by it
during the previous year to any reserves in India including reserves not shown
as such in its published balance-sheet in so far as the sums transferred to
such reserves are attributable to income chargeable to tax under the Income-
tax Act and have not been allowed as a deduction in computing its total income
under that Act and in so far as the aggregate of such sums does not exceed the
highest of the aggregate of such sums, if any, so transferred during any one
of the three years prior to the previous year, whichever is higher;(xii)the
amount of any deduction from the income-tax [* * * *] [Substituted for word
"and super-tax" by Act 20 of 1967, section 36(c)] chargeable on the total
income allowed under the annual Finance Act in connection with export of any
goods or merchandise out of India or the sale by a manufacturer of any
articles to any person who exports them out of India.[Explanation.- [Inserted
by Act 16 of 1981, section 43 ] Notwithstanding anything contained in any
clause of this rule, the amount of any income or profits and gains which is
required to be excluded from the total income under that clause shall be only
the amount of the such income or profits and gains as computed in accordance
with the provisions of the Income-tax Act (except Chapter VIA thereof), and in
a case where any deduction is required to be allowed in respect of any such
income or profits and gains under the said Chapter VIA, the amount of such
income or profits and gains computed as aforeside as reduced by the amount of
such deduction.]

### 2\. The balance of the total income arrived at after making the exclusions
mentioned in rule 1 shall be reduced by-

(i)the amount of income-tax [* * * *] [Substituted for word "and super-tax" by
Act 20 of 1967, section 36(c)] payable by the company in respect of its total
income under the provisions of the Income-tax Act after making allowance for
any relief, rebate or deduction in respect of income-tax [* * * *]
[Substituted for word "and super-tax" by Act 20 of 1967, section 36(c)] to
which the company may be entitled under the provisions of the said Act or the
annual Finance Act, and after excluding from such amount--(a)the amount of
income-tax [* * * *] [Substituted for word "and super-tax" by Act 20 of 1967,
section 36(c)], if any, payable by the company in respect of any income
referred to in clause (i) or clause (ii) or clause (iii) or clause (viii) of
rule 1 included in the total income;(b)[ the amount of income-tax, if any,
payable by the company under the provisions of the annual Finance Act with
reference to the relevant amount of distributions of dividends by it.
[Substituted by Act 13 of 1966, Section 43]Explanation.- In this sub-clause,
the expression "the relevant amount of distributions of dividends" has the
meaning assigned to it in the Finance Act of the relevant year.](c)[ the
amount of income-tax, if any, payable by the company under section 104 of the
Income-tax Act. [Inserted by Act 13 of 1966, Section 43]Explanation.- In
relation to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1964, the
reference of this sub-clause to "income-tax" shall be construed as a reference
to "super-tax".](ii)in the case of company which has been charged to tax in a
country outside India on any portion of its income, profits and gains included
in its total income as computed under the Income-tax Act, the tax actually
paid in respect of sushi income, profits and gains in the said country in
accordance with the laws in force in that country after allowance of every
relief due under the said laws:Provided that the aforesaid reduction shall not
be allowed unless the assessee produces evidence of the fact of the payment of
the aforesaid tax in that country.

### 3\. The net amount of income calculated in accordance with rule 2 shall be
increased [by the amount of any expenditure] [Substituted for the words "by
the aggregate of " and "(ii) any expenditure" by the Act 66 of 1976, section
29] incurred on account of commission, entertainment and advertisement, to the
extent such expenditure, in the opinion of the [Assessing Officer]
[Substituted for the words "Income-tax Officer" by Act 04 of 1988, section
187] is excessive having regard to the circumstances of the case:

Provided that the previous authority of the [Deputy Commissioner] [Substituted
for the words "Inspecting Assistant Commissioner" by Act 04 of 1988, section
187] is obtained for holding such expenditure to be excessive.THE SECOND
SCHEDULE[See section 2 (8)]RULES FOR COMPUTING THE CAPITAL OF A COMPANY FOR
THE PURPOSES OF SURTAX

### 1\. Subject to the other provisions contained in this Schedule, the
capital of a company shall be the aggregate of the amounts, as on the first
day of the previous year relevant to the assessment year, of-

(i)its paid-up share capital;(ii)its reserves, if any, created under the
proviso (b) to clause (vib) of sub-section (2) of section 10 of the Indian
Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922) or under [sub-section (4) of section 32A, or
sub-section (3) of section 34] [Substituted for "sub-section (3) of section
34" by Act 66 of 1976] of the Income-tax Act, 1961;(iii)its other reserves as
reduced by the amounts credited to such reserves as have been allowed as a
deduction in computing the income of the company for the purposes of the
Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922) or the Income-tax Act, 1961;(iv)[* *
* * *] [Omitted by Act 66 of 1976](v)[* * * * *] [Omitted by Act 66 of
1976]Explanation.- For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that any
amount standing to the credit of any account in the books of a company as on
the first day of the previous year relevant to the assessment year which is of
the nature of item (5) or item (6) or item (7) under the heading "RESERVES AND
SURPLUS" or of any item under the heading "CURRENT LIABILITIES and PROVISIONS"
in the column relating to "LIABILITIES" in the "FORM OF BALANCE-SHEET" given
in Part I of Schedule VI to the Companies Act, 1956 shall not be regarded as a
reserve for the purposes of computation of the capital of a company under the
provisions of this Schedule.

### 2\. Where a company owns any assets the income from which in accordance
with clause (iii) or clause (vi) or clause (viii) of rule 1 of the First
Schedule is required to be excluded from its total income in computing its
chargeable profits, the amount of its capital as computed under rule 1 of this
Schedule shall be diminished by the cost of it of the said assets as on the
first day of the previous year relevant to the assessment year in so far as
such cost exceeds the aggregate of-

(i)any moneys borrowed other than the debentures referred to in clause (iv) or
moneys referred to in clause (v) of rule 1 and remaining outstanding as on the
first day of the said previous year; and(ii)the amount of any fund, any
surplus and any such reserve as is not to be taken into account in computing
the capital under rule 1.Explanation 1.- A paid-up share capital or reserve
brought into existence by creating or increasing (by revaluation or otherwise)
any book asset is not capital for computing the capital of a company for the
purposes of this Act.Explanation 2.- Any premium received in cash by the
company on the issue of its shares standing to the credit of the share premium
account shall be regarded as forming part of its paid-up share
capital.Explanation 3.- Where a company has different previous years in
respect of its income, profits and gains, the computation of capital under
rules 1, 2 and 3 shall be made with reference to the previous year which
commenced first.

### 3\. Where after the first day of the previous year relevant to the
assessment year the capital of a company as computed in accordance with the
foregoing rules of this Schedule is increased by any amount during that
previous year on account of increase of paid-up share capital or issue of
debentures or borrowing of any moneys referred to in clause (v) of rule 1 or
is reduced by any amount on account of reduction of paid-up share capital or
redemption of any debentures or repayment of any such moneys, such capital
shall be increased or reduced, as the case may be, by a sum which bears to
that amount the same proportion as the number of days of the previous year
during which the increase or the reduction remained effective bears to the
total number of days in that previous year.

### 4\. Where a part of the income, profits and gains of company is not
includible in its total income as computed under the Income-tax Act, its
capital shall be the sum ascertained in accordance with rules 1, 2 and 3,
diminished by an amount which bears to that sum the same proportion as the
amount of the aforesaid income, profits and gains bears to the total amount of
its income, profits and gains.

THE THIRD SCHEDULE(See section 4)RATES OF SURTAX

### 1\. On the amount by which the chargeable profits exceed the amount of the
statutory deduction - 40 per cent.- Provided that where the total income of an
assessee, being an Indian company or any other company which has made the
prescribed arrangements for the declaration and payment of dividends within
India, includes any income profits and gains attributable to the business of
generation of distribution of electricity or of manufacture or production of
any one or more of the articles specified in the list in paragraph 2, the
assessee shall be entitled to a rebate equal to a sum of one-fifth of the
amount which bears to the amount of the surtax payable by the assessee, the
same proportion as the amount of the aforesaid inclusion bears to the amount
of the total income of the assessee:

Provided further that if the Central Government, having regard to the stage of
development of any industry and other relevant factors, considers it necessary
or expedient so to do, it may, at any time by general or special order
withdraw the benefit conferred by the preceding proviso in respect of the
business of generation or distribution of electricity or of manufacture or
production of any article specified in the said list or extend such benefit to
any other business and such order shall have effect for the purposes of
assessment under this Act for any such assessment year (not being the
assessment year commencing on the fits day of April, 1964) as may be specified
in the said order.

### 2\. The list of articles referred to in paragraph 1 shall be as follows:-

(1)Iron and steel (metal), ferro-alloys and special steels.(2)Aluminium,
copper, lead and zinc (metals).(3)Coal, lignite, iron ore, bauxite, manganese
ore, dolomite magnesite and mineral oil.(4)Industrial machinery specified
under the heading "8.Industrial Machinery", sub-heading "A. Major items of
specialised equipment used in specified industries", of the First Schedule to
the Industries (Development and Regulation) 1951 (65 of 1951).(5)Boilers and
steam generating plants, steam engines and turbines and internal combustion
engines.(6)Equipment for the generation and transmission of electricity
including transformers, cables and transmission towers.(7)Machine tools,
precision tools, dies and jigs.(8)Tractors and earth-moving machinery.(9)Steel
castings and forgings.(10)Cement and refactories.(11)Fertilizers, namely,
ammonium sulphate, ammonium sulphate nitrate (double salt), ammonium nitrate
(nitrolime stone), ammonium chloride, super phosphate, urea and complex
fertilisers of synthetic origin containing both nitrogen and phosphorus, such
as ammonium phosphates, ammonium sulphate phosphate and ammonium nitro
phosphate.(12)Paper and pulp.(13)Tea.(14)Electronic equipment, namely, radar
equipment, computers, electronic accounting and business machines, electronic
communication equipment, electronic control instruments and basic components,
such as values, transistors, resistors, condensers, coils, magnetic material
and micro wave components.(15)Petrochemicals including corresponding products
manufactured from other basic raw materials, namely, calcium carbide.ethyl
alcohol or hydrocarbons from other sources.(16)Component parts of the articles
mentioned in items Nos. (4), (5), (6) and (8), that is to say, such parts as
are essential for the working of the machinery referred to in items aforesaid
and have been given for that purpose some special shape or quality which would
not be essential for their use for any other purpose and are in complete
finished form and ready for figment.

