## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (TWENTY-SEVENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1971

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (TWENTY-SEVENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1971

## Act 27 of 1971

  * Published in Gazette of India on 12 December 1971 
  * Commenced on 30 December 1971 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 December 1971.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Twenty-
seventh Amendment) Bill, 1971 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Twenty-
seventh Amendment) Act, 1971_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** As a part
of the scheme of reorganisation of the north-eastern areas,it is proposed that
the Union territory of Mizoram contemplated under the scheme should have a
legislature and Council of Ministers. It is proposed to achieve this object by
including the Union territory of Mizoram in article 239A of THE CONSTITUTION
(clause 2).The Study Team appointed by the Administrative Reforms Commission
on the Administration of Union Territories and NEFA has recommended that the
Administrator of a Union territory with legislature may have the power to
promulgate ordinances when the legislature is not in session. It is proposed
to accept this recommendation and include a suitable provision in the
Constitution conferring on such an Administrator the power to promulgate
Ordinances (clause 3).Under paragraph 18(2) of the Sixth Schedule to the
Constitution read with article 240 of the Constitution, the President is
empowered to make Regulations for the North-East Frontier Agency. It is
proposed to continue these powers even after the Agency becomes the Union
territory of Arunachal Pradesh under the reorganisation scheme. It is also
proposed to have similar powers with respect to the Union territory of Mizoram
(clause 4).When the legislature of a State is dissolved or its functioning is
suspended by a proclamation under article 356 of the Constitution, the
Parliament is empowered to confer legislative powers on the President in
respect of that State by passing a law under article 357(1). No such provision
exists in the case of Union territories with legislatures, with the result
that whenever the legislature of any Union territory is dissolved or its
functioning is suspended by an order of the President, all legislation
relating to that Union territory has to be passed by the Parliament. It is
proposed that in such circumstances the Regulation making power under article
240 should be available to the President (clause 4).Hill Areas of Manipur are
Predominantly inhabited by members of Scheduled Tribes. To safeguard their
interests special provisions were made in section 562 of the Government of
Union Territories Act, 1963 for a Committee of the Legislative Assembly of the
Union territory of Manipur consisting of members from the Hill Areas. When the
Union territory of Manipur becomes a State under the reorganisation scheme,
the said section 52 will cease to be operative. It is proposed, as a part of
the scheme of safeguards for the people of the Hill Areas, to continue this
arrangement even after Manipur becomes a State. So, a specific provision is
being made in the Constitution for the formation of such a Committee (clause
5).This Bill seeks to give effect to the above proposals.An Act further to
amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-
second Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Twenty-seventh Amendment) Act,
1971.(2)This section and section 3 shall come into force at once and the
remaining provisions of this Act shall come into force on such date_663, being
a date not earlier than the day appointed under clause (b) of section 2 of the
North- Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) Act, 1971, as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Amendment of article 239A.-

In article 239A of the Constitution, in clause (1), for the words "Goa, Daman
and Diu, and Pondicherry", the words "Goa, Daman and Diu, Pondicherry and
Mizoram" shall be substituted.

### 3. Insertion of new article 239B.-

After article 239A of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:-

### 239B. Power of administrator to promulgate Ordinances during recess of
Legislature.-

(1)If at any time, except when the Legislature of a Union territory referred
to in clause (1) of article 239A is in session, the administrator thereof is
satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary for him to take
immediate action, he may promulgate such Ordinances as the circumstances
appear to him to require:Provided that no such Ordinance shall be promulgated
by the administrator except after obtaining instructions from the President in
that behalf:Provided further that whenever the said Legislature is dissolved,
or its functioning remains suspended on account of any action taken under any
such law as is referred to in clause (1) of article 239A, the administrator
shall not promulgate any Ordinance during the period of such dissolution or
suspension.(2)An Ordinance promulgated under this article in pursuance of
instructions from the President shall be deemed to be an Act of the
Legislature of the Union territory which has been duly enacted after complying
with the provisions in that behalf contained in any such law as is referred to
in clause (1) of article 239A, but every such Ordinance-(a)shall be laid
before the Legislature of the Union territory and shall cease to operate at
the expiration of six weeks from the reassembly of the Legislature or if,
before the expiration of that period, a resolution disapproving it is passed
by the Legislature, upon the passing of the resolution; and(b)may be withdrawn
at any time by the administrator after obtaining instructions from the
President in that behalf.(3)If and so far as an Ordinance under this article
makes any provision which would not be valid if enacted in an Act of the
Legislature of the Union territory made after complying with the provisions in
that behalf contained in any such law as is referred to in clause (1) of
article 239A, it shall be void.

### 4. Amendment of article 240.-

In article 240 of the Constitution,-(a)in clause (1),-(i)after entry (e), the
following entries shall be inserted, namely:-"(f) Mizoram;(g)Arunachal
Pradesh:";(ii)in the proviso, for the words "Union territory of Goa, Daman and
Diu or Pondicherry", the words "Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu,
Pondicherry or Mizoram" shall be substituted;(iii)after the proviso as so
amended, the following further proviso shall be inserted, namely:-"Provided
further that whenever the body functioning as a Legislature for the Union
territory of Goa, Daman and Diu, Pondicherry or Mizoram is dissolved, or the
functioning of that body as such Legislature remains suspended on account of
any action taken under any such law as is referred to in clause (1) of article
239A, the President may, during the period of such dissolution or suspension,
make regulations for the peace, progress and good government of that Union
territory.";(b)in clause (2), the words "any existing law", the words "any
other law" shall be substituted.

### 5. Insertion of new article 371C.-

After article 371B of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:-

### 371C. Special provision with respect to the State of Manipur.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the President may, by order
made with respect to the State of Manipur, provide for the constitution and
functions of a committee of the Legislative Assembly of the State consisting
of members of that Assembly elected from the Hill Areas of that State, for the
modifications to be made in the rules of business of the Government and in the
rules of procedure of the Legislative Assembly of the State and for any
special responsibility of the Governor in order to secure the proper
functioning of such committee.(2)The Governor shall annually, or whenever so
required by the President, make a report to the President regarding the
administration of the Hill Areas in the State of Manipur and the executive
power of the Union shall extend to the giving of directions to the State as to
the administration of the said areas.Explanation.-In this article, the
expression "Hill Areas" means such areas as the President may, by order,
declare to be Hill Areas.[The Constitution (Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Act,
1971 dealt specifically with the reorganization of Mizoram as a Union
Territory with a legislature and council of ministers. While it is a
significant amendment, it only pertains to the state of Mizoram and not the
entire Northeastern region of India.Also Refer ]

