## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (TWENTY-THREE AMENDMENT) ACT, 1969

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (TWENTY-THREE AMENDMENT) ACT, 1969

## Act 23 of 1969

  * Published in Gazette of India on 11 August 1969 
  * Commenced on 23 January 1970 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 August 1969.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Twenty-third
Amendment) Bill, 1969 which was enacted as the Constitution (Twenty-Third
Amendment) Act, 1969_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** Article 334 of the
Constitution lays down that the provisions of the Constitution relating to the
reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and the
representation of the Anglo-Indian community by nomination in the House of the
People and the Legislative Assemblies of the States shall cease to have effect
on the expiration of a period of twenty years from the commencement of the
Constitution. Although the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes have made
considerable progress in the last twenty years, the reasons which weighed with
the Constituent Assembly in making provisions with regard to the aforesaid
reservation of seats and nomination of members, have not cheapest to exist. It
is, therefore, proposed to continue the reservation for the Scheduled Castes
and the Scheduled Tribes and the representation of Anglo-Indians by nomination
for a further period of ten years.

### 2. More than ninety per cent. of the population of the State of Nagaland,
which came into being in 1963, in tribal. It would be anomalous to make
revision for reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in
Legislatures in the States where they are in a majority. It is, therefore,
proposed, as desired by the Government of Nagaland, not to make any
reservation for the Scheduled Tribes in Nagaland either in the House of the
People or in the State Legislative Assembly. Articles 330 and 332 of the
Constitution are being amended for this purpose.

### 3. Under article 333 of the Constitution, the number of Anglo-Indians, who
may be nominated to the State Legislative Assemblies, is left to the
discretion of the Governor. It is now proposed to amend that article so as to
provide that not more than one Anglo-Indian should be nominated by the
Governor to any State Legislative Assembly. This amendment will not however
affect representation of the Anglo-Indian community in the existing
Legislative Assemblies until their dissolution.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Twentieth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Twenty-third Amendment) Act, 1969.

### 2\. Amendment of article 330.-

In article 330 of the Constitution, in sub-clause (b) of clause (1), for the
words "except the Scheduled Tribes in the tribal areas of Assam", the words
"except the Scheduled Tribes in the tribal areas of Assam and in Nagaland"
shall be substituted.

### 3\. Amendment of article 332-

In article 332 of the Constitution, in clause (1), for the words "except the
Scheduled Tribes in the tribal areas of Assam", the words "except the
Scheduled Tribes in the tribal areas of Assam and in Nagaland" shall be
substituted.

### 4. Amendment of article 333-

(1)In article 333 of the Constitution, for the words "nominate such number of
members of the community to the Assembly as he considers appropriate", the
words "nominate one member of that community to the Assembly" shall be
substituted.(2)Nothing contained in sub-section (1)shall affect any
representation of the Anglo-Indian community in the Legislative Assembly of
any State existing at the commencement of this Act until the dissolution of
that Assembly.

### 5. Amendment of article 334-

In article 334 of the Constitution, for the words "twenty years", the words
"thirty years" shall be substituted.[The Constitution (Twenty-Three Amendment)
Act, 1969, discontinued reservation of seats for the Scheduled Tribes in
Nagaland, both in the Lok Sabha and the State Legislative Assembly and
stipulated that not more than one Anglo-Indian could be nominated by the
Governor to any State Legislative Assembly. Prior to the amendment, the number
of Anglo-Indians who could be nominated to the State Legislative Assemblies
was left to the discretion of the Governor of the State. The amendment also
extended the period of reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes and representation of the Anglo-Indians in the Lok Sabha and
the State Legislative Assemblies for another ten years, i.e. up to 26 January
1980. Article 334 of the Constitution had originally required the reservation
of seats to cease in 1960, but this was extended to 1970 by the 8th Amendment.
The 23rd Amendment extended this period to 1980. The period of reservation was
extended to 1990, 2000, 2010, 2020 and 2030 by the 45th, 62nd, 79th, 95th and
104th Amendments respectively.Also refer ]

