## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1962

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1962

## Act 014 of 1962

  * Published in Gazette of India on 25 August 1962 
  * Commenced on 28 December 1962 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 August 1962.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Fourteenth
Amendment) Bill, 1962 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Fourteenth
Amendment) Act, 1962_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** With the
ratification of the Treaty of Cession by the Governments of India and France,
on the 16th August, 1962, the French establishments of Pondicherry, Karikal,
Mahe and Yanam became territories of the Indian Union with effect from that
date. This Bill provides for these territories being specified in the
Constitution itself as a Union territory called 'Pondicherry'. Under article
81(1)(b) of the Constitution, not more than twenty members are to represent
the Union territories in the House of the People. This maximum has already
been reached. The Bill accordingly seeks to increase this number to twenty-
five to enable representation being given immediately to Pondicherry in the
House of the People and to provide for future contingencies. The Bill also
provides for representation of the territory in the Council of States.It is
proposed to create Legislatures and Councils of Ministers in the Union
territories of Himanchal Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Goa, Daman and Diu and
Pondicherry broadly on the pattern of the scheme which was in force in some of
the Part C States before the reorganisation of the States. The Bill seeks to
confer necessary legislative power on Parliament to enact laws for this
purpose through a new article 239A which follows generally the provisions of
article 240 as it stood before the reorganisation of the States.An Act further
to amend the Constitution of IndiaBE it enacted by Parliament in the
Thirteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Fourteenth Amendment) Act, 1962.

### 2. Amendment of article 81.-

In article 81 of the Constitution, in sub-clause (b) of clause (1), for the
words "twenty members", the words "twenty-five members" shall be substituted.

### 3. Amendment of the First Schedule.-

In the First Schedule to the Constitution, under the heading "II. THE UNION
TERRITORIES", after entry 8, the following entry shall be inserted,
namely:-"9. Pondicherry The territories which immediately before the sixteenth
day of August, 1962, were comprised in the French Establishments in India
known as Pondicherry, Karikal, Mahe and Yanam.".

### 4. Insertion of new article 239A.-

After article 239 of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:-"239A. Creation of local Legislatures or Council of
Ministers or both for certain Union territories.-(1)Parliament may by law
create for any of the Union territories of Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura,
Goa, Daman and Diu, and Pondicherry-(a)a body, whether elected or partly
nominated and partly elected, to function as a Legislature for the Union
territory, or(b)a Council of Ministers, or both with such constitution, powers
and functions, in each case, as may be specified in the law.(2)Any such law as
is referred to in clause (1) shall not be deemed to be an amendment of this
Constitution for the purposes of article 368 notwithstanding that it contains
any provision which amends or has the effect of amending this Constitution.".

### 5. Amendment of article 240.-

In article 240 of the Constitution, in clause (1),-(a)after entry (d), the
following entry shall be inserted, namely:-"(e) Pondicherry:";(b)the following
proviso shall be inserted at the end, namely:-"Provided that when any body is
created under article 239A to function as a Legislature for the Union
territory of Goa, Daman and Diu or Pondicherry, the President shall not make
any regulation for the peace, progress and good government of that Union
territory with effect from the date appointed for the first meeting of the
Legislature.".

### 6. Amendment of the Fourth Schedule.-

In the Fourth Schedule to the Constitution, in the Table,-(a)after entry 20,
the entry"21. Pondicherry ........1" shall be inserted;(b)for the figures
"225", the figures "226" shall be substituted.

### 7. Retrospective operation of certain provisions.-

Section 3 and clause (a) of section 5 shall be deemed to have come into force
on the 16th day of August, 1962.[The Constitution (Fourteenth Amendment) Act,
1962, provided Parliament with the power to enact laws establishing
legislatures and ministerial councils in specific Union regions. The French
colonies of Pondicherry, Mahé, Yanam, and Karikal officially became part of
the Indian Union on August 16, 1962, following the ratification of the Treaty
of Cession by France and India. Additionally, this amendment granted
Parliament the power to enact laws for creating legislatures and a council of
ministers for certain union territories, namely Puducherry, Goa, Himachal
Pradesh, Tripura, Daman and Diu, and Manipur. It involved changes to sections
81 and 240 and the First and Fourth Schedules to the Constitution.
Furthermore, a new article 239A was proposed to be added to the Constitution.
Also refer ]

