## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (THIRTY-EIGHTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1975

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (THIRTY-EIGHTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1975

## Act 38 of 1975

  * Published in Gazette of India on 20 July 1975 
  * Commenced on 1 August 1975 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 July 1975.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Thirty-ninth
Amendment) Bill, 1975 which was enacted as the Constitution (Thirty-eighth
Amendment) Act, 1975_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The Constitution
(Thirty-ninth Amendment) Bill, 1975 seeks to amend articles 123, 213, 239B,
352, 356, 359 and 360 of the Constitution.

### 2. Article 123 empowers the President to promulgate Ordinances when both
the Houses of Parliament are not in session if he is satisfied that
circumstance exist rendering it necessary to take immediate action.
Corresponding powers have been conferred by the Constitution on the Governor
under article 213. Similar powers have been conferred on the Administrator
under article 239B when the Legislature of a Union territory is not in
session. On the plain language of articles 123, 213 and 239B there is no doubt
that the satisfaction mentioned in those articles is subjective satisfaction
and that it is not justiciable. There is no doubt that this was also the
intention of the makers of the Constitution. However, litigation is pending
involving the justifiability of this issue and contentions are being raised
that the issue is subject to judicial scrutiny. To place the matter beyond
doubt, it is proposed to provide in the Constitution that the satisfaction of
the President, Governor or Administrator shall be final and conclusive and
shall not be questioned in any court on any ground.

### 3. Article 352 empowers the President to declare Emergency if he is
satisfied that the security of India or any part of it is threatened by war,
external aggression or internal disturbance. Article 356 empowers the
President to assume to himself the functions of the Government of a State if
the constitutional machinery in any State fails and the Government in the
State cannot be carried on. Likewise article 360 empowers the President to
declare Financial Emergency if he is satisfied that the financial stability of
India is threatened. Here again, the issue regarding satisfaction is, on the
face of the articles clearly not justiciable. However, as the validity of the
Proclamation issued under article 352 has been challenged in several
proceedings and as litigation of this nature involves waste of public time and
money, it is proposed to amend these three articles so as to make the
satisfaction of the President final and conclusive and not justiciable on any
ground.

### 4. In addition to article 352, contentions have been raised in certain
writ petitions that while the original Proclamation of Emergency is in
operation no further Proclamation of Emergency could be made thereunder. In
order to place the matter beyond doubt it is proposed to make it clear in
article 352 that the President may issue different Proclamations on different
grounds whether or not there is a Proclamation already in existence and in
operation.

### 5. When a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation, the President is
empowered under article 359 of the Constitution to make an order suspending
the right to move any court for the enforcement of such of the rights
conferred by Part III as may be mentioned in that order. It was intended that
the powers conferred by this article should be exercised during an emergency
according to needs of the situation. On the other hand, article 358 renders
the provisions of article 19 automatically inoperative while the Proclamation
of Emergency is in operation, and the power to make any law or to take any
executive action is not restricted by the provisions of that article. The
intention underlying article 359 appears to be that when an order is made
under clause (1) of that article in relation to any of the rights conferred by
Part III and mentioned in the order, the order so made would have for all
practical purposes the same effect in relation to those rights as article 358
has in relation to article 19. It is, therefore, proposed not to have any
differences in language between article 358 and the language in respect of
those rights only which may be mentioned in the Presidential Order under
clause (1) of article 359.

### 6. The Bill seeks to achieve the aforesaid objects.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Twenty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Thirty-eighth Amendment) Act, 1975.

### 2\. Amendment of article 123.-

In article 123 of the Constitution, after clause (3), the following clause
shall be inserted, and shall be deemed always to have been inserted,
namely:-"(4) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the satisfaction
of the President mentioned in clause (1) shall be final and conclusive and
shall not be questioned in any court on any ground.".

### 3\. Amendment of article 213.-

In article 213 of the Constitution, after clause (3), the following clause
shall be inserted, and shall be deemed always to have been inserted,
namely:-"(4) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the satisfaction
of the Governor mentioned in clause (1) shall be final and conclusive and
shall not be questioned in any court on any ground.".

### 4\. Amendment of article 239B.-

In article 239B of the Constitution, after clause (3), the following clause
shall be inserted, and shall be deemed always to have been inserted,
namely:-"(4) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the satisfaction
of the administrator mentioned in clause (1) shall be final and conclusive and
shall not be questioned in any court on any ground.".

### 5\. Amendment of article 352.-

In article 352 of the Constitution, after clause (3), the following clauses
shall be inserted, and shall be deemed always to have been inserted,
namely:-"(4) The power conferred on the President by this article shall
include the power to issue different Proclamations on different grounds, being
war or external aggression or internal disturbance or imminent danger of war
or external aggression or internal disturbance, whether or not there is a
Proclamation already issued by the President under clause (1) and such
Proclamation is in operation.(5)Notwithstanding anything in this
Constitution,-(a)the satisfaction of the President mentioned in clause (1) and
clause (3) shall be final and conclusive and shall not be questioned in any
court on any ground;(b)subject to the provisions of clause (2), neither the
Supreme Court nor any other court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any
question, on any ground, regarding the validity of-(i)a declaration made by
Proclamation by the President to the effect stated in clause (1); or(ii)the
continued operation of such Proclamation.".

### 6\. Amendment of article 356.-

In article 356 of the Constitution, after clause (4), the following clause
shall be inserted, and shall be deemed always to have been inserted,
namely:-"(5) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the satisfaction
of the President mentioned in clause (1) shall be final and conclusive and
shall not be questioned in any court on any ground.".

### 7. Amendment of article 359.-

In article 359 of the Constitution, after clause (1), the following clause
shall be inserted, and shall be deemed always to have been inserted,
namely:-"(1A) While an order made under clause (1) mentioning any of the right
conferred by Part III is in operation, nothing in that Part conferring those
rights shall restrict the power of the State as defined in the said Part to
make any law or to take any executive action which the State would but for the
provisions contained in that Part be competent to make or to take, but any law
so made shall, to the extent of the incompetency, cease to have effect as soon
as the order aforesaid ceases to operate, except as respects things done or
omitted to be done before the law so ceases to have effect.".

### 8. Amendment of article 360.-

In article 360 of the Constitution, after clause (4), the following clause
shall be inserted, and shall be deemed always to have been inserted,
namely:-"(5) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution,-(a)the
satisfaction of the President mentioned in clause (1) shall be final and
conclusive and shall not be questioned in any court on any ground;(b)subject
to the provisions of clause (2), neither the Supreme Court nor any other court
shall have jurisdiction to entertain any question, on any ground, regarding
the validity of-(i)a declaration made by Proclamation by the President to the
effect stated in clause (1); or(ii)the continued operation of such
Proclamation.".[The Constitution (Thirty-Eighth Amendment) Act, 1975, codified
the declaration of Emergency and empowered the State to remove fundamental
rights during a state of emergency. This made the Emergency final and
inclusive, giving the State the power to suspend certain rights of its
citizens. Currently, there is an ongoing amendment procedure aimed at
eliminating obsolete and unproductive portions of the Constitution and
integrating new ones to address evolving social requirements. Any changes made
should aim to improve people’s living conditions and foster social peace,
rather than demolishing the current framework."Also Refer]

