## Union of India - Act

## The Commissions For Protection Of Child Rights Act, 2005

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Commissions For Protection Of Child Rights Act, 2005

## Act 4 of 2006

  * Published in Gazette 4 on 20 January 2006 
  * Assented to on 20 January 2006 
  * Commenced on 20 January 2006 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 December 2006.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE COMMISSIONS FOR PROTECTION OF CHILD RIGHTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2006 (Act 04 of 2007) on 29 December 2006] 

The Commissions For Protection Of Child Rights Act, 2005

### 1. Short title, extend and commencement. -

(1)This Act may be called the Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act,
2005.(2)It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir
.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.-

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Chairperson" means the
Chairperson of the Commission or of the State Commission, as the case may
be;(b)"child rights" includes the children's rights adopted in the United
Nations convention on the Rights of the Child on the 20th November, 1989 and
ratified by the Government of India on the 11th December, 1992;(c)"Commission"
means the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights constituted under
section 3;(d)"Member" means a Member of the Commission or of the State
Commission, as the case may be, and includes the Chairperson;(e)"notification"
means a notification published in the Official Gazette;(f)"prescribed" means
prescribed by rules made under this Act;(g)"State Commission" means State
Commission for Protection of Child Rights constituted under section 17.

### 3. Constitution of National Commission for Protection of Child Rights.-

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification, constitute a body to be
known as the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights to exercise
the powers conferred on, and to perform the functions assigned to it under
this Act.(2)The Commission shall consist of the following Members,
namely:-(a)a Chairperson who, is a person of eminence and has done outstanding
work for promoting the welfare of children; and(b)six Members, out of which at
least two shall be women, from the following fields, to be appointed by the
Central Government from amongst persons of eminence, ability, integrity,
standing and experience in,-(i)education;(ii)child health, care, welfare or
child development;(iii)juvenile justice or care of neglected or marginalized
children or children with disabilities;(iv)elimination of child labour or
children in distress;(v)child psychology or sociology; and(vi)laws relating to
children.(3)The office of the Commission shall be at Delhi.

### 4. Appointment of Chairperson and Members.-

The Central Government shall, by notification, appoint the Chairperson and
other Members:Provided that the Chairperson shall be appointed on the
recommendation of a three member Selection Committee constituted by the
Central Government under the Chairmanship of the Minister in-charge of the
Ministry or the Department of Women and Child Development.

### 5. Term of office and conditions of service of Chairperson and Members.-

(1)The Chairperson and every Member shall hold office as such for a term of
three years from the date on which he assumes office:Provided that no
Chairperson or a Member shall hold the office for more than two terms:Provided
further that no Chairperson or any other Member shall hold office as such
after he has attained-(a)in the case of the Chairperson, the age of sixty-five
years; and(b)in the case of a Member, the age of sixty years.(2)The
Chairperson or a Member may, by writing under his hand addressed to the
Central Government, resign his office at any time.

### 6. Salary and allowances of Chairperson and Members.-

The salary and allowances payable to, and other terms and conditions of
service of, the Chairperson and Members, shall be such as may be prescribed by
the Central Government:Provided that neither the salary and allowances nor the
other terms and conditions of service of the Chairperson or a Member, as the
case may be, shall be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment.

### 7. Removal from office.-

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), the Chairperson may be
removed from his office by an order of the Central Government on the ground of
proved misbehaviour or incapacity.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (1), the Central Government may by order remove from office the
Chairperson or any other Member, if the Chairperson or, as the case may be,
such other Member,-(a)is adjudged an insolvent; or(b)engages during his term
of office in any paid employment outside the duties of his office;
or(c)refuses to act or becomes incapable of acting; or(d)is of unsound mind
and stands so declared by a competent court; or(e)has so abused his office as
to render his continuance in office detrimental to the public interest;
or(f)is convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for an offence which in the
opinion of the Central Government involves moral turpitude; or(g)is, without
obtaining leave of absence from the Commission, absent from three consecutive
meetings of the Commission.(3)No person shall be removed under this section
until that person has been given an opportunity of being heard in the matter.

### 8. Vacation of office by Chairperson or Member.-

(1)If the Chairperson or, as the case may be, a Member,-(a)becomes subject to
any of the disqualifications mentioned in section 7; or(b)tenders his
resignation under sub-section (2) of section 5,his seat shall thereupon become
vacant.(2)If a casual vacancy occurs in the office of the Chairperson or a
Member, whether by reason of his death, resignation or otherwise, such vacancy
shall be filled within a period of ninety days by making afresh appointment in
accordance with the provisions of section 4 and the person so appointed shall
hold office for the remainder of the term of office for which the Chairperson,
or a Member, as the case may be, in whose place he is so appointed would have
held that office.

### 9. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate proceedings of Commission.-

No act or proceeding of the Commission shall be invalid merely by reason
of-(a)any vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the Commission;
or(b)any defect in the appointment of a person as the Chairperson or a Member;
or(c)any irregularity in the procedure of the Commission not affecting the
merits of the case.

### 10. Procedure for transaction of business.-

(1)The Commission shall meet regularly at its office at such time as the
Chairperson thinks fit, but three months shall not intervene between its last
and the next meeting.(2)All decisions at a meeting shall be taken by
majority:Provided that in the case of equality of votes, the Chairperson, or
in his absence the person presiding, shall have and exercise a second or
casting vote.(3)If for any reason, the Chairperson, is unable to attend the
meeting of the Commission, any Member chosen by the Members present from
amongst themselves at the meeting, shall preside.(4)The Commission shall
observe such rules of procedure in the transaction of its business at a
meeting, including the quorum at such meeting, as may be prescribed by the
Central Government.(5)All orders and decisions of the Commission shall be
authenticated by the Member-Secretary or any other officer of the Commission
duly authorised by Member-Secretary in this behalf.

### 11. Member-Secretary, officers and other employees of Commission.-

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification, appoint an officer not below
the rank of the Joint Secretary or the Additional Secretary to the Government
of India as a Member-Secretary of the Commission and shall make available to
the Commission such other officers and employees as may be necessary for the
efficient performance of its functions.(2)The Member-Secretary shall be
responsible for the proper administration of the affairs of the Commission and
its day-to-day management and shall exercise and discharge such other powers
and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Central
Government.(3)The salary and allowances payable to, and the other terms and
conditions of service of the Member-Secretary, other officers and employees,
appointed for the purpose of the Commission shall be such as may be prescribed
by the Central Government.

### 12. Salaries and allowances to be paid out of grants.-

The salaries and allowances payable to the Chairperson and Members and the
administrative expenses, including salaries, allowances and pensions payable
to the Member-Secretary, other officers and employees referred to in section
11, shall be paid out of the grants referred to in sub-section (1) of section
27.

### 13. Functions of Commission.-

(1)The Commission shall perform all or any of the following functions,
namely:-(a)examine and review the safeguards provided by or under any law for
the time being in force for the protection of child rights and recommend
measures for their effective implementation;(b)present to the Central
Government, annually and at such other intervals, as the Commission may deem
fit, reports upon the working of those safeguards;(c)inquire into violation of
child rights and recommend initiation of proceedings in such cases;(d)examine
all factors that inhibit the enjoyment of rights of children affected by
terrorism, communal violence, riots, natural disaster, domestic violence,
HIV/AIDS, trafficking, maltreatment, torture and exploitation, pornography and
prostitution and recommend appropriate remedial measures;(e)look into the
matters relating to children in need of special care and protection including
children in distress, marginalized and disadvantaged children, children in
conflict with law, juveniles, children without family and children of
prisoners and recommend appropriate remedial measures;(f)study treaties and
other international instruments and undertake periodical review of existing
policies, programmes and other activities on child rights and make
recommendations for their effective implementation in the best interest of
children;(g)undertake and promote research in the field of child
rights;(h)spread child rights literacy among various sections of the society
and promote awareness of the safeguards available for protection of these
rights through publications, the media, seminars and other available
means;(i)inspect or cause to be inspected any juvenile custodial home, or any
other place of residence or institution meant for children, under the control
of the Central Government or any State Government or any other authority,
including any institution run by a social organisation; where children are
detained or lodged for the purpose of treatment, reformation or protection and
take up with these authorities for remedial action, if found
necessary;(j)inquire into complaints and take suo motu notice of matters
relating to,-(i)deprivation and violation of child rights;(ii)non-
implementation of laws providing for protection and development of
children;(iii)non-compliance of policy decisions, guidelines or instructions
aimed at mitigating hardships to and ensuring welfare of the children and to
provide relief to such children,or take up the issues arising out of such
matters with appropriate authorities; and(k)such other functions as it may
consider necessary for the promotion of child rights and any other matter
incidental to the above functions.(2)The commission shall not inquire into any
matter which is pending before a State Commission or any other Commission duly
constituted under any law for the time being in force.

### 14. Powers relating to inquiries.-

(1)The Commission shall, while inquiring into any matter referred to in clause
(j) of sub-section (1) of section 13 have all the powers of a civil court
trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) and, in
particular, in respect of the following matters, namely:-(a)summoning and
enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;(b)discovery
and production of any document;(c)receiving evidence on
affidavits;(d)requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any court
or office; and(e)issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or
documents.(2)The Commission shall have the power to forward any case to a
Magistrate having jurisdiction to try the same and the Magistrate to whom any
such case is forwarded shall proceed to hear the complaint against the accused
as if the case has been forwarded to him under section 346 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).

### 15. Steps after inquiry.-

The Commission may take any of the following steps upon the completion of an
inquiry held under this Act, namely:-(i)where the inquiry discloses, the
Commission of violation of child rights of a serious nature or contravention
of provisions of any law for the time being in force, it may recommend to the
concerned Government or authority the initiation of proceedings for
prosecution or such other action as the Commission may deem fit against the
concerned person or persons;(ii)approach the Supreme Court or the High Court
concerned for such directions, orders or writs as that Court may deem
necessary;(iii)recommend to the concerned Government or authority for the
grant of such interim relief to the victim or the members of his family as the
Commission may consider necessary.

### 16. Annual and special reports of Commission.-

(1)The Commission shall submit an annual report to the Central Government and
to the State Government concerned and may at any time submit special reports
on any matter which, in its opinion, is of such urgency or importance that it
should not be deferred till submission of the annual report.(2)The Central
Government and the State Government concerned, as the case may be, shall cause
the annual and special reports of the Commission to be laid before each House
of Parliament or the State Legislature respectively, as the case may be, along
with a memorandum of action taken or proposed to be taken on the
recommendations of the Commission and the reasons for non-acceptance of the
recommendations, if any, within a period of one year from the date of receipt
of such report.(3)The annual report shall be prepared in such form, manner and
contain such details as may be prescribed by the Central Government.

### 17. Constitution of State Commission for Protection of Child Rights.-

(1)A State Government may constitute a body to be known as the.........(name
of the State) Commission for Protection of Child Rights to exercise the powers
conferred upon, and to perform the functions assigned to, a State Commission
under this Chapter.(2)The State Commission shall consist of the following
Members, namely:-(a)a Chairperson who is a person of eminence and has done
outstanding work for promoting the welfare of children; and(b)six Members, out
of which at least two shall be women, from the following fields, to be
appointed by the State Government from amongst persons of eminence, ability,
integrity, standing and experience in,-(i)education;(ii)child health, care,
welfare or child development;(iii)juvenile justice or care of neglected or
marginalized children or children with disabilities;(iv)elimination of child
labour or children in distress;(v)child psychology or sociology; and(vi)laws
relating to children.(3)The headquarter of the State Commission shall be at
such place as the State Government may, by notification, specify.

### 18. Appointment of Chairperson and other Members.-

The State Government shall, by notification, appoint the Chairperson and other
Members:Provided that the Chairperson shall be appointed on the recommendation
of a three Member Selection Committee constituted by the State Government
under the Chairmanship of the Minister in-charge of the Department dealing
with children.

### 19. Term of office and conditions of service of Chairperson and Members.-

(1)The Chairperson and every Member shall hold office as such for a term of
three years from the date on which he assumes office:Provided that no
Chairperson or a Member shall hold the office for more than two terms:Provided
further that no Chairperson or any other Member shall hold office as such
after he has attained-(a)in the case of Chairperson, the age of sixty-five
years; and(b)in the case of a Member, the age of sixty years.(2)The
Chairperson or a Member may, by writing under his hand addressed to the State
Government, resign his office at any time.

### 20. Salary and allowances of Chairperson and Members.-

The salaries and allowances payable to, and other terms and conditions of
service of, the Chairperson and Members shall be such as may be prescribed by
the State Government:Provided that neither the salary and allowances nor the
other terms and conditions of service of the Chairperson or a Member, as the
case may be, shall be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment.

### 21. Secretary, officers and other employees of the State Commission.-

(1)The State Government shall, by notification, appoint an officer not below
the rank of the Secretary to the State Government as the Secretary of the
State Commission and shall make available to the State Commission such other
officers and employees as may be necessary for the efficient performance of
its functions.(2)The Secretary shall be responsible for the proper
administration of the affairs of the State Commission and its day-to-day
management and shall exercise and discharge such other powers and perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by the State Government.(3)The salary and
allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions of service of the
Secretary, other officers and employees, appointed for the purpose of the
State Commission shall be such as may be prescribed by the State Government.

### 22. Salaries and allowances to be paid out of grants.-

The salaries and allowances payable to the Chairperson and Members and the
administrative expenses, including salaries, allowances and pensions payable
to the Secretary, other officers and employees referred to in section 21,
shall be paid out of the grants referred to in sub-section (1) of section 28.

### 23. Annual and special reports of State Commission.-

(1)The State Commission shall submit an annual report to the State Government
and may at any time submit special reports on any matter which, in its
opinion, is of such urgency or importance that it should not be deferred till
submission of the annual report.(2)The State Government shall cause all the
reports referred to in sub-section (1) to be laid before each House of State
Legislature, where it consists of two Houses, or where such Legislature
consist of one House, before that House along with a memorandum explaining the
action taken or proposed to be taken on the recommendations relating to the
State and the reasons for the non-acceptance, if any, of any of such
recommendations.(3)The annual report shall be prepared in such form, manner
and contain such details as may be prescribed by the State Government.

### 24. Application of certain provisions relating to National Commission for
Protection of Child Rights to State Commissions.-

The provisions of sections 7, 8, 9, 10, sub-section (1) of section 13 and
sections 14 and 15 shall apply to a State Commission and shall have effect,
subject to the following modifications, namely:-(a)references to "Commission"
shall be construed as references to "State Commission";(b)references to
"Central Government" shall be construed as references to "State Government";
and(c)references to "Member-Secretary" shall be construed as references to
"Secretary".

### 25. Children's Courts.-

For the purpose of providing speedy trial of offences against children or of
violation of child rights, the State Government may, with the concurrence of
the Chief Justice of the High Court, by notification, specify at least a court
in the State or specify, for each district, a Court of Session to be a
Children's Court to try the said offences:Provided that nothing in this
section shall apply if-(a)a Court of Session is already specified as a special
court; or(b)a special court is already constituted,for such offences under any
other law for the time being in force.

### 26. Special Public Prosecutor.-

For every Children's Court, the State Government shall, by notification,
specify a Public Prosecutor or appoint an advocate who has been in practice as
an advocate for not less than seven years, as a Special Public Prosecutor for
the purpose of conducting cases in that Court.

### 27. Grants by Central Government.-

(1)The Central Government shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by
law in this behalf, pay to the Commission by way of grants such sums of money
as the Central Government may think fit for being utilised for the purposes of
this Act.(2)The Commission may spend such sums of money as it thinks fit for
performing the functions under this Act, and such sums shall be treated as
expenditure payable out of the grants referred to in sub-section (1).

### 28. Grants by State Governments.-

(1)The State Government shall, after due appropriation made by Legislature by
law in this behalf, pay to the State Commission by way of grants such sums of
money as the State Government may think fit for being utilised for the
purposes of this Act.(2)The State Commission may spend such sums of money as
it thinks fit for performing the functions under Chapter III of this Act, and
such sums shall be treated as expenditure payable out of the grants referred
to in sub-section (1).

### 29. Accounts and audit of Commission.-

(1)The Commission shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records
and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form as may be prescribed
by the Central Government in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India.(2)The accounts of the Commission shall be audited by the
Comptroller and Auditor-General at such intervals as may be specified by him
and any expenditure incurred in connection with such audit shall be payable by
the Commission to the Comptroller and Auditor-General.(3)The Comptroller and
Auditor-General and any person appointed by him in connection with the audit
of the accounts of the Commission under this Act shall, have the same rights
and privileges and the authority in connection with such audit as the
Comptroller and Auditor-General generally has in connection with the audit of
Government accounts and, in particular, shall have the right to demand the
production of books, accounts, connected vouchers and other documents and
papers and to inspect any of the offices of the Commission.(4)The accounts of
the Commission as certified by the Comptroller and Auditor-General or any
other person appointed by him in this behalf, together with the audit report
thereon shall be forwarded annually to the Central Government by the
Commission and the Central Government shall cause the audit report to be laid,
as soon as may be after it is received, before each House of Parliament.

### 30. Accounts and audit of State Commission.-

(1)The State Commission shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant
records and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form as may be
prescribed by the State Government in consultation with the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India.(2)The accounts of the State Commission shall be
audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-General at such intervals as may be
specified by him and any expenditure incurred in connection with such audit
shall be payable by the State Commission to the Comptroller and Auditor-
General.(3)The Comptroller and Auditor-General and any person appointed by him
in connection with the audit of the accounts of the State Commission under
this Act shall, have the same rights and privileges and the authority in
connection with such audit as the Comptroller and Auditor-General generally
has in connection with the audit of Government accounts and, in particular,
shall have the right to demand the production of books, accounts, connected
vouchers and other documents and papers and to inspect any of the offices of
the State Commission.(4)The accounts of the State Commission as certified by
the Comptroller and Auditor-General or any other person appointed by him in
this behalf, together with the audit report thereon shall be forwarded
annually to the State Government by the State Commission and the State
Government shall cause the audit report to be laid, as soon as may be after it
is received, before the State Legislature.

### 31. Protection of action taken in good faith.-

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government, the State Government, the Commission, the State Commission, or any
Member thereof or any person acting under the direction either of the Central
Government, State Government, Commission or the State Commission, in respect
of anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of
this Act or of any rules made thereunder or in respect of the publication by
or under the authority of the Central Government, State Government,
Commission, or the State Commission of any report or paper.

### 32. Chairperson, Members and other officers to be public servant.-

Every Member of the Commission, State Commission and every officer appointed
in the Commission or the State Commission to exercise functions under this Act
shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the
Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 33. Directions by Central Government.-

(1)In the discharge of its functions under this Act, the Commission shall be
guided by such directions on questions of policy relating to national
purposes, as may be given to it by the Central Government.(2)If any dispute
arises between the Central Government and the Commission as to whether a
question is or is not a question of policy relating to national purposes, the
decision of the Central Government thereon shall be final.

### 34. Returns or information.-

The Commission shall furnish to the Central Government such returns or other
information with respect to its activities as the Central Government may, from
time to time, require.

### 35. Power of Central Government to make rules.-

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the
provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:-(a)terms and conditions of service of the
Chairperson and Members of the Commission and their salaries and allowances
under section 6;(b)the procedure to be followed by the Commission in the
transaction of its business at a meeting under sub-section (4) of section
10;(c)the powers and duties which may be exercised and performed by the
Member-Secretary of the Commission under sub-section (2) of section 11;(d)the
salary and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of officers
and other employees of the Commission under sub-section (3) of section 11;
and(e)form of the statement of accounts and other records to be prepared by
the Commission under sub-section (1) of section 29.(3)Every rule made under
this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House
of Parliament, while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 36. Power of State Government to make rules.-

(1)The State Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the
provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:-(a)terms and conditions of service of the
Chairperson and Members of the State Commission and their salaries and
allowances under section 20;(b)the procedure to be followed by the State
Commission in the transaction of its business at a meeting under sub-section
(4) of section 10 read with section 24;(c)the powers and duties which may be
exercised and performed by the Secretary of the State Commission under sub-
section (2) of section 21;(d)the salary and allowances and other terms and
conditions of service of officers and other employees of the State Commission
under sub-section (3) of section 21; and(e)form of the statement of accounts
and other records to be prepared by the State Commission under sub-section (1)
of section 30.(3)Every rule made by the State Government under this section
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made before each House of the
State Legislature where it consists of two Houses, or where such State
Legislature consists of one House, before that House.

### 37. Power to remove difficulties.-

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may
appear to be necessary for removing the difficulty:Provided that no order
shall be made under this section after the expiry of the period of two years
from the date of commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this
section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House
of Parliament.

