## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (SEVENTY-SEVENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1995

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (SEVENTY-SEVENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1995

## Act 077 of 1995

  * Published in Gazette of India on 31 May 1995 
  * Commenced on 17 June 1995 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 May 1995.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Eighty-sixth
Amendment) Bill, 1995 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Seventy-seventh
Amendment) Act, 1995_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes have been enjoying the facility of reservation
in promotion since 1955. The Supreme Court in its judgment dated 16th
November, 1992 in the case of Indra Sawhney and Others vs. Union of India and
Others, however, observed that reservation of appointments or posts under
article 16(4) of the Constitution is confined to initial appointment and
cannot extent to reservation in the matter of promotion. This ruling of the
Supreme Court will adversely affect the interests of the Scheduled Castes and
the Scheduled Tribes. Since the representation of the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes in services in the States have not reached the required
level, it is necessary to continue the existing dispensation of providing
reservation in promotion in the case of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
Tribes. In view of the commitment of the Government to protect the interest of
the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, the Government have decided to
continue the existing policy of reservation in promotion for the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. To carry out this, it is necessary to amend
article 16 of the Constitution by inserting a new clause (4A) in the said
article to provide for reservation in promotion for the Scheduled Castes and
the Scheduled Tribes.

### 2. The Bill seeks to achieve the aforesaid object.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Forty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Seventy-seventh Amendment) Act, 1995.

### 2\. Amendment of article 16.-

In article 16 of the Constitution, after clause (4), the following clause
shall be inserted, namely:-"(4A) Nothing in this article shall prevent the
State from making any provision for reservation in matters of promotion to any
class or classes of posts in the services under the State in favour of the
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes which, in the opinion of the State,
are not adequately represented in the services under the State.".[The
Constitution (Seventy-seventh Amendment) Act, 1995, broadened the reservation
provisions for job promotions, encompassing individuals belonging to Scheduled
Castes and Tribes. Since 1955, the Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes
(ST) have had access to the facility of reservation in the promotion. However,
the Supreme Court stated in its decision dated November 16, 1992, in the issue
of Indra Sawhney and Others vs. Union of India and Others that reservation of
appointments or posts under Article 16(4) of the Constitution is restricted to
initial appointment. Further, it cannot extend to a reservation in matters of
promotion. The interests of the SC and STs will be harmed by this Supreme
Court decision. It is vital to continue the current dispensation of offering
reservations in promotion for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes
since their representation in services in the States has not achieved the
requisite level. The government has chosen to maintain the prevailing policy
of reservations in the promotion of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
Tribes in light of its commitment to safeguarding the interests of these
groups. To achieve this, it is necessary to change Article 16 of the Indian
Constitution. This is accomplished by adding a new clause (4A) to the
aforementioned article that establishes a reservation in promotion for the
Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs).Also refer]

