## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (TWENTIETH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1966

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (TWENTIETH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1966

## Act 20 of 1966

  * Published in Gazette of India on 20 November 1966 
  * Commenced on 22 December 1966 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 November 1966.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Twenty-third
Amendment) Bill, 1966 which was enacted as the THE CONSTITUTION (Twentieth
Amendment) Act, 1966_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** Appointment of
district judges in Uttar Pradesh and a few other States have been rendered
invalid and illegal by a recent judgment of the Supreme Court on the ground
that such appointments were not made in accordance with the provisions of
article 233 of the Constitution. In another judgment, the Supreme Court had
held that the power of posting of a district judge under article 233 does not
include the power of transfer of such judge from one station to another and
that the power of transfer of a district judge is vested in the High Court
under article 235 of the Constitution. As a result of these judgments, a
serious situation has arisen because doubt has been thrown on the validity of
the judgments, decrees, orders and sentences passed or made by these district
judges and a number of writ petitions and other cases have already been filed
challenging their validity. The functioning of the district courts in Uttar
Pradesh has practically come to a standstill. It is, therefore, urgently
necessary to validate the judgments, decrees, orders and sentences passed or
made heretofore by all such district judges in those States and also to
validate the appointment, posting, promotion and transfer of such district
judges barring those few who were not eligible for appointment under article
233.

### 2. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above proposals.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Seventeenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Twentieth Amendment) Act, 1966.

### 2\. Insertion of new article 233A.-

After article 233 of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:-"233A. Validation of appointments of and judgements, etc.,
delivered by, certain district judges.-Notwithstanding any judgment, decree or
order of any court,-(a)(i)no appointment of any person already in the judicial
service of a State or of any person who has been for not less than seven years
an advocate or a pleader, to be a district judge in that State, and(ii)no
posting, promotion or transfer of any such person as a district judge, made at
any time before the commencement of the Constitution (Twentieth Amendment)
Act, 1966, otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of article 233 or
article 235 shall be deemed to be illegal or void or ever to have become
illegal or void by reason only of the fact that such appointment, posting,
promotion or transfer was not made in accordance with the said
provisions;(b)no jurisdiction exercised, no judgment, decree, sentence or
order passed or made, and no other act or proceeding done or taken, before the
commencement of THE CONSTITUTION (Twentieth Amendment) Act, 1966 by, or
before, any person appointed, posted, promoted or transferred as a district
judge in any State otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of article
223 or article 235 shall be deemed to be illegal or invalid or ever to have
become illegal or invalid by reason only of the fact that such appointment,
posting promotion or transfer was not made in accordance with the said
provisions.".[The Constitution (Twentieth Amendment) Act, 1966, inserted a new
article 233A inter alia validating the appointments, postings, promotions, and
transfers of and judgements, delivered before the commencement of the present
Act, by district judges who were appointed, posted, promoted or transferred as
a district judge in any State otherwise than in accordance with the provisions
of article 233 or article 235 of the Constitution. Also refer ]

