## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (FORTY-NINTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1984

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (FORTY-NINTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1984

## Act 49 of 1984

  * Published in Gazette of India on 14 August 1984 
  * Commenced on 11 September 1984 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 August 1984.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Fifty-first
Amendment) Bill, 1984 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Forty-ninth
Amendment) Act, 1984_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The Tripura
Legislative Assembly passed a resolution on the 19th March, 1982 and again on
the 11th February, 1983, urging the Government of India to apply the
provisions of the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution to the tribal areas of
the State of Triupura. The State Government of Tripura, therefore, recommended
amendment of the Constitution for the purpose. Though under the Triupura
Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council Act, 1979, an autonomous District
Council has been functioning in the State, it was considered necessary to give
it Constitutional sanctity with a view to meet the aspirations of the tribal
population. The Council is expected to ensure rapid development of tribal
areas and self-governance by the tribals.

### 2. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Thirty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Forty-ninth Amendment) Act,
1984.(2)It shall come into force on such date_669 as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2\. Amendment of article 244.-

In article 244 of the Constitution, in clauses (1) and (2), for the words "and
Meghalaya", the words ",Meghalaya and Tripura" shall be substituted.

### 3. Amendment of the Fifth Schedule.-

In the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution, in paragraph 1, for the words "and
Meghalaya", the words ",Meghalaya and Tripura" shall be substituted.

### 4. Amendment of the Sixth Schedule.-

In the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution,-(a)in the heading, for the words
"and Meghalaya", the words ", Meghalaya and Tripura" shall be
substituted;(b)in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph I, for the words and figures
"Parts I and II", the words, figures and letter "Parts I,II and IIA" shall be
substituted;(c)after paragraph 12A, the following paragraph shall be inserted,
namely:-"12AA. Application of Acts of Parliament and of the Legislature of the
State of Tripura to the autonomous district and autonomous regions in the
State of Tripura.-Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution,-(a)if any
provision of a law made by the District or a Regional Council in the State of
Tripura with respect to any matter specified in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph
3 of this Schedule or if any provision of any regulation made by the District
Council or a Regional Council in that State under paragraph 8 or paragraph 10
of this Schedule, is repugnant to any provision of a law made by the
Legislature of the State of Tripura with respect to the matter, then, the law
or regulation made by the District Council or, as the case may be, the
Regional Council whether made before or after the law made by the Legislature
of the State of Tripura, shall, to the extent of repugnancy, be void and the
law made by the Legislature of the State of Tripura shall prevail;(b)the
President may, with respect to any Act of Parliament, by notification, direct
that it shall not apply to the autonomous district or an autonomous region in
the State of Tripura, or shall apply to such district or region or any part
thereof subject to such exceptions or modifications as he may specify in the
notification and any such direction may be given so as to have retrospective
effect.";(d)in paragraph 17, after the words "or Meghalaya", at both the
places where they occur, the words "or Tripura" shall be inserted;(e)in
paragraph 20,-(i)in sub-paragraph (1),-(A)after the words and figures "in
Parts I, II", the figures and letter ", IIA" shall be inserted;(B)after the
words "the State of Meghalaya", the words ", the State of Tripura" shall be
inserted;(ii)in sub-paragraph (2), for the words "Any reference in the table
below", the words and figures "Any reference in Part I, Part II or Part III of
the table below" shall be substituted;(iii)after sub-paragraph (2), the
following sub-paragraph shall be inserted, namely:-`(3) The reference in Part
IIA in the table below to the "Tripura Tribal Areas District" shall be
construed as a reference to the territory comprising the tribal areas
specified in the First Schedule to the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous
District Council Act, 1979.';(f)in the Table, after Part II and the entries
relating thereto, the following Part shall be inserted, namely:-"PART IIA
Tripura Tribal Areas District.".[The Constitution (Forty-Ninth Amendment) Act,
1984, modifies article 244 and schedules 5 and 6. The Governor has the
authority to change the titles of the autonomous districts. Furthermore, he
also has the authority to expand or contract their boundaries. The sixth
schedule is concerned with managing the tribal lands in the four northeastern
states. Meghalaya, Assam, Tripura, and Mizoram are among these states.
Additionally, it has 10 autonomous district councils spread throughout 4
states. With this constitutional amendment, Tripura will be recognized as a
tribal state. Additionally, permit the establishment of a Tripura Tribal Areas
Autonomous District Council.Also Refer]

