## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (NINETEENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1966

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (NINETEENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1966

## Act 19 of 1966

  * Published in Gazette of India on 16 August 1966 
  * Commenced on 11 December 1966 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 August 1966.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution Twenty-first
Amendment) Bill, 1966 which was enacted as the Constitution (Nineteenth
Amendment) Act, 1966_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** One of the
important recommendations made by the Election Commission in its Report on the
Third General Elections in India in 1962, and accepted by the Government
relates to the abolition of election tribunals and trial of election petitions
by High Courts.If the proposal for a legislation to amend the Representation
of the People Act, 1951, containing, inter alia, provisions for the trial of
election petitions by High Courts instead of the election tribunals, as at
present, is accepted by Parliament, it would be necessary to make a minor
amendment in clause (1) of article 324 of the Constitution for the purpose of
deleting therefrom the words ",including the appointment of election tribunals
for the decision of doubts and disputes arising out of or in connection with
elections to Parliament and to the Legislatures of States".The Bill is
intended to give effect to the aforesaid object.An Act further to amend the
Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Seventeenth Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Nineteenth Amendment) Act, 1966.

### 2. Amendment of article 324.-

In article 324 of the Constitution, in clause (1), the words, "including the
appointment of election tribunals for the decision of doubts and disputes
arising out of or in connection with elections to Parliament and to the
Legislatures of States" shall be omitted.[The Constitution (Nineteenth
Amendment) Act, 1966, abolished Election Tribunals in India and enabled trial
of election petitions by High Courts. It amended clause (1) of article 324 of
the Constitution, which provides for vesting of the power of superintendence,
direction and control of elections with the Election Commission. The 19th
Amendment removed the provision relating to the power of "the appointment of
election tribunals for the decision of doubts and disputes arising out of or
in connection with elections to Parliament and to the Legislatures of States".
Provisions for the trial of election petitions by High Courts instead of the
election tribunals, was provided for by amending the Representation of the
People Act, 1951.Also Refer]

