## Union of India - Act

## The Competition Act, 2002

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Competition Act, 2002

## Act 12 of 2003

  * Published in Gazette 12 on 13 January 2003 
  * Assented to on 13 January 2003 
  * Commenced on 13 January 2003 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 April 2023.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE COMPETITION (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2009 (Act 39 of 2009) on 22 December 2009] 
  2. [Amended by The Competition Appellate Tribunal (Procedure) Regulations, 2011 (Regulation THE-COMPETITION-APPELLATE-TRIBUNAL-PROCEDURE-REGULATIONS of 2011) on 1 January 2011] 
  3. [Amended by THE COMPETITION (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2023 (Act 09 of 2023) on 11 April 2023] 

The Competition Act, 2002[13th January, 2003.]Act No. 12 of 2003

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement. -

(1)This Act may be called The Competition Act, 2002.(2)It extends to the whole
of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.(3)It shall come into force on
such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint:Provided that different dates1 may be appointed for different
provisions of this Act and any reference in any such provision to the
commencement of this Act shall be construed as a reference to the coming into
force of that provision.This clause, inter alia , seeks to extend the
provisions of the Bill to the whole of India excluding the State of Jammu and
Kashmir.

### 2. Definitions. - In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"acquisition" means, directly or indirectly, acquiring or agreeing to
acquire -(i)shares, voting rights or assets of any enterprise; or(ii)control
over management or control over assets of any enterprise;(b)"agreement"
includes any arrangement or understanding or action in concert,-(i)whether or
not, such arrangement, understanding or action is formal or in writing;
or(ii)whether or not such arrangement, understanding or action is intended to
be enforceable by legal proceedings;[(ba) "Appellate Tribunal" means the
Competition Appellate Tribunal established under sub-section (1) of section
53-A;](c)"cartel" includes an association of producers, sellers, distributors,
traders or service providers who, by agreement amongst themselves, limit,
control or attempt to control the production, distribution, sale or price of,
or, trade in goods or provision of services;(d)"Chairperson" means the
Chairperson of the Commission appointed under sub-section (1) of section
8;(e)"Commission" means the Competition Commission of India established under
sub-section (1) of section 7;[(ea) "commitment" means the commitment referred
to in section 48B;](f)"consumer" means any person who-(i)buys any goods for a
consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly
promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of
such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or
promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any system of deferred
payment when such use is made with the approval of such person, whether such
purchase of goods is for resale or for any commercial purpose or for personal
use;(ii)hires or avails of any services for a consideration which has been
paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of
deferred payment and includes any beneficiary of such services other than the
person who hires or avails of the services for consideration paid or promised,
or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment,
when such services are availed of with the approval of the first-mentioned
person whether such hiring or availing of services is for any commercial
purpose or for personal use;(g)"Director General" means the Director General
appointed under sub-section (1) of section 16 and includes any Additional,
Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General appointed under that
section;(h)"enterprise" means [a person or a department of the Government,
including units, divisions, subsidiaries, who or which is, or has been,
engaged in any economic activity, relating to the production, storage, supply,
distribution, acquisition or control of articles or goods, or the provision of
services, of any kind, or in investment, or in the business of acquiring,
holding, underwriting or dealing with shares, debentures or other securities
of any other body corporate, either directly or through one or more of its
units or divisions or subsidiaries, but does not include any activity of the
Government relatable to the sovereign functions of the Government including
all activities carried on by the departments of the Central Government dealing
with atomic energy, currency, defence and space;]Explanation. - For the
purposes of this clause,-(a)"activity" includes profession or
occupation;(b)"article" includes a new article and "service" includes a new
service;(c)"unit" or "division", in relation to an enterprise, includes-(i)a
plant or factory established for the production, storage, supply,
distribution, acquisition or control of any article or goods;(i)"goods" means
goods as defined in the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 (8 of 1930) and includes
-(A)products manufactured, processed or mined;(B)debentures, stocks and shares
after allotment;(C)in relation to goods supplied, distributed or controlled in
India, goods imported into India;(ii)any branch or office established for the
provision of any service;(j)"Member" means a Member of the Commission
appointed under sub-section (1) of section 8 and includes the
Chairperson;(k)"notification" means a notification published in the Official
Gazette;[(ka) "party" includes a consumer or an enterprise or a person or an
information provider, or a consumer association or a trade association, or the
Central Government or any State Government or any statutory authority, as the
case may be, and shall include an enterprise or a person against whom any
inquiry or proceeding is instituted; and any enterprise or person impleaded by
the Commission to join the proceedings;](l)"person" includes-(i)an
individual;(ii)a Hindu undivided family;(iii)a company;(iv)a firm;(v)an
association of persons or a body of individuals, whether incorporated or not,
in India or outside India;(vi)any corporation established by or under any
Central, State or Provincial Act or a Government company as defined in [clause
(45) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)];(vii)any body
corporate incorporated by or under the laws of a country outside India;(viii)a
co-operative society registered under any law relating to co-operative
societies;(ix)a local authority;(x)every artificial juridical person, not
falling within any of the preceding sub-clauses;(m)"practice" includes any
practice relating to the carrying on of any trade by a person or an
enterprise;(n)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(o)"price", in relation to the sale of any goods or to the performance of
any services, includes every valuable consideration, whether direct or
indirect, or deferred, and includes any consideration which in effect relates
to the sale of any goods or to the performance of any services although
ostensibly relating to any other matter or thing;[(p) "public financial
institution" means public financial institution as defined in clause (72) of
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and includes a State
Financial Corporation, State Industrial Corporation or State Investment
Corporation;](q)"regulations" means the regulations made by the Commission
under section 64;(r)"relevant market" means the market which may be determined
by the Commission with reference to the relevant product market or the
relevant geographic market or with reference to both the markets;(s)"relevant
geographic market" means a market comprising the area in which the conditions
of competition for supply of goods or provision of services or demand of goods
or services are distinctly homogeneous and can be distinguished from the
conditions prevailing in the neighbouring areas;[(t) "relevant product market"
means a market comprising of all those products or services -(i)which are
regarded as inter-changeable or substitutable by the consumer, by reason of
characteristics of the products or services, their prices and intended use;
or(ii)the production or supply of, which are regarded as interchangeable or
substitutable by the supplier, by reason of the ease of switching production
between such products and services and marketing them in the short term
without incurring significant additional costs or risks in response to small
and permanent changes in relative prices;](u)"service" means service of any
description which is made available to potential users and includes the
provision of services in connection with business of any industrial or
commercial matters such as banking, communication, education, financing,
insurance, chit funds, real estate, transport, storage, material treatment,
processing, supply of electrical or other energy, boarding, lodging,
entertainment, amusement, construction, repair, conveying of news or
information and advertising;[(ua) "settlement" means the settlement referred
to in section 48A;](v)"shares" means shares in the share capital of a company
carrying voting rights and includes -(i)any security which entitles the holder
to receive shares with voting rights;(ii)stock except where a distinction
between stock and share is expressed or implied;(w)"statutory authority" means
any authority, board, corporation, council, institute, university or any other
body corporate, established by or under any Central, State or Provincial Act
for the purposes of regulating production or supply of goods or provision of
any services or markets therefor or any matter connected therewith or
incidental thereto;(x)"trade" means any trade, business, industry, profession
or occupation relating to the production, supply, distribution, storage or
control of goods and includes the provision of any services;(y)"turnover"
includes value of sale of goods or services;(z)words and expressions used but
not defined in this Act and defined in [the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)]
shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.

## Chapter II  
Prohibition of Certain Agreements, Abuse of Dominant Position and Regulation
of Combinations

Prohibition of agreements

### 3. Anti-competitive agreements. -

(1)No enterprise or association of enterprises or person or association of
persons shall enter into any agreement in respect of production, supply,
distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods or provision of
services, which causes or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on
competition within India.(2)Any agreement entered into in contravention of the
provisions contained in sub-section (1) shall be void.(3)Any agreement entered
into between enterprises or associations of enterprises or persons or
associations of persons or between any person and enterprise or practice
carried on, or decision taken by, any association of enterprises or
association of persons, including cartels, engaged in identical or similar
trade of goods or provision of services, which-(a)directly or indirectly
determines purchase or sale prices;(b)limits or controls production, supply,
markets, technical development, investment or provision of services;(c)shares
the market or source of production or provision of services by way of
allocation of geographical area of market, or type of goods or services, or
number of customers in the market or any other similar way;(d)directly or
indirectly results in bid rigging or collusive bidding, shall be presumed to
have an appreciable adverse effect on competition:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall apply to any agreement entered into by way
of joint ventures if such agreement increases efficiency in production,
supply, distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods or provision of
services.[Provided further that an enterprise or association of enterprises or
a person or association of persons though not engaged in identical or similar
trade shall also be presumed to be part of the agreement under this sub-
section if it participates or intends to participate in the furtherance of
such agreement.]Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section, "bid
rigging" means any agreement, between enterprises or persons referred to in
sub-section (3) engaged in identical or similar production or trading of goods
or provision of services, which has the effect of eliminating or reducing
competition for bids or adversely affecting or manipulating the process for
bidding.(4)[Any other agreement amongst enterprises or persons including but
not restricted to agreement amongst enterprises or persons] at different
stages or levels of the production chain in different markets, in respect of
production, supply, distribution, storage, sale or price of, or trade in goods
or provision of services, including -(a)tie-in arrangement;(b)exclusive
[dealing] agreement;(c)exclusive distribution agreement;(d)refusal to
deal;(e)resale price maintenance, shall be an agreement in contravention of
sub-section (1) if such agreement causes or is likely to cause an appreciable
adverse effect on competition in India.[Provided that nothing contained in
this sub-section shall apply to an agreement entered into between an
enterprise and an end consumer.] Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-
section,-[(a) "tie-in arrangement" includes any agreement requiring a
purchaser of goods or services, as a condition of such purchase, to purchase
some other distinct goods or services;(b)"exclusive dealing agreement"
includes any agreement restricting in any manner the purchaser or the seller,
as the case may be, in the course of his trade from acquiring or selling or
otherwise dealing in any goods or services other than those of the seller or
the purchaser or any other person, as the case may be;](c)"exclusive
distribution agreement" includes any agreement to limit, restrict or withhold
the output or supply of any goods [or services] or allocate any area or market
for the disposal or sale of the goods [or services];(d)"refusal to deal"
includes any agreement which restricts, or is likely to restrict, by any
method the persons or classes of persons to whom goods [or services] are sold
or from whom goods [or services] are bought;(e)"resale price maintenance"
[includes, in case of any agreement to sell goods or provide services, any
direct or indirect restriction] that the prices to be charged on the resale by
the purchaser shall be the prices stipulated by the seller unless it is
clearly stated that prices lower than those prices may be charged;(5)Nothing
contained in this section shall restrict -(i)the right of any person to
restrain any infringement of, or to impose reasonable conditions, as may be
necessary for protecting any of his rights which have been or may be conferred
upon him under -(a)the Copyright Act, 1957 (14 of 1957);(b)the Patents Act,
1970 (39 of 1970);(c)the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (43 of 1958) or
the Trade Marks Act, 1999 (47 of 1999);(d)the Geographical Indications of
Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999 (48 of 1999);(e)the Designs Act,
2000 (16 of 2000);(f)the Semi-Conductor Integrated Circuits Layout-Design Act,
2000 (37 of 2000);[(g) any other law for the time being in force relating to
the protection of other intellectual property rights.](ii)the right of any
person to export goods from India to the extent to which the agreement relates
exclusively to the production, supply, distribution or control of goods or
provision of services for such export.Prohibition of abuse of dominant
position 4. Abuse of dominant position. - [(1) No enterprise or group shall
abuse its dominant position.] (2) There shall be an abuse of dominant position
[under sub-section (1), if an enterprise or a group],-(a)directly or
indirectly, imposes unfair or discriminatory-(i)condition in purchase or sale
of goods or services; or(ii)price in purchase or sale (including predatory
price) of goods or service.Explanation. - For the purposes of this clause, the
unfair or discriminatory condition in purchase or sale of goods or services
referred to in sub-clause (i) and unfair or discriminatory price in purchase
or sale of goods (including predatory price) or service referred to in sub-
clause (ii) shall not include such [condition or price] which may be adopted
to meet the competition; or(b)limits or restricts-(i)production of goods or
provision of services or market therefor; or(ii)technical or scientific
development relating to goods or services to the prejudice of consumers;
or(c)indulges in practice or practices resulting in denial of market access in
any manner; or(d)makes conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by other
parties of supplementary obligations which, by their nature or according to
commercial usage, have no connection with the subject of such contracts;
or(e)uses its dominant position in one relevant market to enter into, or
protect, other relevant market.Explanation. - For the purposes of this
section, the expression-(a)"dominant position" means a position of strength,
enjoyed by an enterprise, in the relevant market, in India, which enables it
to-(i)operate independently of competitive forces prevailing in the relevant
market; or(ii)affect its competitors or consumers or the relevant market in
its favour;(b)"predatory price" means the sale of goods or provision of
services, at a price which is below the cost, as may be determined by
regulations, of production of the goods or provision of services, with a view
to reduce competition or eliminate the competitors;[(c) "group" shall have the
same meaning as assigned to it in clause (b) of the Explanation to section
5.]Regulation of combinations

### 5. Combination. - The acquisition of one or more enterprises by one or
more persons or merger or amalgamation of enterprises shall be a combination
of such enterprises and persons or enterprises, if-

(a)any acquisition where-(i)the parties to the acquisition, being the acquirer
and the enterprise, whose control, shares, voting rights or assets have been
acquired or are being acquired jointly have,-(A)either, in India, the assets
of the value of more than rupees one thousand crores or turnover more than
rupees three thousand crores; or[(B) in India or outside India, in aggregate,
the assets of the value of more than five hundred million US dollars,
including at least rupees five hundred crores in India, or turnover more than
fifteen hundred million US dollars, including at least rupees fifteen hundred
crores in India; or](ii)the group, to which the enterprise whose control,
shares, assets or voting rights have been acquired or are being acquired,
would belong after the acquisition, jointly have or would jointly
have,-(A)either in India, the assets of the value of more than rupees four
thousand crores or turnover more than rupees twelve thousand crores; or[(B) in
India or outside India, in aggregate, the assets of the value of more than two
billion US dollars, including at least rupees five hundred crores in India, or
turnover more than six billion US dollars, including at least rupees fifteen
hundred crores in India; or](b)acquiring of control by a person over an
enterprise when such person has already direct or indirect control over
another enterprise engaged in production, distribution or trading of a similar
or identical or substitutable goods or provision of a similar or identical or
substitutable service, if-(i)the enterprise over which control has been
acquired along with the enterprise over which the acquirer already has direct
or indirect control jointly have,-(A)either in India, the assets of the value
of more than rupees one thousand crores or turnover more than rupees three
thousand crores; or(B)in India or outside India, in aggregate, the assets of
the value of more than five hundred million US dollars, including at least
rupees five hundred crores in India, or turnover more than fifteen hundred
million US dollars, including at least rupees fifteen hundred crores in India;
or(ii)the group, to which enterprise whose control have been acquired, or is
being acquired, would belong after the acquisition, jointly have or would
jointly have,-(A)either in India, the assets of the value of more than rupees
four thousand crores or turnover more than rupees twelve thousand crores;
or[(B) in India or outside India, in aggregate, the assets of the value of
more than two billion US dollars, including at least rupees five hundred
crores in India, or turnover more than six billion US dollars, including at
least rupees fifteen hundred crores in India; or](c)any merger or amalgamation
in which-(i)the enterprise remaining after merger or the enterprise created as
a result of the amalgamation, as the case may be, have,-(A)either in India,
the assets of the value of more than rupees one thousand crores or turnover
more than rupees three thousand crores; or[(B) in India or outside India, in
aggregate, the assets of the value of more than five hundred million US
dollars, including at least rupees five hundred crores in India, or turnover
more than fifteen hundred million US dollars, including at least rupees
fifteen hundred crores in India; or](ii)the group, to which the enterprise
remaining after the merger or the enterprise created as a result of the
amalgamation, would belong after the merger or the amalgamation, as the case
may be, have or would have,-(A)either in India, the assets of the value of
more than rupees four thousand crores or turnover more than rupees twelve
thousand crores; or[(B) in India or outside India, in aggregate, the assets of
the value of more than two billion US dollars, including at least rupees five
hundred crores in India, or turnover more than six billion US dollars,
including at least rupees fifteen hundred crores in India; or][(d) value of
any transaction, in connection with acquisition of any control, shares, voting
rights or assets of an enterprise, merger or amalgamation exceeds rupees two
thousand crore:Provided that the enterprise which is being acquired, taken
control of, merged or amalgamated has such substantial business operations in
India as may be specified by regulations.(e)notwithstanding anything contained
in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c), where either the value of assets or
turnover of the enterprise being acquired, taken control of, merged or
amalgamated in India is not more than such value as may be prescribed, such
acquisition, control, merger or amalgamation, shall not constitute a
combination under section 5.][Explanation. - For the purposes of this section,
-(a)"control" means the ability to exercise material influence, in any manner
whatsoever, over the management or affairs or strategic commercial decisions
by -(i)one or more enterprises, either jointly or singly, over another
enterprise or group; or(ii)one or more groups, either jointly or singly, over
another group or enterprise;(b)"group" means two or more enterprises where one
enterprise is directly or indirectly, in a position to -(i)exercise twenty-six
per cent. or such other higher percentage as may be prescribed, of the voting
rights in the other enterprise; or(ii)appoint more than fifty per cent. of the
members of the board of directors in the other enterprise; or(iii)control the
management or affairs of the other enterprise;(c)"turnover" means the turnover
certified by the statutory auditor on the basis of the last available audited
accounts of the company in the financial year immediately preceding the
financial year in which the notice is filed under sub-section (2) or sub-
section (4) of section 6 and such turnover in India shall be determined by
excluding intra-group sales, indirect taxes, trade discounts and all amounts
generated through assets or business from customers outside India, as
certified by the statutory auditor on the basis of the last available audited
accounts of the company in the financial year immediately preceding the
financial year in which the notice is filed under sub-section (2) or sub-
section (4) of section 6;(d)"value of transaction" includes every valuable
consideration, whether direct or indirect, or deferred for any acquisition,
merger or amalgamation;(e)the value of assets shall be determined by taking
the book value of the assets as shown, in the audited books of account of the
enterprise, in the financial year immediately preceding the financial year in
which the date of proposed combination falls and if such financial statement
has not yet become due to be filed with the Registrar under the Companies Act,
2013 (18 of 2013) then as per the statutory auditor's report made on the basis
of the last available audited accounts of the company in the financial year
immediately preceding the financial year in which the notice is filed under
sub-section (2) or sub-section (4) of section 6, as reduced by any
depreciation, and the value of assets shall include the brand value, value of
goodwill, or value of copyright, patent, permitted use, collective mark,
registered proprietor, registered trade mark, registered user, homonymous
geographical indication, geographical indications, design or layout-design or
similar other commercial rights under the laws provided in sub-section (5) of
section 3;(f)where a portion of an enterprise or division or business is being
acquired, taken control of, merged or amalgamated with another enterprise, the
value of assets or turnover or value of transaction as may be applicable, of
the said portion or division or business or attributable to it, shall be the
relevant assets or turnover or relevant value of transaction for the purpose
of applicability of the thresholds under section 5.]

### 6. Regulation of combinations. -

(1)No person or enterprise shall enter into a combination which causes or is
likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition within the
relevant market in India and such a combination shall be void. (2) Subject to
the provisions contained in sub-section (1), any person or enterprise, who or
which proposes to enter into a combination, [shall] give notice to the
Commission, in the form as may be specified, and the fee which may be
determined, by regulations, disclosing the details of the proposed
combination, [after any of the following, but before consummation of the
combination]-(a)approval of the proposal relating to merger or amalgamation,
referred to in clause (c) [and clause (d)] of section 5, by the board of
directors of the enterprises concerned with such merger or amalgamation, as
the case may be;(b)execution of any agreement or other document for
acquisition referred to in clause (a) [and clause (d)] of section 5 or
acquiring of control referred to in clause (b) of that section.[Explanation. -
For the purposes of this sub-section, "other document" means any document, by
whatever name called, conveying an agreement or decision to acquire control,
shares, voting rights or assets or if the acquisition is without the consent
of the enterprise being acquired, any document executed by the acquiring
enterprise, by whatever name called, conveying a decision to acquire control,
shares or voting rights or where a public announcement has been made in
accordance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 made under
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) for
acquisition of shares, voting rights or control such public document.] [(2-A)
No combination shall come into effect until [one hundred and fifty days] have
passed from the day on which the notice has been given to the Commission under
sub-section (2) or the Commission has passed orders under section 31,
whichever is earlier.](3)The Commission shall, after receipt of notice under
sub-section (2), deal with such notice in accordance with the provisions
contained in [sections 29, 29A, 30 and 31].[(4) Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-sections (2A) and (3) and section 43A, if a combination
fulfils such criteria as may be prescribed and is not otherwise exempted under
this Act from the requirement to give notice to the Commission under sub-
section (2), then notice for such combination may be given to the Commission
in such form and on payment of such fee as may be specified by regulations,
disclosing the details of the proposed combination and thereupon a separate
notice under sub-section (2) shall not be required to be given for such
combination.(5)Upon filing of a notice under sub-section (4) and
acknowledgement thereof by the Commission, the proposed combination shall be
deemed to have been approved by the Commission under sub-section (1) of
section 31 and no other approval shall be required under sub-section (2) or
sub-section (2A).(6)If within the period referred to in sub-section (1) of
section 20, the Commission finds that the combination notified under sub-
section (4) does not fulfil the requirements specified under that sub-section
or the information or declarations provided are materially incorrect or
incomplete, the approval under sub-section (5) shall be void ab initio and the
Commission may pass such order as it may deem fit:Provided that no such order
shall be passed unless the parties to the combination have been given an
opportunity of being heard. (7) Notwithstanding anything contained in this
section and section 43A, upon fulfilment of such criteria as may be
prescribed, certain categories of combinations shall be exempted from the
requirement to comply with sub-sections (2), (2A) and (4). (8) Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-sections (4), (5), (6) and (7) -(i)the rules and
regulations made under this Act on the matters referred to in these sub-
sections as they stood immediately before the commencement of the Competition
(Amendment) Act, 2023 and in force at such commencement, shall continue to be
in force, till such time as the rules or regulations, as the case may be, made
under this Act; and(ii)any order passed or any fee imposed or combination
consummated or resolution passed or direction given or instrument executed or
issued or thing done under or in pursuance of any rules and regulations made
under this Act shall, if in force at the commencement of the Competition
(Amendment) Act, 2023, continue to be in force, and shall have effect as if
such order passed or such fee imposed or such combination consummated or such
resolution passed or such direction given or such instrument executed or
issued or done under or in pursuance of this Act.(9)The provisions of this
section shall not apply to share subscription or financing facility or any
acquisition, by a public financial institution, foreign portfolio investor,
bank or Category I alternative investment fund, pursuant to any covenant of a
loan agreement or investment agreement. Explanation. - For the purposes of
this section, the expression -(a)"Category I alternative investment fund" has
the same meaning as assigned to it under the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 made under the
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);(b)"foreign
portfolio investor" has the same meaning as assigned to it under the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors)
Regulations, 2019 made under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,
1992 (15 of 1992).][6A. Open offers, etc. - Nothing contained in sub-section
(2A) of section 6 and section 43A shall prevent the implementation of an open
offer or an acquisition of shares or securities convertible into other
securities from various sellers, through a series of transactions on a
regulated stock exchange from coming into effect, if -(a)the notice of the
acquisition is filed with the Commission within such time and in such manner
as may be specified by regulations; and(b)the acquirer does not exercise any
ownership or beneficial rights or interest in such shares or convertible
securities including voting rights and receipt of dividends or any other
distributions, except as may be specified by regulations, till the Commission
approves such acquisition in accordance with the provisions of sub-section
(2A) of section 6 of the Act.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section,
"open offer" means an open offer made in accordance with the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
Regulation, 2011 made under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,
1992 (15 of 1992).]

## Chapter III  
Competition Commission Of India

### 7. Establishment of Commission. -

(1)With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification,
appoint, there shall be established, for the purposes of this Act, a
Commission to be called the "Competition Commission of India".(2)The
Commission shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid having perpetual
succession and a common seal with power, subject to the provisions of this
Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of property, both movable and immovable, and
to contract and shall, by the said name, sue or be sued.(3)The head office of
the Commission shall be at such place as the Central Government may decide
from time to time. (4) The Commission may establish offices at other places in
India. [8. Composition of Commission. -(1)The Commission shall consist of a
Chairperson and not less than two and not more than six other Members to be
appointed by the Central Government.(2)The Chairperson and every other Member
shall be a person of ability, integrity and standing and who has special
knowledge of, and such professional experience of not less than fifteen years
in, international trade, economics, business, commerce, law, finance,
accountancy, management, industry, [technology,] public affairs or competition
matters, including competition law and policy, which in the opinion of the
Central Government, may be useful to the Commission.(3)The Chairperson and
other Members shall be whole-time Members.][9. Selection Committee for
Chairperson and Members of Commission. -(1)The Chairperson and other Members
of the Commission shall be appointed by the Central Government from a panel of
names recommended by a Selection Committee consisting of -

(a) the ChiefJustice of India or his nominee | Chairperson;  
---|---  
(b) the Secretaryin the Ministry of Corporate Affairs | Member;  
(c) the Secretaryin the Ministry of Law and Justice | Member;  
(d)two experts of repute who have special knowledge of, andprofessional experience in international trade, economics,business, commerce, law, finance, accountancy, management,industry, [technology,]() public affairs or competition matters includingcompetition law and policy. | Members.  
  
(2)The term of the Selection Committee and the manner of selection of panel of
names shall be such as may be prescribed.]

### 10. Term of office of Chairperson and other Members. -

(1)The Chairperson and every other Member shall hold office as such for a term
of five years from the date on which he enters upon his office and shall be
eligible for re-appointment: [Provided that the Chairperson or other Members
shall not hold office as such after he has attained the age of sixty-five
years.](2)A vacancy caused by the resignation or removal of the Chairperson or
any other Member under section 11 or by death or otherwise shall be filled by
fresh appointment in accordance with the provisions of sections 8 and 9.(3)The
Chairperson and every other Member shall, before entering upon his office,
make and subscribe to an oath of office and of secrecy in such form, manner
and before such authority, as may be prescribed.(4)In the event of the
occurrence of a vacancy in the office of the Chairperson by reason of his
death, resignation or otherwise, the senior-most Member shall act as the
Chairperson, until the date on which a new Chairperson, appointed in
accordance with the provisions of this Act to fill such vacancy, enters upon
his office. (5) When the Chairperson is unable to discharge his functions
owing to absence, illness or any other cause, the senior-most Member shall
discharge the functions of the Chairperson until the date on which the
Chairperson resumes the charge of his functions.

### 11. Resignation, removal and suspension of Chairperson and other Members.
-

(1)The Chairperson or any other Member may, by notice in writing under his
hand addressed to the Central Government, resign his office: Provided that the
Chairperson or a Member shall, unless he is permitted by the Central
Government to relinquish his office sooner, continue to hold office until the
expiry of three months from the date of receipt of such notice or until a
person duly appointed as his successor enters upon his office or until the
expiry of his term of office, whichever is the earliest.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1), the Central Government may, by order,
remove the Chairperson or any other Member from his office if such Chairperson
or Member, as the case may be,-(a)is, or at any time has been, adjudged as an
insolvent; or(b)has engaged at any time, during his term of office, in any
paid employment; or(c)has been convicted of an offence which, in the opinion
of the Central Government, involves moral turpitude; or(d)has acquired such
financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially his functions
as a Member; or(e)has so abused his position as to render his continuance in
office prejudicial to the public interest; or(f)has become physically or
mentally incapable of acting as a Member.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-section (2), no Member shall be removed from his office on the ground
specified in clause (d) or clause (e) of that sub-section unless the Supreme
Court, on a reference being made to it in this behalf by the Central
Government, has, on an inquiry, held by it in accordance with such procedure
as may be prescribed in this behalf by the Supreme Court, reported that the
Member, ought on such ground or grounds to be removed.[12. Restriction on
employment of Chairperson and other Members. - The Chairperson and other
Members shall, for a period of two years from the date on which they cease to
hold office, not accept any employment in or advise as a consultant, retainer
or in any other capacity whatsoever, or be connected with the management or
administration of -(a)any enterprise which is or has been a party to a
proceeding before the Commission under this Act; or(b)any person who appears
or has appeared before the Commission under section 35.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in section 35, the Chairperson or any other Member after
retirement or otherwise ceasing to be in service for any reason shall not
represent for any person or enterprise before the Commission: Provided that
nothing contained in this section shall apply to any employment under the
Central Government or a State Government or local authority or in any
statutory authority or any corporation established by or under any Central,
State or Provincial Act or a Government company as defined in clause (45) of
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).][13. Administrative powers
of Chairperson. - The Chairperson shall have the powers of general
superintendence, direction and control in respect of all administrative
matters of the Commission:Provided that the Chairperson may delegate such of
his powers relating to administrative matters of the Commission, as he may
think fit, to any other Member or officer of the Commission.]

### 14. Salary and allowances and other terms and conditions of services of
Chairperson and other Members. -

(1)The salary, and the other terms and conditions of service, of the
Chairperson and other Members, including travelling expenses, house rent
allowance and conveyance facilities, sumptuary allowances and medical
facilities shall be such as may be prescribed.(2)The salary, allowances and
other terms and conditions of service of the Chairperson or a Member shall not
be varied to his disadvantage after appointment.

### 15. Vacancy, etc., not to invalidate proceedings of Commission. - No act
or proceeding of the Commission shall be invalid merely by reason of-

(a)any vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the Commission;
or(b)any defect in the appointment of a person acting as a Chairperson or as a
Member; or(c)any irregularity in the procedure of the Commission not affecting
the merits of the case.

### 16. Appointment of Director General, etc. -

[(1) The [Commission may, with the prior approval of the Central Government],
appoint a Director General for the purposes of assisting the Commission in
conducting inquiry into contravention of any of the provisions of this Act and
for performing such other functions as are, or may be, provided by or under
this Act.(1-A) The number of other Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant
Directors General or such officers or other employees in the office of
Director General and the manner of appointment of such Additional, Joint,
Deputy or Assistant Directors General or such officers or other employees
shall be such as may be prescribed.](2)Every Additional, Joint, Deputy and
Assistant Directors General or [such officers or other employees,] shall
exercise his powers, and discharge his functions, subject to the general
control, supervision and direction of the Director General.(3)The salary,
allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the Director General
and Additional, Joint, Deputy and Assistant Directors General or [such
officers or other employees,] shall be such as may be prescribed.(4)The
Director General and Additional, Joint, Deputy and Assistant Directors General
or such officers or other employees, shall be appointed from amongst persons
of integrity and outstanding ability and who have experience in investigation,
and knowledge of accountancy, management, business, public administration,
international trade, law or economics and such other qualifications as may be
prescribed.[17. Appointment of Secretary, experts, professionals and officers
and other employees of Commission. -(1)The Commission may appoint a Secretary
and such officers and other employees as it considers necessary for the
efficient performance of its functions under this Act.(2)The salaries and
allowances payable to, and other terms and conditions of service of, the
Secretary and officers and other employees of the Commission and the number of
such officers and other employees shall be such as may be prescribed.(3)The
Commission may engage, in accordance with the procedure specified by
regulations, such number of experts and professionals of integrity and
outstanding ability, who have special knowledge of, and experience in,
economics, law, business or such other disciplines related to competition, as
it deems necessary to assist the Commission in the discharge of its functions
under this Act.]

## Chapter IV  
Duties, Powers And Functions Of Commission

[18. Duties and functions of Commission. - Subject to the provisions of this
Act, it shall be the duty of the Commission to eliminate practices having
adverse effect on competition, promote and sustain competition, protect the
interests of consumers and ensure freedom of trade carried on by other
participants, in markets in India:Provided that the Commission may, for the
purpose of discharging its duties or performing its functions under this Act,
enter into any memorandum or arrangement with the prior approval of the
Central Government, with any agency of any foreign country: Provided further
that, the Commission may, for the purpose of discharging its duties or
performing its functions under this Act, enter into any memorandum or
arrangement with any statutory authority or department of Government.]

### 19. Inquiry into certain agreements and dominant position of enterprise. -

(1)The Commission may inquire into any alleged contravention of the provisions
contained in sub-section (1) of section 3 or sub-section (1) of section 4
either on its own motion or on -(a)[receipt of any information, in such manner
and] accompanied by such fee as may be determined by regulations, from any
person, consumer or their association or trade association; or(b)a reference
made to it by the Central Government or a State Government or a statutory
authority.[Provided that the Commission shall not entertain an information or
a reference unless it is filed within three years from the date on which the
cause of action has arisen:Provided further that an information or a reference
may be entertained after the period specified in the first proviso if the
Commission is satisfied that there had been sufficient cause for not filing
the information or the reference within such period after recording its
reasons for condoning such delay.](2)Without prejudice to the provisions
contained in sub-section (1), the powers and functions of the Commission shall
include the powers and functions specified in sub-sections (3) to (7).(3)The
Commission shall, while determining whether an agreement has an appreciable
adverse effect on competition under section 3, have due regard to all or any
of the following factors, namely:-(a)creation of barriers to new entrants in
the market;(b)driving existing competitors out of the market;(c)foreclosure of
competition [****];(d)[benefits or harm] to consumers;(e)improvements in
production or distribution of goods or provision of services;(f)promotion of
technical, scientific and economic development by means of production or
distribution of goods or provision of services.(4)The Commission shall, while
inquiring whether an enterprise enjoys a dominant position or not under
section 4, have due regard to all or any of the following factors,
namely:-(a)market share of the enterprise;(b)size and resources of the
enterprise;(c)size and importance of the competitors;(d)economic power of the
enterprise including commercial advantages over competitors;(e)vertical
integration of the enterprises or sale or service network of such
enterprises;(f)dependence of consumers on the enterprise;(g)monopoly or
dominant position whether acquired as a result of any statute or by virtue of
being a Government company or a public sector undertaking or
otherwise;(h)entry barriers including barriers such as regulatory barriers,
financial risk, high capital cost of entry, marketing entry barriers,
technical entry barriers, economies of scale, high cost of substitutable goods
or service for consumers;(i)countervailing buying power;(j)market structure
and size of market;(k)social obligations and social costs;(l)relative
advantage, by way of the contribution to the economic development, by the
enterprise enjoying a dominant position having or likely to have an
appreciable adverse effect on competition;(m)any other factor which the
Commission may consider relevant for the inquiry.(5)For determining whether a
market constitutes a "relevant market" for the purposes of this Act, the
Commission shall have due regard to the "relevant geographic market" and
"relevant product market".(6)The Commission shall, while determining the
"relevant geographic market", have due regard to all or any of the following
factors, namely:-(a)regulatory trade barriers;(b)local specification
requirements;(c)national procurement policies;(d)adequate distribution
facilities;(e)transport costs;(f)language;(g)consumer preferences;(h)need for
secure or regular supplies or rapid after-sales services.[(i) characteristics
of goods or nature of services;(j)costs associated with switching supply or
demand to other areas.](7)The Commission shall, while determining the
"relevant product market", have due regard to all or any of the following
factors, namely:-(a)physical characteristics or end-use of goods [or the
nature of services];(b)price of goods or service;(c)consumer
preferences;(d)exclusion of in-house production;(e)existence of specialised
producers;(f)classification of industrial products.[(g) costs associated with
switching demand or supply to other goods or services;(h)categories of
customers.]

### 20. Inquiry into combination by Commission. -

(1)The Commission may, upon its own knowledge or information relating to
acquisition referred to in clause (a) of section 5 or acquiring of control
referred to in clause (b) of section 5 or merger or amalgamation referred to
in [clause (c) of section 5 or acquisition of any control, shares, voting
right or assets of an enterprise, merger or amalgamation referred to in clause
(d) of that section], inquire into whether such a combination has caused or is
likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition in India:Provided
that the Commission shall not initiate any inquiry under this sub-section
after the expiry of one year from the date on which such combination has taken
effect.(2)The Commission shall, on receipt of a notice under sub-section (2)
of section 6 [* * *], inquire whether a combination referred to in that notice
or reference has caused or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on
competition in India.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 5, the
Central Government shall, on the expiry of a period of two years from the date
of commencement of this Act and thereafter every two years, in consultation
with the Commission, [enhance or reduce by notification, or keep at the same
level, on the basis of the wholesale price index or fluctuations in exchange
rate of rupee or foreign currencies, or such factors that in its opinion are
relevant in this matter, the value of assets or the value of turnover or value
of transaction], for the purposes of that section.(4)For the purposes of
determining whether a combination would have the effect of or is likely to
have an appreciable adverse effect on competition in the relevant market, the
Commission shall have due regard to all or any of the following factors,
namely:-(a)actual and potential level of competition through imports in the
market;(b)extent of barriers to entry into the market;(c)level of
[concentration] in the market;(d)degree of countervailing power in the
market;(e)likelihood that the combination would result in the parties to the
combination being able to significantly and sustainably increase prices or
profit margins;(f)extent of effective competition likely to sustain in a
market;(g)extent to which substitutes are available or are likely to be
available in the market;(h)market share, in the relevant market, of the
persons or enterprise in a combination, individually and as a
combination;(i)likelihood that the combination would result in the removal of
a vigorous and effective competitor or competitors in the market;(j)nature and
extent of vertical integration in the market;(k)possibility of a failing
business;(l)nature and extent of innovation;(m)relative advantage, by way of
the contribution to the economic development, by any combination having or
likely to have appreciable adverse effect on competition;(n)whether the
benefits of the combination outweigh the adverse impact of the combination, if
any.

### 21. Reference by statutory authority. -

(1)Where in the course of a proceeding before any statutory authority an issue
is raised by any party that any decision which such statutory authority has
taken or proposes to take, is or would be, contrary to any of the provisions
of this Act, then such statutory authority may make a reference in respect of
such issue to the Commission: [Provided that any statutory authority, may, suo
motu, make a reference to the Commission on any issue that involves any
provision of this Act or is related to promoting the objectives of this Act,
as the case may be.][(2) On receipt of a reference under sub-section (1), the
Commission shall give its opinion, within sixty days of receipt of such
reference, to such statutory authority which shall consider the opinion of the
Commission and thereafter, give its findings recording reasons therefor on the
issues referred to in the said opinion.][21A. Reference by Commission.
-(1)Where in the course of a proceeding before the Commission an issue is
raised by any party that any decision which, the Commission has taken during
such proceeding or proposes to take, is or would be contrary to any provision
of [an Act] whose implementation is entrusted to a statutory authority, then
the Commission may make a reference in respect of such issue to the statutory
authority:[Provided that the Commission, may, suo motu, make a reference to a
statutory authority on any issue that involves provisions of an Act whose
implementation is entrusted to that statutory authority.](2)On receipt of a
reference under sub-section (1), the statutory authority shall give its
opinion, within sixty days of receipt of such reference, to the Commission
which shall consider the opinion of the statutory authority, and thereafter
give its findings recording reasons therefor on the issues referred to in the
said opinion.][22. Meetings of Commission. -(1)The Commission shall meet at
such times and such places, and shall observe such rules of procedure in
regard to the transaction of business at its meetings as may be provided by
regulations.(2)The Chairperson, if for any reason, is unable to attend a
meeting of the Commission, the senior-most Member present at the meeting,
shall preside at the meeting.(3)All questions which come up before any meeting
of the Commission shall be decided by a majority of the Members present and
voting, [***]:Provided that the quorum for such meeting shall be three
Members.]

### 23. Distribution of business of Commission amongst Benches. - [ Omitted by
the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007 (39 of 2007), section 18
(w.e.f.12-10-2007)].

### 24. Procedure for deciding a case where Members of a Bench differ in
opinion. - [ Omitted by the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007 (39 of 2007),
section 18 (w.e.f.12-10-2007)].

### 25. Jurisdiction of Bench. - [ Omitted by the Competition (Amendment) Act,
2007 (39 of 2007), section 18 (w.e.f.12-10-2007)].

[26. Procedure for inquiry under section 19. -(1)On receipt of a reference
from the Central Government or a State Government or a statutory authority or
on its own knowledge or information received under section 19, if the
Commission is of the opinion that there exists a prima facie case, it shall
direct the Director General to cause an investigation to be made into the
matter:Provided that if the subject-matter of an information received is, in
the opinion of the Commission, substantially the same as or has been covered
by any previous information received, then the new information may be clubbed
with the previous information.(2)Where on receipt of a reference from the
Central Government or a State Government or a statutory authority or
information received under section 19, the Commission is of the opinion that
there exists no prima facie case, it shall close the matter forthwith and pass
such orders as it deems fit and send a copy of its order to the Central
Government or the State Government or the statutory authority or the parties
concerned, as the case may be.[(2A) The Commission may not inquire into
agreement referred to in section 3 or conduct of an enterprise or group under
section 4, if the same or substantially the same facts and issues raised in
the information received under section 19 or reference from the Central
Government or a State Government or a statutory authority has already been
decided by the Commission in its previous order.](3)The Director General
shall, on receipt of direction under sub-section (1), submit a report on his
findings within such period as may be specified by the Commission.[(3A) If,
after consideration of the report of the Director General referred to in sub-
section (3), the Commission is of the opinion that further investigation is
required, it may direct the Director General to investigate further into the
matter.(3B)The Director General shall, on receipt of direction under sub-
section (3A), investigate the matter and submit a supplementary report on his
findings within such period as may be specified by the Commission.](4)The
Commission may forward a copy of the report referred to in [sub-sections (3)
and (3B)] to the parties concerned:Provided that in case the investigation is
caused to be made based on a reference received from the Central Government or
the State Government or the statutory authority, the Commission shall forward
a copy of the report referred to in [sub-sections (3) and (3B)] to the Central
Government or the State Government or the statutory authority, as the case may
be.(5)If the report of the Director General referred to in [sub-sections (3)
and (3B)] recommends that there is no contravention of the provisions of this
Act, the Commission shall invite objections or suggestions from the Central
Government or the State Government or the statutory authority or the parties
concerned, as the case may be, on such report of the Director General.(6)If,
after consideration of the objections or suggestions referred to in sub-
section (5), if any, the Commission agrees with the recommendation of the
Director General, it shall close the matter forthwith and pass such orders as
it deems fit and communicate its order to the Central Government or the State
Government or the statutory authority or the parties concerned, as the case
may be.(7)If, after consideration of the objections or suggestions referred to
in sub-section (5), if any, the Commission is of the opinion that further
investigation is called for, it may direct further investigation in the matter
by the Director General or cause further inquiry to be made in the matter or
itself proceed with further inquiry in the matter in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.(8)If the report of the Director General referred to in
[sub-sections (3) and (3B)] recommends that there is contravention of any of
the provisions of this Act, and the Commission is of the opinion that further
inquiry is called for, it shall inquire into such contravention in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.][(9) Upon completion of the investigation or
inquiry under sub-section (7) or sub-section (8), as the case may be, the
Commission may pass an order closing the matter or pass an order under section
27, and send a copy of its order to the Central Government or the State
Government or the statutory authority or the parties concerned, as the case
may be:Provided that before passing such order, the Commission shall issue a
show-cause notice indicating the contraventions alleged to have been committed
and such other details as may be specified by regulations and give a
reasonable opportunity of being heard to the parties concerned.]

### 27. Orders by Commission after inquiry into agreements or abuse of
dominant position. -

Where after inquiry the Commission finds that any agreement referred to in
section 3 or action of an enterprise in a dominant position, is in
contravention of section 3 or section 4, as the case may be, it may pass all
or any of the following orders, namely:-(a)direct any enterprise or
association of enterprises or person or association of persons, as the case
may be, involved in such agreement, or abuse of dominant position, to
discontinue and not to re-enter such agreement or discontinue such abuse of
dominant position, as the case may be;[(b) impose such penalty, as it may deem
fit which shall be not more than ten per cent. of the average of the turnover
or income, as the case may be, for the last three preceding financial years,
upon each of such person or enterprise which is a party to such agreement or
has abused its dominant position:Provided that in case any agreement referred
to in section 3 has been entered into by a cartel, the Commission may impose
upon each producer, seller, distributor, trader or service provider included
in that cartel, a penalty of up to three times of its profit for each year of
the continuance of such agreement or ten per cent. of its turnover or income,
as the case may be, for each year of the continuance of such agreement,
whichever is higher.Explanation 1. - For the purposes of this clause, the
expression "turnover" or "income", as the case may be, shall be determined in
such manner as may be specified by regulations.Explanation 2. - For the
purposes of this clause, "turnover" means global turnover derived from all the
products and services by a person or an enterprise.] [* * *](d)direct that the
agreements shall stand modified to the extent and in the manner as may be
specified in the order by the Commission;(e)direct the enterprises concerned
to abide by such other orders as the Commission may pass and comply with the
directions, including payment of costs, if any;[* * *](g)pass such other
[order or issue such directions] as it may deem fit:[Provided that while
passing orders under this section, if the Commission comes to a finding, that
an enterprise in contravention to section 3 or section 4 of the Act is a
member of a group as defined in clause (b) of the Explanation to section 5 of
the Act, and other members of such a group are also responsible for, or have
contributed to, such a contravention, then it may pass orders, under this
section, against such members of the group.]

### 28. Division of enterprise enjoying dominant position. -

(1)The [Commission], may, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law
for the time being in force, by order in writing, direct division of an
enterprise enjoying dominant position to ensure that such enterprise does not
abuse its dominant position.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing powers, the order referred to in sub-section (1)
may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-(a)the transfer
or vesting of property, rights, liabilities or obligations;(b)the adjustment
of contracts either by discharge or reduction of any liability or obligation
or otherwise;(c)the creation, allotment, surrender or cancellation of any
shares, stocks or securities;[* * *](e)the formation or winding up of an
enterprise or the amendment of the memorandum of association or articles of
association or any other instruments regulating the business of any
enterprise;(f)the extent to which, and the circumstances in which, provisions
of the order affecting an enterprise may be altered by the enterprise and the
registration thereof;(g)any other matter which may be necessary to give effect
to the division of the enterprise.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in any
other law for the time being in force or in any contract or in any memorandum
or articles of association, an officer of a company who ceases to hold office
as such in consequence of the division of an enterprise shall not be entitled
to claim any compensation for such cesser.

### 29. Procedure for investigation of combinations. -

(1)Where the Commission is of the [prima facie] opinion that a combination is
likely to cause, or has caused an appreciable adverse effect on competition
within the relevant market in India, it shall issue a notice to show cause to
the parties to combination calling upon them to respond [within fifteen days]
of the receipt of the notice, as to why investigation in respect of such
combination should not be conducted.[(1-A) After receipt of the response of
the parties to the combination under sub-section (1), the Commission may call
for a report from the Director General and such report shall be submitted by
the Director General within such time as the Commission may direct.][(1B) The
Commission shall, within thirty days of receipt of notice under sub-section
(2) of section 6, form its prima facie opinion referred to in sub-section
(1).](2)The Commission, if it is prima facie of the opinion that the
combination has, or is likely to have, an appreciable adverse effect on
competition, it shall, [within seven days] from the date of receipt of the
response of the parties to the combination or the receipt of the report from
Director General called under sub-section (1-A), whichever is later, direct
the parties to the said combination to publish details of the combination
[within seven days] of such direction, in such manner, as it thinks
appropriate, for bringing the combination to the knowledge or information of
the public and persons affected or likely to be affected by such
combination.(3)The Commission may invite any person or member of the public,
affected or likely to be affected by the said combination, to file his written
objections, if any, before the Commission [within ten days] from the date on
which the details of the combination were published under sub-section
(2).(4)The Commission may, [within seven days] from the expiry of the period
specified in sub-section (3), call for such additional or other information as
it may deem fit from the parties to the said combination.(5)The additional or
other information called for by the Commission shall be furnished by the
parties referred to in sub-section (4) [within ten days] from the expiry of
the period specified in sub-section (4).[(6) After receipt of all information,
the Commission shall proceed to deal with the case in accordance with the
provisions contained in section 29A or section 31, as the case may
be.(7)Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, the Commission may
accept appropriate modifications offered by the parties to the combination or
suo motu propose modifications, as the case may be, before forming a prima
facie opinion under sub-section (1).][29A. Issue of statement of objections by
Commission and proposal of modifications. -(1)Upon completion of the process
under section 29, where the Commission is of the opinion that the combination
has, or is likely to have, an appreciable adverse effect on competition, it
shall issue a statement of objections to the parties identifying such
appreciable adverse effect on competition and direct the parties to explain
within twenty-five days of receipt of the statement of objections, why such
combination should be allowed to take effect.(2)Where the parties to the
combination consider that such appreciable adverse effect on competition can
be eliminated by suitable modification to such combination, they may submit an
offer of appropriate modification to the combination along with their
explanation to the statement of objections issued under sub-section (1) in
such manner as may be specified by regulations.(3)If the Commission does not
accept the modification submitted by the parties under sub-section (2) it
shall, within seven days from the date of receipt of the proposed
modifications under that sub-section, communicate to the parties as to why the
modification is not sufficient to eliminate the appreciable adverse effect on
competition and call upon the parties to furnish, within twelve days of the
receipt of the said communication, revised modification, if any, to eliminate
the appreciable adverse effects on competition: Provided that the Commission
shall evaluate such proposal for modification within twelve days from receipt
of such proposal:Provided further that the Commission may suo motu propose
appropriate modifications to the combination which may be considered by the
parties to the combination.][30. Procedure in case of notice under sub-section
(2) of section 6.-Where any person or enterprise has given a notice under sub-
section (2) of section 6, the Commission shall examine such notice and form
its prima facie opinion as provided in sub-section (1) of section 29 and
proceed as per provisions contained in that section.]

### 31. Orders of Commission on [***] combinations. -

(1)Where the Commission is of the opinion that any combination does not, or is
not likely to, have an appreciable adverse effect on competition, it shall, by
order, approve that combination [****] in respect of which a notice has been
given under sub-section (2) of section 6.[Provided that if the Commission does
not form a prima facie opinion as provided under sub-section (1B) of section
29, the combination shall be deemed to have been approved and no separate
order shall be required to be passed.](2)Where the Commission is of the
opinion that the combination has, or is likely to have, an appreciable adverse
effect on competition, it shall direct that the combination shall not take
effect.[(3) Where the Commission is of the opinion that any appreciable
adverse effect on competition that the combination has, or is likely to have,
can be eliminated by modification proposed by the parties or the Commission,
as the case may be, under sub-section (7) of section 29 or sub-section (2) or
sub-section (3) of section 29A, it may approve the combination subject to such
modifications as it thinks fit.(4)Where a combination is approved by the
Commission under sub-section (3), the parties to the combination shall carry
out such modification within such period as may be specified by the
Commission.(5)Where -(a)the Commission has directed under sub-section (2) that
the combination shall not take effect; or(b)the parties to the combination,
fail to carry out the modification within such period as may be specified by
the Commission under sub-section (4); or(c)the Commission is of the opinion
that the combination has, or is likely to have, an appreciable adverse effect
on competition which cannot be eliminated by suitable modification to such
combination, then, without prejudice to any penalty which may be imposed or
any prosecution which may be initiated under this Act, the Commission may
order that such combination shall not be given effect to, or be declared void,
or frame a scheme to be implemented by the parties to address the appreciable
adverse effect on competition, as the case may be.(6)If no order is passed or
direction issued by the Commission in accordance with the provisions of sub-
section (1) or sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) or sub-section (5), as the
case may be, within a period of one hundred and fifty days from the date of
notice given to the Commission under sub-section (2) of section 6, the
combination shall be deemed to have been approved by the
Commission.][****](13)Where the Commission has ordered a combination to be
void, the acquisition or acquiring of control or merger or amalgamation
referred to in section 5, shall be dealt with by the authorities under any
other law for the time being in force as if such acquisition or acquiring of
control or merger or amalgamation had not taken place and the parties to the
combination shall be dealt with accordingly.(14)Nothing contained in this
Chapter shall affect any proceeding initiated or which may be initiated under
any other law for the time being in force.

### 32. Acts taking place outside India but having an effect on competition in
India. - The Commission shall, notwithstanding that,-

(a)an agreement referred to in section 3 has been entered into outside India;
or(b)any party to such agreement is outside India; or(c)any enterprise abusing
the dominant position is outside India; or(d)a combination has taken place
outside India; or(e)any party to combination is outside India; or(f)any other
matter or practice or action arising out of such agreement or dominant
position or combination is outside India, have power to inquire [in accordance
with the provisions contained in sections 19, 20, 26, [29, 29A and 30] of the
Act] into such agreement or abuse of dominant position or combination if such
agreement or dominant position or combination has, or is likely to have, an
appreciable adverse effect on competition in the relevant market in India [and
pass such orders as it may deem fit in accordance with the provisions of this
Act.][33. Power to issue interim orders. - Where during an inquiry, the
Commission is satisfied that an act in contravention of sub-section (1) of
section 3 or sub-section (1) of section 4 or section 6 has been committed and
continues to be committed or that such act is about to be committed, the
Commission may, by order, temporarily restrain any party from carrying on such
act until the conclusion of such inquiry or until further orders, without
giving notice to such party, where it deems it necessary.]

### 34. Power to award compensation. - [ Omitted by the Competition
(Amendment) Act , 2007 (39 of 2007), section 27 (w.e.f.12-10-2007).] This
clause seeks to omit section 34 of the Competition Act, 2002 relating to power
to award compensation.

### 35. Appearance before Commission. -

[(1)] [A party] or the Director General may either appear in person or
authorise one or more chartered accountants or company secretaries or cost
accountants or legal practitioners or any of his or its officers to present
his or its case before the Commission. Explanation. - For the purposes of this
section, -(a)"chartered accountant" means a chartered accountant as defined in
clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Chartered Accountants Act,
1949 (38 of 1949) and who has obtained a certificate of practice under sub-
section (1) of section 6 of that Act;(b)"company secretary" means a company
secretary as defined in clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the
Company Secretaries Act, 1980 (56 of 1980) and who has obtained a certificate
of practice under sub-section (1) of section 6 of that Act;(c)"cost
accountant" means a cost accountant as defined in clause (b) of sub-section
(1) of section 2 of the Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959 (23 of 1959) and
who has obtained a certificate of practice under sub-section (1) of section 6
of that Act;(d)"legal practitioner" means an advocate, vakil or an attorney of
any High Court, and includes a pleader in practice.[(2) Without prejudice to
sub-section (1), a party may call upon experts from the fields of economics,
commerce, international trade or from any other discipline to provide an
expert opinion in connection with any matter related to a case.][36. Power of
Commission to regulate its own procedure. -(1)In the discharge of its
functions, the Commission shall be guided by the principles of natural justice
and, subject to the other provisions of this Act and of any rules made by the
Central Government, the Commission shall have the powers to regulate its own
procedure.(2)The Commission shall have, for the purposes of discharging its
functions under this Act, the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit, in respect
of the following matters, namely:-(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of
any person and examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production
of documents;(c)receiving evidence on affidavit;(d)issuing commissions for the
examination of witnesses or documents;(e)requisitioning, subject to the
provisions of sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of
1872), any public record or document or copy of such record or document from
any office.(3)The Commission may call upon such experts, from the fields of
economics, commerce, accountancy, international trade or from any other
discipline as it deems necessary, to assist the Commission in the conduct of
any inquiry by it.(4)The Commission may direct any person-(a)to produce before
the Director General or the Secretary or an officer authorised by it, such
books or other documents in the custody or under the control of such person so
directed as may be specified or described in the direction, being documents
relating to any trade, the examination of which may be required for the
purposes of this Act;(b)to furnish to the Director General or the Secretary or
any other officer authorised by it, as respects the trade or such other
information as may be in his possession in relation to the trade carried on by
such person, as may be required for the purposes of this Act.]

### 37. Review of orders of Commission. - [ Omitted by the Competition
(Amendment) Act, 2007 (39 of 2007), section 30 (w.e.f.12-10-2007).] 38.
Rectification of orders. -

(1)With a view to rectifying any mistake apparent from the record, the
Commission may amend any order passed by it under the provisions of this
Act.(2)Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Commission may
make-(a)an amendment under sub-section (1) of its own motion;(b)an amendment
for rectifying any such mistake which has been brought to its notice by any
party to the order.Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
declared that the Commission shall not, while rectifying any mistake apparent
from record, amend substantive part of its order passed under the provisions
of this Act.[39. Execution of orders of Commission imposing monetary penalty.
-(1)If a person fails to pay any monetary penalty imposed on him under this
Act, the Commission shall proceed to recover such penalty in such manner as
may be specified by the regulations.(2)In a case where the Commission is of
the opinion that it would be expedient to recover the penalty imposed under
this Act in accordance with the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of
1961), it may make a reference to this effect to the concerned income-tax
authority under that Act for recovery of the penalty as tax due under the said
Act.(3)Where a reference has been made by the Commission under sub-section (2)
for recovery of penalty, the person upon whom the penalty has been imposed
shall be deemed to be the assessee in default under the Income-tax Act, 1961
(43 of 1961) and the provisions contained in sections 221 to 227, 228-A, 229,
231 and 232 of the said Act and the Second Schedule to that Act and any rules
made thereunder shall, in so far as may be, apply as if the said provisions
were the provisions of this Act and referred to sums by way of penalty imposed
under this Act instead of to income-tax and sums imposed by way of penalty,
fine and interest under the Income-tax Act, 1961 and to the Commission instead
of the Assessing Officer.Explanation .1.- Any reference to sub-section (2) or
sub-section (6) of section 220 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), in
the said provisions of that Act or the rules made thereunder shall be
construed as references to sections 43 to 45 of this Act.Explanation 2.-The
Tax Recovery Commissioner and the Tax Recovery Officer referred to in the
Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) shall be deemed to be the Tax Recovery
Commissioner and the Tax Recovery Officer for the purposes of recovery of sums
imposed by way of penalty, under this Act and reference made by the Commission
under sub-section (2) would amount to drawing of a certificate by the Tax
Recovery Officer as far as demand relating to penalty under this
Act.Explanation 3.-Any reference to appeal in Chapter XVII-D and the Second
Schedule of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), shall be construed as a
reference to appeal before the Competition Appellate Tribunal under section
53-B of this Act.]

### 40. Appeal. - [ Omitted by the Competition (Amendment) Act , 2007 (39 of
2007), section 32 (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).]

## Chapter V  
Duties Of Director General

### 41. Director General to investigate contraventions. -

(1)The Director General shall, when so directed by the Commission, assist the
Commission in investigating into any contravention of the provisions of this
Act or any rules or regulations made thereunder.(2)The Director General shall
have all the powers as are conferred upon the Commission under sub-section (2)
of section 36.[(3) Without prejudice to sub-section (2), it shall be the duty
of all officers, other employees and agents of a party which are under
investigation -(a)to preserve and to produce all information, books, papers,
other documents and records of, or relating to, the party which are in their
custody or power to the Director General or any person authorised by it in
this behalf; and(b)to give all assistance in connection with the investigation
to the Director General.(4)The Director General may require any person other
than a party referred to in sub-section (3) to furnish such information or
produce such books, papers, other documents or records before it or any person
authorised by it in this behalf if furnishing of such information or the
production of such books, papers, other documents or records is relevant or
necessary for the purposes of its investigation.(5)The Director General may
keep in his custody any information, books, papers, other documents or records
produced under sub-section (3) or sub-section (4) for a period of one hundred
and eighty days and thereafter shall return the same to the person by whom or
on whose behalf the information, books, papers, other documents or records
were produced: Provided that the information, books, papers, other documents
or records may be called for by the Director General if they are needed again
for a further period of one hundred and eighty days by an order in
writing:Provided further that the certified copies of the information, books,
papers, other documents or records, as may be applicable, produced before the
Director General may be provided to the party or person on whose behalf the
information, books, papers, other documents or records are produced at their
own cost.(6)The Director General may examine on oath -(a)any of the officers
and other employees and agents of the party being investigated; and(b)with the
previous approval of the Commission, any other person,in relation to the
affairs of the party being investigated and may administer an oath accordingly
and for that purpose may require any of those persons to appear before it
personally.(7)The examination under sub-section (6) shall be recorded in
writing and shall be read over to or by, and signed by, the person examined
and may thereafter be used in evidence against it.(8)Where in the course of
investigation, the Director General has reasonable grounds to believe that
information, books, papers, other documents or records of, or relating to, any
party or person, may be destroyed, mutilated, altered, falsified or secreted,
the Director General may make an application to the Chief Metropolitan
Magistrate, Delhi for an order for seizure of such information, books, papers,
other documents or records.(9)The Director General may make requisition of the
services of any police officer or any officer of the Central Government to
assist him for all or any of the purposes specified in sub-section (10) and it
shall be the duty of every such officer to comply with such
requisition.(10)The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Delhi may, after
considering the application and hearing from the Director General, by order,
authorise the Director General -(a)to enter, with such assistance, as may be
required, the place or places where such information, books, papers, other
documents or records are kept;(b)to search that place or places in the manner
specified in the order; and(c)to seize information, books, papers, other
documents or records as it considers necessary for the purpose of the
investigation:Provided that certified copies of the seized information, books,
papers, other documents or records, as the case may be, may be provided to the
party or person from whose place or places such documents have been seized at
its cost.(11)The Director General shall keep in his custody such information,
books, papers, other documents or records seized under this section for such
period not later than the conclusion of the investigation as it considers
necessary and thereafter shall return the same to the party or person from
whose custody or power they were seized and inform the Chief Metropolitan
Magistrate, of such return:Provided that the Director General may, before
returning such information, books, papers, other documents or records take
copies of, or extracts thereof or place identification marks on them or any
part thereof.(12)Save as otherwise provided in this section, every search or
seizure made under this section shall be carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), relating to
search or seizure made under that Code.] [Explanation. - For the purposes of
this section, -(a)"agent", in relation to any person, means any one acting or
purporting to act for or on behalf of such person, and includes the bankers,
and persons employed as auditors and legal advisors, by such
person;(b)"officers", in relation to any company or body corporate, includes
any trustee for the debenture holders of such company or body corporate;(c)any
reference to officers and other employees or agents shall be construed as a
reference to past as well as present officers and other employees or agents,
as the case may be.]

## Chapter VI  
Penalties

[42. Contravention of orders of Commission. -(1)The Commission may cause an
inquiry to be made into compliance of its orders or directions made in
exercise of its powers under the Act.(2)If any person, without reasonable
cause, fails to comply with the orders or directions of the Commission issued
under [sections 6, 27, 28, 31, 32, 33, 42A, 43, 43A, 44 and 45 of the Act, he
shall be liable to a penalty] which may extend to rupees one lakh for each day
during which such non-compliance occurs, subject to a maximum of rupees ten
crore, as the Commission may determine.(3)If any person does not comply with
the orders or directions issued, or fails to [pay the penalty imposed under
sub-section (2)], he shall, without prejudice to any proceeding under section
39, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
years, or with fine which may extend to rupees twenty-five crore, or with
both, as the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Delhi may deem fit:Provided that
the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Delhi shall not take cognizance of any
offence under this section save on a complaint filed by the Commission or any
of its officers authorised by it.][42A. Compensation in case of contravention
of orders of Commission. - Without prejudice to the provisions of this Act,
any person may make an application to the Appellate Tribunal for an order for
the recovery of compensation from any enterprise for any loss or damage shown
to have been suffered, by such person as a result of the said enterprise
violating directions issued by the Commission or contravening, without any
reasonable ground, any decision or order of the Commission issued [under
sections 6, 27], 28, 31, 32 and 33 or any condition or restriction subject to
which any approval, sanction, direction or exemption in relation to any matter
has been accorded, given, made or granted under this Act or delaying in
carrying out such orders or directions of the Commission.] [43. Penalty for
failure to comply with directions of Commission and Director General. - If any
person fails to comply, without reasonable cause, with a direction given
by-(a)the Commission under sub-sections (2) and (4) of section 36; or(b)the
Director General while exercising powers referred to in sub-section (2) of
section 41, such person [shall be liable to a penalty] which may extend to
rupees one lakh for each day during which such failure continues subject to a
maximum of rupees one crore, as may be determined by the Commission.][43A.
Power to impose penalty for non-furnishing of information on combination. - If
any person or enterprise fails to give notice to the Commission under sub-
section (2) or sub-section (4) of section 6 or contravenes sub-section (2A) of
section 6 or submit information pursuant to an inquiry under sub-section (1)
of section 20, the Commission may impose on such person or enterprise, a
penalty which may extend to one per cent., of the total turnover or assets or
the value of transaction referred to in clause (d) of section 5, whichever is
higher, of such a combination:Provided that in case any person or enterprise
has given a notice under sub-section (4) of section 6 and such notice is found
to be void ab initio under sub-section (6) of section 6, then a notice under
sub-section (2) of section 6 may be given by the acquirer or parties to the
combination, as may be applicable, within a period of thirty days of the order
of the Commission under sub-section (6) of that section and no action under
this section shall be taken by the Commission till the expiry of such period
of thirty days.]

### 44. Penalty for making false statement or omission to furnish material
information. -

If any person, being a party to a combination, -(a)makes a statement which is
false in any material particular, or knowing it to be false; or(b)omits to
state any material particular knowing it to be material, such person shall be
liable to a penalty which shall not be less than rupees fifty lakhs but which
may extend to [rupees five crore], as may be determined by the Commission.

### 45. Penalty for [contraventions] in relation to furnishing of information.
-

[(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of [sub-section (6) of section 6 and]
section 44, if a person, who furnishes or is required to furnish under this
Act any particulars, documents or any information,-(a)makes any statement or
furnishes any document which he knows or has reason to believe to be false in
any material particular; or(b)omits to state any material fact knowing it to
be material; or(c)wilfully alters, suppresses or destroys any document which
is required to be furnished as aforesaid, such person shall be [liable to a
penalty] which may extend to rupees one crore as may be determined by the
Commission.](2)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), the
Commission may also pass such other order as it deems fit.[46. Power to impose
lesser penalty. -(1)The Commission may, if it is satisfied that any producer,
seller, distributor, trader or service provider included in any cartel, which
is alleged to have violated section 3, has made a full and true disclosure in
respect of the alleged violations and such disclosure is vital, impose upon
such producer, seller, distributor, trader or service provider a lesser
penalty as may be specified by regulations, than leviable under this Act or
the rules or the regulations made under this Act:Provided that lesser penalty
shall not be imposed by the Commission in cases where the report of
investigation directed under section 26 has been received before making of
such disclosure:Provided further that lesser penalty shall be imposed by the
Commission only in respect of a producer, seller, distributor, trader or
service provider included in the cartel, who has made the full, true and vital
disclosures under this section:Provided also that lesser penalty shall not be
imposed by the Commission if the person making the disclosure does not
continue to co-operate with the Commission till the completion of the
proceedings before the Commission:Provided also that the Commission may, if it
is satisfied that such producer, seller, distributor, trader or service
provider included in the cartel had in the course of proceedings, -(a)not
complied with the condition on which the lesser penalty was imposed by the
Commission; or(b)had given false evidence; or(c)the disclosure made is not
vital, and thereupon such producer, seller, distributor, trader or service
provider may be tried for the contravention with respect to which the lesser
penalty was imposed and shall also be liable to the imposition of penalty to
which such person has been liable, had lesser penalty not been imposed.(2)The
Commission may allow a producer, seller, distributor, trader or service
provider included in the cartel, to withdraw its application for lesser
penalty under this section, in such manner and within such time as may be
specified by regulations.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(2), the Director General and the Commission shall be entitled to use for the
purposes of this Act, any evidence submitted by a producer, seller,
distributor, trader or service provider in its application for lesser penalty,
except its admission.(4)Where during the course of the investigation, a
producer, seller, distributor, trader or service provider who has disclosed a
cartel under sub-section (1), makes a full, true and vital disclosure under
sub-section (1) with respect to another cartel in which it is alleged to have
violated section 3, which enables the Commission to form a prima facie opinion
under sub-section (1) of section 26 that there exists another cartel, then the
Commission may impose upon such producer, seller, distributor, trader or
service provider a lesser penalty as may be specified by regulations, in
respect of the cartel already being investigated, without prejudice to the
producer, seller, distributor, trader or service provider obtaining lesser
penalty under sub-section (1) regarding the newly disclosed cartel.]

### 47. Crediting sums realised by way of penalties to Consolidated Fund of
India. -

All sums realised by way of penalties [and recovery of legal costs by the
Commission] under this Act shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund of
India.[48. Contravention by companies. -(1)Where a person committing
contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule, regulation,
order made or direction issued thereunder is a company, every person who, at
the time the contravention was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be in contravention of this Act and
unless otherwise provided in this Act, the Commission may impose such penalty
on such persons, as it may deem fit which shall not be more than ten per cent.
of the average of the income for the last three preceding financial years:
Provided that in case any agreement referred to in sub-section (3) of section
3 has been entered into by a cartel, the Commission may unless otherwise
provided in this Act, impose upon such persons referred to in sub-section (1),
a penalty of up to ten per cent. of the income for each year of the
continuance of such agreement.(2)Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall
render any such person liable to any penalty if he proves that the
contravention was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all
due diligence to prevent the commission of such
contravention.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where
a contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule,
regulation, order made or direction issued thereunder has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the contravention has taken place with the
consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of,
any director, manager, secretary or other officers of the company, such
director, manager, secretary or other officers shall also be deemed to be in
contravention of the provisions of this Act and unless otherwise provided in
this Act, the Commission may impose such penalty on such persons, as it may
deem fit which shall not be more than ten per cent. of the average of the
income for the last three preceding financial years:Provided that in case any
agreement referred to in sub-section (3) of section 3 has been entered into by
a cartel, the Commission may, unless otherwise provided under this Act, impose
upon such person a penalty as it may deem fit which shall not exceed ten per
cent. of the income for each year of the continuance of such
agreement.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, -(a)"company" means
a body corporate and includes a firm or other association of
individuals;(b)"director", in relation to a firm, means a partner in the
firm;(c)"income", in relation to a person, shall be determined in such manner
as may be specified by regulations.

### 48A. Settlement. -

(1)Any enterprise, against whom any inquiry has been initiated under sub-
section (1) of section 26 for contravention of sub-section (4) of section 3 or
section 4, may, for settlement of the proceeding initiated for the alleged
contraventions, submit an application in writing to the Commission in such
form and upon payment of such fee as may be specified by regulations.(2)An
application under sub-section (1) may be submitted at any time after the
receipt of the report of the Director General under sub-section (4) of section
26 but prior to such time before the passing of an order under section 27 or
section 28 as may be specified by regulations.(3)The Commission may, after
taking into consideration the nature, gravity and impact of the
contraventions, agree to the proposal for settlement, on payment of such
amount by the applicant or on such other terms and manner of implementation of
settlement and monitoring as may be specified by regulations.(4)While
considering the proposal for settlement, the Commission shall provide an
opportunity to the party concerned, the Director General, or any other party
to submit their objections and suggestions, if any.(5)If the Commission is of
the opinion that the settlement offered under sub-section (1) is not
appropriate in the circumstances or if the Commission and the party concerned
do not reach an agreement on the terms of the settlement within such time as
may be specified by regulations, it shall, by order, reject the settlement
application and proceed with its inquiry under section 26.(6)The procedure for
conducting the settlement proceedings under this section shall be such as may
be specified by regulations.(7)No appeal shall lie under section 53B against
any order passed by the Commission under this section.(8)All settlement
amounts, realised under this Act shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund of
India.

### 48B. Commitment. -

(1)Any enterprise, against whom any inquiry has been initiated under sub-
section (1) of section 26 for contravention of sub-section (4) of section 3 or
section 4, as the case may be, may submit an application in writing to the
Commission, in such form and on payment of such fee as may be specified by
regulations, offering commitments in respect of the alleged contraventions
stated in the Commission's order under sub-section (1) of section 26.(2)An
offer for commitments under sub-section (1) may be submitted at any time after
an order under sub-section (1) of section 26 has been passed by the Commission
but within such time prior to the receipt by the party of the report of the
Director General under sub-section (4) of section 26 as may be specified by
regulations.(3)The Commission may, after taking into consideration the nature,
gravity and impact of the alleged contraventions and effectiveness of the
proposed commitments, accept the commitments offered on such terms and the
manner of implementation and monitoring as may be specified by
regulations.(4)While considering the proposal for commitment, the Commission
shall provide an opportunity to the party concerned, the Director General, or
any other party to submit their objections and suggestions, if any.(5)If the
Commission is of the opinion that the commitment offered under sub-section (1)
is not appropriate in the circumstances or if the Commission and the party
concerned do not reach an agreement on the terms of the commitment, it shall
pass an order rejecting the commitment application and proceed with its
inquiry under section 26 of the Act.(6)The procedure for commitments offered
under this section shall be such as may be specified by regulations.(7)No
appeal shall lie under section 53B against any order passed by the Commission
under this section.

### 48C. Revocation of the settlement or commitment order and penalty. -

If an applicant fails to comply with the order passed under section 48A or
section 48B or it comes to the notice of the Commission that the applicant has
not made full and true disclosure or there has been a material change in the
facts, the order passed under section 48A or section 48B, as the case may be,
shall stand revoked and withdrawn and such enterprise shall be liable to pay
legal costs incurred by the Commission which may extend to rupees one crore
and the Commission may restore or initiate the inquiry in respect of which the
order under section 48A or section 48B was passed.]

## Chapter VII  
Competition Advocacy

### 49. Competition advocacy. -

[(1) The Central Government may, in formulating a policy on competition
(including review of laws related to competition) or on any other matter, and
a State Government may, in formulating a policy on competition or on any other
matter, as the case may be, make a reference to the Commission for its opinion
on possible effect of such policy on competition and on the receipt of such a
reference, the Commission shall, within sixty days of making such reference,
give its opinion to the Central Government, or the State Government, as the
case may be, which may thereafter take further action as it deems fit.](2)The
opinion given by the Commission under sub-section (1) shall not be binding
upon the Central Government [or the State Government, as the case may be,] in
formulating such policy.(3)The Commission shall take suitable measures [* * *]
for the promotion of competition advocacy [or culture], creating awareness and
imparting training about competition issues.

## Chapter VIII  
Finance, Accounts and Audit

### 50. Grants by Central Government. -

The Central Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law
in this behalf, make to the Commission grants of such sums of money as the
Government may think fit for being utilised for the purposes of this Act.

### 51. Constitution of Fund. -

(1)There shall be constituted a fund to be called the "Competition Fund" and
there shall be credited thereto-(a)all Government grants received by the
Commission;[* * *](c)the fees received under this Act;(d)the interest accrued
on the amounts referred to in [clauses (a) and (c)].[(e) all sums received by
the Commission from such other sources as may be decided upon by the
Government.](2)The Fund shall be applied for meeting -(a)the salaries and
allowances payable to the Chairperson and other Members and the administrative
expenses including the salaries, allowances and pension payable to the
Director General, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General,
the Registrar and officers and other employees of the Commission;(b)the other
expenses of the Commission in connection with the discharge of its functions
and for the purposes of this Act.(3)The Fund shall be administered by a
committee of such Members of the Commission as may be determined by the
Chairperson.(4)The committee appointed under sub-section (3) shall spend
monies out of the Fund for carrying out the objects for which the Fund has
been constituted.

### 52. Accounts and audit. -

(1)The Commission shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records
and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form as may be prescribed
by the Central Government in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India.(2)The accounts of the Commission shall be audited by the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India at such intervals as may be specified
by him and any expenditure incurred in connection with such audit shall be
payable by the Commission to the Comptroller and Auditor-General of
India.Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the
orders of the Commission, being matters appealable to the [Appellate Tribunal
or the Supreme Court], shall not be subject to audit under this section.(3)The
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and any other person appointed by him
in connection with the audit of the accounts of the Commission shall have the
same rights, privileges and authority in connection with such audit as the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India generally has, in connection with the
audit of the Government accounts and, in particular, shall have the right to
demand the production of books, accounts, connected vouchers and other
documents and papers and to inspect any of the offices of the
Commission.(4)The accounts of the Commission as certified by the Comptroller
and Auditor-General of India or any other person appointed by him in this
behalf together with the audit report thereon shall be forwarded annually to
the Central Government and that Government shall cause the same to be laid
before each House of Parliament.

### 53. Furnishing of returns, etc., to Central Government. -

(1)The Commission shall furnish to the Central Government at such time and in
such form and manner as may be prescribed or as the Central Government may
direct, such returns and statements and such particulars in regard to any
proposed or existing measures for the promotion of competition advocacy,
creating awareness and imparting training about competition issues, as the
Central Government may, from time to time, require.(2)The Commission shall
prepare once in every year, in such form and at such time as may be
prescribed, an annual report giving a true and full account of its activities
during the previous year and copies of the report shall be forwarded to the
Central Government.(3)A copy of the report received under sub-section (2)
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is received, before each House of
Parliament.

## Chapter VIII  
A Competition Appellate Tribunal

[53A. Establishment of Appellate Tribunal. -(1)The Central Government shall,
by notification, establish an Appellate Tribunal to be known as Competition
Appellate Tribunal,-(a)to hear and dispose of appeals against any direction
issued or decision made or order passed by the Commission under [sub-section
(6) of section 6, sub-sections (2), (2A), (6) and (9) of section 26], section
27, section 28, section 31, section 32, section 33, section 38, section 39,
section 43, section 43-A, section 44, section 45 or section 46 of this
Act;(b)to adjudicate on claim for compensation that may arise from the
findings of the Commission or the orders of the Appellate Tribunal in an
appeal against any finding of the Commission or under section 42-A or under
sub-section (2) of section 53-Q of this Act, and pass orders for the recovery
of compensation under section 53-N of this Act.(2)The Headquarter of the
Appellate Tribunal shall be at such place as the Central Government may, by
notification, specify.]

### 53B. Appeal to Appellate Tribunal. -

(1)The Central Government or the State Government or a local authority or
enterprise or any person, aggrieved by any direction, decision or order
referred to in clause (a) of section 53-A may prefer an appeal to the
Appellate Tribunal.(2)Every appeal under sub-section (1) shall be filed within
a period of sixty days from the date on which a copy of the direction or
decision or order made by the Commission is received by the Central Government
or the State Government or a local authority or enterprise or any person
referred to in that sub-section and it shall be in such form and be
accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed:Provided that the Appellate
Tribunal may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of sixty
days if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it
within that period.[Provided further that no appeal by a person, who is
required to pay any amount in terms of an order of the Commission, shall be
entertained by the Appellate Tribunal unless the appellant has deposited
twenty-five per cent. of that amount in the manner as directed by the
Appellate Tribunal.](3)On receipt of an appeal under sub-section (1), the
Appellate Tribunal may, after giving the parties to the appeal, an opportunity
of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit, confirming,
modifying or setting aside the direction, decision or order appealed
against.(4)The Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every order made by it
to the Commission and the parties to the appeal.(5)The appeal filed before the
Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (1) shall be dealt with by it as
expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made by it to dispose of the
appeal within six months from the date of receipt of the appeal.[53C.
Composition of Appellate Tribunal. - The Appellate Tribunal shall consist of a
Chairperson and not more than two other Members to be appointed by the Central
Government.

### 53D. Qualifications for appointment of Chairperson and Members of
Appellate Tribunal. -

(1)The Chairperson of the Appellate Tribunal shall be a person, who is, or has
been a Judge of the Supreme Court or the Chief Justice of a High Court.(2)A
Member of the Appellate Tribunal shall be a person of ability, integrity and
standing having special knowledge of, and professional experience of not less
than twenty-five years in, competition matters, including competition law and
policy, international trade, economics, business, commerce, law, finance,
accountancy, management, industry, public affairs, administration or in any
other matter which in the opinion of the Central Government, may be useful to
the Appellate Tribunal.

### 53E. Selection Committee. -

(1)The Chairperson and Members of the Appellate Tribunal shall be appointed by
the Central Government from a panel of names recommended by a Selection
Committee consisting of-(a)the Chief Justice of India or his nomineem
Chairperson;(b)the Secretary in the Ministry of Corporate Affairs
Member;(c)the Secretary in the Ministry of Law and Justice Member.(2)The term
of the Selection Committee and the manner of selection of panel of names shall
be such as may be prescribed.

### 53F. Term of office of Chairperson and Members of Appellate Tribunal. -

The Chairperson or a Member of the Appellate Tribunal shall hold office as
such for a term of five years from the date on which he enters upon his
office, and shall be eligible for re-appointment: Provided that no Chairperson
or other Member of the Appellate Tribunal shall hold office as such after he
has attained,-(a)in the case of the Chairperson, the age of sixty-eight
years;(b)in the case of any other Member of the Appellate Tribunal, the age of
sixty-five years.

### 53G. Terms and conditions of service of Chairperson and Members of
Appellate Tribunal. -

(1)The salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of
the Chairperson and other Members of the Appellate Tribunal shall be such as
may be prescribed.(2)The salaries, allowances and other terms and conditions
of service of the Chairperson and other Members of the Appellate Tribunal
shall not be varied to their disadvantage after their appointment.

### 53H. Vacancies. - If, for any reason other than temporary absence, any
vacancy occurs in the office of the Chairperson or a Member of the Appellate
Tribunal, the Central Government shall appoint another person in accordance
with the provisions of this Act to fill the vacancy and the proceedings may be
continued before the Appellate Tribunal from the stage at which the vacancy is
filled.

### 53I. Resignation of Chairperson and Members of Appellate Tribunal. - The
Chairperson or a Member of the Appellate Tribunal may, by notice in writing
under his hand addressed to the Central Government, resign his office:

Provided that the Chairperson or a Member of the Appellate Tribunal shall,
unless he is permitted by the Central Government to relinquish his office
sooner, continue to hold office until the expiry of three months from the date
of receipt of such notice or until a person duly appointed as his successor
enters upon his office or until the expiry of his term of office, whichever is
the earliest.

### 53J. Member of Appellate Tribunal to act as its Chairperson in certain
cases. -

(1)In the event of the occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the
Chairperson of the Appellate Tribunal by reason of his death or resignation,
the senior-most Member of the Appellate Tribunal shall act as the Chairperson
of the Appellate Tribunal until the date on which a new Chairperson appointed
in accordance with the provisions of this Act to fill such vacancy enters upon
his office.(2)When the Chairperson of the Appellate Tribunal is unable to
discharge his functions owing to absence, illness or any other cause, the
senior-most Member or, as the case may be, such one of the Members of the
Appellate Tribunal, as the Central Government may, by notification, authorise
in this behalf, shall discharge the functions of the Chairperson until the
date on which the Chairperson resumes his duties.

### 53K. Removal and suspension of Chairperson and Members of Appellate
Tribunal. -

(1)The Central Government may, in consultation with the Chief Justice of
India, remove from office the Chairperson or any other Member of the Appellate
Tribunal, who-(a)has been adjudged an insolvent; or(b)has engaged at any time,
during his term of office, in any paid employment; or(c)has been convicted of
an offence which, in the opinion of the Central Government, involves moral
turpitude; or(d)has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as such
Chairperson or other Member of the Appellate Tribunal; or(e)has acquired such
financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially his functions
as such Chairperson or Member of the Appellate Tribunal; or(f)has so abused
his position as to render his continuance in office prejudicial to the public
interest.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), no
Chairperson or a Member of the Appellate Tribunal shall be removed from his
office on the ground specified in clause (e) or clause (f) of sub-section (1)
except by an order made by the Central Government after an inquiry made in
this behalf by a Judge of the Supreme Court in which such Chairperson or
Member had been informed of the charges against him and given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard in respect of those charges.

### 53L. Restriction on employment of Chairperson and other Members of
Appellate Tribunal in certain cases. -

The Chairperson and other Members of the Appellate Tribunal shall not, for a
period of two years from the date on which they cease to hold office, accept
any employment in, or connected with the management or administration of, any
enterprise which has been a party to a proceeding before the Appellate
Tribunal under this Act:Provided that nothing contained in this section shall
apply to any employment under the Central Government or a State Government or
local authority or in any statutory authority or any corporation established
by or under any Central, State or Provincial Act or a Government company as
defined in section 617 of [the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)].

### 53M. Staff of Appellate Tribunal. -

(1)The Central Government shall provide the Appellate Tribunal with such
officers and other employees as it may think fit.(2)The officers and other
employees of the Appellate Tribunal shall discharge their functions under the
general superintendence and control of the Chairperson of the Appellate
Tribunal.(3)The salaries and allowances and other conditions of service of the
officers and other employees of the Appellate Tribunal shall be such as may be
prescribed.][53N. Awarding compensation. -(1)Without prejudice to any other
provisions contained in this Act, the Central Government or a State Government
or a local authority or any enterprise or any person may make an application
to the Appellate Tribunal to adjudicate on claim for compensation that may
arise from the findings of the Commission or the orders of the Appellate
Tribunal in an appeal against any finding of the Commission or under section
42-A or [under sub-section (2) of section 53Q or the orders of the Supreme
Court in an appeal against the findings of the Appellate Tribunal under
section 53T or an order for settlement passed under section 48A, and to pass
an order for the recovery of compensation from any enterprise for any loss or
damage shown to have been suffered, by the Central Government or a State
Government or a local authority or any enterprise or any person as a result of
any contravention of the provisions of Chapter II, having been committed by
enterprise or as a result of order of settlement passed by the
Commission].(2)Every application made under sub-section (1) shall be
accompanied by the findings of the Commission [or Appellate Tribunal or the
Supreme Court, or an order for settlement], if any, and also be accompanied
with such fees as may be prescribed.(3)The Appellate Tribunal may, after an
inquiry made into the allegations mentioned in the application made under sub-
section (1), pass an order directing the enterprise to make payment to the
applicant, of the amount determined by it as realisable from the enterprise as
compensation for the loss or damage caused to the applicant as a result of any
contravention of the provisions of Chapter II having been committed by such
enterprise: Provided that the Appellate Tribunal may obtain the
recommendations of the Commission before passing an order of
compensation.(4)Where any loss or damage referred to in sub-section (1) is
caused to numerous persons having the same interest, one or more of such
persons may, with the permission of the Appellate Tribunal, make an
application under that sub-section for and on behalf of, or for the benefit
of, the persons so interested, and thereupon, the provisions of rule 8 of
Order 1 of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908), shall apply subject to the modification that every reference therein to
a suit or decree shall be construed as a reference to the application before
the Appellate Tribunal and the order of the Appellate Tribunal
thereon.Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared
that-(a)an application may be made for compensation before the Appellate
Tribunal only after either the Commission or the Appellate Tribunal on appeal
under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 53-A [or the Supreme Court on
appeal under section 53T] of the Act, has determined in a proceeding before it
that violation of the provisions of the Act has taken place, or if provisions
of section 42-A or sub-section (2) of section 53-Q of the Act are
attracted.(b)enquiry to be conducted under sub-section (3) shall be for the
purpose of determining the eligibility and quantum of compensation due to a
person applying for the same, and not for examining afresh the findings of the
Commission or the Appellate Tribunal [or the Supreme Court,] on whether any
violation of the Act has taken place.

### 53O. Procedure and powers of Appellate Tribunal. -

(1)The Appellate Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down in the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), but shall be guided by the
principles of natural justice and, subject to the other provisions of this Act
and of any rules made by the Central Government, the Appellate Tribunal shall
have power to regulate its own procedure including the places at which they
shall have their sittings.(2)The Appellate Tribunal shall have, for the
purposes of discharging its functions under this Act, the same powers as are
vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908)
while trying a suit in respect of the following matters, namely:-(a)summoning
and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on
oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production of documents;(c)receiving
evidence on affidavits;(d)subject to the provisions of sections 123 and 124 of
the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), requisitioning any public record or
document or copy of such record or document from any office;(e)issuing
commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents;(f)reviewing its
decisions;(g)dismissing a representation for default or deciding it ex parte
;(h)setting aside any order of dismissal of any representation for default or
any order passed by it ex parte ;(i)any other matter which may be
prescribed.(3)Every proceedings before the Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed
to be judicial proceedings within the meaning of sections 193 and 228, and for
the purposes of section 196, of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and the
Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for the purposes of
section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974).

### 53P. Execution of orders of Appellate Tribunal. -

(1)Every order made by the Appellate Tribunal shall be enforced by it in the
same manner as if it were a decree made by a Court in a suit pending therein,
and it shall be lawful for the Appellate Tribunal to send, in case of its
inability to execute such order, to the Court within the local limits of whose
jurisdiction,-(a)in the case of an order against a company, the registered
office of the company is situated; or(b)in the case of an order against any
other person, place where the person concerned voluntarily resides or carries
on business or personally works for gain, is situated.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1), the Appellate Tribunal may transmit any
order made by it to a Civil Court having local jurisdiction and such Civil
Court shall execute the order as if it were a decree made by that Court.

### 53Q. Contravention of orders of Appellate Tribunal. -

[(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of this Act, if any person
contravenes, without any reasonable ground, any order of the Appellate
Tribunal, he shall be liable for contempt proceeding under section
53U.](2)Without prejudice to the provisions of this Act, any person may make
an application to the Appellate Tribunal for an order for the recovery of
compensation from any enterprise for any loss or damage shown to have been
suffered, by such person as a result of the said enterprise contravening,
without any reasonable ground, any order of the Appellate Tribunal or delaying
in carrying out such orders of the Appellate Tribunal.

### 53R. Vacancy in Appellate Tribunal not to invalidate acts or proceedings.
-

No act or proceeding of the Appellate Tribunal shall be questioned or shall be
invalid merely on the ground of existence of any vacancy or defect in the
constitution of the Appellate Tribunal.

### 53S. Right to legal representation. -

(1)A person preferring an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal may either appear
in person or authorise one or more chartered accountants or company
secretaries or cost accountants or legal practitioners or any of its officers
to present his or its case before the Appellate Tribunal.(2)The Central
Government or a State Government or a local authority or any enterprise
preferring an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal may authorise one or more
chartered accountants or company secretaries or cost accountants or legal
practitioners or any of its officers to act as presenting officers and every
person so authorised may present the case with respect to any appeal before
the Appellate Tribunal.(3)The Commission may authorise one or more chartered
accountants or company secretaries or cost accountants or legal practitioners
or any of its officers to act as presenting officers and every person so
authorised may present the case with respect to any appeal before the
Appellate Tribunal. Explanation. - The expressions "chartered accountant" or
"company secretary" or "cost accountant" or "legal practitioner" shall have
the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Explanation to section 35.

### 53T. Appeal to Supreme Court. - The Central Government or any State
Government or the Commission or any statutory authority or any local authority
or any enterprise or any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the
Appellate Tribunal may file an appeal to the Supreme Court within sixty days
from the date of communication of the decision or order of the Appellate
Tribunal to them:

Provided that the Supreme Court may, if it is satisfied that the applicant was
prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal within the said period,
allow it to be filed after the expiry of the said period of sixty days.

### 53U. Power to punish for contempt. - The Appellate Tribunal shall have,
and exercise, the same jurisdiction, powers and authority in respect of
contempt of itself as a High Court has and may exercise and, for this purpose,
the provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 (70 of 1971) shall have
effect subject to modifications that,-

(a)the reference therein to a High Court shall be construed as including a
reference to the Appellate Tribunal;(b)the references to the Advocate-General
in section 15 of the said Act shall be construed as a reference to such Law
Officer as the Central Government may, by notification, specify in this
behalf.]

## Chapter IX  
Miscellaneous

### 54. Power to exempt. -

The Central Government may, by notification, exempt from the application of
this Act, or any provision thereof, and for such period as it may specify in
such notification-(a)any class of enterprises if such exemption is necessary
in the interest of security of the State or public interest;(b)any practice or
agreement arising out of and in accordance with any obligation assumed by
India under any treaty, agreement or convention with any other country or
countries;(c)any enterprise which performs a sovereign function on behalf of
the Central Government or a State Government:Provided that in case an
enterprise is engaged in any activity including the activity relatable to the
sovereign functions of the Government, the Central Government may grant
exemption only in respect of activity relatable to the sovereign functions.

### 55. Power of Central Government to issue directions. -

(1)Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this Act, the Commission
shall, in exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions under
this Act, be bound by such directions on questions of policy, other than those
relating to technical and administrative matters, as the Central Government
may give in writing to it from time to time: Provided that the Commission
shall, as far as practicable, be given an opportunity to express its views
before any direction is given under this sub-section.(2)The decision of the
Central Government whether a question is one of policy or not shall be final.

### 56. Power of Central Government to supersede Commission. -

(1)If at any time the Central Government is of the opinion-(a)that on account
of circumstances beyond the control of the Commission, it is unable to
discharge the functions or perform the duties imposed on it by or under the
provisions of this Act; or(b)that the Commission has persistently made default
in complying with any direction given by the Central Government under this Act
or in the discharge of the functions or performance of the duties imposed on
it by or under the provisions of this Act and as a result of such default the
financial position of the Commission or the administration of the Commission
has suffered; or(c)that circumstances exist which render it necessary in the
public interest so to do, the Central Government may, by notification and for
reasons to be specified therein, supersede the Commission for such period, not
exceeding six months, as may be specified in the notification:Provided that
before issuing any such notification, the Central Government shall give a
reasonable opportunity to the Commission to make representations against the
proposed supersession and shall consider representations, if any, of the
Commission.(2)Upon the publication of a notification under sub-section (1)
superseding the Commission,-(a)the Chairperson and other Members shall, as
from the date of supersession, vacate their offices as such;(b)all the powers,
functions and duties which may, by or under the provisions of this Act, be
exercised or discharged by or on behalf of the Commission shall, until the
Commission is reconstituted under sub-section (3), be exercised and discharged
by the Central Government or such authority as the Central Government may
specify in this behalf;(c)all properties owned or controlled by the Commission
shall, until the Commission is reconstituted under sub-section (3), vest in
the Central Government.(3)On or before the expiration of the period of
supersession specified in the notification issued under sub-section (1), the
Central Government shall reconstitute the Commission by a fresh appointment of
its Chairperson and other Members and in such case any person who had vacated
his office under clause (a) of sub-section (2) shall not be deemed to be
disqualified for re-appointment.(4)The Central Government shall cause a
notification issued under sub-section (1) and a full report of any action
taken under this section and the circumstances leading to such action to be
laid before each House of Parliament at the earliest.

### 57. Restriction on disclosure of information. -

No information relating to any enterprise, being an information which has been
obtained by or on behalf of [the Commission or the Appellate Tribunal] for the
purposes of this Act, shall, without the previous permission in writing of the
enterprise, be disclosed otherwise than in compliance with or for the purposes
of this Act or any other law for the time being in force.[58. Chairperson,
Members, Director General, Secretary, officers and other employees, etc., to
be public servants. -The Chairperson and other Members and the Director
General, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General and
Secretary and officers and other employees of the Commission and the
Chairperson, Members, officers and other employees of the Appellate Tribunal
shall be deemed, while acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the
provisions of this Act, to be public servants within the meaning of section 21
of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).]

### 59. Protection of action taken in good faith. -

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Central
Government or Commission or any officer of the Central Government or the
Chairperson or any Member or the Director General, Additional, Joint, Deputy
or Assistant Directors General or [the Secretary or officers or other
employees of the Commission or the Chairperson, Members, officers and other
employees of the Appellate Tribunal] for anything which is in good faith done
or intended to be done under this Act or the rules or regulations made
thereunder.[59A. Compounding of certain offences. - Notwithstanding anything
contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), any offence
punishable under this Act, not being an offence punishable with imprisonment
only or imprisonment and also with fine, may either before or after the
institution of any proceeding, be compounded by the Appellate Tribunal or a
court before which such proceeding is pending.]

### 60. Act to have overriding effect. -

The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force.

### 61. Exclusion of jurisdiction of Civil Courts. -

No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in
respect of any matter which the [Commission or the Appellate Tribunal] is
empowered by or under this Act to determine and no injunction shall be granted
by any Court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken
in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act.

### 62. Application of other laws not barred. -

The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of,
the provisions of any other law for the time being in force.

### 63. Power to make rules. -

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the
provisions of this Act. (2) In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely: -[(a) the value of the assets or turnover of
the enterprise acquired, taken control of, merged or amalgamated in India
under clause (e) of section 5;(ab)the percentage of voting rights higher than
twenty-six per cent. under sub-clause (i) of clause (b) of the Explanation to
section 5;(ac)the criteria of combinations under sub-section (4) of section
6;(ad)the criteria under sub-section (7) of section 6;][[(ae)] the term of the
Selection Committee and the manner of selection of panel of names under sub-
section (2) of section 9;](b)the form and manner in which and the authority
before whom the oath of office and of secrecy shall be made and subscribed to
under sub-section (3) of section 10;[* * *](d)the salary and the other terms
and conditions of service including travelling expenses, house rent allowance
and conveyance facilities, sumptuary allowance and medical facilities to be
provided to the Chairperson and other Members under sub-section (1) of section
14;[(da) the number of Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors
General or such officers or other employees in the office of Director General
and the manner in which such Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors
General or such officers or other employees may be appointed under sub-section
(1-A) of section 16;](e)the salary, allowances and other terms and conditions
of service of the Director General, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant
Directors General or [such officers or other employees] under sub-section (3)
of section 16;(f)the qualifications for appointment of the Director General,
Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General or [such officers or
other employees] under sub-section (4) of section 16;(g)the salaries and
allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the [Secretary] and
officers and other employees payable, and the number of such officers and
employees under sub-section (2) of section 17;[* * *][* * *][* * *](k)the form
in which the annual statement of accounts shall be prepared under sub-section
(1) of section 52;(l)the time within which and the form and manner in which
the Commission may furnish returns, statements and such particulars as the
Central Government may require under sub-section (1) of section 53;(m)the form
in which and the time within which the annual report shall be prepared under
sub-section (2) of section 53;[(ma) the form in which an appeal may be filed
before the Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (2) of section 53-B and the
fees payable in respect of such appeal;(mb)the term of the Selection Committee
and the manner of selection of panel of names under sub-section (2) of section
53-E;(mc)the salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service
of the Chairperson and other Members of the Appellate Tribunal under sub-
section (1) of section 53-G;(md)the salaries and allowances and other
conditions of service of the officers and other employees of the Appellate
Tribunal under sub-section (3) of section 53-M;(me)the fee which shall be
accompanied with every application made under sub-section (2) of section
53-N;(mf)the other matters under clause (i) of sub-section (2) of section 53-O
in respect of which the Appellate Tribunal shall have powers under the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) while trying a suit;][(mg) the form of the
publication of guidelines under sub-section (5) of section 64B;][(n) the
manner in which the monies transferred to the Competition Commission of India
or the Appellate Tribunal shall be dealt with by the Commission or the
Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, under the fourth proviso to sub-
section (2) of section 66.](o)any other matter which is to be, or may be,
prescribed, or in respect of which provision is to be, or may be, made by
rules.(3)Every notification issued under sub-section (3) of section 20 and
section 54 and every rule made under this Act by the Central Government shall
be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament,
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be
comprised in one session, or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the notification or rule, or both Houses agree that the notification should
not be issued or rule should not be made, the notification or rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
notification or rule, as the case may be.

### 64. Power to make regulations. -

(1)The Commission may, by notification, make regulations consistent with this
Act and the rules made thereunder to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
provisions, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely:-(a)the cost of production to be determined under clause (b)
of the Explanation to section 4;(b)the form of notice as may be specified and
the fee which may be determined under sub-section (2) of section 6;[(c) the
manner of determination of substantial business operations in India under
clause (d) of section 5;(ca)the form and fee for notice for combination under
sub-section (4) of section 6;(cb)the time and manner for filing notice of
acquisition under clause (a) of section 6A;(cc)the manner and circumstance in
which the acquirer may exercise the ownership or beneficial right or interest
in shares or convertible securities including voting right and receipt of
dividends or any other distributions as an exception under clause (b) of
section 6A;][(d) the procedures to be followed for engaging the experts and
professionals under sub-section (3) of section 17;(e)the fee which may be
determined under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 19;(f)the rules of
procedure in regard to the transaction of business at the meetings of the
Commission under sub-section (1) of section 22;[(fa) other details to be
indicated in the show-cause notice under sub-section (9) of section 26;(fb)the
manner of determining turnover or income under the Explanation 1 to clause (b)
of section 27;(fc)the manner in which modification may be proposed by parties
to the combination to the Commission under sub-section (2) of section
29A;](g)the manner in which penalty shall be recovered under sub-section (1)
of section 39;[(ga) the lesser penalty to be imposed on producer, seller,
distributor, trader or service provider under sub-section (1) of section
46;(gb)the manner and time for withdrawal of application for lesser penalty
under sub-section (2) of section 46;(gc)the lesser penalty to be imposed on
producer, seller, distributor, trader or service provider under sub-section
(4) of section 46;(gd)the manner of determining income under clause (c) of
Explanation to section 48;(ge)the form of application and fee under sub-
section (1), the time under sub-section (2), the terms and manner of
implementations and monitoring under sub-section (3) and the procedure for
conducting settlement proceedings under sub-section (6) of section 48A;(gf)the
form of application and fee under sub-section (1), the time under sub-section
(2), the terms and manner of implementations and monitoring under sub-section
(3) and the procedure for commitments offered under sub-section (6) of section
48B;(gg)the other details to be published along with draft regulations and the
period for inviting public comments under clause (a) of section 64A;](h)any
other matter in respect of which provision is to be, or may be, made by
regulations.](3)Every regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as
may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in
session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the regulation, or
both Houses agree that the regulation should not be made, the regulation shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
regulation.[64A. Process of issuing regulations. - The Commission shall ensure
transparency while making regulations under section 64, by -(a)publishing
draft regulations along with such other details as may be specified on its
website and inviting public comments for a specified period prior to issuing
regulations;(b)publishing a general statement of its response to the public
comments, not later than the date of notification of the
regulations;(c)periodically reviewing such regulations:Provided that if the
Commission is of the opinion that certain regulations are required to be made
or existing regulations are required to be amended urgently in public interest
or the subject matter of the regulation relates solely to the internal
functioning of the Commission, it may make regulations or amend the existing
regulations, as the case may be, without following the provisions stated in
this section recording the reason, for doing so.

### 64B. Commission to issue guidelines. -

(1)The Commission may publish guidelines on the provisions of this Act or the
rules and regulations made thereunder either on a request made by a person or
on its own motion.(2)Guidelines issued under sub-section (1) shall not be
construed as determination of any question of fact or law by the Commission,
its Members or officers and shall not be binding on the Commission, its
Members or officers.(3)Without prejudice to anything contained in sub-section
(1), the Commission shall publish guidelines as to the appropriate amount of
any penalty for any contravention of provision of this Act.(4)While imposing
penalty under clause (b) of section 27 or under section 43A or section 48 for
any contravention of provision of this Act, the Commission shall consider the
guidelines under sub-section (3) and provide reasons in case of any divergence
from such guidelines.(5)The guidelines under sub-sections (1) and (3) shall be
published in such form as may be prescribed.]

### 65. Power to remove difficulties. -

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as may
appear to it to be necessary for removing the difficulty: Provided that no
such order shall be made under this section after the expiry of a period of
two years from the commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this
section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House
of Parliament.

### 66. Repeal and saving. -

[(1) The Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969) is
hereby repealed and the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission
established under sub-section (1) of section 5 of the said Act (hereafter
referred to as the repealed Act) shall stand dissolved:[***] Explanation. -
For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that nothing in this proviso
shall confer any jurisdiction or power upon the Monopolies and Restrictive
Trade Practices Commission to decide or adjudicate any case or proceeding
arising under the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of
1969) on or after the commencement of this Act.(1-A) The repeal of the
Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969) shall,
however, not affect,-(a)the previous operation of the Act so repealed or
anything duly done or suffered thereunder; or(b)any right, privilege,
obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the Act so
repealed; or(c)any penalty, confiscation or punishment incurred in respect of
any contravention under the Act so repealed; or(d)any proceeding or remedy in
respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty,
confiscation or punishment as aforesaid, and any such proceeding or remedy may
be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such penalty, confiscation or
punishment may be imposed or made as if that Act had not been repealed.](2)On
the dissolution of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission,
the person appointed as the Chairman of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
Practices Commission and every other person appointed as Member and Director
General of Investigation and Registration, Additional, Joint, Deputy, or
Assistant Directors General of Investigation and Registration and any officer
and other employee of that Commission and holding office as such immediately
before such dissolution shall vacate their respective offices and such
Chairman and other Members shall be entitled to claim compensation not
exceeding three months' pay and allowances for the premature termination of
term of their office or of any contract of service:[Provided that the Director
General of Investigation and Registration, Additional, Joint, Deputy or
Assistant Directors General of Investigation and Registration or any officer
or other employee who has been, immediately before the dissolution of the
Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission appointed on deputation
basis to the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission, shall, on
such dissolution, stand reverted to his parent cadre, Ministry or Department,
as the case may be:Provided further that the Director General of Investigation
and Registration, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General of
Investigation and Registration or any officer or other employee who has been,
immediately before the dissolution of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
Practices Commission employed on regular basis by the Monopolies and
Restrictive Trade Practices Commission, shall become, on and from such
dissolution, the officer and employee, respectively, of the Competition
Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal, in such manner as may be
specified by the Central Government, with the same rights and privileges as to
pension, gratuity and other like matters as would have been admissible to him
if the rights in relation to such Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices
Commission had not been transferred to, and vested in, the Competition
Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, and shall
continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Competition
Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, is duly
terminated or until his remuneration, terms and conditions of employment are
duly altered by the Competition Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal,
as the case may be;]Provided also that notwithstanding anything contained in
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), or in any other law for the
time being in force, the transfer of the services of any Director General of
Investigation and Registration, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant
Directors General of Investigation and Registration or any officer or other
employee, employed in the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices
Commission, to [the Competition Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal,
as the case may be,] shall not entitle such Director General of Investigation
and Registration, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General of
Investigation and Registration or any officer or other employee any
compensation under this Act or any other law for the time being in force and
no such claim shall be entertained by any Court, tribunal or other
authority:Provided also that where the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
Practices Commission has established a provident fund, superannuation, welfare
or other fund for the benefit of the Director General of Investigation and
Registration, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General of
Investigation and Registration or the officers and other employees employed in
the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission, the monies
relatable to the officers and other employees whose services have been
transferred by or under this Act to [the Competition Commission of India or
the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, shall, out of the monies
standing], on the dissolution of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
Practices Commission to the credit of such provident fund, superannuation,
welfare or other fund, stand transferred to, and vest in, [the Competition
Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, and such
monies which stand so transferred shall be dealt with by the said Commission
or the Tribunal, as the case may be, in such manner as may be prescribed].[(3)
All cases pertaining to monopolistic trade practices or restrictive trade
practices pending (including such cases, in which any unfair trade practice
has also been alleged), before the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices
Commission shall, [on the commencement of the Competition (Amendment) Act,
2009], stand transferred to the Appellate Tribunal and shall be adjudicated by
the Appellate Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of the repealed Act
as if that Act had not been repealed.][Explanation.-For the removal of doubts,
it is hereby declared that all cases referred to in this sub-section, sub-
section (4) and sub-section (5) shall be deemed to include all applications
made for the losses or damages under section 12B of the Monopolies and
Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 as it stood before its
repeal;](4)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), all cases pertaining
to unfair trade practices other than those referred to in clause (x) of sub-
section (1) of section 36-A of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices
Act, 1969 (54 of 1969) and pending before the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
Practices Commission [immediately before the commencement of the Competition
(Amendment) Act, 2009, shall, on such commencement], stand transferred to the
National Commission constituted under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (68 of
1986) and the National Commission shall dispose of such cases as if they were
cases filed under that Act: Provided that the National Commission may, if it
considers appropriate, transfer any case transferred to it under this sub-
section, to the concerned State Commission established under section 9 of the
Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (68 of 1986) and that State Commission shall
dispose of such case as if it was filed under that Act.[Provided further that
all the cases relating to the unfair trade practices, pending before the
National Commission under this sub-section, on or before the date on which
competition (Amendment) Bill, 2009 receives the assent of the President,
shall, on and from that date, stand transferred to the Appellate Tribunal and
he adjudicated by the Appellate Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of
the repealed Act as if that Act had not been repealed.][(5) All cases
pertaining to unfair trade practices referred to in clause (x) of sub-section
(1) of section 36-A of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act,
1969 (54 of 1969) and pending before the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
Practices Commission shall, [on the commencement of the Competition
(Amendment) Act, 2009], stand transferred to the Appellate Tribunal and the
Appellate Tribunal shall dispose of such cases as if they were cases filed
under that Act.](6)All investigations or proceedings, other than those
relating to unfair trade practices, pending before the Director General of
Investigation and Registration on or before the commencement of this Act
shall, on such commencement, stand transferred to the Competition Commission
of India, and the Competition Commission of India may conduct or order for
conduct of such investigation or proceedings in the manner as it deems
fit.(7)All investigations or proceedings, relating to unfair trade practices,
other than those referred to in clause (x) of sub-section (1) of section 36-A
of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969) and
pending before the Director General of Investigation and Registration on or
before the commencement of this Act shall, on such commencement, stand
transferred to the National Commission constituted under the Consumer
Protection Act, 1986 (68 of 1986) and the National Commission may conduct or
order for conduct of such investigation or proceedings in the manner as it
deems fit.[Provided that all investigations or proceedings, relating to unfair
trade practices pending before the National Commission, on or before the date
on which the Competition (Amendment) Bill, 2009 receives the assent of the
President shall, on and from that date, stand transferred to the Appellate
Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal may conduct or order for conduct of such
investigation or proceedings in the manner as it deems fit.](8)All
investigations or proceedings relating to unfair trade practices referred to
in clause (x) of sub-section (1) of section 36-A of the Monopolies and
Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969), and pending before the
Director General of Investigation and Registration on or before the
commencement of this Act shall, on such commencement, stand transferred to the
Competition Commission of India and the Competition Commission of India may
conduct or order for conduct of such investigation in the manner as it deems
fit.(9)Save as otherwise provided under sub-sections (3) to (8), all cases or
proceedings pending before the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices
Commission shall abate.(10)The mention of the particular matters referred to
in sub-sections (3) to (8) shall not be held to prejudice or affect the
general application of section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897)
with regard to the effect of repeal.

