## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (TWENTY-EIGHTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1972

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (TWENTY-EIGHTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1972

## Act 028 of 1972

  * Published in Gazette of India on 22 May 1972 
  * Commenced on 27 August 1972 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 May 1972.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Thirty-first
Amendment) Bill, 1972 (Bill No. 55 of 1972) which was enacted as THE
CONSTITUTION (Twenty-eighth Amendment) Act, 1972_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND
REASONS** Article 314 of the Constitution guarantees to persons who were
appointed by the Secretary of State or Secretary of State in Council to a
civil service of the Crown in India and who continued to serve after the
commencement of the Constitution under the Government of India or of a State
the same conditions of service as respects remuneration, leave and pension and
the same rights as respects disciplinary matters or rights as similar thereto
as changed circumstances may permit, as such persons were entitled to
immediately before such commencement. The concept of a class of officers with
immutable conditions of service is incompatible with the changed social order.
It is, therefore, considered necessary to amend the Constitution to provide
for the deletion of article 314 and for the inclusion of a new article 312A
which confers powers on Parliament to vary or revoke by law the conditions of
service of the officers aforesaid and contains appropriate consequential and
incidental provisions.

### 2. The Bill seeks to give effect the above objects.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Twenty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Twenty-eighth Amendment) Act,
1972.(2)It shall come into force on such date_664 as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2\. Insertion of new article 312A.-

After article 312 of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:-"312A. Power of Parliament to vary or revoke conditions of
service of officers of certain services (1) Parliament may by law-(a)vary or
revoke, whether prospectively or retrospectively, the conditions of service as
respects remuneration, leave and pension and the rights as respects
disciplinary matters of persons who, having been appointed by the Secretary of
State or Secretary of State in Council to a civil service of the Crown in
India before the commencement of this Constitution, continue on and after the
commencement of THE CONSTITUTION (Twenty-eighth Amendment) Act, 1972, to serve
under the Government of India or of a State in any service or post;(b)vary or
revoke, whether prospectively or retrospectively, the conditions of service as
respects pension of persons who, having been appointed by the Secretary of
State or Secretary of State in Council to a civil service of the Crown in
India before the commencement of this Constitution, retired or otherwise
ceased to be in service at any time before the commencement of the
Constitution (Twenty-eighth Amendment) Act, 1972:Provided that in the case of
any such person who is holding or has held the office of the Chief Justice or
other Judge of the Supreme Court or a High Court, the Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India, the Chairman or other member of the Union or a State Public
Service Commission or the Chief Election Commissioner, nothing in sub-clause
(a) or sub-clause (b) shall be construed as empowering Parliament to vary or
revoke, after his appointment to such post, the conditions of his service to
his disadvantage except in so far as such conditions of service are applicable
to him by reason of his being a person appointed by the Secretary of State or
Secretary of State in Council to a civil service of the Crown in
India.(2)Except to the extent provided for by Parliament by law under this
article, nothing in this article shall affect the power of any legislature or
other authority under any other provision of this Constitution to regulate the
conditions of service of persons referred to in clause (1).(3)Neither the
Supreme Court nor any other court shall have jurisdiction in-(a)any dispute
arising out of any provision of, or any endorsement on, any covenant,
agreement or other similar instrument which was entered into or executed by
any person referred to in clause (1), or arising out of any letter issued to
such person, in relation to his appointment to any civil service of the Crown
in India or his continuance in service under the Government of the Dominion of
India or a Province thereof;(b)any dispute in respect of any right, liability
or obligation under article 314 as originally enacted.(4)The provisions of
this article shall have effect notwithstanding anything in article 314 as
originally enacted or in any other provision of this Constitution.".

### 3\. Omission of article 314.-

Article 314 of the Constitution shall be omitted.[The Constitution (Twenty-
Eighth Amendment) Act, 1972, addressed the service conditions of All-India
service officers, including pensions, leave, remuneration, and other rights
that had previously made these officials immutable. As the social order in
India changed in the two decades following independence, amendments were
necessary to update the conditions of service for these officials. The
amendment inserted a new Article 312A after Article 312 and repealed the
original Article 314, changing the service conditions and providing for
disciplinary matters related to people employed in the services.Also Refer]

