## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (FORTY-SEVENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1984

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (FORTY-SEVENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1984

## Act 047 of 1984

  * Published in Gazette of India on 31 July 1983 
  * Commenced on 26 August 1984 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 July 1983.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Forty-eighth
Amendment) Bill, 1983 which was enacted as the Constitution (Forty-seventh
Amendment) Act, 1984_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** Article 31B of the
Constitution confers on the enactments included in the Ninth Schedule to the
Constitution immunity from any possible attack that they are violative of any
of the fundamental rights. The immunity does not extend to any amendment made
to such Acts after their inclusion in the Ninth Schedule.

### 2. Recourse was had in the past to the Ninth Schedule whenever it was
found that progressive legislation conceived in the interest of the public was
imperilled by litigation. Several State enactments relating to land reforms
and ceiling on agricultural land holdings have already been included in the
Ninth Schedule. The Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-85) contains an assurance that
"necessary action would be taken to bring before Parliament land reform Acts
not yet included in the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution for immediate
inclusion in the said Schedule" and that the same "would be done in the case
of future Acts without delay so that these laws are protected from challenge
in courts". The State Governments of Assam, Bihar, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Uttar
Pradesh and West Bengal and the Administration of the Union territory of Goa,
Daman and Diu have suggested the inclusion of some of their Acts relating to
land reforms in the Ninth Schedule. Some of the Acts suggested for inclusion
are by way of amendments to Acts already included in the Ninth Schedule. The
various Acts which have been suggested for inclusion have been examined and it
is proposed to include in the Ninth Schedule such of these Acts as have either
been challenged or are likely to be challenged and thereby ensure that the
implementation of these Acts is not adversely affected by litigation.

### 3. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Thirty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Forty-seventh Amendment) Act, 1984.

### 2\. Amendment of the Ninth Schedule.-

In the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution, after entry 188 and before the
Explanation, the following entries shall be inserted, namely:-

### 189. The Assam (Temporarily Settled Areas) Tenancy Act, 1971 (Assam Act
XXIII of 1971).

### 190. The Assam (Temporarily Settled Areas) Tenancy (Amendment) Act, 1974
(Assam Act XVIII of 1974).

### 191. The Bihar Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling Area and Acquisition of
Surplus Land) (Amendment) (Amending) Act, 1974 (Bihar Act 13 of 1975).

### 192. The Bihar Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling Area and Acquisition of
Surplus Land) (Amendment) Act, 1976 (Bihar Act 22 of 1976).

### 193. The Bihar Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling Area and Acquisition of
Surplus Land) (Amendment) Act, 1978 (Bihar Act VII of 1978).

### 194. The Land Acquisition (Bihar Amendment) Act, 1979 (Bihar Act 2 of
1980).

### 195. The Haryana Ceiling on Land Holdings (Amendment) Act, 1977 (Haryana
Act 14 of 1977).

### 196. The Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Amendment
Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1978).

### 197. The Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Act Ceiling on Land)
Amendment Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu 11 of 1979).

### 198. The Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition Laws (Amendment) Act, 1978
(Uttar Pradesh Act 15 of 1978).

### 199. The West Bengal Restoration of Alienated Land (Amendment) Act, 1978
(West Bengal Act XXIV of 1978).

### 200. The West Bengal Restoration of Alienated Land (Amendment) Act, 1980
(West Bengal Act LVI of 1980).

### 201. The Goa, Daman and Diu Agricultural Tenancy Act, 1964 (Goa, Daman and
Diu Act 7 of 1964).

### 202. The Goa, Daman and Diu Agricultural Tenancy (Fifth Amendment) Act,
1976 (Goa, Daman and Diu Act 17 of 1976)."

[The Constitution (Forty-Seventh Amendment) Act, 1984, amended the Ninth
Schedule to the Constitution, and added 14 legislations relating to land
reforms, enacted by the States of Assam, Bihar, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Uttar
Pradesh and West Bengal and the union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu with a
view to provide that the enactments shall not be deemed to be void on the
ground that they are inconsistent with any of the provisions of Part III of
the Constitution relating to Fundamental Rights.Also Refer]

