## Union of India - Act

## The Cinematograph (Amendment) Act, 2023.

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Cinematograph (Amendment) Act, 2023.

## Act 12 of 2023

  * Published in Gazette of India : Extraordinary 15 on 4 August 2023 
  * Commenced on 4 August 2023 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 August 2023.] 

An Act further to amend the Cinematograph Act, 1952.BE it enacted by
Parliament in the Seventy-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Cinematograph (Amendment)Act, 2023.(2)It shall
come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Construction of reference of certain expressions by certain other
expressions.

Throughout the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (hereinafter referred to as the
principal Act), for the letters and word ‘ “UA” certificate’, wherever they
occur, the letters and words ‘‘UA’’ Certificate with any UA marker’ shall be
substituted.

### 3. Amendment of section 1

In section 1 of the principal Act, in sub-section (3), the proviso shall be
omitted.

### 4\. Amendment of section 2.

In section 2 of the principal Act,—(i)after clause (dd), the following clause
shall be inserted, namely:—‘(ddd) “infringing copy” shall have the same
meaning as assigned to it in sub-clause (ii) of clause (m) of section 2 of the
Copyright Act, 1957;’;(ii)after clause (h), the following clause shall be
inserted, namely:—‘(i) “UA marker” means an age-based indicator for a film
which has received or is intended to receive a “UA” certificate under section
4 and such indicator may be “UA 7+” or “UA 13+” or “UA 16+”:Provided that
where the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so
to do in public interest, it may, by an order published in the Official
Gazette and for the reasons to be recorded in writing, declare such other
indicators.’.

### 5\. Substitution of new section for section 4.

Examination of films.For section 4 of the principal Act, the following section
shall be substituted, namely:—"4. (1) Any person desiring to exhibit any film
shall make an application to the Board for a certificate in such form and
manner as may be prescribed.(2)The Board may, after examining the film in such
manner as may be prescribed,—(i)sanction the film for unrestricted public
exhibition:Provided that, having regard to any material in the film, if the
Board is of the opinion that viewing of such film by any child between seven
to eighteen years of age is subject to guidance of parents or lawful guardian,
then the Board may sanction the film for unrestricted public exhibition with
an endorsement to that effect containing UA marker.Explanation.—For the
removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that—(a)the expression “seven”
denotes completion of seven years of age and the expression “eighteen” denotes
before attaining the age of eighteen years;(b)an endorsement by the Board
shall enable the parents and lawful guardian of the child to consider whether
such child should view such a film, and shall not be enforced by any person
other than the parents or lawful guardian of the child;(ii)sanction the film
for public exhibition restricted to adults;(iii)sanction the film for public
exhibition restricted to members of any profession or any class of persons
having regard to the nature, content and theme of the film;(iv)direct the
applicant to carry out such excisions or modifications in the film as it may
deem necessary before sanctioning the film for public exhibition under clauses
(i), (ii) and (iii); or(v)refuse to sanction the film for public
exhibition:Provided that no action under this section shall be taken by the
Board, unless the applicant has been given an opportunity of being heard in
the matter.(3)Any person desiring to exhibit on television or such other media
as may be prescribed, any film which has been sanctioned by the Board under
clause (ii) or clause (iii) of sub-section (2), may make an application to the
Board in such form and manner as may be prescribed, and the Board may, for
this purpose, sanction the film with a separate certificate, after directing
the applicant to carry out such excisions or modifications in the film as it
may think fit.’.

### 6\. Amendment of section 5A

In section 5A of the principalAct, in sub-section (3), the words “for a period
of ten years” shall be omitted.

### 7\. Amendment of section 6.

In section 6 of the principal Act,—(a)sub-section (1) shall be omitted;(b)in
sub-section (2), in the opening portion, for the words, brackets and
figure“Without prejudice to the powers conferred on it under sub-section (1)”,
the words “Subject to the provisions of this Act” shall be substituted

### 8. Insertion of new sections 6AA and 6AB.

After section 6A of the principal Act, the following sections shall be
inserted, namely:—

### 6AA. Prohibition of unauthorised recording.

No person shall use any audio-visual recording device in a place licensed to
exhibit films with the intention of making or transmitting or attempting to
make or transmit or abetting the making or transmission of an infringing copy
of such film or a part thereof.Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,
the expression “audio-visual recording device” means a digital or analogue
photographic or video camera, or any other technology or device capable of
enabling the recording or transmission of a copyrighted cinematographic film
or any part thereof, regardless of whether audio-visual recording is the sole
or primary purpose of the device.

### 6AB. Prohibition of unauthorised exhibition of films.

No person shall use or abet the use of an infringing copy of any film to
exhibit to the public for profit—(a)at a place of exhibition which has not
been licensed under this Act or the rules made thereunder; or(b)in a manner
that amounts to the infringement of copyright under the provisions of the
Copyright Act, 1957 or any other law for the time being in force.’.

### 9\. Amendment of section 7.

In section 7 of the principal Act, after sub-section (1), the following sub-
sections shall be inserted, namely:(1A)Save as otherwise provided in section
52 of the Copyright Act, 1957, if any person contravenes the provisions of
section 6AA or section 6AB, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which shall not be less than three months, but may extend to three years
and with a fine which shall not be less than three lakh rupees but may extend
to five per cent. of the audited gross production cost.(1B)Notwithstanding
anything contained in this section—(i)a person aggrieved by a contravention
under section 6AA or section 6AB shall not be prevented from taking suitable
action for an infringement under section 51 of the Copyright Act, 1957 or from
taking suitable action for computer related offences under section 66 of the
Information Technology Act, 2000 or any other relevant laws for the time being
in force;(ii)the appropriate Government or its agencies shall not be prevented
from taking suitable action against an intermediary as defined under clause
(w) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Information TechnologyAct, 2000,
where such intermediary acts in the manner as set out under sub-section (3) of
section 79 of the said Act or any other law for the time being in
force.Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, the
expression“appropriate Government” shall have the same meaning as assigned to
it in clause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Information Technology
Act, 2000.’.

### 10\. Amendment of section 8.

In section 8 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), for clause (c), the
following clauses shall be substituted, namely:—“(c) the form and manner of
making an application to the Board for a certificate under sub-section (1) of
section 4;(ca)the manner of examination of film under sub-section (2) of
section 4;(cb)the media for exhibition of film and the form and manner of
making an application to the Board in this regard under sub-section (3) of
section 4.

