## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-SEVENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1987

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-SEVENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1987

## Act 057 of 1987

  * Published in Gazette of India on 25 August 1987 
  * Commenced on 15 September 1987 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 August 1987.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Fifty-eighth
Amendment) Bill, 1987 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Fifty-seventh
Amendment) Act, 1987_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The Constitution
(Fifty-first Amendment) Act, 1984 was enacted to provide for reservation of
seats in the House of the People for the Scheduled Tribes in Nagaland,
Meghalaya, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh and also for reservation of seats for
Scheduled Tribes in the Legislative Assemblies of Nagaland and Meghalaya by
suitably amending articles 330 and 332. Even though these States are
predominantly tribal areas, the underlying objective of the aforesaid Act was
to ensure that the members of the Scheduled Tribes in these areas do not fair
to secure a minimal representation because of their inability to complete with
the advanced sections of the people.

### 2. The Constitution (Fifty-first Amendment) Act, though formally enforced,
cannot be fully implemented unless parallel action is taken to determine the
seats which are to be reserved for Scheduled Tribes in these areas. The number
of seats reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the Legislative
Assembly of any State under article 332 of the Constitution will have to be
determined having regard to the provisions of article 332(3) of the
Constitution. However, in view of the historical background with respect to
the areas comprised in the North-Eastern States, the circumstances obtaining
in these areas in the state of development of the Scheduled Tribes in these
areas and other relevant considerations, it is considered necessary to provide
for special arrangements with regard to the reservation for Scheduled Tribes
in these areas for a temporary period so as to facilitate easy transition of
these areas to the normal arrangements as envisaged in the Constitution. It
is, therefore, proposed to further amend article 332 of the Constitution for
making a temporary provision, until the re-adjustment of seats on the basis of
the first census after the year 2000 under article 170 of the Constitution for
these States, for the determination of the number of seats reserved for
Scheduled Tribes.

### 3. The proposed amendment seeks to provide that if all the seats in the
Legislative Assembly of such States in existence on the date of coming into
force of this Constitution Amendment Act are held by the members of the
Scheduled Tribes, all the seats except one shall be reserved for Scheduled
Tribes and in any other case such number of seats as bears to the total number
of seats a proportion not less than the number of members belonging to the
Scheduled Tribes in the existing Assembly bears to the total number of seats
in the existing Assembly.

### 4. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Thirty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Fifty-seventh Amendment) Act,
1987.(2)It shall come into force on such date_675 as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2\. Amendment of article 332.-

(1)In article 332 of the Constitution, after clause (3), the following clause
shall be inserted, namely:-"(3A) Notwithstanding anything contained in clause
(3), until the taking effect, under article 170, of the re-adjustment, on the
basis of the first census after the year 2000, of the number of seats in the
Legislative Assemblies of the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram
and Nagaland, the seats which shall be reserved for the Scheduled Tribes in
the Legislative Assembly of any such State shall be,-(a)if all the seats in
the Legislative Assembly of such State in existence on the date of coming into
force of the Constitution (Fifty-seventh Amendment) Act, 1987 (hereafter in
this clause referred to as the existing assembly) are held by members of the
Scheduled Tribes, all the seats except one;(b)in any other case, such number
of seats as bears to the total number of seats, a proportion not less than the
number (as on the said date) of members belonging to the Scheduled Tribes in
the existing Assembly bears to the total number of seats in the existing
Assembly.".(2)The amendment made to article 332 of the Constitution by sub-
section (1) shall not affect any representation in the Legislative Assembly of
the State of Arunachal Pradesh or the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Meghalaya or the Legislative Assembly of the State of Mizoram or the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Nagaland until the dissolution of the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Arunachal Pradesh or the Legislative
Assembly of the State of Meghalaya or the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Mizoram or the Legislative Assembly of the State of Nagaland existing at the
commencement of this Act.[The Constitution (Fifty-seventh Amendment) Act,
1987, dealt with the reservation of seats for tribal people of the North-
Eastern states ( Mizoram, Nagaland, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh ) in the
Lower House of Parliament and State legislatures. This cannot be considered to
be one of the major amendments but it was an important move for the upliftment
of the weaker sections or those sections of society that were neglected for a
very long time. The Act decided the rule of reservation or the rule for
calculating the number of seats that were to be reserved for the Scheduled
Tribes.Also Refer]

