## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (NINETY-SIXTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 2011

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (NINETY-SIXTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 2011

## Act 96 of 2011

  * Published in Gazette of India on 23 September 2011 
  * Commenced on 23 September 2011 
  * [This is the version of this document from 23 September 2011.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Constitution (96th Amendment) Act, 2011An Act further to amend the
Constitution of IndiaBe it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-second Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-Prefatory Note-Statement of Objects and
Reasons.-The Government of Orissa forwarded to the Central Government in
December 2008, the Resolution passed by the Legislative Assembly of Orissa on
28th August, 2008 that, inter alia, the name of the language specified as
"Oriya", in the English Schedule of Constitution be changed as "Odia" and
translation of the word "Odia" in Hindi language should be revised as Odia
accordingly and authorised the Government of Orissa to place the matter before
Government of India for change of name of the State and change of language of
the State and change of their Hindi translations.

### 2. The Constitution (One Hundred and Thirteenth Amendment) Bill, 2010
seeks to change of name of the language mentioned in the English Schedule of
the Constitution of India, from ‘Oriya’ to ‘Odia’.

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Ninety-sixth Amendment) Act, 2011.

### 2\. Amendment of Eighth Schedule.-

In the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution, in Entry 15, for the word "Oriya",
the word "Odia" shall be substituted.[The Constitution (Ninety-sixth
Amendment) Act, 2011, required the Union government to fix the state’s
misspelled name and language in the first and eighth schedules of the
Constitution. In the 8th schedule of the Indian Constitution, Orissa’s
language was changed from Oriya to Odia as a result of this modification, and
its spelling was changed from Orissa to Odisha as a legislative act. Amendment
to Eighth Schedule: In Entry 15 of the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution,
the word “Oriya” shall be replaced by the word “Odia.” It was altered to
Schedule 1. In Schedule 1, Entry 10 was changed from Orissa to Odisha, for
instance, if Orissa became Odisha. The constitution has changed all places
where the word “Orissa” has appeared (for example Article 164). There was a
change to the entry in the fourth schedule.Also Refer]

