## Union of India - Act

## THE CENTRAL GOODS AND SERVICES TAX (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2023

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# THE CENTRAL GOODS AND SERVICES TAX (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2023

## Act 30 of 2023

  * Published in Gazette of India on 18 August 2023 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 August 2023.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017.BE it
enacted by Parliament in the Seventy-fourth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:—

### 1.Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Central Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Act,
2023.(2)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint:Provided that different dates
may be appointed for different provisions of this Act and any reference in any
such provision to the commencement of thisAct shall be construed as a
reference to the coming into force of that provision.

### 2.Amendment of section 2.

In section 2 of the Central Goods and Services TaxAct, 2017 (hereinafter
referred to as the principal Act),—(a)after clause (80), the following clauses
shall be inserted, namely:—(80A)"online gaming" means offering of a game on
the internet or an electronic network and includes online money
gaming;(80B)"online money gaming" means online gaming in which players pay or
deposit money or money's worth, including virtual digital assets, in the
expectation of winning money or money's worth, including virtual digital
assets, in any event including game, scheme, competition or any other activity
or process, whether or not its outcome or performance is based on skill,
chance or both and whether the same is permissible or otherwise under any
other law for the time being in force;’;(b)after clause (102), the following
clause shall be inserted, namely:—(102A)"specified actionable claim" means the
actionable claim involved in or by way
of—(i)betting;(ii)casinos;(iii)gambling;(iv)horse racing;(v)lottery;
or(vi)online money gaming;’;(c)in clause (105), the following proviso shall be
inserted at the end, namely:—"Provided that a person who organises or
arranges, directly or indirectly, supply of specified actionable claims,
including a person who owns, operates or manages digital or electronic
platform for such supply, shall be deemed to be a supplier of such actionable
claims, whether such actionable claims are supplied by him or through him and
whether consideration in money or money's worth, including virtual digital
assets, for supply of such actionable claims is paid or conveyed to him or
through him or placed at his disposal in any manner, and all the provisions of
this Act shall apply to such supplier of specified actionable claims, as if he
is the supplier liable to pay the tax in relation to the supply of such
actionable claims;";(d)after clause (117), the following clause shall be
inserted, namely:—(117A)"virtual digital asset" shall have the same meaning as
assigned to it in clause (47A) of section 2 of the Income-taxAct, 1961;’.

### 3. Amendment of section 24.

In section 24 of the principal Act,—(a)in clause (xi), the word "and" ocurring
at the end, shall be omitted;(b)after clause (xi), the following clause shall
be inserted, namely:—(xia)every person supplying online money gaming from a
place outside India to a person in India; and".

### 4.Amendment of Schedule III.

In the principal Act, in Schedule III, in paragraph 6, for the words "lottery,
betting and gambling" the words "specified actionable claims" shall be
substituted.

### 5.Transitory provision.

The amendments made under this Act shall be without prejudice to provisions of
any other law for the time being in force, providing for prohibiting,
restricting or regulating betting, casino, gambling, horse racing, lottery or
online gaming.————

