## Union of India - Act

## The Central Industrial Security Force Act, 1968

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Central Industrial Security Force Act, 1968

## Act 50 of 1968

  * Published on 2 December 1968 
  * Commenced on 2 December 1968 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 December 1999.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE CENTRAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY FORCE (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2009 (Act 22 of 2009) on 23 April 1936] 
  2. [Amended by THE CENTRAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY FORCE (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2009 (Act 22 of 2009) on 23 April 1936] 
  3. [Amended by The Central Industrial Security Force (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1999 (Act 40 of 1999) on 29 December 1999] 

The Central Industrial Security Force Act, 1968(50 OF 1968)

### 344.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-At present security arrangements at
important industrial undertakings in the public sector are handled by the
Watch and Ward staff of the organisation concerned. The Watch and Ward staff
is generally engaged in guarding the entrances or the perimeter of the
industrial undertaking and in preventing entries of unauthorised persons.
Unplanned recruitment, inadequate supervision, training and discipline have
made the existing watch and ward staff ill-equipped to discharge its
responsibilities. It is considered necessary to strengthen the security
arrangements in vital industrial undertakings. For that purpose it is proposed
to constitute a centrally recruited; organised and trained Industrial Security
Force. The Force will primarily be responsible for the watch and ward of
industrial undertakings owned by the Central Government and may be deployed at
the request and cost of managements, for security duties of industrial
undertakings in public sector.2\. The Bill is intended to give effect to these
proposals.3\. The following are the principal features of the Bill:-(a) The
Central Industrial Security Force will be constituted and maintained primarily
for the better protection and maintenance of industrial undertakings owned by
the Central Government (clause 3 of the Bill).(b) The Superintendence of the
Force shall vest in the Central Government and subject thereto the
administration of the Force shall vest in the Inspector-General of the Force
who will be assisted by a Deputy Inspector-General, a Chief Security Officer
and other Security Officers, etc. (clause 7 of the Bill).(c) On a request
being received from the Managing Director of an industrial undertaking in
public sector, such number of officers and members of the Force as the
Inspector-General may consider necessary may be deputed by the Inspector-
General for the protection and security of that industrial undertaking and the
cost to be incurred in connection with such officers and members while on
deputation shall be borne by the industrial undertaking and not by the
Government (clause 14 of the Bill).(d) The duties of the officers and members
of the Force have been spelt out in great detail (clause 10 of the Bill).(e)
Limited powers of arrest and search without warrant have been given to
superior officer under specified circumstances (clauses 11, 12 and 13 of the
Bill).(f) Other provisions of the Bill deal with matters relating to
recruitment, training, supervision, discipline, removal, dismissal, etc., of
the members of the Force.Amendment Act 14 of 1983-Statement of Objects and
Reasons.-The Central Industrial Security Force has been constituted under the
Central Industrial Security Force Act, 1968 with the object of providing for
the better protection and security of industrial undertakings owned by the
Central Government, as well as those in public sector. This Force has now been
in existence for a period of about 13 years. During this period, the
sanctioned strength of the Force has grown from about 2,000 to about 49,000
officers and men and the Force is at present deployed in 115 industrial
undertakings. The responsibilities of the Force have also grown greatly in
magnitude as well as complexity. The Force is today concerned, inter alia,
with providing security to highly sensitive undertakings like the
installations of Department of Space, Department of Atomic Energy, Oil
Refineries, Petro-chemical Plants, Steel Plants and major ports. The security
of these installations has a bearing not only on economic and industrial
growth but also on the security and defence of the country. In view of these
circumstances and also based on actual experience of the working of the Force,
an urgent need has been felt for making the Force an armed force of the Union
and for giving some additional powers for dealing with the problems of
security of the industrial undertakings. It is, therefore, proposed to amend
the Central Industrial Security Force Act to convert the Force into an armed
force of the Union and to make it a more effective instrument for providing
security to vital industrial undertakings.2\. The following are principal
features of the Bill:-(a) The Force will be made an armed force of the Union
and consequential changes made in the rank, structure and nomeclature of the
Force (clauses 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 13 of the Bill).(b) Power of the
members of the Force to arrest without warrant is being extended so as to
cover assaults, use of criminal force, wrongful restraint and voluntarily
causing hurt to members of the Force. This provision broadly covers offences
under section 353, Indian Penal Code (assault on public servant in discharge
of duties) and section 332, Indian Penal Code (voluntarily causing hurt to a
public servant in discharge of duties). Power to arrest without warrant is
also being extended to cover offences against property which may be lying in
the premises of an industrial undertakin or installation. Similary, power to
arrest without warrant has been extended to cognizable offences involving
imminent danger to the life of persons engaged n carrying on the work of the
undertaking (clause 9 of the Bill).(c) Restrictions have been proposed on the
right to form association on the lines of similar restrictions in other armed
forces of the Union (clause 10 of the Bill).(d) Punishment for offences which
may be committed by members of the Force, such as violation of the duty,
wilful breach of rules, regulations, lawful orders, cowardice, etc., has been
enhanced from six months to one year. A provision has been made for investment
of powers of a Magistrate on the Commandant for inquiring into or trying such
offences under certain circumstances (clause 11 of the Bill).3\. The Bill
seeks to achieve the above objects.Amendment Act 22 of 2009-Statement of
Objects and Reasons.-The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) constituted
under the Central Industrial Security Force Act, 1968 (No. 50 of 1968)
provides protection and security to the Central Government Industrial
Undertakings. By the amendment of 1983, the CISF was declared as an Armed
Force of the Union. The amendment of the Act in 1999 enabled the Central
Government to entrust any other duty to the Force and also made provision for
consultancy to private sector in security matters.2\. With the growing threat
of terrorist outfits, industries in the private sector and joint venture,
which have contributed to the growth of economy also require security by CISF.
It is, therefore, proposed to amend the relevant sections of the Central
Industrial Security Force Act, 1968 to enable the deployment of CISF for
security of private sector undertakings and joint ventures on cost
reimbursement basis.3\. There are a few other amendments required for
administrative reasons. Sections 4 and 7 of the Act mention specifically the
ranks of the supervisory officers of the Force. It is proposed to keep a
generic provision in the Act so that changes in ranks and designations will
not require amendment to the Act.4\. Section 14(2) of the Act stipulates one
month's notice from the management of a PSU for the withdrawal of CISF, which
is considered inadequate for the force as considerable amount of logistics and
administrative arrangements are involved. It is therefore proposed to enhance
this notice period from one to three months.5\. Section 15 of the Act is also
proposed to be amended to enable deployment of CISF outside India in Indian
Embassies or UN Peacekeeping Missions, etc.6\. The Bill seeks to achieve the
above objects.Act 20 of 1989 - The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF)
was raised under the Central Industrial Security Force Act, 1968 to provide
protection and security to Central Government Industrial Undertakings. At
present, it is deployed in 182 Government, Public Undertakings all over the
country. The demands from Government/Public Undertakings for deployment of the
CISF have grown in recent years due to the prevailing security environment in
some parts of the country. The managements of these undertakings expect CISF
to provide security not only to vital industrial installations but also to the
employees of these undertakings. Increasingly therefore, the CISF, as an Armed
Force of the Union, is being called upon to ensure the protection of machinery
and property as well as the employees who are essential to running these
undertakings. The Force is expected to he in a position to provide effective
security to the employees of these undertakings so that they could attend to
their jobs without any fear while on duty.2\. At present, under section
11(1)(iii), the CISF can only act in times of "imminent danger" which is
interpreted to mean immediate danger which cannot he instantly met or one that
cannot be guarded against by calling on the assistance of others or the
protection of the law. The CISF cannot exercise its limited powers of arrest
under this section unless these conditions are met. The word "imminent"
qualifying the word "danger" is a serious limitation upon the freedom of CISF
to act in the face of a threat and does not seem warranted in the present
circumstances. It is proposed, therefore, to remove the word "imminent"
occurring in clause (iii) of sub-section (1) of Section 11 of the CISF Act.3\.
It is also considered appropriate to take the opportunity to substitute the
word "remove" for the word "suspend" in clause (1) of Section 87 of the Act
This will bring Section 8 of the Act in conformity with provisions contained
in the Constiuuion and other Service Rule.[2nd December, 1968][An Act to
provide for the constitution and regulation of an armed force of the Union for
the better protection and security of industrial undertakings owned by the
Central Government, certain other industrial undertakings, employees of all
such undertakings and to provide technical consultancy services to industrial
establishments in the private sector and for matters connected therewith.]
[Substituted by Act 40 of 1999, Section 2, for the long title (w.e.f.
29.12.1999). ]Be it enacted by Parliament in the Nineteenth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called the
Central Industrial Security Force Act, 1968.

(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date
as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint.

Brought into force on 10.3.1969 vide S.O. 924, dated 3.3.1969.  
---  
  
### 2. Definitions .-(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)[ "Director-General" means the Director-General of the Force appointed
under section 4;(aa)"enrolled member of the Force" means any subordinate
officer, under officer or any other member of the Force of a rank lower than
that of an under officer;(ab)"Force" means the Central Industrial Security
Force constituted under section 3;(ac)"Force custody" means the arrest or
confinement of a member of the Force in accordance with rules made under this
Act;](b)"industrial undertaking" means any undertaking pertaining to a
scheduled industry and includes an undertaking engaged in any other industry,
or in any trade, business or service which may be regulated by Parliament by
law;(c)"industrial undertaking in public sector" means an industrial
undertaking owned, controlled or managed by-(i)a Government company as defined
in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956),(ii)a corporation
established by or under a Central, Provincial or State Act, which is
controlled or managed by the Government;(ca)[ "industrial establishment" means
an industrial undertaking or a company as defined under section 3 of the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or a firm registered under section 59 of the
Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (9 of 1932) which is engaged in any industry, or
in any trade, business or service;] [Inserted by Act 40 of 1999, Section 3
(w.e.f. 29.12.1999). ](cb)[ "joint venture" means a venture jointly undertaken
by the Central Government or State Government with private industrial
undertaking;] [Inserted by Act 22 of 2009, Section 2 (w.r.e.f. 10.1.2009). ][*
* *] [Clause (d) omitted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 3 (w.e.f. 15.6.1983).
](e)"Managing Director", in relation to an industrial undertaking, means the
person (whether called a managing agent, general manager, manager, chief
executive officer or by any other name) who exercises control over the affairs
of that undertaking;(f)"members of the Force" means a person appointed to the
Force under this Act [* * *] [The words " , other than a supervisory officer"
omitted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 3 (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ];(g)"prescribed"
means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(ga)[ "private industrial
undertaking" means an industry owned, controlled or managed by a person other
than the Central or State Government or any industrial undertaking in public
sector;] [Inserted by Act 22 of 2009, Section 2 (w.r.e.f. 10.1.2009).
](h)"scheduled industry" means any industry engaged in the manufacture or
production of the articles mentioned in the First Schedule to the Industries
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951);(ha)[ "subordinate
officer" means a person appointed to the Force as an Inspector, a Sub-
Inspector or an Assistant Sub-Inspector;] [Inserted by Act 14 of 1983, Section
3 (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ](i)"supervisory officer" means any of the officers
appointed under section 4 and includes any other officer appointed by the
Central Government as a supervisory officer of the Force;(j)[ "under officer"
means a person appointed to the Force as a Head Constable, Naik or Lance
Naik.] [Substituted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 3, for sub-Section (2) (w.e.f.
15.6.1983). ](2)[ Any reference in this Act to a law which is not in force in
any area shall, in relation to that area, be construed as a reference to the
corresponding law, if any, in force in that area.] [Substituted by Act 14 of
1983, Section 4, for " a Force" (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ]

### 3. Constitution of the Force .-(1) There shall be constituted and
maintained by the Central Government [an armed force of the Union to be called
the Central Industrial Security Force for the better protection and security
of industrial undertakings owned by that Government, joint venture or private
industrial undertaking][and to perform such other duties as may be entrusted
to it by the Central Government.] [Inserted by Act 40 of 1999, Section 4
(w.e.f. 29.12.1999). ]

(2)The Force shall be constituted in such manner, shall consist of such number
of [supervisory officers, subordinate officers, under officers and other
enrolled members] [Substituted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 5, for " supervisory
officers and members" (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] of the Force who shall receive
such pay and other remuneration as may be prescribed.

### 4. Appointment and powers of supervisory officers .- [(1) The Central
Government may appoint a person to be the Director-General of the Force and
such other supervisory officers as considered necessary.]

(2)The [Director-General] [Substituted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 5, for "
Inspector-General" (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] and every other supervisory officer
so appointed shall have, and may exercise, such powers and authority as is
provided by or under this Act.

### 5. Appointment of enrolled member of the Force .-The [appointment of the
enrolled members of the Force shall rest with the Director-General] who shall
exercise that power in accordance with rules made under this Act:

Provided that the power of appointment under this section may also be
exercised by such other supervisory officer as the Central Government may by
order specify in this behalf.

### 6. Certificates of members of the Force .- [(1) Every enrolled member of
the Force shall receive on his appointment a certificate in the form specified
in the Schedule, under the seal of the Director-General or such other
supervisory officer as the Director-General may specify in this behalf, by
virtue of which the person holding such certificate shall be vested with the
powers of an enrolled member of the Force.]

(2)Such certificate shall cease to have effect whenever the person named in it
ceases for any reason to be [an enrolled member] [Substituted by Act 14 of
1983, Section 7, for " a member" (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] of the Force.

### 7. Superintendence and administration of the Force .- [(1) The
superintendence of the Force shall vest in the Central Government, and subject
thereto and to the provisions of this Act and of any rules made thereunder,
the command, supervision and administration of the Force shall vest in the
Director-General.]

(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), the administration of the
Force within [such local limits as may be prescribed shall be carried on by
such other supervisory officers as considered necessary] [Substituted by Act
22 of 2009, Section 5, for " an Inspector-General, a Deputy Inspector-General,
a Commandant, a Deputy Commandant or an Assistant Commandant" (w.r.e.f.
10.1.2009). ] in accordance with the provisions of this Act and of any rules
made thereunder and every supervisory officer placed in charge of the
protection and security of an industrial undertaking [, joint venture or
private industrial undertaking] [Inserted by Act 22 of 2009, Section 5
(w.r.e.f. 10.1.2009). ] shall, subject to any directions that may be given by
the [Central Government or the Director-General] [Substituted by Act 14 of
1983, Section 8, for " Central Government" (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] in this
behalf, discharge his functions under the general supervision, direction and
control of the Managing Director of that undertaking.

### 8. Dismissal, removal, etc., of members of the Force .-Subject to the
provisions of article 311 of the Constitution and to such rules as the Central
Government may make under this Act, any supervisory officer may-

(i)dismiss, [remove][, order for compulsory retirement of,] [Inserted by Act
40 of 1999, Section 5 (w.e.f. 29.12.1999). ] or reduce in rank, any [enrolled
member] [Substituted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch., for " member"
(w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] of the Force whom he thinks remiss or negligent in the
discharge of his duty, or unfit for the same; or(ii)award any one or more of
the following punishments to any [enrolled member] [Substituted by Act 14 of
1983, Section 13 and Sch., for " member" (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] of the Force
who discharges his duty in a careless or negligent manner, or who by any act
of his own renders himself unfit for the discharge thereof, namely:-(a)fine to
any amount not exceeding seven days' pay or reduction in pay scale;(b)drill,
extra guard, fatigue or other duty;(c)removal from any office of distinction
or deprivation of any special emolument;(d)[ withholding of increment of pay
with or without cumulative effect; [Inserted by Act 40 of 1999, Section 5
(w.e.f. 29.12.1999). ](e)withholding of promotion;(f)censure.]

### 9. Appeal and revision .-(1) Any [enrolled member] of the Force aggrieved
by an order made under section 8 may, within thirty days from the date on
which the order is communicated to him, prefer an appeal against the order to
such authority as may be prescribed, and [subject to the provisions of sub-
section (2-A), sub-section (2-B) and sub-section (3)] [Substituted by Act 40
of 1999, Section 6, for " subject to the provisions of sub-section (3)"
(w.e.f. 29.12.1999). ], the decision of the said authority thereon shall be
final:

Provided that the prescribed authority may entertain the appeal after the
expiry of the said period of thirty days, if it is satisfied that the
appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in
time.(2)In disposing of an appeal, the prescribed authority shall follow such
procedure as may be prescribed.[(2-A) Any enrolled member of the Force
aggrieved by an order passed in appeal under sub-section (1) may, within a
period of six months from the date on which the order is communicated to him,
prefer a revision petition against the order to such authority as may be
prescribed and in disposing of the revision petition, the said authority shall
follow such procedure as may be prescribed.(2-B) The authority, as may be
prescribed for the purpose of this sub-section, on a revision petition
preferred by an aggrieved enrolled member of the force or suo motu , may call
for, within a prescribed period, the records of any proceeding under section 8
or sub-section (2) or sub-section (2-A) and such authority may, after making
inquiry in the prescribed manner and subject to the provisions of this Act,
pass such order thereon as it thinks fit.] [Inserted by Act 40 of 1999,
Section 6 (w.e.f. 29.12.1999). ](3)The Central Government may call for and
examine the record of any proceeding [under section 8, sub-section (2), sub-
section (2-A) or sub-section (2-B)] [Substituted by Act 40 of 1999, Section 6,
for " under section 8 or under sub-section (2)" (w.e.f. 29.12.1999). ] of this
section and may make such inquiry or cause such inquiry to be made and subject
to the provisions of this Act, may pass such order thereon as it thinks
fit:Provided that no order imposing an enhanced penalty under sub-section (2)
or sub-section (3) shall be made unless a reasonable opportunity of being
heard has been given to the person affected by such order.

### 10. Duties of members of the Force .-It shall be the duty of every [* * *]
member of the Force-

(a)promptly to obey and execute all orders lawfully issued to him by his
superior authority;(b)to protect and safeguard the industrial undertakings
owned by the Central Government together with such other installations as are
specified by that Government to be vital for the carrying on of work in those
undertakings, situate within the local limits of his jurisdiction:Provided
that before any installation not owned or controlled by the Central Government
is so specified, the Central Government shall obtain the consent of the
Government of the State in which such installation is situate;(c)to protect
and safeguard [, any joint venture, private industrial undertaking and such
other industrial undertakings and] [Inserted by Act 22 of 2009, Section 6
(w.r.e.f. 10.1.2009). ] installations for the protection and security of which
he is deputed under section 14;(d)[ to protect and safeguard the employees of
the industrial undertakings and installations referred to in clauses (b) and
(c) ; [Substituted by Act 20 of 1989, Section 4, for Clause (d) (w.e.f.
18.5.1989). ](e)to do any other act conducive to the better protection and
security of the industrial undertakings and installations referred to in
clauses (b) and (c) and the employees referred to in clause (d) ;](f)[ to
provide technical consultancy services relating to security of any private
sector industrial establishments under section 14-A; [Inserted by Act 40 of
1999, Section 7 (w.e.f. 29.12.1999). ](g)to protect and safeguard the
organisations owned or funded by the Government and the employees of such
organisations as may be entrusted to him by the Central Government;(h)any
other duty [within and outside India] which may be entrusted to him by the
Central Government from time to time.]

### 11. Power to arrest without warrant .- [(1) Any member of the Force may,
without any order from a Magistrate and without a warrant, arrest-

(i)[ any person who voluntarily causes hurt to, or attempts voluntarily to
cause hurt to, or wrongfully restrains or attempts wrongfully to restrain or
assaults, threatens to assault, or uses, or threatens or attempts to use
criminal force to any employee, referred to in clause (d) of section 10, or to
him or any other member of the Force, in discharge of his duty as such
employee or in execution of his duty as such member, as the case may be, or
with intent to prevent or to deter him from discharging his duty as such
member, or in consequence of anything done or attempted to be done by him in
the lawful discharge of his duty as such member;](ii)any person who has been
concerned in, or against whom a reasonable suspicion exists of his having been
concerned in, or who is found taking precautions to conceal his presence under
circumstances which afford reason to believe that he is taking such
precautions with a view to committing, a cognizable offence which relates to
property belonging to, or in the premises of, any industrial undertaking
referred to in clauses (b) and (c) of section 10, or relates to the other
installations, or to property in the premises of the other installations,
referred to in those clauses;(iii)any person who commits or attempts to commit
a cognizable offence which involves or which is likely to involve [* * *] [The
word " imminent" omitted by Act 20 of 1989, Section 5 (w.e.f. 18.5.1989). ]
danger to the life of any person engaged in carrying on any work relating to
any undertaking or installations referred to in clauses (b) and (c) of section
10.](2)If any person is found trespassing on the premises of any industrial
undertaking referred to in clauses (b) and (c) of section 10, he may, without
prejudice to any other proceedings which may be taken against him, be removed
from such premises by any [* * *] [The words " supervisory officer or" omitted
by Act 14 of 1983, Section 9 (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] member of the Force.

### 12. Power to search without warrant .-(1) Whenever [* * *] any member of
the Force, not below the prescribed rank, has reasons to believe that any such
offence as is referred to in section 11 has been or is being committed and
that a search warrant cannot be obtained without affording the offender an
opportunity of escaping or of concealing evidence of the offence, he may
detain the offender and search his person and belongings forthwith and, if he
thinks proper, arrest any person whom he has reason to believe to have
committed the offence.

(2)The provisions of the [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)]
[Substituted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch., for " Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)" (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] relating to searches under
that Code shall, so far as may be, apply to searches under this section.

### 13. Procedure to be followed after arrest .-Any [* * *] member of the
Force making an arrest under this Act, shall, without unnecessary delay, make
over the person so arrested to a police officer, or, in the absence of a
police officer, take such person or cause him to be taken to the nearest
police station together with a report of the circumstances occasioning the
arrest.

### 14. Deputation of the Force to industrial undertakings in public sector [,
joint venture or private sector]

.-(1) Subject to any general directions which may be issued by the Central
Government, it shall be lawful for the [Director-General] [ Substituted by Act
14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch., for " Inspector-General" (w.e.f.
15.6.1983).], on a request received in this behalf from the Managing-Director
concerned of an industrial undertaking in public sector [, joint venture or
private sector ] [Inserted by Act 22 of 2009, Section 7 (w.r.e.f. 10.1.2009).
]showing the necessity thereof, to depute such number of [* * *] [ The words "
supervisory officers and" omitted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch.
(w.e.f. 15.6.1983).] members of the Force as the [Director-General] [
Substituted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch., for " Inspector-General"
w.e.f. 15.6.1983).] may consider necessary for the protection and security of
that industrial undertaking and any installations attached thereto and the [*
* *] [The words " officers and" omitted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch.
(w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] members of the Force so deputed shall be at the charge
of the Managing-Director:Provided that in the case of an undertaking owned,
controlled or managed,-(i)by a Government company of which the Central
Government is not a member;(ii)by a corporation established by or under a
Provincial or State Act, no such request shall be entertained unless it is
made with the consent of the Government of the State in which the undertaking
is situate.(2)If the [Director-General] [Substituted by Act 14 of 1983,
Section 13 and Sch., for " Inspector-General" (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] is of the
opinion that circumstances necessitating the deputation of the [* * *] [ The
words " supervisory officers and" omitted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 13 and
Sch. (w.e.f. 15.6.1983).] members of the Force in relation to an industrial
undertaking under sub-section (1) have ceased to exist, or for any other
reason it is necessary so to do, he may, after informing the Managing-Director
of that industrial undertaking, withdraw the [* * *] [ The words " supervisory
officers and" omitted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch. (w.e.f.
15.6.1983).] members of the Force so deputed:Provided that the Managing
Director may, on giving [three month's notice] [Substituted by Act 22 of 2009,
Section 7, for " one month's notice" (w.r.e.f. 10.1.2009). ] in writing to the
[Director-General] [Substituted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch., for "
Inspector-General" (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] require that the [* * *] [ The words
" supervisory officers and" omitted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch.
(w.e.f. 15.6.1983).] members of the Force so deputed shall be withdrawn, and
the Managing-Director shall be relieved from the charge from the date of
expiration of such notice or from any earlier date on which the Force is so
withdrawn.(3)Every [* * *] [ The words " supervisory officers and" omitted by
Act 14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch. (w.e.f. 15.6.1983).] member of the Force,
while discharging his functions during the period of deputation, shall
continue to exercise the same powers and be subject to the same
responsibilities, discipline and penalties as would have been applicable to
him under this Act, if he had been discharging those functions in relation to
an industrial undertaking owned by the Central Government.[14-A. Technical
consultancy service to industrial establishments.-(1) Subject to any general
directions which may be issued by the Central Government, it shall be lawful
for the Director-General, on a request received from the Managing-Director of
an industrial establishment in the private sector or any other person
authorised by him in this behalf, to direct the members of the Force to
provide technical consultancy services relating to security, to such
industrial establishments in such manner and on payment of such fee as may be
prescribed.(2)The fee received under sub-section (1) shall be credited to the
Consolidated Fund of India.Explanation .-For the purposes of this section, the
expression "Managing-Director", in relation to an industrial establishment,
means the person (whether called General Manager, Manager, Chief Executive
Officer or a partner of a firm or by any other name) who exercises control
over the affairs of the establishment.]

### 15. Officers and members of the Force to be considered always on duty and
liable to be employed anywhere in India .-(1) Every [* * *] member of the
Force shall, for the purpose of this Act, be considered to be always on duty,
and shall, at any time, be liable to be employed at any place within [or
outside] [Inserted by Act 22 of 2009, Section 8 (w.r.e.f. 10.1.2009). ] India.

(2)Save as provided in section 14, no [* * *] [The words " supervisory
officers or" omitted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch. (w.e.f.
15.6.1983). ] members of the Force shall engage himself in any employment or
office other than his duties under this Act.[15-A. Restrictions respecting
right to form association, etc.-(1) No member of the Force shall, without the
previous sanction in writing of the Central Government or of the prescribed
authority,-(a)be a member of, or be associated in any way with, any trade
union, labour union, political association or with any class of trade unions,
labour unions or political associations ; or(b)be a member of, or be
associated in any way with, any other society, institution, association or
organisation that is not recognised as part of the Force or is not of a purely
social, recreatinonal or religious nature; or(c)communicate with the press or
publish or cause to be published any book, letter or other document except
where such communication or publication is in the bona fide discharge of his
duties or is of a purely literary, artistic or scientific character or is of a
prescribed nature.Explanation .-If any question arises as to whether any
society, institution, association or organisation is of a purely social,
recreational or religious nature under clause (b) of this sub-section the
decision of the Central Government thereon shall be final.(2)No member of the
Force shall participate in, or address, any meeting or take part in any
demonstration organised by any body of persons for any political purposes or
for such other purposes as may be prescribed.]

### 16. Responsibilities of members of the Force during suspension .-A member
of the Force shall not by reason of his suspension from office cease to be a
member of the Force; and he shall, during that period, be subject to the same
responsibilities, discipline and penalties to which he would have been subject
if he were on duty.

### 17. Surrender of certificate, arms, etc., by persons ceasing to be members
of the Force .-(1) Every person who for any reason ceases to be [an enrolled
member] of the Force, shall forthwith surrender to any supervisory officer
empowered to receive the same, his certificate of appointment, the arms,
accoutrements, clothing and other articles which have been furnished to him
for the performance of duties as [an enrolled member] [Substituted by Act 14
of 1983, Section 13 and Sch., for " a member" (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] of the
Force.

(2)Any person who wilfully neglects or refuses to surrender his certificate of
appointment or the arms, accoutrements, clothing and other articles furnished
to him, as required by sub-section (1), shall, on conviction, be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month, or with fine which may
extend to two hundred rupees, or with both.(3)Nothing in this section shall be
deemed to apply to any article which, under the orders of the [Director-
General,] [Substituted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch., for "
Inspector-General" (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] has become the property of the person
to whom the same was furnished.

### 18. Penalties for neglect of duty, etc .- [(1) Without prejudice to the
provisions contained in section 8, every member of the Force who shall be
guilty of any violation of duty or wilful breach or neglect of any rule or
regulation or lawful order made by a supervisory officer, or who shall
withdraw from the duties of his office without permission, or who, being
absent on leave, fails, without reasonable cause, to report himself for duty
on the expiration of the leave, or who engages himself without authority in
any employment other than his duty as a member of the Force, or who shall be
guilty of cowardice, may be taken into Force custody and shall, on conviction,
be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year.

(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974), an offence punishable under this section shall be cognizable and
non-bailable.(2-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), the Central Government may invest the Commandant
with the powers of a Magistrate of any class for the purpose of inquiring into
or trying any offence committed by an enrolled member of the Force and
punishable under this Act, or any offence committed by an enrolled member of
the Force against the person or property of another member of the
Force:Provided that-(i)when the offender is on leave or absent from duty;
or(ii)when the offence is not connected with the offender's duties as an
enrolled member of the Force; or(iii)when it is a petty offence even if
connected with the offender's duties as an enrolled member of the Force;
or(iv)when, for reasons to be recorded in writing, it is not practicable for
the Commandant invested with the powers of a Magistrate to inquire into or try
any offence, the offence may, if the prescribed authority within the limits of
whose jurisdiction the offence has been committed so requires, be inquired
into or tried by an ordinary Criminal Court having jurisdiction in the
matter.](3)Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prevent,
any member of the Force from being prosecuted under any other law for any
offence made punishable by that law, or for being liable under any such law to
any other or higher penalty or punishment than is provided for such offence by
this section:Provided that no person shall be punished twice for the same
offence.

### 19. Application of Act 22 of 1922 to [* * *] members of the Force

.-The police (Incitement to disaffection) Act, 1922, shall apply to [* * *]
[The words " supervisory officers and" omitted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 13
and Sch. (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] members of the Force as it applies to members
of a police force.

### 20. Certain Acts not to apply to members of the Force .-Nothing contained
in the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (4 of 1936), or the Industrial Disputes Act,
1947 (14 of 1947), or the Factories Act, 1948 (63 of 1948), or any
corresponding law relating to investigation and settlement of industrial
disputes in force in a State shall apply to members of the Force.

### 21. Protection of acts of [* * *] members of the Force

.-(1) In any suit or proceeding against any [* * *] member of the Force for
any act done by him in the discharge of his duties, it shall be lawful for him
to plead that such act was done by him under the orders of a competent
authority.(2)Any such plea may be proved by the production of the order
directing the act, and if it is so proved, the [* * *] [The words "
supervisory officers or" omitted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch.
(w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] member of the Force shall thereupon be discharged from
any liability in respect of the act so done by him, notwithstanding any defect
in the jurisdiction of the authority which issued such
order.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time
being in force, any legal proceeding, whether civil or criminal, which may
lawfully be brought against any [* * *] [The words " supervisory officers or"
omitted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch. (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] member of
the Force for anything done or intended to be done under the powers conferred
by, or in pursuance of, any provision of this Act or the rules thereunder
shall be commenced within three months after the act complained of shall have
been committed and not otherwise; and notice in writing of such proceeding and
of the cause thereof shall be given to the person concerned and his
supervisory officer at least one month before the commencement of such
proceeding.

### 22. Power to make rules .-(1) The Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
powers, such rules may provide for-(a)regulating the classes, ranks, grades,
pay and remuneration of [* * *] members of the Force and their conditions of
service in the Force;(b)regulating the powers and duties of [* * *] [The words
" supervisory officers and" omitted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 12 (w.e.f.
15.6.1983). ] members of the Force authorised to exercise any functions by or
under this Act;(c)fixing the period of service for [* * *] [The words "
supervisory officers and" omitted by Act 14 of 1983, Section 12 (w.e.f.
15.6.1983). ] members of the Force;(d)prescribing the description and quantity
of arms, accoutrements clothing and other necessary articles to be furnished
to the members of the Force;(e)prescribing the places of residence of members
of the Force;(f)institution, management and regulation of any fund for any
purpose connected with the administration of the Force ;(g)regulating the
punishments and prescribing authorities to whom appeals shall be preferred
from orders of punishment, or remission of fines or other punishments, and the
procedure to be followed for the disposal of such appeals ;(gg)[ regulating
matters with respect to Force custody under this Act including the procedure
to be followed for taking persons into such custody; [Inserted by Act 14 of
1983, Section 12 (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ](ggg)regulating matters with respect to
disposal of cases relating to offences under this Act and specifying the
places in which persons convicted under this Act may be confined;][(gggg )
prescribing authority under sub-section (2-A) of section 9 and the procedure
to be followed by such authority in disposing of the revision petition;
[Inserted by Act 40 of 1999, Section 9 (w.e.f. 29.12.1999). ](ggggg )
prescribing authority under sub-section (2-B) of section 9, the period within
which such authority may call or the records and the manner in which such
authority may make inquiry;](h)the terms and conditions subject to which [* *
*] [The words " supervisory officers and" omitted by Act 14 of 1983, Section
12 (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] of the Force may be deputed under section 14 and the
charges therefor; [*] [The word " and" omitted by Act 40 of 1999, Section 9
(w.e.f. 29.12.1999). ](hh)the manner in which and the fee on payment of which
the technical consultancy services shall be provided under sub-section (1) of
section 14-A; and(i)any other matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed or
in respect of which rules are required to be made under this Act.(3)Every rule
made under this section shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made,
before each House of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of
thirty days, which may be comprised in one session [or in two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive session aforesaid,] [Substituted by
Act 14 of 1983, Section 12, for certain words (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ] both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule, or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule.THE SCHEDULEA.B. has been
appointed [an enrolled member] of the Central Industrial Security Force under
the Central Industrial Security Force Act, 1968, and is vested with the
powers, functions and privileges of [an enrolled member] [Substituted by Act
14 of 1983, Section 13 and Sch., for " a member" (w.e.f. 15.6.1983). ]of the
force.

