## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board's Water Tax and
Sewerage Tax (Levy and Collection) Regulations, 1991

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board's Water Tax and
Sewerage Tax (Levy and Collection) Regulations, 1991

## Rule THE-CHENNAI-METROPOLITAN-WATER-SUPPLY-AND-SEWERAGE-BOARD-S-WATER-TAX-
AND-SEWERAGE-TAX-LEVY-AND-COLLECTION-REGULATIONS-1991 of 1991

  * Published on 26 March 1991 
  * Commenced on 26 March 1991 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 March 1991.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board's Water Tax and
Sewerage Tax (Levy and Collection) Regulations, 1991Published vide
Notification No. SROC. 6/91, MMWSSB\FIN\TAXES\A6\26L63\91No. SROC. 6/91. - In
exercise of the powers under sections 34,35 and 36 and sub-section (1) and
clause (j) of sub-section (2) of section 81 of the [Chennai] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1978 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1978), the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage
Board, with the previous section of the Government accorded in G.O. Ms. No.
97, Municipal Administration and Water Supply department, dated 26th march
1991 makes the following Regulations, for levy and collection of water tax and
sewerage tax on the premises with-in the Board's area:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These regulations maybe called the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).] Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board's Water Tax and
Sewerage Tax (Levy and Collection) Regulations, 1991.(2)These regulations
shall come into force from the 1st day of April 1991.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means
the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1978);(b)"Assessed Annual Value" means the annual value of a premises
determined under section 35 of the Act and forms the basis for levy of the
water tax and sewerage tax;(c)"Premises" means any land or
building;(d)"Sewerage Tax" means a tax levied on premises situated within the
Board's area under sub-section (1) of section 34 of the Act;(e)"water tax"
means a tax levied on premises situated within the Board's area under sub-
section (1) of section 34 of the Act;(f)Words and expressions used and not
defined in these Regulations but denied in the Act shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in that Act.

### 3. Assessment Books.

\- The authorised authority shall prepare and keep assessment books in such
form and in such parts and sections as he considers fit, showing the persons
and premises liable to taxation under this Act.

### 4. Access to the Board's Records.

\- The assessment books and where detailed particulars relating to any
assessment are kept in separate records, the portion thereof containing such
particulars shall be open at all reasonable time and free of charges to
inspection to any person who pays any tax to the Board and such persons shall
be entitled to take extracts free of charge from the said books and records.

### 5.

The relevant portion of the Board's tax ledgers shall be open to inspection
free of charges by any person who pays tax to the Board on a day or days in
each month to be fixed by the Board.

### 6. Levy of Water and Sewerage Tax.

(1)For the purpose of the Act, the Board shall levy on premises situated
within its area-(a)a Water Tax; and(b)a Sewerage Tax.(2)The Taxes mentioned in
clause (1) shall be levied at such rates as specified in Regulation 7 subject
to the ceilings indicated in sub-section (2) of section 34 of the Act.

### 7. Rates of Taxation.

(1)The rate of tax shall be as below on each premises per annum-(i)Water tax
1.5 per cent of assessed annual value; and(ii)Sewerage tax 5.5 per cent of
assessed annual value.(2)In the case of any land which is not appurtenant to
any building or which is occupied by or appurtenant to huts the authorised
authority may assess the land or premises, as the case may be, with reference
to extent in lieu of annual value and at such rates as he may himself
determine subject always to the following maximum per ground of land measuring
220 square metres:-

| Rs.  
---|---  
(a) Water Tax. ....................... | 1  
(b) Sewerage Tax. ................. | 2  
  
### 8.

The authorised authority shall determine water tax and sewerage tax to which
the each premises or portion is liable per annum.

### 9. Raising of Water and Sewerage Tax Demands and Payment Conditions.

\- The amount of tax determined under regulation 8 of these regulations shall
be divided into two equal half yearly demands and levied each half year
commencing on the 1st day of April and 1st day of October and ending on the
30th day of September and 31st day of March respectively. Save as otherwise
expressly provided in these regulations the half-yearly demand for water and
sewerage tax is payable by the owner of the assessed premises within fifteen
days of the commencement of the half year. The Board may as a matter of
convenience send demands in batches on by any other mode as evolved by the
Board from time to time after the commencement of the half year and make the
demands payable within one month of the date on the demand notice. Non-receipt
of the demand notice shall not be a valid reason for non-payment. The Board
may how ever, send demands once a year for premises in respect of which the
total water tax and sewerage tax per annum per premises does not exceed Rs. 70
(rupees seventy only).Explanation. - Computer Demand notice issued up to
11/89.90. Cards issued from 1/90.91 treated as one time demand notice.

### 10.

The payment of Water and Sewerage tax shall be made as specified in the demand
notice, Water and Sewerage Tax card or as intimated by the Board from time to
time.

### 11. Annual value.

(1)As long as the Board adopts the annual value specified in sub-section (3)
of section 35 of the Act it need not maintain separate assessment books and
instead record its tax ledgers the annual value and tax payable in respect of
each premises.(2)Till such time as the Board adopts its own assessments it may
adopt all exemptions and concessions given by the Madras Corporation,
Municipality or Panchayat or any other local authority in making assessments
of annual value for the levy of property tax or house tax.

### 12.

The Board shall enter in the assessment books the annual value of all assessed
premises and the tax payable thereon. Such assessment books shall also record
the following particulars with regard to each assessable item:-(a)The serial
number.(b)The taxpayers code number.(c)A clear address of the premises giving
the door number, or survey number, street name, postal zone, corporation
division.(d)The name of owner and occupier.(e)A description of the premises
with extent of land.(f)The annual value, and(g)The water tax and sewerage tax
to which it is assessed to.

### 13.

The gross annual rent for the purposes of sections 34 and 35 of the Act shall
be determined based on information made available on the rental value of the
premises, other relevant information on the rent fetched by similar premises
in the neighbourhood and guidelines issued for determining the monthly rental
value from time to time.

### 14.

Every building shall be assessed together with its site and other adjacent
premises occupied as appurtenances thereto unless the owner of the building is
a different person from the owners of such site or premises.

### 15.

Any premises the assessed annual value of which is less than thirty six rupees
shall be exempt from water tax and sewerage tax provided that the owner
thereof is not liable to profession tax or income tax and provided further
that no other building or land is owned by him or the aggregate annual value
of all the buildings and lands owned by him is less than thirty six rupees.

### 16. Revision of assessment.

\- An assessment once made shall continue in force until a revised assessment
takes effect.

### 17. Assessments shall normally be revised once in five years.

\- For this purpose the authorised authority may with the approval of the
Board arrange the territorial divisions of the city in such groups as may be
considered necessary and revise the assessment books relating to each group by
rotation once in five years.

### 18.

(1)When assessment books have been prepared for the first time, or whenever a
general revision of such books has been completed under regulation 17 or
revision due to any improvement in construction of the premises the authorised
authority shall give a notice to the owner stating-(a)the time and place where
the books may be inspected,(b)the half year from which the fresh assessment of
revision takes effect, and(c)that objections will be considered if they
contact the Board's office within fifteen days from the date of notice.(2)The
authorised authority may after taking note of objections, if any, finalise the
tax assessment books and communicate the same to the owner of the premises.
Such assessments shall be deemed to take effect from the first day of the half
years in which it is made.

### 19. Escaped assessment.

\- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Act or these
regulations made thereunder, if for any reason any person liable to pay any of
the taxes under these regulations has escaped assessment in any half year or a
year or has been assessed in any half year or year at a rate lower than the
rate at which he is assessable or, in the case of water and sewerage tax has
not been duly assessed in any half year or year consequent on the building or
land concerned having escaped proper determination of its annual value, the
authorized authority may at any time within two years from the date on which
such person should have been assessed, serve on such person a notice assessing
him to the taxes due and demanding payment thereof within fifteen days from
the date of such service, and the provisions of the Act and the regulations
mad thereunder shall so far as may be apply as if the assessment was made in
the half year or year to which the tax or fee relates.

### 20. Notification for revision of tax.

\- An increase or decrease in the rate of tax shall not constitute an
amendment or revision and such change in the rate of tax shall take effect
from the date fixed for levy.

### 21. Power to issue supplemental demands.

\- In the event that the tax demanded by the Board for half year has either
clerical errors or arithmetical errors, the Board may issue a supplemental
demand correcting the same either in the same half year or in any subsequent
half year.

### 22. Change of ownership.

(1)Whenever the title of any person primarily liable to the payment of the
water tax and sewerage tax on any premises to or over such premises is
transferred, the person whose title is transferred and the person to whom the
same shall be transferred, shall within three months after the execution of
the instruments of transfer or after its registration if it be registered or
after the transfer is effective, if no instrument be effected, give notice of
such transfer to the authorised authority.(2)In the event of death of any
person primarily liable as aforesaid the person to whom the title of the
deceased shall be transferred as heir or otherwise shall give notice of such
transfer to the authorised authority within one year from the date of the
death of the deceased.(3)The notice to be given under clause (1) and (2) above
shall be in such form as the authorised authority may direct. The transferee
or the person to whom the title passes as the case may be, shall, if so
required, be bound to produce before the authorised authority any documents
evidencing the transfer or succession.(4)Every person who makes a transfer as
aforesaid without giving such notice to the authorised authority shall
continue to be liable for the payment of the water tax and sewerage tax
assessed on the premises transferred until he gives notice or until the
transfers have been recorded in the Board's registers, but nothing in this
clause shall be held to affect the liability of the transferee of the payment
of the said tax or the prior claim of the Board under regulation 28.

### 23. New Assessment and Remission.

(1)(a)If any building in the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).] Metropolitan Area is constructed or reconstructed the owner shall give
notice thereof to the authorised authority within fifteen days from the date
of completion or occupation of the building, whichever is earlier.(b)If such
date falls within the last two months of the half year, the owner shall,
subject to the notice being given in sub-clause (a) of clause (1) be entitled
to remission of the whole of the tax or enhanced tax, as the case may be
payable in respect of the building only for that half year.(c)If such date
falls within first four month of the half year, the owner shall subject to
notice being given in sub-clause (a) be entitled to remission of so much not
exceeding half of the tax or enhanced tax as the case may be payable in
respect of the building only, for that half year as is proportionate to the
number of days in that half year preceding such date.(2)(a)If any building in
the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Metropolitan area
is demolished or destroyed, the owner shall, until notice thereof is given to
the authorised authority be liable for the payment of the tax for which he
would have been liable had the building not been demolished or destroyed.(b)If
such notice is given within the first two months of the half-year, the owner
shall be entitled to a remission of the whole of the tax payable in respect of
the building only for that half-year.(c)If such notice is given within the
last four months of the half year, the owner shall be entitled to a remission
of so much not exceeding a half of the tax payable in respect of the building
only for that half year as is proportionate to the number of days in that half
year succeeding the demolition or destruction as the case may be.

### 24. Disconnection and Restoration of Water/ Sewer connections.

\- If any amount due on account of water tax and sewerage tax as determined
under the Act and these regulations is not paid within thirty days from the
commencement of the half year or any other intimation issued thereon, the
authorised authority shall issue a notice for cutting of the water or sewer
connection or both between any water or sewer works main or pipeline of the
Board and the premises to which water is supplied or sewerage is provided
giving a further grace time of fifteen days from the date of the notice for
making payment of the taxes due to the Board.

### 25.

If the taxes due to the Board are not paid even after the grace time of
fifteen days specified in the notice issued under regulation 24 the authorised
authority shall proceed to cut-off the water supply or sewerage connection.

### 26.

Restoration of water supply or sewerage cut off under regulation 25 shall be
done only after payment of the rent charges together with penalty of Rs. 50/-
(Rupees fifty only) and payment of all disconnection and reconnection expenses
incurred by the board the authorised authority shall order reconnection after
satisfying himself that all payments due have been made. The Board may, at its
discretion, grant time for payment in exceptional cases.

### 27.

Requests by tenants that the owners are liable to pay the tax dues and hence
disconnection of water supply need not be given effect to shall not be
considered.Requests that water supply should not be cut off for nonpayment on
the plea that such arrears are due by previous owners shall not be considered.

### 28. Liability for Payment of Tax.

\- The water and sewerage tax on building and lands shall, subject to the
prior payment of land revenue, if any, due to the Government thereon, be first
charge upon the said premises or lands and upon the movable properties, if any
found within or upon such premises and belong to the person liable to such
tax.

### 29. Saving Clause.

\- Until such time the proposed regulations defined and determined under the
Act and given effect to, the existing regulations or bye laws of the [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (All ration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Municipal Corporation, Municipality,
Panchayat or any other local authority shall be in force.Proceeding for
Collection of Water and Sewerage Tax

### 30.

Where any tax due under these regulations have not been paid within the time
prescribed, the authorised authority shall cause to be served upon or sent to
such person a demand for the sum due failing which proceedings under
regulation 31 below would be enforced.

### 31.

i. If the amount due on account of any tax covered in the demand under
regulation 30 is not paid within the time prescribed from the service of the
notice and if the person from whom the tax are due has not shown cause to the
satisfaction of the authorised authority why it has not been paid, the
authorised authority may recover by distraint under his warrant by sale of the
movable property of the defaulter or if the defaulter is occupier of any
building or land in respect of which the tax is due, by distress and sale of
any movable property which may be found in or on such building or land, the
amount due on account of the tax together with the warrant fee, distraint fee
and such further sums as will satisfy the probable tax that will be incurred
in connection with the detection and the sale of the property so
distrained.ii. Provided always that the movable property described in the
provision to sub-section (1) of section 60 of the code of civil procedure,
1908, shall not be liable to distraint.iii. If for any reason the distraint
or, a sufficient distraint of the defaulter's property is impracticable, the
authorised authority may prosecute the defaulter before a Magistrate.iv.
Nothing herein contained shall preclude the Board from suing in a Civil Court
for the recovery of the water and sewerage tax, or other amount due to it
under the Act.

### 31A.

Under a special order in writing of the authorised authority any officer
charged with execution of a warrant of distress may between sunrise and sunset
break open any' outer or inner door or window of a building in order to make
the distress if he has reasonable ground for believing that such building
contains property of the defaulter which is liable to seizure, and if after
notifying his authority and purpose and duly demanding admittance he cannot
otherwise obtain admittance:Provided that a period of the time prescribed
shall be allowed for paying the amount due and redeeming the property seized.

### 32.

The officer charged with the execution of a warrant shall, before making the
distraint, demand payment of the tax due and the warrant fee. If tax due and
warrant fee are paid, no distraint shall be made and if the tax or warrant fee
are not paid the officer shalla. Seize such movable property of the defaulter
as he may think necessary,b. Make an inventory of the property seized,c. give
to the person in possession of the property seized at the time of seizure, a
copy of the inventory and notice of saleProvided that a period of seven days
shall be allowed for paying the amount due and redeeming the property seized.

### 33.

The distress shall not be excessive, that is to say, the property distrained
shall be as nearly as possible equal in value to the tax due by the defaulter
together with all expenses incidental to the warrant distraint, detention and
sale.

### 34.

a. If the amount due by the defaulter on account of water and sewerage tax,
the warrant fee, distraint fee and the expenses incidental to the detention of
the property are not paid within the time prescribed , under proviso to
regulation 35 and if the distraint warrant is not suspend ed by the authorised
authority, the property seized or sufficient portion thereof shall be sold by
public auction under the orders of the authorised authority who shall apply
the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the amount due on account of the
tax due, the warrant fee and the distraint fee and the expenses incidental to
the detention and sale of the property, and shall return to the person in
whose possession the property, was at the time of seizure, any property or
some which may remain after the sale and application of the proceeds thereof
as aforesaid, if application is made by such person within the time prescribed
from the date of sale. If no such application is made, the property of some so
remaining shall be forfeited to the Board, if the proceeds of the sale are
insufficient for the payment of the amount due on the account of the water and
sewerage tax, the warrant fee and distraint fee and the expenses incidental to
the detention and sale of the property, the authorised authority may again
proceed under regulation 33 and 34 of this part in respect of the sum
remaining unpaid.b. When the property seized is perishable or subject to
speedy natural decay or if the expenses of keeping it together with the water
and sewerage tax due shall exceed the value of the property, the authorised
authority may sell it at any time before the expiry of the same period of the
time prescribed unless the amount is sooner paid.c. The authorised authority
shall consider any objection to the distraint of any property which are made
within the same period of the time prescribed and may postpone the sale,
pending investigation thereof, if the authorised authority decide that the
property attached was not liable to distraint, he shall return it or if it has
already been sold the proceeds of the sale to the person appearing to the
entitled thereto and may again proceed under regulation 33 and 34 and all fees
and expense s connected with the first distraint and sale shall be recoverable
from the defaulter if it shall appear to the authorized authority that he
willfully permitted the distraint of the property when his knowledge was not
liable to distrain.

### 35.

a. Fees shall be levied on such distraints with reference to the amount due
for which the distraint is made and according to the rates specified in the
following Table:

Sum Distrained for | Fees (Rs.)  
---|---  
Below Rs. 25 | 5.00  
Rs. 25 and above but below Rs. 50 | 7.00  
Rs. 50 and above but below Rs. 100 | 15.00  
Rs. 100 and above | 25.00  
  
b. Such fee shall include all expenses, except,i. the cost of maintaining any
live stock or the expenses incidental to the detention of the distrained
property,ii. the tax payable on account of person having or put incharge of
the property, namely, Rs.5/- per day per person.

### 36.

a. The immovable property of defaulter may be distrained wherever it may be
found within the state of Tamil Nadu.b. If it is necessary to distrain
property outside the limits of the city, the authorized authority shall
address this warrant to such public servant having local Jurisdiction as the
Government of Tamil Nadu may be general or special order direct.c. Such public
servant shall execute the warrant himself or cause it to be executed by some
person subordinate to himself.d. Subject to the modification set out in the
following clauses, the provisions of regulations 35 and 39 (both inclusive)
shall apply to the execution of the warrant and the disposal of the sale
proceeds.e. For the purpose of action under regulation 35, no special order in
writing of the authorised authority shall be required but if the Public
servant to whom the warrant is addressed charges any subordinate to the
execution thereof, he shall furnish such subordinate with a special order in
writing to that effect and such subordinate shall then have authority to take
action under the regulation.f. For the purpose of action under Regulation 37,
the public servant to whom the warrant is addressed may without further orders
from the authorized authority, sell or direct the sale of the property seized
and shall on completion of the same, transmit proceeds to the authorised
authority subject to such deduction, if any, as may be necessary to meet
expenses incurred locally.g. It shall be unlawful for such public servant
himself or for any person subordinate to hi in to purchase directly or
indirectly any such sale.

### 37.

If the water and sewerage tax due on any account of any building or land
remains unpaid in whole or in part at the end of the period, specified in
regulation 24, the authorised authority may, if the said tax due have retained
unpaid for more than the time prescribed, require the occupier for the time
being of such building or land to pay the amount within a specified period and
if the occupier fails to comply with such requisition, the authorised
authority may distrain and sell any immovable property found on the building
or land and the provisions of the foregoing regulations shall mutatis mutandis
apply to all distraints and sales effected under this regulation:Provided that
no occupier shall be liable for prosecution or to a civil suit in respect of
any sum recoverable from him under these regulation unless he had willfully
prevented distraint or a sufficient distraint.

### 38.

If any tax due from any person remains unpaid in whole or in part at end of
the period specified in regulation 9 and 10 and such a person has left India
or cannot be found, the said amount or such part thereof as remains unpaid
together with all sums payable in connection therewith shall be recoverable as
if it were an arrears of land revenue.

### 39.

(a)If any tax due from any person remains unpaid in whole or in part at the
end of the period specified in regulations 9 and 10 the defaults shall be
liable on proof to the satisfaction of the Magistrate that he willfully
omitted to pay the amount due by him to pay a fine not exceeding twice the
amount which maybe due by him on account ofi. the tax due and the warrant fee,
if any,ii. if distraint has taken place, the distraint fee and the expenses
incidental to the detention and sale, if any, of the property
distrained.(b)Whenever any person is convicted of an offence under sub-clause
(i) of this clause the Magistrate shall in addition to any fine which may be
imposed recover summarily and pay over to the Board the amount, if any, due
under the heads specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-clause (i) of this
clause and may in his discretion also recover summarily and pay to the Board
such amount, if any, he may fix as costs of the prosecution.

### 40.

No officer or subordinate of the Board shall directly or indirectly purchase
any property at any sale or distrained property held under foregoing
regulations.

