## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Chennai Corporation Officers Service Rules, 1975

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Chennai Corporation Officers Service Rules, 1975

## Rule THE-CHENNAI-CORPORATION-OFFICERS-SERVICE-RULES-1975 of 1975

  * Published on 25 June 1975 
  * Commenced on 25 June 1975 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 June 1975.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Chennai Corporation Officers Service Rules, 1975Published vide
Notification G.O. Ms. No. 1054, Rural Development and Local Administration,
dated 25th June, 1975

## Part I

Preliminary

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.] Corporation Officers Service Rules, 1975.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,-(1)A person is said to be "appointed" to a service when in accordance
with these rules or in accordance with the rules applicable at the time, as
the case may be, he discharges for the first time duties of a post born on the
cadre of such service or commences the probation, instruction or training
prescribed for members thereof;(2)"approved candidate" means a candidate whose
name appears in a authoritative list of candidates approved for appointment to
any service, class or category;(3)"approved probationer" in a service, class
or category means a member of that service, class or category who has
satisfactorily completed his probation and awaits appointment as a full member
of such service, class or category;(4)["Backward Classes"] [For the purpose of
this rule Backward Classes includes Most Backward Classes and denotified
communities also.] means the communities classified as such in the Tamil Nadu
State and Subordinate Service Rules, as amended, from time to
time;(5)"Commissioner" means the Commissioner, Corporation of [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).];(6)"discharge of a probationer" means,
in case the probationer is a full member or an approved probationer of another
service, class or category reverting him to such service, class or category
and in any other case, dispensing with his services;(7)A person is said to be
"on duty" as member of a service-(a)when he is performing the duties of a post
borne on a cadre of such service or in undergoing the probation, instruction
or training prescribed for such service;(b)when he is on joining time;
or(c)when he is absent from duty during vacation or authorised holidays or on
casual leave issued by the State Government having been on duty immediately
before and immediately after such absence;(8)"full member" of a service means
a member of that service who has been appointed substantively on the cadre
thereof;(9)"General Rules" shall mean the rules in Part II of these
rules;(10)"member of a service" means a person who has been appointed to that
service and who has, not retired or resigned, been removed or dismissed, been
substantively transferred or reduced to another service or been discharged
otherwise than for want of vacancy. He may be a probationer, an approved
probationer, or a full members of that service;(11)"military duty"
means-(i)duty of any kind (including a course of training) involving
subjection to Naval, Military or Air Force Law; or(ii)duty (including a course
of training) with a liability to serve overseas or in any operational area in
Naval, Military or Air Force Units or formation or under Military Munitions or
Stores Authorities or in factories; or(iii)whole time duty in-(a)the Civil
Pioneer Force, the Madras Civil Labour Units or the Madras Labour Units for
Ceylon, or(b)the A.R.P. or any other Civil Defence Organisation specified by
the Central Government, or(c)any post created for the efficient prosecution of
war of 1939-46, or associated with the training of war technicians, if duty in
such post is declared by the Central Government to be military
duty;Explanation. - No duty shall be treated as military duty unless either of
the following conditions is satisfied-(i)it must have been rendered within the
period commencing on the 3rd September 1939 and ending with the 21st November
1948:Provided that if it commenced on or after 22nd April 1946 it shall not be
reckoned as military duty; or(ii)it must have commenced on any date within the
period commencing on the 26th October 1962 and ending with the 10th January
1968.(12)"probationer" in service means a member of that service who has not
completed his probation;(13)"promotion" means the appointment of a member of
any category or grade of a service or a class of service to a higher category
or grade of such service or class;(14)A candidate is said to be "recruited
direct" to a service, class or post when, in case his first appointment
thereto is made by inviting applications for the recruitment and in any other
case at the time of his first appointment that he is not in the service of the
Corporation:Provided that for the purpose of this definition, a person shall
be deemed to be not in the service of the Corporation-(i)if a period of five
years has not elapsed since his first appointment to a service in the
Corporation; and(ii)if he belongs to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes
or [Backward Classes] [For the purpose of this rule, Backward Classes includes
Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities also].(15)"Scheduled Castes"
means the communities classified as such in the Tamil Nadu State and
Subordinate Service Rules, as amended from time to time;Explanation. - No
person who professes a religion different from Hinduism shall be deemed to be
a member of Scheduled Castes;(16)"Scheduled Tribes" means the communities
classified as such in the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Service Rules, as
amended from time to time;(17)"Service" means the service constituted in
respect of the posts included in Class I-A, Class I-B, Class II of the
Corporation Establishment';Explanation. - Where the context so required,
"service", means the period during which a person holds a post or a lien on a
post or is a member of service as above defined;(18)"Special Rules" shall mean
the rules applicable to each service or class or category;(19)"war service"
means-(a)service of any kind in a unit or formation liable for service
overseas or in any operational area or in the Indian National Army
(I.N.A.);(b)service in India under Military, Munitions, or Stores Authorities
or in factories with a liability to service overseas or in any operational
area;(c)all other service involving subjection to Naval, Military or Air Force
Law;(d)a period of training with a Military Unit or formation involving
liability to service overseas or in any operational area;(e)valuable service
rendered to the fighting force in other ways e.g. byway of
recruiting;(f)Service in Air Raid Precaution or any Civil Defence Organisation
specified in this behalf by Central or State Government;(g)(1) any service
connected with the prosecution of the-war which a person was required to
undertake by a competent authority under the provisions of any law for the
time being in force.(2)Service in any of the following-(i)National War Front
Organisation;(ii)Camouflage Organisation;(iii)Special Origination for the
production of war supplies through Small Scale Industries;(iv)any post
associated with the training of war technicians, if duty in such post is
declared by the Central Government to be "military duty";(v)Post of Special
Constable on coastal patrol duty; and(vi)Survey of India if the service was
temporary and involved liability for service overseas.Explanation. - (1) Only
whole-time service of any of the kinds specified above will be recognised as
war service.(2)Service in the Civil Pioneer Force, Tamil Nadu Civil Labour
Units for Ceylon will be deemed to fall within the scope of clause (c)
above.(3)Persons whose service of kinds specified above has been
characterised.in their discharge certificate or other documents as
"indifferent" or "bad" shall not be eligible for the concessions allowed by
these rules;(4)Persons who have been discharged from the Army, Navy or Air
Force or from any other kind of war service for any reasons other than those
specified below shall not be eligible for the concessions allowed by these
rules.(i)Medical invalidation;(ii)Demobilisation;(iii)Completion of
engagement;(iv)Unlikely to become an efficient soldier or Airman,
etc.;(v)Services no longer required;(vi)Character not
tested;(vii)Compassionate grounds;(viii)Unfit for service; and(ix)Below
standard;(5)The service shall be in connection with the war of 1939-46.

### 3. Pay allowances, leave salary, pension and other conditions of service.

\- The [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Corporation
Service (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules 1970, the rules regulating,
the pay of the services included in the Corporation establishment, the
[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration
of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Corporation Servants Conduct
Rules, 1968, the Fundamental Rules, 1970, the [Chennai] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu
Act 28 of 1996).] Corporation Superior Service Leave Rules, 1960 and the
Pension Rules, for the time being in force shall, in so for as may be
applicable and except to the extent expressly provided in these rules, govern
members of every Corporation Service in the matter of their pay, allowance,
leave, leave salary, pension and other conditions of service.

### 4. Cadre.

\- The permanent cadre of each service, class, category and grade shall be
determined by the State Government in consultation with the Corporation
Council whenever necessary.

## Part II

[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration
of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Corporation Officers Service
General Rules

### 1\. Scope of the General Rules. - The rules in this Part shall apply to
all the holders of the posts in Class I-A, Class I-B, Class II of the
Corporation Service and to the holders of the posts of. Commissioner (non-
IAS), Assistant Commissioners (non-IAS) and Personal Assistant to the
Commissioner in the Corporation Establishment, whether temporary or permanent
appointed by the competent authority. They shall also apply in respect of
holders of such posts appointed on contract or by agreement subsisting between
any such person and the Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).] in respect of matters not specifically provided for in the
contract or agreement. They shall not apply to the holders of the posts
included in Class III and Class IV of the Corporation Establishment.

### 2\. Relation to the Special Rules. - If any provision in the General Rules
contained in this Part is repugnant to a provision in the Special Rules
applicable to any particular Corporation Service, the latter shall, in respect
of that service, a prevail over the provisions in the General Rules in this
Part.

### 3\. Appointment to service. - All first appointments to a Corporation
Service and to the posts of Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner and Personal
Assistant to the Commissioner shall be made by the competent appointing
authority.

### 4\. Method of recruitment. - Where the normal method of recruitment to any
service, class or category is neither solely by direct recruitment nor solely
by promotion and by appointment on deputation, but is both by direct
recruitment and by promotion and by appointment on deputation-

(a)the proportion or order in which the special rules concerned may require
vacancies to be filled by persons recruited direct and by those recruited by
promotion and by appointment on deputation shall be applicable only to
substantive vacancies in the permanent, Cadre;(b)a person shall be recruited
direct only against a substantive vacancy in such permanent cadre and only if
the vacancy is one which should be filled by a direct recruitment under the
special rules; and(c)recruitment to all other vacancies shall be made by
promotion and by appointment on deputation basis:Provided that nothing in this
rule shall adversely affect any person who, on the date of issue of the
special rules referred to in clause (a), was a probationer in such service,
class or category, as the case may be.

### 5. Right of probationers and approved probationers to re-appointment. - A
vacancy in any service, class or category not being vacancy which should be
filled by direct recruitment under the special rules referred to in rule 4
shall not be filled up by the appointment of a person who has not yet
commenced his probation in such services, class; or category when an approved
probationer or a probationer therein is available for such appointment.

### 6. Discharge and re-appointment of probationers and approved probationers.
- (a)(i) In cases falling under rule 5, probationers and approved probationers
who were recruited, direct shall not be discharged for want of vacancies.
Other probationers, and approved probationers shall be discharged for want of
vacancies.

(ii)In other cases, the probationers and approved probationers shall be
discharged for want of vacancies in the order of juniority.(iii)The order of
discharge laid down in clauses (i) and (ii) may be departed from in cases
where such order would involve exceptional administrative
inconvenience.(b)Approved probationers and probationers who have been
discharged for want of vacancies shall be re-appointed as vacancies (not being
vacancies which should be filled by direct recruitment under the Special Rules
arise) in the inverse of the order laid down in clause (i) or (ii) of sub-rule
(a):Provided that the said order may be departed from in cases where such
order would involve exceptional administrative inconvenience.

### 7. Members absent from duty. - The absence of a member of a service from
duty in such service, whether oh leave or on foreign service or on deputation
or for any other reason and whether his lien in a post borne on the cadre of
such service, is suspended or not, shall not, if he is otherwise fit, render
him ineligible in his him-

(a)for re-appointment to a substantive or officiating vacancy in the class,
category or post in which he may be probationer or an approved
probationer;(b)for promotion from a lower to higher category', in such
service; or(c)for appointment to any substantive or officiating vacancy in
another service if according to the rules governing appointment to such other
service, he is entitled such appointment, as the case may be, in the same
manner as if he had not been absent. He shall be entitled to all the
privileges in respect of appointment, seniority, probation and appointment as
full member which he would have enjoyed, but for his absence subject to his
completing satisfactorily the period of probation on his return.

### 8. Temporary appointments. - Notwithstanding anything contained in these
rules, if a temporary post is created as addition to the cadre of any service,
class or category and the holder thereof is required by the State Government
or the Corporation [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] to possess
any special qualifications, knowledge or experience, any person possesses such
qualifications, knowledge or experience and is considered to be the best
fitted to discharge the duties of such post may, irrespective of other
considerations, be appointed to that post by the appointing authority, but the
person so appointed shall not, by reason only of such appointment, be regarded
as probationer in such service, class or category nor shall be acquired
thereby any preferential right to future appointment to such service, class or
category.

### 9. Appointment by agreements. - (1) When, in the opinion of the State
Government or the Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).], special provisions inconsistent with any of these rules or of any
other rules made under the Proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India
or continued by Article 313 of the Constitution (hereafter referred to in this
rule as the said rules) are required in respect of conditions of service, pay
and allowances, pension, discipline and conduct with reference to any
particular post, or any of them, it shall be open to the State Government or
the Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] to make an
appointment to such post otherwise than in accordance with these rules or the
said rules and to provide by agreement with the person so appointed for any of
the matters in respect of which, in opinion of the State Government or the
Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).], special
provisions are required to be made and to the extent to which such provisions
are made in the agreement, nothing in these rules or the said rules shall
apply to any person so appointed in respect of any matter for which provision
is made in the agreement:

Provided that in every agreement made in exercise of the powers conferred by
this rule, it shall further be provided that in respect of any matter in
respect of which no provision has been made in the agreement, the provisions
of these rules or of the said rule shall apply.(2)A person appointed under
sub-rule (1) shall not be regarded as a member of the service in which the
post to which he is appointed is included and shall not be entitled by reason
only of such appointment to any preferential claim to any other appointment in
that service or any other service.

### 10. Eligibility for appointment. - (1) No person shall be eligible for
appointment to any service by direct recruitment, unless he satisfies the
appointing authority-

(i)that he is of sound health, active habits and free from any bodily defect
or infirmity unfitting, him for such service; and(ii)that his character and
antecedents are such as to qualify him for such service; and(iii)that such a
person does not have more than one wife living, or if such a person is woman,
that she is not married to any person who has a wife living.(2)No person shall
be eligible for appointment to any service either by direct recruitment or by
promotion or appointment on deputation, unless he has an adequate knowledge of
the official language of the Stale, namely, Tamil:Provided that where a person
not knowing the official language of Tamil Nadu, appointed to any service
either by direct recruitment or by promotion or appointment on deputation,
shall pass the Second Language Test conducted by the Tamil Nadu Public Service
Commission within a period of four years from the date of appointment.
Notwithstanding the provisions in the Fundamental Rules, he/she can also be
granted a maximum of three increments within the period of four years. After
completion of four years, he/she need not be discharged from service, but
he/she will not be given any further increment if he/she will not pass the
Second Language Test conducted by the Tamil Nadu Public Service
Commission.Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-rule, the provisions in
rule 12 (f) of the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Service Rules as amended,
from time to time, shall apply.

### 11. Special Qualification to be acquired or special test to be passed
during probation Exemption. - Where a probationer has, before he commenced his
probation, already acquired any special qualification or passed any special
test prescribed by the Special Rules or has acquired such other qualification
as may be considered by the State Government orby the appointing authority
with the approval of the State Government, to be equivalent to the said
special qualification or special test, he shall not be required to acquire
such special qualification or to pass such special test again after the
commencement of his probation.

### 12. Account Test - Exemption for promotion. - Where a pass in Part I of
the Account Test for Subordinate Officers is newly prescribed by the Special
Rules of a service for any category, grade or post therein or in any class
thereof, a member of the service who has not passed the said test, but is
otherwise qualified and suitable for promotion to such category, grade or post
may be promoted thereto temporarily. If a member so promoted does not pass the
said test at one of the first two examinations held after such promotion, he
shall be reverted to the category, grade or post from which he was promoted
and shall not again be eligible for promotion under this rule,

A member who is so reverted shall not, by reason only of "his promotion under
this rule, be regarded as entitled to any preferential claim to further
promotion to the category, grade or post, as the case may be, to which he had
been promoted under this rule.Explanation. - This concession will be allowed
only for a period of two years after the test has been newly prescribed.

### 13. Special qualifications. - No person shall be eligible for appointment
to any service, class, category or grade or any post borne on the cadre
thereof unless he-

(a)possesses such special qualifications and has passed such special tests as
may be prescribed in that behalf in the Special Rules; or(b)possesses such
other qualifications as may be considered lo be equivalent to the said special
qualifications or special qualifications as may be considered to be equivalent
to the said special qualifications or tests by the State Government or by the
appointing authority with the approval of the State Government.Explanation. -
In cases where the Special Rules prescribe a Degree or Diploma as a
qualification, then, a Degree or Diploma granted by any of the Universities or
Institutions recognised by the University Grants Commission for the purpose of
its grant mentioned as such in the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Service
Rules as amended, from time to time, shall be recognised as the qualification.

### 14. Appointment of Women. - Women alone shall be appointed to posts in any
institution or establishment specially provided for them :

Provided that men may be appointed, if suitable and qualified women are not
available for such appointments.

### 15. [Reservation of appointments] [Now the reservation for appointments
are governed by the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of scats in Educational Institutions and of
Appointments or Posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993 and Tamil
Nadu Backward Class Christians and Backward Class Muslims (Reservation of
seats in Educational Institutions including Private Educational Institutions
and of Appointments or Posts in the Services under the State) Act, 2007.]. -
Where the Special Rules lay down that the principle of reservation of
appointments shall apply to any service, class or category, selection for
appointment thereto shall be made on the following basis:-

(a)The unit of selection for appointment for the purpose of this rule shall be
one hundred, of which eighteen shall be reserved for the Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes and thirty-one shall be reserved for the Backward Classes and
the remaining, fifty-one shall be filled on the basis of merit.(b)The claims
of members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and the Backward
Classes shall also be considered for the fifty one appointments which shall be
filled on the basis of merit and where a candidate belonging to Scheduled
Castes or Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes is selected on the basis of
merit, the number of posts reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
or for Backward Classes, as the case may be, shall not in any way be
affected.(c)Selection for appointment under this rule shall be made in the
order of rotation specified below :-

### 1\. Open Competition

### 2\. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 3\. Open Competition

### 4\. Backward Classes

### 5\. Open Competition

### 6\. Backward Classes

### 7\. Open Competition on deputation

### 8\. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 9\. Open Competition

### 10\. Backward Classes

### 11\. Open Competition

### 12\. Backward Classes

### 13\. Open Competition

### 14\. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 15\. Open Competition

### 16. Backward Classes

### 17. Open Competition

### 18. Backward Classes

### 19. Open Competition

### 20. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 21. Open Competition

### 22. Backward Classes

### 23. Open Competition

### 24. Backward Classes

### 25. Open Competition

### 26. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 27. Open Competition

### 28. Backward Classes

### 29. Open Competition

### 30. Backward Classes

### 31. Open Competition

### 32. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 33. Open Competition

### 34. Backward Classes

### 35. Open Competition

### 36. Backward Classes

### 37. Open Competition

### 38. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 39. Open Competition

### 40. Backward Classes

### 41. Open Competition

### 42. Backward Classes

### 43. Open Competition

### 44. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 45. Open Competition

### 46. Backward Classes

### 47. Open Competition

### 48. Backward Classes

### 49. Open Competition

### 50. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 51. Open Competition

### 52. Backward-Classes

### 53. Open Competition

### 54. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 55. Open Competition

### 56. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 57. Open Competition

### 58. Backward Classes

### 59. Open Competition

### 60. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 61. Open Competition

### 62. Backward Classes

### 63. Open Competition

### 64. Backward Classes

### 65. Open Competition

### 66. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 67. Open Competition

### 68. Backward Classes

### 69. Open Competition

### 70. Backward Classes

### 71. Open Competition

### 72. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 73. Open Competition

### 74. Backward Classes

### 75. Open Competition

### 76. Backward Classes

### 77. Open Competition

### 78. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 79. Open Competition

### 80. Backward Classes

### 81. Open Competition

### 82. Backward Classes

### 83. Open Competition

### 84. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 85. Open Competition

### 86. Backward Classes

### 87. Open Competition

### 88. Backward Classes

### 89. Open Competition

### 90. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 91. Open Competition

### 92. Backward Classes

### 93. Open Competition

### 94. Backward Classes

### 95. Open Competition

### 96. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 97. Open Competition

### 98. Backward Classes

### 99. Open Competition

### 100. Backward Classes

(d)If qualified and suitable candidate belonging to any of the Scheduled
Castes, Scheduled Tribes or the Backward Classes is not available for
appointment in the turn allotted for them in the cycle, the turn shall lapse
and the vacancy shall be filled by the next turn in the order of rotation. No
account shall be taken of any lapsed turns of the Scheduled Castes, the
Scheduled Tribes or of the Backward Classes.

### 16\. Date of commencement of probation of persons first appointed
temporarily. - (a) If a person, having been appointed temporarily under rule 8
to a post borne on the cadre of any service, class or category or having been
appointed to any service, class or category governing appointment thereto is
subsequently appointed to the same service, class or category in accordance
with the rules, he shall commence his probation from the date of such
subsequent appointment or from such earlier date as the State Government may
determine. He shall also be eligible to draw increments in the time-scale of
pay applicable to him from the date of commencement of his probation. Where
commencement of probation is ordered from a date earlier than the date of the
order and this has not been enabled by relaxation of any rule, he shall draw
increments, including arrears, in the time-scale of pay applicable to him from
such earlier date. The appointing authority shall include a provision to this
effect while issuing order in all such cases.

(b)Service in a higher category counting for probation. - A probationer in any
category or a service or class of service shall be eligible to count for
probation his service, if any, performed otherwise than in a substantive
capacity on regular appointment to a higher category of the same service or
class of service, as the case may be.Nothing contained in this sub-rule shall
be constructed as authorizing the promotion of a probationer in a category to
a higher category in contravention of rule 26.(c)Temporary service counting
for probation. - A probationer in one service who is appointed temporarily to
another service shall be entitled to count towards his probation in the former
service the period of duty performed by him in the latter service during which
he would have held a post in the former service but for such temporary
appointment.

### 17\. Completion of probation and drawal of arrears of increments. - Any
delay in passing orders of completion of probation shall not monetarily affect
probationers and arrears of increments shall be allowed from the date of
completion of probation as a matter of course, subject to the following
conditions, namely:-

(1)that the probation would have been declared to have been satisfactorily
completed from the date ordered, even if the question of declaration of
probation had been taken up earlier;(2)that declaration of satisfactory
completion of probation was delayed by factors which would not in any case,
change the date of such completion ;(3)that the person whose probation is
declared to have been satisfactorily completed qualified as on the date
ordered;(4)that declaration of satisfactory completion of probation was not
the result of any relaxing of rule.In all cases coming under items (1) to (4)
above, orders issued declaring the probation relaxing the rules shall include
a specific provision in regard to drawal of arrears of increments.

### 18\. Termination of extension of probation. - (a) Where the special rules
of any service prescribe a period of probation for appointment as a full
member of the service or where such period of probation has been extended
under General Rule 20, the appointing authority may, at any time before the
expiry of the prescribed period of probation or the extended period of
probation, as the case may be,-

(i)discharge a probationer from the service for want of a vacancy; or(ii)at
its discretion, by order, either extend the period of probation of the
probationers in case the probation has not been extended under General Rule 20
or terminate his probation and discharge him from service after giving him a
reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the proposed termination of
probation: Provided that where a probationer has been given a reasonable
opportunity of showing cause against the imposition on him of any of the
penalties specified in clauses (iii), (v), (vi), (vii), and (viii) of rule 6
of the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Corporation
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1970 and the conclusion
of the disciplinary proceedings, a tentative conclusion is arrived at to
terminate his probation, a further opportunity of showing cause specifically
against termination of his probation need not be given to him.Explanation. -
An opportunity to show cause may be given after the appointing authority
arrives at a provisional conclusion on the suitability or otherwise of the
probationer for full membership of the service, either by such authority
himself or by a subordinate authority who is superior in rank to the
probationer.(b)(i)If within the period of probation, a probationer fails to
acquire the special qualifications or to pass the special tests, if any,
prescribed in the Special Rules, or to acquire such other qualification as may
be declared by the Stale Government to be equivalent to the said special
qualifications of special tests, the appointing authority shall, by order
discharge him from the sendee unless the period of probation is extended under
rule 20.(ii)If within the period of probation prescribed in the Special Rules
for the service or within the extended period of probation, as the case may
be, a probationer has appeared for any such tests or for any examinations in
connection with the acquisition of any such qualifications and the results of
the tests or examinations for which he has so appeared are not known before
the expiry of such period, he shall continue to be on probation until the
publication of the results of the tests or examinations for which he has
appeared or the first of them in which he fails to pass, as the case may be.In
case the probationer fails to pass any of the tests or examinations for which
he has so appeared, the appointing authority shall, by order, discharge him
from the service.(iii)Any delay in the issue of an order discharging
probationer under clause (i) or clause (ii) shall not entitle him to be deemed
to have satisfactorily completed his probation.

### 19\. Probationer's suitability for full membership. - At the end of the
prescribed or extended period of probation, as the case may be, the appointing
authority shall consider the probationer's suitability for full membership of
the service, class or category for which he was selected.

If the appointing authority decides that a probationer is suitable for such
membership, it shall, as soon as possible, issue an order declaring the
probationer to have satisfactorily completed his probation. If no such order
is issued within six months from the date on which he is eligible for such
declaration, the probationer shall be deemed to have satisfactorily a
completed his probation on the date of the expiry of the prescribed or .
extended period of probation. A formal order declaring the completion of
probation shall, however, be issued by the competent authority. In all cases
in which serious charges are pending and therefore, probation cannot be
declared, the final order on probation shall be passed as early as possible
and in any case within one month after the disposal of the charges or six
months after the due date of completion of probation, whichever is latter.If
the appointing authority decides that the probationer is not suitable for such
membership, it shall, unless the period of probation is extended under rule
20, by order, discharge him from the service after giving a reasonable
opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard
to him :Provided that where a probationer has been given a reasonable
opportunity of showing cause against the imposition on him of any of the
penalties specified in clauses (i), (ii) and (vi) of rule 6 of the [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Corporation Services (Classification,
Control and Appeal) Rules, 1970 and at the conclusion of the disciplinary
proceedings', tentative conclusion is arrived at to discharge him from the
service, a further opportunity of showing cause specifically against such
discharge need not be given to him.Explanation I. - The decision of the
appointing authority that the probationer is not suitable for full membership
may be based also on his work and conduct till the date of the decision,
inclusive of the period subsequent to the prescribed or extended period of
probation.Explanation II. - An opportunity to show cause may be given after
the appointing authority arrives at a provisional conclusion on the
suitability or otherwise of the probationer for full membership of the
service, either by such authority himself or by a subordinate authority who is
superior in rank to the probationer.Explanation III. - Where the competent
authority proposes to terminate the probation of a member of a service for
general unsatisfactory work or incapacity without the need for enquiry into
specific charges, he shall do so under General Rule 18 or 19, as the case may
be. In cases where he proposes to terminate the probation of such a member for
specific charges in addition to or distinct from general inefficiency or
incapacity, he shall frame specific charges and follow the detailed procedure
laid down in rule 10 of the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).] Corporation Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1970
as such termination of probation by way of penalty shall attract the
provisions of section 86 of the Act.

### 20\. Extension of probation. - In case of any probationer falling under
sub-rule (b) of rule 18 or sub-rule (c) of rule 19, the appointing authority
may extend his probation to enable him to acquire the special qualifications
or pass the prescribed tests, as the case may be, to enable the appointing
authority to decide whether the probationer is suitable for full membership or
not. The period of probation as extended under sub-rule (a)(iii) of rule 18 or
sub-rule (c) of rule 19 (or in a case where a probationer is reverted due to
want of vacancy) during the extended period shall terminate at the latest when
the probationer has, after the date of expiry of the period of probation
prescribed for the service, class or category in which he is in probation,
completed one year on duty in such sendee, class or category. The period of
probation as extended under sub-rule (b) of rule 18 shall terminate at the
latest when the probationer has, after the date of expiry of the period of
probation prescribed for the service, class or category in which he is on
probation, completed one year on duty in such service, class or category. In
cases where the probation of a probationer is extended, a condition shall,
unless there are special reasons to the contrary, be attached to the order of
extension of probation that the probationer's increment shall be stopped until
he is declared to have satisfactorily completed his probation. Such stoppage
of increment shall not be treated as a penalty, but only as a condition of
extension of probation and shall not have the effect of postponing future
increments after he has passed the prescribed tests or examinations or after
he is declared to have satisfactorily completed his probation.

### 21\. Appeal against discharge. - (a) A probationer who is discharged under
clause (ii) of sub-rule (a) of rule 18 or under sub-rule (c) of rule 19 shall
be entitled to appeal against the order of discharge passed by the competent
authority to the authority to which, and within the period of limitation
within which, an appeal would lie against an order of dismissal passed by the
competent authority against a full member of the service, class or category,
as the case may be.

(b)The State Government may, either of its own motion or otherwise, revise any
order discharging a probationer under any of the Rules referred to under sub-
rule (a) within one year of the date of such order.(c)(i)When an order
discharging a probationer is set aside on appeal under sub-rule (a) or on
revision under sub-rule (b) and the probationer is restored to the service,
the period on and from the date of discharge to the date of such restoration
may be treated under the specific order of Government as on duty except for
purposes of probation. The period of probation undergone by such probationer
at the time of his discharge shall, however, count towards the period of
probation prescribed by the rules applicable to him.(ii)Such probationer may,
during the period on and from the date of his discharge to the date of his
restoration, be paid such pay and allowances not exceeding the pay and
allowances to which he would have been entitled if he had not been discharged
under the specific order of the Government.

### 22\. Appointment of full members. - (a) Subject to the provisions of rule
7, an approved probationer shall be appointed by Government to be full member
of the service in the class or category for which he was selected, at the
earliest possible opportunity, in any substantive vacancy which may exist or
arise in the permanent cadre of such class or category and if such vacancy
existed from a date previous to the issue of order of appointment, he maybe so
appointed with retrospective effect from the date or, as the ease may be, from
any subsequent dale from which he was continuously on duty as member of the
service in such class or category or in a higher class or category :

Provided that where more than one approved probationer is available for such
appointment as full member, the senior most approved probationer shall be
appointed.Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-rule, an approved
probationer who has been on leave during the period of his probation or after
such period shall be deemed to be on duty as a member of the service in the
class or category concerned if he would have been on duty in such class or
category or in a higher class or category but for his absence on leave.

### 23\. Appointment as full member, discharge and re-appointment of members
who are not probationers or approved probationers. - In regard to persons
appointed to any class or category or a service by promotion in respect of
whom the special rules of the service do not prescribe a period of probation
in the class or category to which they nave been promoted, rules 5, 6 and 22
of this Part shall be construed as if "Probation" and "Probationer" or
"Approved Probationer" means officiating service "and person officiating"
respectively.

### 24\. Penalty on a member on maximum of his scale failure to pass
prescribed tests. - Where the Special Rules prescribe stoppage of increments
as a penalty for failure to pass special tests or to acquire a special
qualification prescribed in these rules, such failure shall in the case of a
member who has reached the maximum of the time-scale of pay applicable to him,
render him liable to the penalty of reduction to the next lower stage in his
time-scale.

### 25\. Seniority. - (a) The seniority of a person in a service, class or
category, or grade shall, unless he has been reduced to a lower rank as a
punishment, be determined by the rank given to him at the time of initial
recruitment to that category or class or in the panel drawn up for promotion
or higher category, as the case may be, subject to the rule of reservation
where it applies. The date of commencement of his probation shall be the date
on which he joins the duty irrespective of his seniority.

(b)Where a member of any service, class, category or grade is reduced to a
lower service, class, category or grade he shall be placed at the top of the
latter unless the authority ordering such reduction directs that he shall take
rank in such lower service, class, category or grade next below any specified
member thereof.

### 26\. Promotion. - (a) No member of a service or class of a service shall
be eligible for promotion from the category in which he was appointed to the
service unless he has satisfactorily completed his probation in that category
:

Provided that a member of a service or class of a service who having
satisfactorily completed his probation or in the category in which he was
appointed to the service has been promoted to the next higher category shall,
notwithstanding that he has not been declared to have satisfactorily completed
his probation in such higher category, be eligible for promotion from such
higher category.(b)Promotions according to seniority. - All promotion shall be
made in accordance with the seniority means-(1)the promotion of a member has
been withheld as a penalty; or(2)a member is given special promotion for
conspicuous merit and ability; and(3)the member does not possess the
qualifications prescribed by the special rules for the post.

### 27\. Revision of orders of promotion to higher category. - An order
promoting a member of a service or class to higher category or grade therein
made by a competent authority may be revised by an authority to which an
appeal would lie against an order of dismissal passed on a full member of the
service, class or grade, as the case may be. Such revision may be made by the
appellate authority aforesaid either suo muto at any time or on a petition
submitted by any aggrieved member within six months from the date of passing
the order :

Provided that the said period of six months may be extended by the appellate
authority if sufficient cause is shown for the delay in the submission of
petition.

### 28\. Revision of list of approval candidates for appointment or promotion.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules or in the Special Rules,
the State Government shall have power to revise in any manner they consider
suitable, any panel of names of candidates for appointment or promotion to any
category, class or service prepared by the competent authority.

### 29\. Consequences of resignation. - A member of a service shall if he
resigns his appointment forfeit not only the sendee rendered by him in the
particular post held by him at the time of resignation but all his previous
service under the Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).].

The re-appointment of such person to any service shall be treated in the same
way as a first appointment to such service by direct recruitment and all rules
governing such appointment shall apply, and on such re-appointment, he shall
not be entitled to count any portion of his previous service for any benefit
or concession admissible under any rule or order :Provided that nothing
contained in this rule shall affect the operation of clause (b) of Article 418
or Article 422 of the Civil Service Regulations.

### 30\. Military duty to count for pension. - Notwithstanding anything
contained in these rules or the Special Rules and notwithstanding anything
contained in the Fundamental Rules or the Pension Rules made or deemed to be
made by the State Government, the member of a service who was deputed for
Military duty shall be entitled to count the period spent on military duty for
the purpose of pension if he would have counted for that purpose his service
in the Corporation, but for his deputation for military duty.

### 31\. Reduction of full members. - (a) If the full member of any service,
class, category or grade is substantively reduced to a lower service, class,
category or grade, he shall be deemed to be a full member of the latter and
the permanent cadre thereof shall, if there is no vacancy in which he could be
absorbed, be deemed to be increased by one:

Provided that against every such addition, an officiating or temporary
vacancy, if any, in such lower service class, category or grade, shall be kept
unfilled and such addition shall be absorbed in the first permanent vacancy
that subsequently arises in such lower service, class, category or grade, as
the case may be.(b)Appointment in place of members dismissed, removed
compulsorily, retired or reduced. - Where a person has been dismissed, removed
or substantively reduced from any service, class, category or grade, no
vacancy caused thereby or arising subsequently in such service, class,
category or grade, shall be substantively filled to the prejudice of such
person until the appeal, if any, preferred by him against such dismissal,
removal or reduction is decided and except in conformity with such decision,
or until the time allowed for preferring an appeal has expired, as the case
may be.

### 32\. Savings. - (a)(i) Unless a contrary intention is expressly indicated
therein, nothing contained in these rules shall adversely affect any person
who was a member of any service on the date of the coming into force of these
rules.

(ii)Unless a contrary intention is expressly indicated therein, nothing
contained in any special rules governing a service shall adversely affect any
person who was a member of such service on the date of coming into force
thereof.

### 33\. Appointment of All India Service Officers to Corporation Post. -
Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules or the Special Rules, an
officiating or permanent officer of an All India Service may be appointed to
any Corporation Service, or class or category thereof. Such officer shall not,
by reason of such appointment, cease to be a member of an All India Service:

Provided that no member of Indian Administrative Sendee shall be appointed to
a post in any Corporation Service, or class or category thereof, unless such
post is declared by the State Government to be equivalent in status and
responsibility to a post specified in Schedule III to the Indian
Administrative Service (Pay) Rules, 1954, as may be in force, from time to
time.

### 34\. Relinquishment of rights by members. - Any person may, in writing,
relinquish any right or privilege to which he may be entitled under these
rules or Special Rules, if in the opinion of the appointing authority, such
relinquishment is not opposed to public interest, and nothing contained in
these rules or the Special Rules shall be deemed to require the recognition of
any right or privilege to the extent to which it has been so relinquished.

### 35\. Power to relax rules. - Notwithstanding anything contained in these
rules or in the Special Rules, the State Government shall have power to deal
with the case of any person serving in a civil capacity under the Corporation
of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] or any candidate
for appointment to a service in such manner as may appear to it to be just and
equitable :

Provided that, where any such rules is applicable to the case of any person,
or class or persons the case shall not be dealt with in any manner less
favourable to him than that provided by that rule.

### 36\. Alteration of date of birth. - (a) If, at the time of appointment, a
candidate claims that his date of birth is different from that entered in the
S.S.L.C. or Matriculation Register of School records, he shall make an
application to the appointing authority stating that evidence on which he
relies and explaining how the mistake occurred. The application shall be
forwarded to the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by The
Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue (Abolition) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1980).
By virtue of notification issued under the said Act the Commissioner of
Revenue Administration perform the function of the Board of Revenue.] for
report after investigation by an officer not below the rank of Deputy
Collector and on receipt of the report, the appointing authority shall decide
whether the alteration of date of birth may be permitted or the application
may be rejected:

Provided that in the case of a candidate who was born outside the State of
Tamil Nadu, the investigation through the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of
Revenue was abolished by The Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue (Abolition) Act, 1980
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1980). By virtue of notification issued under the said
Act the Commissioner of Revenue Administration perform the function of the
Board of Revenue.] shall be dispensed with and the appointing authority shall
examine and scrutinize the records that may be produced by the candidate and
shall decide whether the alteration of date of birth may be permitted or the
application may be rejected.(b)After the person has entered service, an
application to correct the date of birth as entered in the official records
shall be entertained only if such an application is made within five years of
such entry into service. Such an application shall be made to the authority
competent to make an appointment to the post held by the applicant at the time
of his application and shall be disposed off in accordance with the procedure
laid down in sub-rules.(c)Any application received after five years after
entry into service under any circumstances shall be summarily rejected.(d)In
considering the question of permitting an alteration in the date of birth as
entered in the official records even, when such entry is proved to have been
due to a bona fide mistake, the Government, or the appointing authority shall
take into consideration the circumstances whether the applicant would normally
be eligible for appointment to the post at the time of entry into service had
his age been correctly stated and what would have been its effect on his
service and the service conditions of other officers in the service and may
permit the alteration subject to such conditions as he or it may deem fit to
impose.(e)The procedure laid down in sub-rule (a) shall be followed in all
cases where alteration of date of birth is proposed suo moto by the
Commissioner, Corporation of ^Chennai on the basis of medical opinion in the
absence of any other authoritative record.Explanation. - For purpose of this
sub-rule, "authoritative records" are the Secondary School Leaving Certificate
or University, College or School Records.(f)The decision of the appointing
authority or the Government, as the case may be, shall be final.

