## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-SECOND AMENDMENT) ACT, 1989

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-SECOND AMENDMENT) ACT, 1989

## Act 062 of 1989

  * Published in Gazette of India on 16 December 1989 
  * Commenced on 25 January 1990 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 December 1989.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Sixty-second
Amendment) Bill, 1989 (Bill No. XXVI of 1989) which was enacted as THE
CONSTITUTION (Sixty-second Amendment) Act, 1989_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND
REASONS** Article 334 of the Constitution lays down that the provisions of the
Constitution relating to the reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes and
the Scheduled Tribes and the representation of the Anglo-Indian community by
nomination in the Lok Sabha and in the Legislative Assemblies of the States
shall cease to have effect on the expiration of a period of forty years from
the commencement of the Constitution. Although the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes have made some progress in the last forty years, the reasons
which weighed with the Constituent Assembly in making provisions with regard
to the aforesaid reservation of seats and nomination of members, have not
ceased to exist. It is, therefore, proposed to continue the reservation for
the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes and the representation of the
Anglo-Indians by nomination for a further period of ten years.

### 2. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Fortieth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Sixty-second Amendment) Act,
1989.(2)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the date_676 on which
the Bill for this Act is introduced in the Council of States.

### 2\. Amendment of article 334.-In article 334 of the Constitution, for the
words "forty years", the words "fifty years" shall be substituted.

[The Constitution (Sixty-second Amendment) Act, 1989, extended the period of
reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and
representation of the Anglo-Indians in the Lok Sabha and the State Legislative
Assemblies for another ten years, i.e. up to 26 January 2000. Article 334 of
the Constitution had originally required the reservation of seats to cease in
1960, but this was extended to 1970 by the 8th Amendment. The period of
reservation was extended to 1980 and 1990 by the 23rd and 45th Amendments
respectively. This Amendment extended the period of reservation to 2000. The
period of reservation was further extended to 2010, 2020 and 2030 by the 79th
and 95th and 104th Amendments respectively.Also Refer ]

