## Union of India - Act

## The Consumer Protection Rules, 1987

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Consumer Protection Rules, 1987

## Rule THE-CONSUMER-PROTECTION-RULES-1987 of 1987

  * Published on 15 April 1987 
  * Commenced on 15 April 1987 
  * [This is the version of this document from 15 April 1987.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Consumer Protection Rules, 1987Published vide G.S.R. 398(E), dated
15.4.1987, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section
3(i), dated 15.4.1987.Last Updated 24th September, 2018 [7/402]In exercise of
the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 30 of the Consumer
Protection Act, 1986 (68 of 1986), the Central Government hereby makes the
following rules, namely:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement. - (1) These rules may be called
The Consumer Protection Rules, 1987.

(2)They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official
Gazette.

### 2. Definitions. - In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-

(a)"Act" means the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (68 of 1986);(b)"agent" means
a person duly authorised by a party to present any complaint, appeal or reply
on its behalf before the National Commission;(c)"appellant" means a party
which makes an appeal against the order of the State Commission;(d)"Chairman"
means a Chairman of the Central Consumer Protection Council established under
sub-section (1) of the section 4 of the Act;(e)"memorandum" means any
memorandum of appeal filed by the appellant;(f)"opposite party" means a person
who answers complaint or claim;(g)"President" means the President of the
National Commission;(h)"respondent" means the person who answers any
memorandum of appeal;(i)"section" means section of the Act;(j)"State" includes
Union territories also;(k)words and expressions used in the rules and not
defined but defined in the Act shall have the meanings respectively assigned
to them in the Act.

### 2A. [ State Governments to recognise a laboratory as an appropriate
laboratory.

(1)For the purpose of obtaining recognition as an appropriate laboratory, the
applicant shall send application, in triplicate, in the pro forma prescribed
by the Bureau of Indian Standards with the relevant details to the Department
concerned with the consumer protection work in the State Government.(2)The
State Government on receiving the application from the applicant, shall
forward its two copies to the Bureau of Indian Standards to assess the
suitability of the laboratory from the standards prescribed by them (Bureau of
Indian Standards). The fee charged by the Bureau of Indian Standards, for this
purpose, shall be paid by the applicant.(3)The State Government on receiving
the recommendations and approval of the Bureau of Indian Standards, shall
notify that laboratory as an "appropriate laboratory" for the purpose of
Consumer Protection Act, 1986 for a period of three years.]

### 3. The constitution of the Central Consumer Protection Council and the
Working Groups. - (1) The Central Government shall, by notification in the
Official Gazette constitute the Central Consumer Protection Council
(hereinafter referred to as the Central Council) which shall consist of [the
following Members, not exceeding [35], namely:-]

(a)[the Minister in-charge of Consumer Affairs in the Central Government] [
Substituted by G.S.R. 800(E), dated 30.12.1993 (w.e.f. 30.12.1993).] who shall
be the Chairman of the Central Council;(b)the Minister of State (where he is
not holding independent charge) or Deputy Minister [in charge of Consumer
Affairs in the Central Government] [Substituted by G.S.R. 800(E), dated
30.12.1993 (w.e.f. 30.12.1993).] who shall be the Vice-Chairman of the Central
Council;(c)[ the Minister in-charge of Consumer Affairs of two of the States
from each region as mentioned in Schedule I to be changed by rotation on
expiration of the term of the Council on each occasion; [Substituted by G.S.R.
273(E), dated 5.5.2006 (w.e.f. 5.5.2006).](ca)an administrator (whether
designated as administrator or Leiutenant Governor), of a Union Territory, to
represent a Union Territory, as mentioned in Schedule II, to be changed by
rotation on expiration of the term of the Council on each occasion;](d)[two]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 273(E), dated 5.5.2006 (w.e.f. 5.5.2006).] Members of
Parliament-[one] [Substituted by G.S.R. 273(E), dated 5.5.2006 (w.e.f.
5.5.2006).] from the Lok Sabha and [one] [Substituted by G.S.R. 273(E), dated
5.5.2006 (w.e.f. 5.5.2006).] from the Rajya Sabha;[* * *];(f)representatives
of the Central Government Departments and autonomous organisations concerned
with consumer interests-not exceeding [five] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 273(E),
dated 5.5.2006 (w.e.f. 5.5.2006).];(fa)[ the Registrar, National Consumer
Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi;] [Inserted by G.S.R. 175(E), dated
5.3.2004 (w.e.f. 5.3.2004).](g)[ representatives of consumer organisations
from amongst the Indian members of the International Organisation, namely,
Consumer International-not exceeding six, to be nominated by the Central
Government; [Substituted by G.S.R. 273(E), dated 5.5.2006 (w.e.f.
5.5.2006).](ga)representatives with proven expertise and experience who are
capable of representing consumer interests, drawn from amongst consumer
organisations, consumer activists, women, farmers, trade and industry-not
exceeding five, one from each of the regions specified in Schedule annexed to
these rules;][* * *][* * *](j)[ the Secretaries in-charge of Consumer Affairs
in the States to be nominated by the Central Government-not exceeding three;]
[Clauses (e), (h) and (i) omitted by G.S.R. 273(E), dated 5.5.2006 (w.e.f.
5.5.2006).](k)[the Secretary in-charge of Consumer Affairs in the Central
Government] [Substituted by G.S.R. 95(E), dated 27.2.1997 (w.e.f. 27.2.1997).]
shall be the Member-secretary of the Central Council.(2)The term of the
Council shall be three years.[Provided that the Council shall continue to
function for a further period of three months or till it is reconstituted,
whichever is earlier.] [Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 385 (E) dated
12.5.2011 (w.e.f. 15.4.1987)](3)Any Member may, by writing under his hand to
the Chairman of the Central Council, resign from the Council. The vacancies,
so caused or otherwise, shall be filled from the same category by the Central
Government and such person shall hold office so long as the Member whose place
he fills would have been entitled to hold office, if the vacancy had not
occurred.[* * *] [Sub-Rule (4) omitted by G.S.R. 273(E), dated 5.5.2006
(w.e.f. 5.5.2006).]

### 4. Procedure of the Central Council. - Under sub-section (2) of section 5,
the Central Council shall observe the following procedure in regard to the
transaction of its business:-

(1)The meeting of the Central Council shall be presided over by the Chairman.
In the absence of the Chairman, the Vice-Chairman shall preside over the
meeting of the Central Council. In the absence of the Chairman and the Vice-
Chairman, the Central Council shall elect a Member to preside over that
meeting of the Council.(2)Each meeting of the Central Council shall be called
by giving, not less than ten days from the date of issue, notice in writing to
every Member.(3)Every notice of a meeting of the Central Council shall specify
the place and the day and hour of the meeting and shall contain statement of
business to be transacted thereat.(4)No proceedings of the Central Council
shall be invalid merely by reasons of existence of any vacancy in or any
defect in the constitution of the Council.(5)For the purpose of performing its
functions under the Act, the Central Council may constitute from amongst its
Members, such working groups as it may deem necessary and every working group
so constituted shall perform such functions as are assigned to it by the
Central Council. The findings of such working groups shall be placed before
the Central Council for its consideration.(6)[ In connection with the journey
undertaken to and fro by the non-official Members for attending the meeting of
the Central Consumer Protection Council or its working group, they shall be
entitled to [economy class air fare]. The non-official Members shall be
entitled to a sum of [[five thousand rupees] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 64(E),
dated 10.2.2005, for " Rs. 1,000 per day" (w.e.f. 10.2.2005).][per each day of
the meeting] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 64(E), dated 10.2.2005, for " Rs. 1,000
per day" (w.e.f. 10.2.2005).][as incidental charges to cover the expenditure
towards their daily allowance, lodging, local conveyance from residence to the
station/airport and from station/airport to the venue of meeting and vice
versa . Every claim made under this sub-rule shall be subject to certifying
that the Member will not claim any benefit from any other Central Government
Ministry, Department or Organization during his visit for attending the
meeting of the Central Consumer Protection Council or any of its Working
Group. Local non-official Members residing at the place of the venue of the
meeting, shall be paid [consolidated conveyance and hire charges] [
Substituted by G.S.R. 175(E), dated 5.3.2004 (w.e.f. 5.3.2004).], to the tune
of [rupees five hundred] [Substituted by G.S.R. 591(E), dated 20.8.2009
(w.e.f. 20.8.2009).][per diem irrespective of the classification of the city.
Members of Parliament attending meetings of the Council or its Working Group
shall be entitled to travelling and daily allowances at such rates as are
admissible to such Members.] [Substituted by G.S.R. 175(E), dated 5.3.2004
(w.e.f. 5.3.2004).](7)The resolution passed by the Central Council shall be
recommendatory in nature.

### 5. Place of the National Commission. - The office of the National
Commission shall be located in the Union Territory of Delhi.

### 6. Working days and office hours of the National Commission. - The working
days and office hours of the National Commission shall be the same as that of
the Central Government.

### 7. Seal and emblem. - The official seal and emblem of the National
Commission shall be such as the Central Government may specify.

### 8. Sitting of the National Commission. - The sitting of the National
Commission as and when necessary, shall be convened by the President.

### 9. Staff of the National Commission. - The Central Government shall
appoint such staff as may be necessary to assist the National Commission in
its day to day work and to perform such other functions as are provided under
the Act and these rules or assigned to it by the President. The salary payable
to such staff shall be defrayed out of the Consolidated Fund of India.

### 9A. [ Fee for making complaints before District Forum.

\- [(1) Every complaint filed under sub-section (1) of section 12, sub-section
(1) of section 17 and clause (a) in sub-clause (i) of section 21 of the Act
shall be accompanied by a fee as specified in the table given below in the
form of crossed Demand Draft drawn on a nationalized bank or through a crossed
Indian Postal Order in favour of the President of the District Forum,
Registrar of the State Commission or the Registrar of the National Commission,
as the case may be, and payable at the respective place where the District
Forum, State Commission or the National Commission is situated.(2)The
concerned authority referred to in sub-rule (1) shall credit the amount of fee
received by it into the Consumer Welfare Fund of the respective State and
where such Fund is not established into the Receipt Account of the State
Government and in the case of the National Commission, to the Consumer Welfare
Fund of the Central Government.TABLE

Serial Number | Total value of goods or services and the compensation claimed | Amount of fee payable  
---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3  
District Forum  
1\. [[Substituted 'serial no. 1 to 5' by Notification No. G.S.R. 898(E), dated 14.9.2018 (w.e.f. 15.4.1987).]| Up to five lakh rupees | Nil  
2. | Above five lakh and less than 10 lakh | Rs. 200  
3. | Rs. 10 lakh and above but not exceeding Rs. 20 lakh | Rs. 400]  
State Commission  
6. | Above twenty lakh and upto fifty lakh Rupees | Rs. 2,000  
7. | Above fifty lakh and upto one crore Rupees | Rs. 4,000  
| National Commission |   
8. | Above one crore Rupees | Rs. 5,000  
  
(3)The complainant who are under the Below Poverty Line shall be entitled for
the exemption of payment of fee only on production of an attested copy of the
Antyodaya Anna Yojana cards].]

### 10. Additional powers of the National Commission, State Commission and
District Forum. - (1) The National Commission, the State Commission and the
District Forum shall have power to require any person,-

(a)to produce before, and allow to be examined and kept by an officer of the
National Commission, the State Commission or the District Forum, as the case
may be, specified in this behalf, such books, accounts, documents or
commodities in the custody or under the control of the person so required as
may be specified or described in the requisition, if the examination of such
books, accounts, documents or commodities are required for the purpose of this
Act;(b)to furnish to an officer so specified, such information as may be
required for the purpose of this Act.(2)(a)Where during any proceedings under
this Act, the National Commission, the State Commission or the District Forum,
as the case may be, has any ground to believe that any book, paper, commodity
or document which may be required to be produced in such proceedings, are
being or may be, destroyed, mutilated, altered, falsified or secreted, it may,
by written order, authorise any officer to exercise the power of entry and
search of any premises. Such authorised officer may also seize such books,
papers, documents or commodities as are required for the purpose of this
Act:Provided that such seizure shall be communicated to the National
Commission, the State Commission or the District Forum, as the case may be, as
soon as it is made or within a period not exceeding 72 hours of making such
seizure after specifying the reasons in writing for making such seizure.(b)The
National Commission, the State Commission or the District Forum, as the case
may be, on examination of such seized documents or commodities, as the case
may be, may order the retention thereof or may return it to the party
concerned.

### 10A. [ Credit of the fine into the Consumer Welfare Fund when consumers
are not identified conveniently.

(1)Where an order is passed by the National Commission in exercise of the
powers vested under clause (hb) of sub-section (1) of section 14 directing the
opposite party to pay such amount as determined by it on account of loss or
injury suffered due to defects in goods complained against or alleged
deficiency of service to a large number of consumers, who are not identifiable
conveniently, such sum shall be credited by the National Commission in the
Consumer Welfare Fund established by the Central Government under section
12(c) of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944).(2)Any amount credited to
the said Fund shall be utilized in accordance with the provisions of the
Consumer Welfare Fund Rules, 1992.

### 10\.

-B. Number of Members in the National Commission. - The National Commission shall consist of not less than four Members and not more than eleven [Members and at least one of them shall be a woman.]

### 11. Salaries, honorarium and other allowances of the President and Members
of the National Commission. - [(1) The President of the National Commission
shall be entitled to salary, allowances and other perquisites as are available
to a sitting Judge of the Supreme Court.

(1-A) The other Members of the National Commission appointed on whole-time
basis shall be entitled to the following honorarium and other allowances with
effect from the 1st day of April, 2006, namely:-(a)the Members shall be paid
twenty-three thousand rupees per month by way of honorarium:Provided that the
Members, who are retired Judges of High Courts or retired Secretaries to the
Government of India shall have the option to either receive consolidated
honorarium of twenty-three thousand rupees per month or receive remuneration
of last pay drawn less pension;(b)a woman who has not held an office of profit
earlier, on appointment as a Member shall be entitled to a pay in the scale of
Rs. 24050-26000 per month alongwith other benefits;(c)the Members shall be
provided with Government accommodation or receive house rent allowance of
[twenty five thousand rupees per month] [in lieu thereof; [ Substituted by
G.S.R. 462(E), dated 4.8.2006, for sub-rule (1) (w.e.f. 4.8.2006). Earlier it
was substituted by G.S.R. 67(E), dated 11.2.2005 (w.e.f. 11.2.2005).](d)the
Members shall be paid conveyance allowance at the rate of ten thousand rupees
per month, if no chauffeur driven government vehicle is provided in which
event one hundred fifty litres of petrol shall be supplied or the price
therefor shall be paid.[ Explanation .-For the purpose of this clause, if the
members are not provided with chauffeur driven Government vehicle or if the
members do not opt for hired vehicle in lieu of conveyance allowance, the
members shall be paid conveyance allowance per month at the rate of ten
thousand rupees and the cost of one hundred fifty litres of petrol;](e)[ the
Members shall be entitled to one thousand free calls for the telephone
installed at their residence, with STD and ISD facilities; and [Substituted by
G.S.R. 462(E), dated 4.8.2006, for sub-rule (1) (w.e.f. 4.8.2006). Earlier it
was substituted by G.S.R. 67(E), dated 11.2.2005 (w.e.f. 11.2.2005).](f)the
Members shall be entitled to fifteen days casual leave in a year.](2)[The
Members] [Substituted by G.S.R. 462(E), dated 4.8.2006, for " The President
and the Members" (w.e.f. 4.8.2006).] shall be entitled to travelling and daily
allowances on official tours at the same rates as are admissible to group "A"
Officers of the Central Government.[* * *] [ Sub-Rule (2-A) omitted by G.S.R.
462(E), dated 4.8.2006 (w.e.f. 4.8.2006).](3)The honorarium or the salary, as
the case may be, and other allowances shall be defrayed out of the
Consolidated Fund of India.

### 12. Terms and conditions of service of the President and Members of the
National Commission. - (1) Before appointment, the President and a Member of
the National Commission shall have to take an undertaking that he does not and
will not have any such financial or other interest as is likely to affect
prejudicially his functions as such Member.

[* * *](3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (2) the President or
a Member may,-(a)[ by writing under his hand and addressed to the Central
Government resign his office at any time but his office shall become vacant
only when such resignation is accepted by the Central Government;]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 175(E), dated 5.3.2004 (w.e.f. 5.3.2004).](b)be removed
from his office in accordance with the provisions of rule 13.(4)The terms and
conditions of service of the President and the Members shall not be varied to
their disadvantage during their tenure of office.(5)A casual vacancy caused by
resignation or removal of the President or any other Member of the National
Commission under sub-rule (3) or otherwise shall be filled by fresh
appointment.(6)[ When the office of the President of the National Commission
is vacant or a person occupying such office is by reason of absence or
otherwise, unable to perform the duties of his office, the same shall, save as
otherwise provided in the proviso to section 22-D be performed by the senior
most Member of the National Commission.] [Substituted by G.S.R. 175(E), dated
5.3.2004 (w.e.f. 5.3.2004).](7)[ The President or any Member ceasing to hold
office as such shall not hold any appointment in or be connected with the
management or administrations of an organisation which have been the subject
of any proceeding under the Act during his tenure for a period of 5 years from
the date on which he ceases to hold such office.] [Sub-Rules (7), (8) and (9)
of Rule 12, omitted and Sub-Rule (10) renumbered as sub-Rule (7) by G.S.R.
533(E), dated 14.8.1991 (w.e.f. 14.8.1991).]

### 12A. [ Procedure for selection of Members.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in sub-rule (2), the process of appointment of a
Member shall be initiated at least three months before the vacancy
arises.(2)If a post falls vacant due to resignation or death of a Member or
creation of a new post, the process for filling the post shall be initiated
immediately after the post has fallen vacant or is created, as the case may
be.(3)An advertisement of a vacancy inviting applications from eligible
candidates may be published in leading newspapers in India or by vacancy
circulars or both, as may be decided by the Central Government.(4)After
scrutiny of the applications received till the last date specified for receipt
of applications, a list of eligible candidates alongwith their applications
shall be placed before the Selection Committee constituted under the third
proviso to sub-section (1) of section 20.(5)The Selection Committee shall
consider all the applications of eligible applicants referred to it.(6)[ The
Selection Committee shall, subject to the provisions of sub-rule (6-A), assess
the suitability of the candidates for the post of Member:Provided that the
Selection Committee may, if it considers necessary, depending on the number of
candidates, short list them on the basis of comparative merit and experience
of such candidates for selection.(6-A) The Selection Committee shall assess
the suitability of the candidates and where short listing is done, from among
the short-listed candidates, for the post of Member in the following manner,
namely:-(a)in the case of candidates having judicial background, by assessing
them on the basis of the judgements and other judicial orders passed by such
candidates;(b)in the case of candidates having experience of working under the
Central Government or any State Government or an undertaking under the Central
Government or a State Government, by assessing such candidates on the basis of
their Annual Confidential Reports and their experience relevant to the post
applied for;(c)in other cases, the suitability of the short listed candidates
shall be assessed by the Selection Committee on the basis of personal
interview conducted by it:Provided that notwithstanding anything contained in
this sub-rule, the Selection Committee may, for assessing the suitability of a
class or category of candidates, if it considers necessary, call such class or
category of candidates for interview for assessing their suitability for the
post of Member.](7)[ The Selection Committee may, on the basis of its
assessment made by it, recommend a panel of names of candidates for
appointment as Members from amongst the applicants referred to in sub-rule (5)
in order of merit for the consideration of the Central Government.(8)The
Central Government shall, before seeking approval of the Appointments
Committee of the Cabinet, verify or cause to be verified the credentials and
antecedents of the candidates selected by the Central Government from the
panel recommended by the Selection Committee and satisfy the suitability of
such candidates for appointment as Members.] [Inserted by G.S.R. 50(E), dated
1.2.2005 (w.e.f. 1.2.2005).](9)[ Every appointment of a member shall be
subject to the submission of a certificate of physical fitness as indicated in
the Annexure, signed by a Civil Surgeon or District Medical Officer, to the
President, National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission.] [Substituted by
Notification No. G.S.R. 559 (E) dated 21.7.2011 (w.e.f. 15.4.1987)]

### 13. Removal of President or Members from office in certain circumstances.
- (1) The Central Government may remove from office, the President or any
Member, who,-

(a)has been adjudged as an insolvent; or(b)has been convicted of an offence
which, in the opinion of the Central Government, involves moral turpitude;
or(c)has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as the President or
the Member; or(d)has acquired such financial or other interest as is likely to
affect prejudicially his functions as the President or a Member; or(e)has so
abused his position as to render his continuance in office prejudicial to the
public interest [;or](f)[ remain absent in three consecutive sittings except
for reasons beyond his control.] [Inserted by G.S.R. 95(E), dated 27.2.1997
(w.e.f. 27.2.1997).](2)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1),
the President or any Member of the National Commission shall not be removed
from his office except by an order made by the Central Government on the
grounds specified in clauses (d), (e) and (f) of that sub-rule and after an
inquiry held by a sitting Judge of the Supreme Court nominated by the Chief
Justice of India in which the President or Member of the National Commission,
as the case may be, has been informed of the charges against him and given a
reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of those charges and found
guilty.] [Substituted by G.S.R. 175(E), dated 5.3.2004 (w.e.f. 5.3.2004).]

### 14. Procedure to be followed by the National Commission. - (1) A complaint
containing the following particulars shall be presented by the complainant in
person or by his agent to the National Commission or be sent by registered
post, addressed to the National Commission:-

(a)the name, description and the address of the complainant;(b)the name,
description and address of the opposite party or parties, as the case may be,
so far as they can be ascertained;(c)the facts relating to the complaint and
when and where it arose;(d)documents in support of the allegations contained
in the complaint;(e)the relief which the complainant claims.[(1-A) Every
complaint under sub-rule (1) shall be filed in quadruplicate or with such
number of copies as may be required by the National Commission.](2)[ The
National Commission shall, in disposal of any complaint before it, as far as
possible, follow the procedure and conditions including the provisions
governing adjournments as laid down in sections 12 and 13 in relation to the
complaints received by the District Forum, with such modification as may be
considered necessary by the Commission.] [Substituted by G.S.R. 175(E), dated
5.3.2004 (w.e.f. 5.3.2004).](3)On the date of hearing or any other date to
which hearing could be adjourned, it shall be obligatory on the parties or
their agents to appear before the National Commission. Where the complainant
or his agent fails to appear before the National Commission on such days, the
National Commission may in its discretion either dismiss the complaint for
default or decide it on merits. Where the opposite party or its agent fails to
appear on the date of hearing the National Commission may decide the complaint
ex parte.(4)The National Commission may, on such terms as it deems fit and at
any stage of the proceedings, adjourn the hearing of the complaint but the
complaint shall be decided as far as possible within a period of three months
from the date of notice received by opposite party where complaint does not
require analysis or testing of commodities and within five months if it
requires analysis or testing of commodities.[(4-A) In the event of a complaint
being disposed of after the period specified in sub-rule (4), the National
Commission shall record in writing, the reasons for the delay in such
disposal.] [Inserted by G.S.R. 175(E), dated 5.3.2004 (w.e.f. 5.3.2004).](5)If
after the proceedings conducted under sub-rule (3), the National Commission is
satisfied with the allegations contained in the complaint, it shall issue
orders to the opposite party or parties, as the case may be, directing him or
them to take one or more of the things as mentioned in sub-section (1) of
section 14. The National Commission shall also have the power to direct that
any order passed by it, where no appeal has been preferred under section 23 or
where the order of the National Commission has been affirmed by the Supreme
Court under that section, be published in the Official Gazette or through any
other media and no legal proceedings shall lie against the National Commission
or any media for such publication.

### 14A. [ Appeals before National Commission.

\- Every appeal filed in terms of section 19 shall be accompanied by such
amount as specified in the second proviso to the said section and such amount
may be remitted in the form of a crossed Demand Draft drawn on a nationalized
bank in favour of the Registrar, National Commission, payable at Delhi. The
National Commission dealing with the appeals filed before them shall follow
the provisions of sections 19 and 19-A as may be required to hear the appeals
filed before the Commission.Explanation .-In this rule, "nationalized bank"
means a corresponding new bank specified in the First Schedule to the Banking
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970) or
a corresponding new bank specified in the First Schedule to the Banking
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980 (40 of 1980).]

### 15. Procedure for hearing the appeal. - (1) Memorandum shall be presented
by the appellant or his agent to the National Commission in person or be sent
by registered post addressed to the Commission.

(2)Every memorandum filed under sub-rule (1) shall be in legible handwriting
preferably typed and shall set forth concisely under distinct heads, the
grounds of appeal without any argument or narrative and such grounds shall be
numbered consecutively.(3)Each memorandum shall be [accompanied by a crossed
demand draft as referred to in rule 14-A and by a certified copy] of the order
of the State Commission appealed against and such of the documents as may be
required to support grounds of objection mentioned in the memorandum.(4)When
the appeal is presented after the expiry of the period of limitation as
specified in the Act, the memorandum shall be accompanied by an application
supported by an affidavit setting forth the facts on which the appellant
relies to satisfy the National Commission that he has sufficient cause for not
preferring the appeal within the period of limitation.(5)The appellant shall
submit [four copies or such number of copies] [Substituted by G.S.R. 64(E),
dated 10.2.2005, for " six copies" (w.e.f. 10.2.2005).] of the memorandum to
the Commission for official purpose.(6)On the date of hearing or on any other
day to which hearing may be adjourned, it shall be obligatory for the parties
or their agents to appear before the National Commission. If appellant or his
agent fails to appear on such date, the National Commission may in its
discretion either dismiss the appeal or decide ex parte on merits. If the
respondent or his agent fails to appear on such date, the National Commission
shall proceed ex parte and shall decide the appeal on merits of the
case.(7)The appellant shall not, except by leave of the National Commission,
urge or be heard in support of any ground of objection not set forth in the
memorandum but the National Commission, in deciding the appeal, may not
confine to the grounds of objection set forth in the memorandum:Provided that
the Commission shall not rest its decision on any other ground other than
those specified in the memorandum unless the party who may be affected
thereby, has been given, an opportunity of being heard by the National
Commission.(8)[ No adjournment shall ordinarily be granted by the National
Commission, unless sufficient cause is shown and the reasons for grant of
adjournment have been recorded in writing by the Commission. The National
Commission may also adjourn the hearing of the appeal suo motu , on such terms
as it may think fit and at any stage of the proceedings for reasons to be
recorded in writing. The appeal shall be decided, as far as possible, within
ninety days from the date of its admission. In the event of an appeal being
disposed of after the period so specified, the National Commission shall
record in writing the reasons of the same at the time of disposal of the said
appeal.] [Substituted by G.S.R. 175(E), dated 5.3.2004 (w.e.f. 5.3.2004).](9)[
The order of the National Commission shall be communicated to the parties
concerned free of cost.] [Substituted by G.S.R. 533(E), dated 14.8.1991
(w.e.f. 14.8.1991).][15-A. Sitting of the National Commission and signing of
orders.(1)Every proceeding of the National Commission shall be conducted by
the President [or the seniormost Member [* * *] and at least two Members
thereof sitting together [except when a bench is constituted by the President
of the National Commission with one or more Members as he may deem fit] [
Added by G.S.R. 175(E), dated 5.3.2004 (w.e.f. 5.3.2004).]:[Provided that one
Member or Members for any reason are unable to conduct proceedings till it is
completed, the President or the senior most Member, as provided in section
22-D of the Act, shall conduct such proceedings from the stage at which it was
last heard by the previous Member.] [Substituted by G.S.R. 64(E), dated
10.2.2005, for the proviso (w.e.f. 10.2.2005).](2)Every order made by the
National Commission shall be signed by the President [or the seniormost Member
[as provided under section 22-D] [Substituted by G.S.R. 175(E), dated 5.3.2004
(w.e.f. 5.3.2004).][and at least two Members who conducted the proceeding and
if there is any difference of opinion among themselves, the opinion of
majority shall be the order of the National Commission:Provided that where the
proceeding is conducted by the President or the seniormost Member [as provided
under section 22-D] [Substituted by G.S.R. 175(E), dated 5.3.2004 (w.e.f.
5.3.2004).][and three Members thereof and they differ on any point or points,
they shall state the point or points on which they differ and refer the same
to the other Member for hearing on such point or points and such point or
points shall be decided accordingly to the opinion of the majority of the
National Commission.] [Substituted by G.S.R. 175(E), dated 5.3.2004 (w.e.f.
5.3.2004).]

### 16. [ Manner of deposit of amount in appeals before Supreme Court.

\- Every appeal filed before the Supreme Court in terms of section 23 shall be
accompanied by an amount as provided in the second proviso to that section and
such amount may be remitted in the form of a crossed Demand Draft drawn on a
nationalized bank in favour of Registrar, Supreme Court, payable at
Delhi.Explanation .-In this rule, "nationalized bank" means a corresponding
new bank specified in the First Schedule to the Banking Companies (Acquisition
and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970) or a corresponding new
bank specified in the First Schedule to the Banking Companies (Acquisition and
Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980 (40 of 1980).][SCHEDULE I] [Inserted by
G.S.R. 273(E), dated 5-5-2006 (w.e.f. 5-5-2006)][See rule 3(1)(c)]

### 1\. Eastern Region - to consist of the States of Bihar, Chattisgarh,
Jharkhand, Orissa, and West Bengal.

### 2\. Western Region - to consist of the States of Goa, Gujarat,
Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.

### 3\. Northern Region - to consist of the States of Haryana, Himachal
Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal.

### 4\. Southern Region - to consist of the States of Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.

### 5\. North Eastern Region - to consist of the States of Arunachal Pradesh,
Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim.

## II

[See rule 3(1)(ca)]The Union Territories of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands,
Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Lakshadweep, Pondicherry
and the National Capital Territory of Delhi.[AnnexureCertificate of Physical
Fitness[See rule 12A (9)]I hereby certify that I have examined Shri/Smt./Kum
...................................... ............. and that I have not
discovered that he/she has any disease (communicable or otherwise),
constitutional weakness or bodily infirmity, except.
.......................... ......................................... I do not
consider this a disqualification* for his/her employment as member in the
National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission for a period of five years or
up to the age of 70 years, whichever is earlier.Date:SignatureSignature of
CandidateDesignation(Civil Surgeon/District Medical Officer)*Note : This
certificate should take into account the. fact that a member in the National
Commission retires at the age of 70 years.][Inserted by Notification No.
G.S.R. 559 (E) dated 21.7.2011 (w.e.f. 15.4.1987)]

