## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 2023

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 2023

## Act 106 of 2023

  * Published in Gazette of India on 28 September 2023 
  * Assented to on 28 September 2023 
  * Commenced on 28 September 2023 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 September 2023.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Seventy-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1. Short title and commencement.

1This Act may be called the Constitution (One Hundred and Sixth Amendment)
Act, 2023.2It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Amendment of article 239AA.

In article 239AA of the Constitution, in clause (2), after sub-clause (b), the
following clauses shall be inserted, namely:—baSeats shall be reserved for
women in the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of
Delhi.bbAs nearly as may be, one-third of the seats reserved for the Scheduled
Castes in the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi
shall be reserved for women.bcAs nearly as may be, one-third of the total
number of seats to be filled by direct election in the Legislative Assembly of
the National Capital Territory of Delhi (including the number of seats
reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes) shall be reserved for
women in such manner as Parliament may by law determine.”.

### 3. Insertion of new article 330A.

After article 330 of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:—

### 330A. Reservation of seats for women in the House of the People.

1Seats shall be reserved for women in the House of the People.2As nearly as
may be, one-third of the total number of seats reserved under clause (2) of
article 330 shall be reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes or
the Scheduled Tribes.3As nearly as may be, one-third (including the number of
seats reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
Tribes) of the total number of seats to be filled by direct election to the
House of the People shall be reserved for women.”.

### 4. Insertion of new article 332A.

After article 332 of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:—332A. Reservation of seats for women in the Legislative
Assemblies of the States1Seats shall be reserved for women in the Legislative
Assembly of every State.2As nearly as may be, one-third of the total number of
seats reserved under clause (3) of article 332 shall be reserved for women
belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes.3As nearly as may
be, one-third (including the number of seats reserved for women belonging to
the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes) of the total number of seats to
be filled by direct election in the Legislative Assembly of every State shall
be reserved for women.

### 5. Insertion of new article 334A.

After article 334 of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:—334A. Reservation of seats for women take
effect.1Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provision of this Part or
Part VIII, the provisions of the Constitution relating to the reservation of
seats for women in the House of the People, the Legislative Assembly of a
State and the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi
shall come into effect after an exercise of delimitation is undertaken for
this purpose after the relevant figures for the first census taken after
commencement of the Constitution (One Hundred and Sixth Amendment) Act, 2023
have been published and shall cease to have effect on the expiration of a
period of fifteen years from such commencement.2Subject to the provisions of
articles 239AA, 330A and 332A, seats reserved for women in the House of the
People, the Legislative Assembly of a State and the Legislative Assembly of
the National Capital Territory of Delhi shall continue till such date as the
Parliament may by law determine.3Rotation of seats reserved for women in the
House of the People, the Legislative Assembly of a State and the Legislative
Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi shall take effect after
each subsequent exercise of delimitation as the Parliament may by law
determine.4Nothing in this article shall affect any representation in the
House of the People, the Legislative Assembly of a State or the Legislative
Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi until the dissolution of
the then existing House of the People, Legislative Assembly of a State or the
Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi.

### 6. Amendment not to affect reservation in the House of the People, the
Legislative Assembly of a State or the Legislative Assembly of the National
Capital Territory of Delhi.

1The amendments made to the Constitution by the Constitution (One Hundred and
Sixth Amendment) Act, 2023 shall not affect any representation in the House of
the People, the Legislative Assembly of a State or the Legislative Assembly of
the National Capital Territory of Delhi until the dissolution of the House of
the People, the Legislative Assembly of a State or the Legislative Assembly of
the National Capital Territory of Delhi, as the case may be, in existence at
the commencement of the said Act.[The Constitution (Fortieth Amendment) Act,
1976, will enable co-operative societies to be incorporated. Besides
incorporating, it also addresses the regulation, and dissolution of
cooperative societies.The proposed legislation defines the 33% women
reservation to continue for 15 years. Additionally, it mandates that a quota
for individuals belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes be
established within the reserved seats designated for women in Parliament and
Legislative assembly.]

