## Union of India - Act

## The Commission Of Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Commission Of Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987

## Act 3 of 1988

  * Published in Gazette 3 on 3 January 1988 
  * Assented to on 3 January 1988 
  * Commenced on 3 January 1988 
  * [This is the version of this document as it was from 6 January 1988 to None.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Commission Of Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987(3 of 1988)

### 105.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The recent incident of the commission of
sati in the village of Deorala in Rajasthan, its subsequent glorification and
the various attempts made by the protagonists of this practice to justify its
continuance on religious grounds had aroused apprehension all over the country
that this evil social practice, eradicated long back, will be revived. A
general feeling had also grown in the country that the efforts put in by
social reformers like Raja Ram Mohan Roy and others in the last century would
be nullified by this single act in Rajasthan. The commission of sati in
Deorala was also followed by a number of congregations, ceremonies and
festivals, and attempts were also made to collect funds for the construction
of a temple at the site where sati was committed. The place had also attracted
large number of crowds and in spite of the various steps taken by the State
Government of Rajasthan and the order of the High Court of Rajasthan to
prohibit any ceremony being conducted, it was feared that a temple would be
constructed at the site to perpetuate the memory of the widow who committed
sati. These had evoked protests throughout the country and demands are being
made by the women's organisations and from persons inside and outside
Parliament for the enactment of a strong and deterrent Central law to provide
for the more effective prevention of the commission of sati and its
glorification so that this practice or its glorification is not continued in
States where there is no law for the prevention or glorification of sati.
Although the offence of attempt to commit suicide as contained in section 309
of the Indian Penal Code had been held by various High Courts to include the
commission of sati punishable under the provision, the sentence provided in
that section was not deterrent enough to prevent the commission of such
practice. Further, that section also did not provide for the glorification of
sati subsequent to the commission of sati. There are at present only three
laws in force in the States, including the Rajasthan Sati (Prevention) Act,
1987. The other two enactments are the Bengal Sati Regulation, 1829 (Bengal
Regulation XVII of 1829) and the Tamil Nadu Sati Regulation, 1830 (Tamil Nadu
Regulation I of 1830).2\. It is, therefore, considered desirable to enact a
Central law which should be applicable to the whole of India other than the
State of Jammu and Kashmir. The Bill, among other things, provides for the
following matters, namely:-(i) the definition of sati would include not only a
burning or burying alive of any widow alongwith the body of the deceased
husband but would also include such burning or burying of any woman with any
other relative or with any article, object or thing associated with the
husband or such relative irrespective of whether such burning or burying is
claimed to be voluntary or otherwise;(ii) a definition of glorification of
sati has been included which would include the observance of any ceremony,
participating in any procession connected with the commission of sati or of
any function to eulogise the person who had committed sati. The definition
would also include the construction of any temple or the performance of
carrying on of any form of worship for the performance of ceremony
thereat;(iii) the offence of attempt to commit sati will be punishable with
the same punishment as is provided for the offence of attempt to commit
suicide under section 309 of the Indian Penal Code. This is because in most
cases the widow or the woman is compelled to commit sati and invariably shall
will not be in a fit state of mind or will be labouring under a state of
intoxication or stupefaction or other cause impeding the exercise of her free
will;(iv) the abetment of sati will be punishable with death or imprisonment
for life and shall also be liable to fine while the abetment of any attempt to
commit sati will be punishable with imprisonment for life and fine;(v) the
glorification of sati is punishable with a minimum imprisonment of one year
which may extend to seven years and with a minimum fine of five thousand
rupees which may extend to thirty thousand rupees;(vi) the Collector or
District Magistrate has been given the power to prohibit the doing of any act
towards the commission of sati in any area if he is of the opinion that sati
is likely to be committed in such area. The State Government or the Collector
or District Magistrate has also been empowered to remove temples or other
structures constructed for the glorification of sati and to seize properties
acquired for such purpose;(vii) the offences under the proposed legislation
will be triable only by a Special Court constituted under the provisions of
the legislation;(viii) where any person is prosecuted of an offence of
abetment of sati or the abetment of an attempt to commit sati, the burden of
proving that he had not committed the offence shall be on him. A person who is
convicted of an offence of abetment of sati will also be disqualified from
inheriting the property of the person who commits sati;(ix) the Representation
of the People Act, 1951 is being amended to provide for disqualification for
standing for election to Parliament or to any State Legislature during the
period of conviction and for a period of five years since his release. The
propagation of commission of sati or its glorification by a candidate at such
an election will also be deemed to be a corrupt practice under that Act.3\.
The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.An Act to provide for the more
effective prevention of the commission of sati and its glorification and for
matters connected herewith or incidental thereto.Whereas sati or the burning
or burying alive of widows or women is revolting to the feelings of human
nature and is nowhere enjoined by any of the religions of India as an
imperative duty;And whereas it is necessary to take more effective measures to
prevent the commission of sati and its glorification;Be it enacted by
Parliament in the Thirty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:

Received the assent of the President on 3.1.1988 and published in the Gazette
of India, Ext., Pt.II, Section 1, dated 6.1.1988.Enforced on 21.3.1988 vide
G.S.R.359(E), dated 21.3.1988.  
---  
  
## Part I – Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement

(1)This Act may be called The Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act , 1987.(2)It
extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.(3)It
shall come into force in a State on such date as the Central Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, and different dates may be
appointed for different States.

### 2. Definitions

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)Code means the Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974);(b)Glorification, in relation to sati,
whether such sati, was committed before or after the commencement of this Act,
includes, among other things,(i)the observance of any ceremony or the taking
out of a procession in connection with the commission of sati; or(ii)the
supporting, justifying or propagating the practice of sati in any manner;
or(iii)the arranging of any function to eulogise the person who has committed
sati; or(iv)the creation of a trust, or the collection of funds, or the
construction of a temple or other structure or the carrying on of any form of
worship or the performance of any ceremony thereat, with a view to perpetuate
the honour of, or to preserve the memory of, a person who has committed
sati;(c)sati means the burning or burying alive of(i)any widow alongwith the
body of her deceased husband or any other relative or with any article, object
or thing associated with the husband or such relative; or(ii)any woman
alongwith the body of any of her relatives, irrespective of whether such
burning or burying is claimed to be voluntary on the part of the widow or the
woman or otherwise;(d)Special Court means a Special Court constituted under
section 9;(e)temple includes any building or other structure, whether roofed
or not, constructed or made to preserve the memory of a person in respect of
whom sati has been committed or used or intended to be used for the carrying
on of any form of worship or for the observance of any ceremony in connection
with such commission.(2)Words and expressions used but not defined in this Act
and defined in the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or in the Code shall have
the same meanings as are respectively assigned to them in the Indian Penal
Code (45 of 1860) or the Code.

## Part II – Punishments For Offences Relating To Sati

### 3. Attempt to commit sati

.Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860),
whoever attempts to commit sati and does any act towards such commission shall
be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or
with fine or with both:Provided that the Special Court trying an offence under
this section shall, before convicting any person, take into consideration the
circumstances leading to the commission of the offence, the act committed, the
state of mind of the person charged of the offence at the time of the
commission of the act and all other relevant factors.

### 4. Abetment of sati

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860),
if any person commits sati, whoever abets the commission of such sati, either
directly or indirectly, shall be punishable with death or imprisonment for
life and also be liable to fine.(2)If any person attempts to commit sati,
whoever abets such attempt, either directly or indirectly, shall be punishable
with imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine.Explanation. For
the purposes of this section, any of the following acts or the like shall also
be deemed to be an abetment, namely:(a)any inducement to a widow or woman to
get her burnt or buried alive alongwith the body of her deceased husband or
with any other relative, or with any article, object or thing associated with
the husband or such relative irrespective of whether she is in a fit state of
mind or is labouring under a state of intoxication or stupefaction or other
cause impeding the exercise of her free will;(b)making a widow or woman
believe that the commission of sati would result in some spiritual benefit to
her or her deceased husband or relative or the general well being of the
family;(c)encouraging a widow or woman to remain fixed in her resolve to
commit sati and thus instigating her to commit sati;(d)participating in any
procession in connection with the commission of sati or aiding the widow or
woman in her decision to commit sati by taking her alongwith the body of her
deceased husband or relative to the cremation or burial ground;(e)being
present at the place where sati is committed as an active participant to such
commission or to any ceremony connected with it;(f)preventing or obstructing
the widow or woman from saving herself from being burnt or buried
alive;(g)obstructing, or interfering with, the police in the discharge of its
duties of taking any steps to prevent the commission of sati.

### 5. Punishment for glorification of sati

.Whoever does any act for the glorification of sati shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may
extend to seven years and with fine which shall not be less than five thousand
rupees but which may extend to thirty thousand rupees.

## Part III – Powers Of Collector Or District Magistrate To Prevent Offences
Relating To Sati

### 6. Power to prohibit certain acts

(1)Where the Collector or the District Magistrate is of the opinion that sati
or any abetment thereof is being, or is about to be committed, he may, by
order, prohibit the doing of any act towards the commission of sati by any
person in any area or areas specified in the order.(2)The Collector or the
District Magistrate may also, by order, prohibit the glorification in any
manner of sati by any person in any area or areas specified in the
order.(3)Whoever contravenes any order made under sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) shall, if such contravention is not punishable under any other
provision of this Act, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall
not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years and with fine
which shall not be less than five thousand rupees but which may extend to
thirty thousand rupees.

### 7. Power to remove certain temples or other structures

(1)The State Government may, if it is satisfied that in any temple or other
structure which has been in existence for not less than twenty years, any form
of worship or the performance of any ceremony is carried on with a view to
perpetuate the honour of, or to preserve the memory of, any person in respect
of whom sati has been committed, by order, direct the removal of such temple
or other structure.(2)The Collector or the District Magistrate may, if he is
satisfied that in any temple or other structure, other than that referred to
in sub-section (1), any form of worship or the performance of any ceremony is
carried on with a view to perpetuate the honour of, or to preserve the memory
of, any person in respect of whom sati has been committed, by order, direct
the removal of such temple or other structure.(3)Where any order under sub-
section (1) or sub-section (2) is not complied with, the State Government or
the Collector or the District Magistrate, as the case may be, shall cause the
temple or other structure to be removed through a police officer not below the
rank of a Sub-Inspector at the cost of the defaulter.

### 8. Power to seize certain properties

(1)Where the Collector or the District Magistrate has reason to believe that
any funds or property have been collected or acquired for the purpose of
glorification of the commission of any sati or which may be found under
circumstances which create suspicion of the commission of any offence under
this Act, he may seize such funds or property.(2)Every Collector or District
Magistrate acting under sub-section (1) shall report the seizure to the
Special Court, if any, constituted to try any offence in relation to which
such funds or property were collected or acquired and shall await the orders
of such Special Court as to the disposal of the same.

## Part IV – Special Courts

### 9. Trial of offences under this Act

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code, all offences under this Act
shall be triable only by a Special Court constituted under this section.(2)The
State Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute
one or more Special Courts for the trial of offences under this Act and every
Special Court shall exercise jurisdiction in respect of the whole or such part
of the State as may be specified in the notification.(3)A Special Court shall
be presided over by a Judge to be appointed by the State Government with the
concurrence of the Chief Justice of the High Court.(4)A person shall not be
qualified for appointment as a Judge of a Special Court unless he is,
immediately before such appointment, a Sessions Judge or an Additional
Sessions Judge in any State.

### 10. Special Public Prosecutors

(1)For every Special Court, the State Government shall appoint a person to be
a Special Public Prosecutor.(2)A person shall be eligible to be appointed as a
Special Public Prosecutor under this section only if he had been in practice
as an advocate for not less than seven years or has held any post for a period
of not less than seven years under the State requiring special knowledge of
law.(3)Every person appointed as a Special Public Prosecutor under this
section shall be deemed to be a Public Prosecutor within the meaning of clause
(u) of section 2 of the Code and the provisions of the Code shall have effect
accordingly.

### 11. Procedure and powers of Special Courts

(1)A Special Court may take cognizance of any offence, without the accused
being committed to it for trial, upon receiving a complaint of facts which
constitute such offence, or upon a police report of such facts.(2)Subject to
the other provisions of this Act, a Special Court shall, for the purpose of
the trial of any offence, have all the powers of a Court of Session and shall
try such offence, as if it were a Court of Session, so far as may be, in
accordance with the procedure prescribed in the Code for trial before a Court
of Session.

### 12. Power of Special Court with respect to other offences

(1)When trying any offence under this Act, a Special Court may also try any
other offence with which the accused may, under the Code, be charged at the
same trial if the offence is connected with such other offence.(2)If, in the
course of any trial of any offence under this Act it is found that the accused
person has committed any other offence under this Act or under any other law,
a Special Court may convict such person also of such other offence and pass
any sentence authorised by this Act or such other law for the punishment
thereof.(3)In every inquiry or trial, the proceedings shall be held as
expeditiously as possible and, in particular, where the examination of
witnesses has begun, the same shall be continued from day to day until all the
witnesses in attendance have been examined, and if any Special Court finds the
adjournment of the same beyond the following date to be necessary, it shall
record its reasons for doing so.

### 13. Forfeiture of funds or property

.Where a person has been convicted of an offence under this Act, the Special
Court trying such offence may, if it is considered necessary so to do, declare
that any funds or property seized under section 8 shall stand forfeited to the
State.

### 14. Appeal

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code, an appeal shall lie as a
matter of right from any judgment, sentence or order, not being an
interlocutory order, of a Special Court to the High Court both on facts and on
law.(2)Every appeal under this section shall be preferred within a period of
thirty days from the date of the judgment, sentence or order appealed
from:Provided that the High Court may entertain an appeal after the expiry of
the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied that the appellant had
sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within the period of thirty
days.

## Part V – Miscellaneous

### 15. Protection of action taken under this Act

.No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the State
Government or any officer or authority of the State Government for anything
which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or
any rules or orders made under this Act.

### 16. Burden of proof

.Where any person is prosecuted of an offence under section 4, the burden of
proving that he had not committed the offence under the said section shall be
on him.

### 17. Obligation of certain persons to report about the commission of
offence under this Act

(1)All officers of Government are hereby required and empowered to assist the
police in the execution of the provisions of this Act or any rule or order
made thereunder.(2)All village officers and such other officers as may be
specified by the Collector or the District Magistrate in relation to any area
and the inhabitants of such area shall, if they have reason to believe or have
the knowledge that sati is about to be, or has been, committed in the area
shall forthwith report such fact to the nearest police station.(3)Whoever
contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be
punishable with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend
to two years and shall also be liable to fine.

### 18. Person convicted of an offence under section 4 to be disqualified from
inheriting certain properties

.A person convicted of an offence under sub-section (1) of section 4 in
relation to the commission of sati shall be disqualified from inheriting the
property of the person in respect of whom such sati has been committed or the
property of any other person which he would have been entitled to inherit on
the death of the person in respect of whom such sati has been committed.

### 19. Amendment of Act 43 of 1951

.In the Representation of the People Act, 1951,(a)in section 8, in sub-section
(2), after the proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted,
namely:Provided further that a person convicted by a Special Court for the
contravention of any of the provisions of the Commission of Sati (Prevention)
Act, 1987 shall be disqualified from the date of such conviction and shall
continue to be disqualified for a further period of five years since his
release.;(b)in section 123, after clause (3-A), the following clause shall be
inserted, namely:(3-B) The propagation of the practice or the commission of
sati or its glorification by a candidate or his agent or any other person with
the consent of the candidate or his election agent for the furtherance of the
prospects of the election of that candidate or for prejudicially affecting the
election of any candidate.Explanation. For the purposes of this clause, sati
and glorification in relation to sati shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987.

### 20. Act to have overriding effect

.The provisions of this Act or any rule or order made thereunder shall have
effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any
enactment other than this Act or in any instrument having effect by virtue of
any enactment other than this Act.

### 21. Power to make rules

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.(2)Every rule made under
this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each
House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions,
and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or
the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be
made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be
of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule.

### 22. Repeal of existing laws

(1)All laws in force in any State immediately before the commencement of this
Act in that State which provide for the prevention or the glorification of
sati shall, on such commencement, stand repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such
repeal, anything done or any action taken under any law repealed under sub-
section (1) shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding
provisions of this Act, and, in particular, any case taken cognizance of by a
Special Court under the provisions of any law so repealed and pending before
it immediately before the commencement of this Act in that State shall
continue to be dealt with by that Special Court after such commencement as if
such Special Court had been constituted under section 9 of this Act.

