## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Code of Civil Procedure (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1950

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Code of Civil Procedure (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1950

## Act 34 of 1950

  * Published on 22 December 1950 
  * Commenced on 22 December 1950 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 December 1950.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Code of Civil Procedure (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1950Tamil Nadu Act 34
of 1950Statement of Objects and Reasons. - For Statement of Objects and
Reasons, please see Fort St. George Gazette, dated the 10th October 1950, Part
IV-A, page 376.Received the assent of the President on the 22nd December 1950
and first published in the Fort St. George Gazette on the 2nd January 1951.An
Act further to amend the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, in its application to
the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the expression
'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as Amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order; 1969.].Where As
it is expedient further to amend the code of civil Procedure, 1908, (Central
Act V of 1908) in its application to the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This
expression was substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as Amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] for the purpose hereinafter
appearing; It is hereby enacted as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the Code of Civil Procedure ([Tamil Nadu] [These
words were substitute for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Amendment) Act, 1950.(2)It extends to the whole of
the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression xuas substituted for the expression
'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as Amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].This Act
was extended to the Kanyakumari district and the Shencottah taluk of the
Tirunelveli district by section 3 of, and the Schedule to, the Tamil Nadu
(Transferred Territory) Extension of Laws Act, 1957 (Tamil Nadu Act XXII of
1957), repealing the corresponding law in force in that territory.

### 2. Amendment of section 60, Central Act V of 1908.

\- In clause (g) of the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 60 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) ai ter the words "stipends
and gratuities allowed to pensioners of the Government", the words "or of a
local authority" shall be inserted.

