## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (THIRTY-FOURTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1974

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (THIRTY-FOURTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1974

## Act 34 of 1974

  * Published in Gazette of India on 29 April 1974 
  * Commenced on 7 September 1974 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 April 1974.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Thirty-
fourth Amendment) Bill, 1974 which was enacted as the Constitution (Thirty-
fourth Amendment) Act, 1974_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The Chief
Ministers' Conference held on the 23rd July, 1972, had made important
suggestions with regard to reduction in the level of ceiling on land holdings,
application of ceiling on the basis of land held by a family and the
withdrawing of exemptions. The suggestions of the Chief Ministers' Conference
were accepted by the Government of India and necessary guidelines were issued
to the State Governments for the revision of ceiling laws.

### 2. It is proposed to amend the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution to
include therein the revised ceiling laws which have so far been enacted in
broad conformity with the aforesaid guidelines so that they may have the
protection under article 31B of the Constitution and any uncertainty or doubt
that may arise in regard to the validity of those laws is removed. In
addition, two Acts dealing with the abolition of intermediary tenures are also
proposed to be included in the Ninth Schedule, namely, the Bihar Land Reforms
(Amendment) Act, 1972 and the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Act, 1969, so that they may also have the same protection.

### 3. The Bill seeks to achieve this object.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Twenty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Thirty-fourth Amendment)) Act, 1974.

### 2\. Amendment of Ninth Schedule.-

In the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution, after entry 66 and before the
Explanation, the following entries shall be inserted, namely:-

### 67. The Andhra Pradesh Land Reforms (Ceiling on Agricultural Holdings)
Act, 1973 (Andhra Pradesh Act 1 of 1973).

### 68. The Bihar Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling Area and Acquisition of
Surplus Land) (Amendment) Act, 1972 (Bihar Act I of 1973).

### 69. The Bihar Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling Area and Acquisition of
Surplus Land) (Amendment) Act, 1973 (Bihar Act IX of 1973).

### 70. The Bihar Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 1972 (Bihar Act V of 1972).

### 71. The Gujarat Agricultural Lands Ceiling (Amendment) Act, 1972 (Gujarat
Act 2 of 1974).

### 72. The Haryana Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972 (Haryana Act 26 of
1972).

### 73. The Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972 (Himachal
Pradesh Act 19 of 1973).

### 74. The Kerala Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 1972 (Kerala Act 17 of 1972).

### 75. The Madhya Pradesh Ceiling on Agricultural Holdings (Amendment) Act,
1972 (Madhya Pradesh Act 12 of 1974),

### 76. The Madhya Pradesh Ceiling on Agricultural Holdings (Second Amendment)
Act, 1972 (Madhya Pradesh Act 13 of 1974).

### 77. The Mysore Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 1973 (Karnataka Act 1 of
1974).

### 78. The Punjab Land Reforms Act, 1972 (Punjab Act 10 of 1973).

### 79. The[[B Rajasthan Imposition of Ceiling on Agricultural Holdings Act,
1973 (Rajasthan Act 11 of 1973).

### 80. The Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969).

### 81. The West Bengal Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 1972 (West Bengal Act
XII of 1972).

### 82. The West Bengal Estates Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1964 (West Bengal
Act XXII of 1964).

### 83. The West Bengal Estates Acquisition (Second Amendment) Act, 1973 (West
Bengal Act XXXIII of 1973).

### 84. The Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands (Gujarat Amendment) Act,
1972 (Gujarat Act 5 of 1973).

### 85. The Orissa Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 1974 (Orissa Act 9 of 1974).

### 86. The Tripura Land Revenue and Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Act, 1974
(Tripura Act 7 of 1974).".

[The Constitution (Thirty-Fourth Amendment) Act, 1974, remains an important
milestone in the evolution of Indian democracy. The amendment brought about
significant changes to the constitutional framework of the country,
particularly with respect to the powers of the Parliament to amend the
Constitution and the rights of the citizens. These proposals were about the
removal of exemptions, the reduction of the maximum on land holdings, and the
application of a ceiling based on the amount of land owned by a family. The
Amendment added 20 more state laws (New entries 67 to 86) dealing with land
reforms and ceilings to the Ninth Schedule in order to make it clear that
these laws cannot be challenged on the grounds that they conflict with any
sections of Part III of the Constitution’s Fundamental Rights clause.Also
Refer ]

