## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Rules, 1988

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Rules, 1988

## Rule THE-CHENNAI-METROPOLITAN-AREA-GROUNDWATER-REGULATION-RULES-1988 of
1988

  * Published on 9 February 1988 
  * Commenced on 9 February 1988 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 February 1988.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Rules, 1988Published
vide Notification G.O. Ms. No. 78, Municipal Administration and Water Supply,
dated 9th February 1988Published at pages 1 to 12 of Part 111-Section 1(a) of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 15th February 1988.
(Issue No. 74).SRO A-17(a)/88. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-
section 18 of the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alternation of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1987), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

### 1. Short title.

(1)These rules may be called the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the City of Madras (Alternation of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).] Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Rules, 1988.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alternation of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Metropolitan
Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1987);(b)"Form"
means a Form appended to these rules;(c)"Licence" means a licence for
extraction, use or transport of groundwater granted under section 5 of the
Act;(d)"Permit" means a permit granted under section 3 of the Act to sink a
well.

### 3. Application for permit to sink well.

(1)Every application under sub-section (2) of section 3 shall be made in
Form-I.(2)A court fee stamp for the value of one rupee shall be affixed on
every application made under this rule.(3)The decision regarding the grant or
refusal to grant of permit for sinking well shall be intimated to the
applicant by the competent authority within ninety days from the date of
receipt of the application.(4)Every permit for sinking a well shall be in
Form-IV.(5)The refusal of grant of permit by the competent authority shall be
communicated in Form-VII.

### 4. Application for licence to extract, use or transport of groundwater.

(1)Every application under clauses (i) and (ii) of sub-section (2) of section
5 of the Act shall be made in Forms II and III, respectively.(2)A court fee
stamp for the value of one rupee shall be affixed on every application made
under this rule.(3)Whenever the competent authority has decided to grant the
licence, it shall send an intimation to that effect to the applicant and
inform him to remit the fee specified in the Table below:-

(a) |  Licence for extraction or use of groundwater foragricultural purpose. | 50.00  
---|---|---  
(b) |  Licence for extraction or use of groundwater forother purposes - |   
|  (i) using pumps with capacity not exceeding 5horse power. | 100.00  
|  (ii) using pumps with capacity exceeding 5 horsepower but not exceeding 10 horse power. | 500.00  
|  (iii) using pumps with capacity exceeding 10horse power. | 1,000.00  
|  A licence for transport of groundwater by lorry,trailer or any other goods vehicle. | 1,000.00  
  
(4)The licence fee specified in sub-rule (3) shall be paid for every financial
year or part thereof.(5)The licence fee shall be payable by the applicant into
anyone of the branches of the State Bank of India to the credit of the Board
and the counterfoil of the challan shall be presented to the competent
authority for grant of licence.(6)Every licence for extraction or use of
groundwater for any purpose other than domestic purposes shall be in
Form-V(7)Every licence for the transport of groundwater by means of a lorry,
trailer or any other goods vehicle shall be in Form-VI.(8)Every licence under
sub-rules (6) and (7) shall be valid for the financial year or part thereof.
An applicant seeking renewal of the licence shall apply before ninety days of
the expiry of the original licence and the provisions of rules applicable to
grant of an original licence shall apply to the renewal of the licence.(9)The
refusal to grant licence by the competent authority shall be communicated in
Form-VIII or IX, as the case may be.

### 5. Registration of existing wells and use of groundwater in scheduled
area.

(1)The competent authority shall prepare and maintain a register showing the
number of existing wells in the scheduled area and the use of groundwater in
the scheduled area for agricultural purposes immediately before the 17th June
1987, within ninety days from the date of the publication of these rules in
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.(2)The Register of wells shall be in
Form-X.(3)The extract of the Register of wells insofar as the entries relate
to any revenue village specified in the schedule to the Act or City of
[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alternation of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] shall be
published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and displayed in the offices of
the respective village administrative officers and in the office of the
respective Area Engineers of the Board in the City of [Chennai] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alternation of Name) Act, 1996
(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] within thirty days after the expiry of the
period specified in sub-rule (1).(4)(a)Any request by the aggrieved land owner
or occupier for non-inclusion in the Register of wells, or the use of
groundwater for agricultural purposes in relation to any such land or for
modification of the particulars as entered in the Register of wells shall be
made to the competent authority in Form-XL. [The competent authority shall
pass an order in writing within thirty days from the date of receipt of such
application from the applicant.] [Added by G O. Ms. No. 168, MAWS (Metro
Water) Dept., dated 21st November 2002.](b)A court fee stamp for the value of
one rupee shall be affixed on every application made under this rule.(c)The
application shall be made to the competent authority within thirty days from
the date of the publication of the extracts of the Register of wells in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette:Provided that the competent authority may if
satisfied that any aggrieved land owner or occupier had sufficient cause for
not making the application in time, allow a further time of thirty days for
making the application.(5)An extract of entries made in the Register of wells
shall be furnished to the owner or the occupier of land on application made in
Form-XII to the competent authority. A fee of rupees two only shall be payable
by the applicant into anyone of the branches of the State Bank of India to the
credit of the Board and the counterfoil of the chalan shall be presented to
the competent authority along with the application in Form-XII.

### 5A. [ Implementation of rain water harvesting measures. [Rule 5-A was
inserted by G O. Ms. No. 68. Municipal Administration and Water Supply (Metro
Water) Department, dated 21st November, 2002.]

(1)Every building owned or maintained by the Government or a company or other
institution owned or controlled by the Government, shall within one year from
the 21st day of November, 2002,-(a)provide rooftop rain water harvesting
structure wherever a storage tank or an open well or a bore well is available
in the building irrespective of the nature of sub-soil conditions;(b)surface
run-off water from the open spaces around the buildings, parks and playgrounds
shall be harvested using appropriate recharge structures based in the nature
of the sub-soil conditions.(i)Roof-top rain water harvesting - Direct
collection. - Rain water from the roof of the buildings such as tiled/ sloped
terrace building and flat/ RCC (Reinforced concrete cement) roof shall be
collected using appropriate size of gutters or PVC (Poly vinyl chloride) pipes
and stored either in a collection tank or storage tank of appropriate size
placed over the ground or underground through a filter unit. A filter chamber
of appropriate size shall be provided to filter the dust particles usually
present in the roof-tops of the buildings. Suitable filter material such as
well-burnt broken bricks or coarse sand or small sized pebbles or blue metal
gravels (baby chips) shall be used in the filter chamber. The surplus water-
available after filling the storage tank/ sump shall be diverted to the nearby
open well or bore well or recharge pits. Proper disinfection shall be made
while storing the water for long use.Recharging the open well/ bore well. -
The rain water collected from the roof tops of both tiled/ sloped roof and
flat/ RCC (Reinforced concrete cement) roofs using gutters or PVC (Poly vinyl
chloride) pipes shall be diverted to the open well or bore well through a
filter chamber of appropriate size. Regular disinfection methods are to be
practised while harvesting rain water in open wells.(ii)Harvesting surface
run-off water. - Apart from the roof-top rain water harvesting, the rain water
available in the open spaces around the buildings and in places/ buildings
where a sump or open well or bore well is not available the rain water shall
be harvested and recharged into the ground using appropriate recharge
structures based on the nature of the sub-soil conditions as mentioned
below:(a)Sandy sub-soil areas. - In places where the sub-soil formation is
sandy in nature the rate of percolation of rain water will be more and
therefore provision of shallow recharge structures such as percolation/
recharge pits, recharge trenches or shallow recharge wells are considered to
be suitable for rain water harvesting.(i)Percolation/ recharge pits shall be
provided around the buildings with minimum size of 1 metre x 1 metre x 1 metre
and filled with permeable medium such as broken bricks or pebbles or coarse
sand, etc. The number of these pits shall vary based on the extent of the area
of water collection. On an average one unit is required for an area of 250
square feet. These structures are suitable for individual houses in
general.(ii)Recharge trenches (Longitudinal in shape) similar to the
percolation/ recharge pits are suitable for apartment/ commercial complexes,
where the availability of rain water is more. Two or three of these structures
shall be provided on the basis of the extent of the building.(iii)Shallow
recharge wells are similar to the common open wells except in size and depth.
Normally, for an individual house with 1000 square feet area, a recharge well
with 1.0 metre dia and 3.0 metre dia depth is required. For apartments/
commercial complexes two or three recharge wells are required based on the
extent of the building. Either brick wall or RCC (Reinforced concrete cement)
concrete rings shall be used for construction. The top of the recharge well
should be covered with RCC (Reinforced concrete cement) slab. Recharge wells
are to be desilted once in a year or two for its effective recharge. Rain
water collected from the roof tops of buildings and open surfaces shall be
diverted to these recharge structures through PVC (Poly vinyl chloride) pipe
line or by providing channels on the ground. These structures shall be
maintained properly for effective recharge.(b)Clay sub-soil areas. - In places
where the sub-soil formation is clay in nature the rate of percolation of rain
water will be very slow and therefore provision of percolation/ recharge pit
with bore, recharge trench with bore or deep recharge well are considered to
be suitable for rain water harvesting.(i)Percolation/ recharge pit with bore.
- It is similar to the one mentioned in sandy sub-soil formation except a bore
hole at the bottom of the percolation pit which is also filled with the same
permeable materials. A minimum size of 4= inch diametre and 15 feet depth is
normally required for one pit. However, if sand formation is available below
the top clay layer, the bore has to be drilled preferably up to the sand
formation. The number of these pits shall vary based on the extent of the area
of water collection. On an average one unit is required for an area of 250
square feet. These structures are suitable for individual houses in
general.(ii)Recharge Trench with Bore. - These are similar to the recharge
pits but are longitudinal in shape and bore holes shall be provided at the
bottom for every 10-15 feet of the trench. The trench and bore hole shall be
filled with the same permeable materials such as broken bricks or pebbles or
coarse sand, etc. These structures are suitable for apartments/ commercial
complexes where the availability of rain water is more.(iii)Deep/ large
recharge wells. - These are similar to the common open wells except in size
and depth and are considered to be suitable for apartment/ commercial
complexes. In general, a recharge well with 1.5 metre dia and 5.0 metre depth
is required for a small apartment. Either brick wall or RCC (Reinforced
concrete cement) concrete rings shall be used for construction. The top of the
recharge well should be covered with RCC (Reinforced concrete cement) slab.
The recharge well shall be de-silted once in a year or two for effective
recharge. Rain water collected from the rooftops of the buildings and open
surfaces shall be diverted to these recharge structures through PVC (Poly
vinyl chloride) pipe line or by providing channels on the ground. These
structures should be maintained properly for effective recharge.(c)Hard rock
areas (Weathered). - In hard rock areas also, the rate of percolation of rain
water will be slow. Therefore, in order to collect and recharge the rain water
it would be preferable to construct recharge wells of appropriate
size.Percolation pit with deep bore holes up to a depth of 50-100 feet shall
be provided. In this case, the bore hole is to be constructed with slotted
pipe for effective recharge. In general, construction of separate recharge
structures shall be provided in the absence of existing infrastructure such as
storage tank/ sump, open well or bore well in order to reduce the cost
involved.(2)Every person who constructs a building, whether, for residential
or non-residential purpose, shall on or after the 21st day of November,
2002,-(a)provide roof top rain water harvesting structure wherever a storage
tank or an open well or a bore well is available in the building irrespective
of the nature of sub-soil conditions;(b)surface run-off water from the open
spaces around the buildings, parks and playgrounds shall be harvested using
appropriate recharge structures based on the nature of the sub-soil
conditions.(i)Roof-top rain water harvesting. - Direct collection. - Rain
water from the roof of the buildings such as tiled/ sloped terrace building
and fiat/ RCC (Reinforced concrete cement) roof shall be collected using
appropriate size of gutters or PVC (Poly vinyl chloride) pipes and stored
either in a collection tank or storage tank of appropriate size placed over
the ground or underground through a filter unit. A filter chamber of
appropriate size shall be provided to filter the dust particles usually
present in the roof-tops of the buildings. Suitable filter material such as
well burnt broken bricks or coarse sand or small sized pebbles or blue metal
gravels (baby chips) shall be used in the filter chamber. The surplus water
available after filling the storage tank/ sump shall be diverted to the nearby
open well or bore well or-recharge pits. Proper disinfection shall be made
while storing the water for long use.Recharging the open well/ bore well. -
The rain water collected from the roof tops of both tiled/ sloped roof and
flat/ RCC (Reinforced concrete cement) roofs using gutters or PVC (Poly vinyl
chloride) pipes shall be diverted to the open well or bore well through a
filter chamber of appropriate size. Regular disinfection methods are to be
practised while harvesting rain water in open wells.(ii)Harvesting Surface
run-off water. - Apart from the roof-top rain water harvesting, the rain water
available in the open spaces around the buildings and in places/ buildings
where a sump or open well or bore well is not available the rain water shall
be harvested and recharged into the ground using appropriate recharge
structure based on the nature of the sub-soil conditions as mentioned
below:(a)Sandy sub-soil area. - In places where the sub-soil formation is
sandy in nature the fate of percolation of rain water will be more and
therefore provision of shallow recharge structmes such as percolation/
recharge pits, recharge trenches or shallow recharge wells are considered to
be suitable for rain water harvesting.(i)Percolation/ recharge pits shall be
provided around the buildings with minimum size of 1 metre x 1 metre x 1 metre
and filled with permeable medium such as broken bricks or pebbles or coarse
sand, etc. The number of these pits shall vary based on the extent of the area
of water collection. On an average one unit is required for an area of 250
square feet. These structures are suitable for individual houses in
general.(ii)Recharge trenches (longitudinal in shape) similar to the
percolation/ recharge pits are suitable for apartment/ commercial complexes,
where the availability of rain water is more. Two or three of these structures
shall be provided on the basis of the extent of the building.(iii)Shallow
recharge wells are similar to the common open wells except in size and depth.
Normally, for an individual house with 1000 square feet area, a recharge well
with 1.0 metre dia and 3.0 metre dia depth is required. For apartments/
commercial complexes two or three recharge wells are required based on the
extent of the building. Either brick wall or RCC (Reinforced concrete cement)
concrete rings shall be used for construction The top of the recharge well
should be covered with RCC (Reinforced concrete cement) slab. Recharge wells
are to be de-silted once in a year or two for its effective recharge. Rain
water collected from the rooftops of buildings and open surfaces shall be
diverted to these recharge structures through PVC (Poly vinyl chloride) pipe
line or by providing channels on the ground,. These structures shall be
maintained properly for effective recharge.(b)Clay sub-soil areas. - In places
where the sub-soil formation is clay in nature the rate of percolation of rain
water will be very slow and therefore provision of percolation/ recharge pit
with bore, recharge trench with bore or deep recharge well are considered to
be suitable for rain water harvesting.(i)Percolation/ recharge pit with bore.
- It is similar to the one mentioned in sandy sub-soil formation except a bore
hole at the bottom of the percolation pit which is also filled with the same
permeable materials. A minimum size of 4!/ 2 inch diameter and 15 feet depth
is normally required for one pit. However, if sand formation is available
below the top clay layer, the bore has to be drilled preferably up to the sand
formation. The number of these pits shall vary based on the extent of the area
of water collection. On an average one unit is required for an area of 250
square feet. These structures are suitable for individual houses in
general.(ii)Recharge trench with bore. - These are similar to the recharge
pits but are longitudinal in shape and bore holes shall be provided at the
bottom for every 10-15 feet of the trench. The trench and bore hole shall be
filled with the same permeable materials such as broken bricks or pebbles or
coarse sand, etc. These structures are suitable for apartments/ commercial
complexes where the availability of rain water is more.(iii)Deep/ large
recharge wells. - These are similar to the common open wells except in size
and depth and are considered to be suitable for apartment/ commercial
complexes. In general, a recharge well with 1.5 metre dia and 5.0 metre depth
is required for a small apartment. Either brick wall or RCC (Reinforced
concrete cement) concrete rings shall be used for construction. The top of the
recharge well should be covered with RCC (Reinforced concrete cement) slab.
The recharge wells shall be de-silted once in a year or two for effective
recharge. Rain water collected from the rooftops of the buildings and open
surfaces shall be diverted to these recharge structures through PVC (Poly
vinyl chloride) pipe line or by providing channels on the ground. These
structures should be maintained properly for effective recharge.(c)Hard-rock
areas (weathered). - In hard lock areas also, the rate of percolation of rain
wafer will be slow. Therefore, in order to collect and recharge rain water it
would be preferable to construct recharge wells of appropriate size.
Percolation pits with deep bore holes up to a depth of 50-100 feet shall be
provided. In this case, the bore hole is to be constructed with slotted pipe
for effective recharge. In general, construction of separate recharge
structures shall be provided in the absence of existing infrastructures such
as storage tank/ sump, open well or bore well in order to reduce the cost
involved.(3)The owner or occupier of any building in existence on the 21st day
of November, 2002-(a)provide roof top rain water harvesting structure wherever
a storage tank or an open well or a bore well is available in the building
irrespective of the nature of sub-soil conditions;(b)surface run-off water
from the open spaces around the buildings, parks and playgrounds shall be
harvested using appropriate recharge structures based on the nature of the
sub-soil conditions.(i)Roof-top rain water harvesting - (a) Direct collection.
- Rain water from the roof of the buildings such as tiled/ sloped terrace
building and flat/ RCC (Reinforced concrete cement) roof shall be collected
using appropriate size of gutters or PVC (Poly vinyl chloride) pipes and
stored either in a collection tank or storage tank of appropriate size placed
over the ground or underground through a filter unit. A filter chamber of
appropriate size shall be provided to filter the dust particles usually
present in the roof-tops of the buildings. Suitable filter material such as
well-burnt broken bricks or coarse sand or small sized pebbles or blue metal
gravels (baby chips) shall be used in the filter chamber. The surplus water
available after filling the storage tank/ sump shall be diverted to the nearby
open well or bore well or recharge pits. Proper disinfection shall be made
while storing the water for long use.(b)Recharging the open well/ bore well. -
The rain water collected from the rooftops of both tiled/ sloped roof and
flat/ RCC (Reinforced concrete cement) roofs using gutters or PVC (Poly vinyl
chloride) pipes shall be diverted to the open well or bore well through a
filter chamber of appropriate size. Regular disinfection methods are to be
practised while harvesting rain water in open wells.(ii)Harvesting surface
run-off water. - Apart from the roof-top rain water harvesting, the rain water
available in the open spaces around the buildings and in places/ buildings
where a sump or open well or bore well is not available the rain water shall
be harvested and recharged into the ground using appropriate recharge
structures based on the nature of the sub-soil conditions as mentioned
below:(a)Sandy sub-soil areas. - In places where the sub-soil formation is
sandy in nature the rate of percolation of rain water will be more and
therefore provision of shallow recharge structures such as percolation/
recharge pits, recharge trenches or shallow recharge wells are considered to
be suitable for rain water harvesting.(i)Percolation/ recharge pits shall be
provided around the buildings with minimum size of 1 metre x 1 metre x 1 metre
and filled with permeehale medium such as broken bricks or pebbles or coarse
sand, etc. The number of these pits shall vary based on the extent of the area
of water collection. On an average one unit is required for an area of 250
square feet. These structures are suitable for individual houses in
general.(ii)Recharge trenches (longitudinal in shape) similar to the
percolation/ recharge pits are suitable for apartment/ commercial complexes,
where the availability of rain water is more. Two or three of these structures
shall be provided on the basis of the extent of the building.(iii)Shallow
recharge wells are similar to the common open wells except in size and depth.
Normally, for an individual house with 1000 square feet area, a recharge well
with 1.0 metre dia and 3.0 metre dia depth is required. For apartments/
commercial complexes two or three recharge wells are required based on the
extent of the building. Either brick wall or RCC (Reinforced concrete cement)
concrete rings shall be used for construction. The top of the recharge well
should be covered with RCC (Reinforced concrete cement) slab. Recharge wells
are to be de-silted once in a year or two for its effective recharge. Rain
water collected from the roof tops of buildings and open surfaces shall be
diverted to these recharge structures through PVC (Poly vinyl chloride) pipe
line or by providing channels on the ground. These structures shall be
maintained properly for effective recharge.(b)Clay sub-soil areas. - In places
where the sub-soil formation is clay in nature the rate of percolation of rain
water will be very slow and therefore provision of percolation/ recharge pit
with bore, recharge trench with bore or deep recharge well are considered to
be suitable for rain water harvesting.(i)Percolation/ recharge pit with bore.
- It is similar to the one mentioned in sandy sub-soil formation except a bore
hole at the bottom of the percolation pit which is also filled with the same
permeable materials. A minimum size of 4= inch diametre and 15 feet depth is
normally required for one pit. However, if sand formation is available below
the top clay layer, the bore has to be drilled preferably up to the sand
formation. The number of these pits shall vary based on the extent of the area
of water collection. On an average one unit is required for an area of 250
square feet. These structures are suitable for individual houses in
general.(ii)Recharge Trench with Bore. - These are similar to the recharge
pits but are longitudinal in shape and bore holes shall be provided at the
bottom for every 10-15 feet of the trench. The trench and bore hole shall be
filled with the same permeable materials such as broken bricks or pebbles or
coarse sand, etc. These structures are suitable for apartments/ commercial
complexes where the availability of rain water is more,(iii)Deep/ large
recharge wells. - These are similar to the common open wells except in size
and depth and are considered to be suitable for apartment/ commercial
complexes. In general, a recharge well with 1.5 metre dia and 5.0 metre depth
is required for a small apartment. Either brick wall or RCC (Reinforced
concrete cement) concrete rings shall be used for construction. The top of the
recharge well should be covered with RCC (Reinforced concrete cement) slab.
The recharge well shall be de-silted once in a year or two for effective
recharge. Rain water collected from the rooftops of the buildings and open
surfaces shall be diverted to these recharge structures through PVC (Poly
vinyl chloride) pipe line or by providing channels on the ground. These
structures should be maintained properly for effective recharge,(c)Hard rock
areas (Weathered). - In hard rock areas also, the fate of percolation of rain
water will be slow Therefore, in order to collect and recharge the rain water
it would be preferable to construct recharge wells of appropriate size.
Percolation pit with deep bore holes up to a depth of 50-100 feet shall be
provided. In this case, the bore hole is to be constructed with slotted pipe
for effective recharge.In general, construction of separate recharge
structures shall be provided in the absence of existing infrastructure such as
storage tank/ sump, open well or bore well in order to reduce the cost
involved.]

### 6. Appellate authority.

\- The appellate authority shall be,-(a)in respect of the orders made by the
competent authorities in relation to the villages in the [Chengalpattu
district] [Now, the District Revenue Officers of the Kancheepuram and
Thiruvallur districts.], the District Revenue Officer, Chengalpattu; and(b)in
respect of the orders made by the Board, the Government.

### 7. Appeal.

\- Every appeal under section 9 of the Act shall be made within a period of
fifteen days from the date of receipt of the orders of the competent
authority. The appeal shall be made in writing on plain paper and shall be
affixed with a court fee stamp for the value of rupees one only:Provided that
the appellate authority may in its discretion allow further time not exceeding
fifteen days, if it is satisfied that the applicant had sufficient cause tor
not preferring the appeal in time.Form-I[See rule 3(1)]Application for sinking
well in the scheduled area under section 3(2) of the [Chennai] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alternation of Name) Act, 1996
(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] metropolitan area groundwater (regulation) act,
1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1987)

1. | (i) | Name of applicant |   
---|---|---|---  
| (ii) | Age in years |   
| (iii) | Father's/ Husband's name |   
| (iv) | Full address |   
2. |  Name of owner of land on which well is proposedto be sunk, if the applicant himself is not the owner of the landAddress  
3. | Place of sinking well T.S./ R.S. No.  
| Viliage/ Town/ Division Number and name |   
| Taluk |   
| District |   
4. | Purpose for which well is to be sunk. |  Domestic/ Hotel/ Industry/ Construction/Irrigation/ Agriculture/ Horticulture/ Commercial/ other use.  
5. | Type of well proposed | Dug-well/ Dug-cum-Bore well/ Bore-well/ Open-Well/ Tube-well.  
6. | Details of the proposed well |   
| (a) | Diameter of well | .............................. m  
| (b) | Depth of well | .............................. m  
|  (in the case of dug-cum-bore-well, give details of both theopen and bore
well).  
7. | Whether the consent of the owner of the land is enclosed.  
  
DeclarationI, ................................. hereby declare that the above
particulars are true to the best of my knowledge.Signature of the applicant
with date.Note. - (1) Incomplete applications and applications not received in
the prescribed form are liable to be summarily rejected.(2)Court-fee stamp for
the value of Rs. 1 shall be affixed on each application.(3)The consent of the
owner of the land (if such owner is not the applicant) should invariably
accompany the application.(4)Permit will be issued, if approved by the
competent authority within a period of 90 days from the date of receipt of the
application, on payment of the prescribed fee.Form - II[See rule
4(1)]Application for Extraction or use of Groundwater Under Section 5(2)(i) of
the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alternation of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Metropolitan
Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1987)

1. | (i) | Name of applicant |   
---|---|---|---  
| (ii) | Age in years |   
| (iii) | Father's/ Husband's name |   
| (iv) | Full address New/ Renewal |   
2. | Nature of Licences |   
3. | If renewal, reference to the existing licence |   
4. |  Name of owner of land from where water isproposed to be extracted or used if the applicant himself is notthe owner. Address |   
5. | Place of Groundwater extraction. |   
|  |  | T.S.  
|  |  | R.S. No.  
| Village/ Town/ Division |   
| Number and name |   
| Taluk |   
| District |   
6. |  Purpose for which water is to be extracted orused. |  Industry/ Construction/ Irrigation/Agriculture/ Horticulture/ Commercial/ other use.  
7. | Status of well Existing or proposed.  
8. |  If an existing well reference to entry inRegister of wells.  
9. | Details of well |   
| (a) | Diameter of well | .................  
| (b) | Depth of well | .................  
|  (in the case of dug-cum-bore-well, give detailsof both the open and bore-
well).  
10. | Type of well |  Dug-well/ Dug-cum-bore-well/ Bore-Well/Open-well/ Tube-Well.  
11. | Quantity proposed to be extracted or used | ........ Litre per day.  
12. | Details of pump proposed, |   
| (a) | Type of pump |  Centrifugal/ turbine/ submersible/ Jet/compressor/ others.  
| (b) | Horse power |   
13. | Number of hours of pumping proposed each day. |   
14. |  Whether the consent of the owner of the sourceof water is enclosed, if the applicant himself is not the ownerof the source |   
  
DeclarationI,..................hereby declare that the above particulars are
trueto the best of my knowledge.Signature of the applicant with date.Note. -
(1) Incomplete applications and applications not received in the prescribed
form are liable to be summarily rejected.(2)Court-fee stamp for the value of
Rs. 1 shall be affixed on each application.(3)The consent of the owner of the
source of water (if such owner is not the applicant) should invariably
accompany the application.(4)Licence will be issued, if approved by the
competent authority within a period of 90 days from the date of receipt of the
application, on payment of the prescribed fee.(5)Separate licence should be
obtained for each well.Form-III[See rule 4(1)]Application for Transportation
of Groundwater under section 5(2)(ii) of the [Chennai] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alternation of Name) Act, (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).] Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu
Act 27 of 1987)

1. | (i) | Name of applicant | .................................................  
---|---|---|---  
| (ii) | Age in years | .................................................  
| (iii) | Father's/ Husband's name | .................................................  
| (iv) | Full address | .................................................  
2. | Nature of Licence New/ Renewal | .................................................  
3. | If renewal, reference to existing licence | .................................................  
4. |  Name of owner of land from where water isproposed to be transported, if the applicant himself is not theowner | .................................................  
| Address | .................................................  
5. | Place of Groundwater extraction |   
| R.S No. | .................................................  
| T.S. No. | .................................................  
| Village/ town/ Corporation/ Division | .................................................  
| Taluk | .................................................  
| District | .................................................  
6. |  Whether licence has been obtained for extractionor use of groundwater from the well? If so, give detail | .................................................  
7. | Purpose for which water is to be transported. |  Domestic/ Hotel/ Industry/ Construction/Irrigation/ Agriculture/ Horticulture Commercial/ other use.  
8. | Details of well. |   
| (a) | Diameter of well (in metres) | .................................................  
| (b) | Depth of well (in metres) | .................................................  
|  (in the case of dug-cum-borewell, give detailsof both the open and bore-
well).  
9. | Type of well |  Dug-well/ Dug Aim-Bore-well/ Bore-well/Open-well/ Tube-well.  
10. |  Quantity proposed to be transported (litres perday) |   
11. | Mode of transport | Lorry/ Trailer/ Any other goods vehicle.  
12. |  Whether the consent of the owner of the sourceof water is enclosed.  
13. | Particulars of vehicle used for transport:-  
| (a) | Registration/ Licence No |   
| (b) | Capacity of the tanker |   
| (c) | Number of trips proposed each day |   
  
DeclarationI,..........................hereby declare that the above
particulars are true to the best of my knowledge.Signature of the applicant
with date.Note. - (1) incomplete applications and applications not received in
the prescribed form are liable to be summarily rejected.(2)Court-fee stamp for
the value of Rs. 1 shall be affixed on each application.(3)The consent of the
owner of the source of water (if such owner is not the applicant) should
invariably accompany the application.(4)Licence will be issued, if approved by
the competent authority within a period of 90 days from the date of receipt of
the application, on payment of the prescribed fee.(5)Separate licence should
be obtained for each vehicle.Form-IV[See Rule 3(4)]Permit for Sinking Well
under section 3(4)(a) of the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the City of Madras (Alternation of Name) Act, (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1987)Thiru/ Thirumathi/ Selvi ......................... Son/ wife/ daughter of
resident of .................... is hereby granted permit for sinking well in
Plot/ R.S. No. .......... in village ...... taluk .............. district
.......... for the purpose of domestic/ agriculture/ Hotel/ Industry/
Construction/ Commercial/ Irrigation/ Horticulture/ other use.This permit also
is granted for sinking a well conforming to the specifications given below:-

(1) | Type of well |  Dug-well/ Dug-cum-bore-well/ Bore-well/Open-well/ Tube-well.  
---|---|---  
(2) | Diameter | ......................metres.  
(3) | Depth | .........................metres.  
  
This permit is subject to the following conditions:-(i)The permit holder
should not deviate in any way from the specifications regarding well mentioned
above.(ii)The competent authority or any person duly authorised by it shall
have the right to enter and inspect the place with such assistance as may be
necessary to satisfy itself or himself whether the conditions and restrictions
specified in this permit are being complied with.(iii)Any other condition to
be specified.Place:Date:Signature of the Competent Authority.Form-V[See Rule
4(6)]Licence No. .........Licence for Extraction or use of Ground Water for
purpose other than Domestic purposes under section 5(4)(A)(I) of the [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alternation of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Metropolitan Area Groundwater
(Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1987)Thiru/ Thirumathi/
Selvi.........................Son/ wife/ daughter of .............. resident
of is hereby granted new Renewal Licence for extraction or use of groundwater
from a well....... India and........m in depth and existing in plot/ R.S. No
in village taluk district for the purpose of Agriculture/ Industry/
Construction/ Commercial/ Irrigation/ Horticulture/ other use.This licence is
granted for a well and pump conforming, to the specifications given below and
is valid for a period of one financial year or part thereof from the date of
issue.

(1) | Type of well |  Dug-well/ Dug-cum-borewell/ Bore-well/Open-well/ Tube-well  
---|---|---  
(2) | Diameter | ............. metres.  
(3) | Depth | ............. metres.  
(4) | Pump |   
| (a) Type of pump |  Centrifugal/ turbine/ submersible/ Jet/compressor/ others.  
| (b) Horse power | ...................  
(5) | Number of hours of pumping | ...................  
  
This licence is subject to the following conditions:-(i)The licence should not
deviate in any way from the specifications regarding well, pump, etc.,
mentioned above.(ii)The drawal of groundwater under this licence shall not
interfere with the normal activities of the locality nor should it cause any
traffic hazard.(iii)The compe tent authority or any person duly authorised by
it shall have the right to enter and inspect the place with such assistance as
may be necessary to satisfy itself or himself whether the conditions and
restrictions specified in the licence are being complied with:(iv)The
competent authority shall have right to restrict the use or withdraw or cancel
the licence giving 15 days notice to the licensee specifying the reasons for
doing so.The licence is also subject to the following
conditions.Place:Date:Signature of the Competent Authority.Form-VI[See Rule
4(7)]Licence for Transportation of Groundwater Under Section 5(4)(A)(II) of
the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alternation of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Metropolitan
Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1987)Licence No.
........Thiru/ Thirumathi/ Selvi ........................ Son/ wife/ daughter
of ............resident of....................is hereby granted New Renewal
Licence for extraction or use of groundwater from plot/ R.S. No.
............in village............taluk district........for the purpose of
Domestic/ Hotel/ Industry/ Construction/ Irrigation/ Commercial/ Agriculture/
Horticulture/ other use by means of lorry, trailer or any other goods
vehicle.(a)Registration/ Licence No. ..............(b)Capacity of the tanker
................(c)Number of trips proposed each day................Total
quantity of water transported should not exceed....litres per day.The licence
is valid for a period of one financial year or part thereof from the date of
issue unless otherwise cancelled earlier.This licence is issued subject to the
following conditions:-(i)The licence should not deviate in any way from the
specifications regarding vehicle licenced to transport, well, pump and the
quantity of water transported per day mentioned above.(ii)The drawal and
transport of groundwater under this licence shall not interfere with the
normal activities of the locality nor should it cause any traffic
hazard.(iii)The competent authority or any person duly authorised by it shall
have the right to enter and inspect the premises/ vehicle with such assistance
as may be necessary to satisfy itself or himself whether the conditions and
restrictions specified in this licence are being complied with.(iv)The licence
should always be kept in the vehicle used for transport should be produced for
verifications by the competent authority or any person duly authorised by
it.(v)The competent authority shall have right to restrict the use or for the
drawal or cancel the licence giving 15 days notice to the licensee specifying
the reasons for doing so.Additional conditions.Place:Date:Signature of the
Competent Authority.Form-VII[See rule 3(5)]Refusal to grant permit for sinking
well under section 3(4)(b) of the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the City of Madras (Alternation of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).] metropolitan area groundwater (regulation) act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act
27 of 1987)

1\. Application No. |   
---|---  
2\. Date of receipt of the application |   
3\. Name of applicant |   
4\. Village and Survey No. |   
5\. Reason for refusal to grant permit - |   
(a) Quantitycriteria |   
(b) Distancecriteria |   
(c) Densitycriteria |   
(d) Qualityof water |   
(e) AnyOther reason |   
  
Place:Date:Competent AuthorityForm-VIII[See rule 4(2)]Refusal to grant licence
for extraction or use of groundwater under section 5(4) (b) of the [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alternation of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Metropolitan Area Groundwater
(Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1987)

1\. Application No. |   
---|---  
2\. Date of receipt of the application |   
3\. Name of applicant |   
4\. Village and Survey No. |   
5\. Reason for refusal - |   
(a) Quantitycriteria |   
(b) Distancecriteria |   
(c) Densitycriteria |   
(d) Qualityof water |   
(e) AnyOther reason |   
  
Place:Date:Competent AuthorityForm-IX[See rule 4(9)]Refusal to grant licence
for transport of groundwater under section 5(4)(b) of the [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alternation of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Metropolitan Area Groundwater
(Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1987)

1\. Application No |   
---|---  
2\. Date of receipt of the application |   
3\. Name of applicant |   
4\. Village and Survey No. |   
5\. Reason for refusal to transport - |   
(a)Overdrawal of aquifer |   
(b) Qualityof water |   
(c)Transport hazard |   
(d) AnyOther reason |   
  
Place:Date:Competent AuthorityForm-X[See rule 5(2)]Register of WellsUnder
Section 4 of the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alternation of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987.

1. | Location of | District:  
---|---|---  
|  | Taluk:  
|  | Village:  
|  | Survey No.:  
|  | R.S. No.:  
2. | (a) Type of well |  Dug-well/ Dug-cum-Bore-well/ Bore-well/Open-well/ Tube-Well.  
|  | (b) Number of wells  
3. | Details of well. | (a) Diameter  
|  | (b) Depth in m  
|  |  (in the case of dug-cum bore-well give detailsof both the open and bore-well).  
4. | Year of construction. | ...................  
5. | Name of owner and address | ...................  
6. | Name of occupant and address | ...................  
7. | The device used for lifting the groundwater | ...................  
8. | Details of power supply | ...................  
|  |  (a) Type of pump/ Centrifugal/ turbine/submersible/ Jet/ compressor/ others.  
|  | (b) Horse power : ...................  
|  | (c) Pump capacity : ...................  
|  | 1 mm metres-Head  
|  |  (d) E.B. Power supply connection number :...................  
9. | Number of hours of pumping per day. |   
10. | The date from the groundwater is being used. |   
11. | The quantity of groundwater utilised. |   
12. |  Extent and location of land irrigated and itssurvey number |   
13. | Type of crop | Wet/ Dry/ Garden.  
14. |  Purpose or purposes for which the groundwater isbeing used. |   
  
Signature of Owner/ Occupant.Form-XI[See rule 5 (4) (a)]Application for
Inclusion or Modification of Particulars in the Register of Wells under
section 4(4) (a) of the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
City of Madras (Alternation of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1987)

1. | Nature of application | Fresh entry in Register  
---|---|---  
|  |  | Modifications of entry in Register  
2. | (i) | Name of the applicant | ...................  
| (ii) | Age | ...................  
| (iii) | Father's/ Husband's Name | .....................  
| (iv) | Address | ...................  
3. | Type of well |  Dug-well/ Dug-cum-Bore-well/ Bore-Well/Open-well/ Tube-well.  
4. | Details of-well | (a) Diameter...............m  
|  |  | (b) Depth in..........  
|  |  |  (in the case of dug-cum bore-well give detailsof both the open and bore-well).  
5. | Year of construction | ............  
6. | Name of owner and address | ..................  
7. | Name of occupant and address | ...............  
8. | The device used for lifting water | ..........  
9. | Details of power supply- |   
|  |  |  (a) Type of pump/ Centrifugal/ turbine/submersible/ Jet/ compressor/ others.........  
|  |  | (b) Horse power: .......  
|  |  (c) E.B. Power supply connection number..........  
10. | No. of hours of pumping per day. |   
11. | The date from the ground-water is being used. |   
12. | The quantity of groundwater utilised. |   
13. |  Extent and location of land irrigated and itssurvey number |   
14. | Type of crop Wet/ Dry/ Garden. |   
15. |  Purpose or purposes for which the groundwater isbeing used. | Yes/ No.  
  
Signature of Owner/ Occupant.Form-XII[See rule 5 (5)]Application form to
furnish an extract relating to land under section 4 (5) of the [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alternation of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Metropolitan Area Groundwater
(Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1987).

### 1\. (i) Name of applicant

(ii)Age in years(iii)Father's/ Husband's name(iv)Full address

### 2\. Whether the applicant is the owner or the occupier of land where the
well is located.

### 3\. Details of the location of well-

DistrictTalukVillageS. No.R.S. No.

### 4\. The reference number in the Register of wells, if known.

Signature of the Applicant with date.

