## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTY-SIXTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 2002

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTY-SIXTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 2002

## Act 086 of 2002

  * Published in Gazette of India on 16 November 2001 
  * Commenced on 12 December 2002 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 November 2001.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India. .BE it enacted by
Parliament in the Fifty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Eighty-sixth Amendment) Act, 2002.
(2) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Insertion of new article 21A.-

After article 21 of the Constitution, the following article shall be inserted,
namely:-Right to education.-"21A. The State shall provide free and compulsory
education to all children of the age of six to fourteen years in such manner
as the State may, by law, determine.".

### 3. Substitution of new article for article 45.-

For article 45 of the Constitution,the following article shall be substituted,
namely:- .Provision for early childhood care and education to children below
the age of six years."45. The State shall endeavour to provide early childhood
care and education for all children until they complete the age of six
years.".

### 4. Amendment of article 51A.-

In article 51A of the Constitution, after clause (J), the following clause
shall be added, namely:-"(k) who is a parent or guardian to provide
opportunities for education to his child or, as the case may be, ward between
the age of six and fourteen years.".[The Constitution (Eighty-sixth Amendment)
Act, 2002, provides certain important provisions to strengthen the educational
system of the country. It ensures that children under the age of 14 have the
right to free formal education and mandates the state to provide suitable
schooling and educational opportunities for them. This amendment is a
significant step toward ensuring that all children from the age of six to
fourteen receive a free primary education, while also protecting their rights
to attain quality education in a safe environment.Also Refer]

