## Union of India - Act

## The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019

## Act 47 of 2019

  * Published on 12 December 2019 
  * Commenced on 12 December 2019 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 December 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Citizenship Act, 1955.Be it enacted by Parliament
in the Seventieth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019.(2)It shall
come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Amendment of section 2.

\- In the Citizenship Act, 1955 (57 of 1955) (hereinafter referred to as the
principal Act), in section 2, in sub-section (1), in clause (b), the following
proviso shall be inserted, namely:-"Provided that any person belonging to
Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi or Christian community from Afghanistan,
Bangladesh or Pakistan, who entered into India on or before the 31st day of
December, 2014 and who has been exempted by the Central Government by or under
clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Passport (Entry into India)
Act, 1920 (34 of 1920) or from the application of the provisions of the
Foreigners Act, 1946 (31 of 1946) or any rule or order made thereunder, shall
not be treated as illegal migrant for the purposes of this Act;".

### 3. Insertion of new section 6B.

\- After section 6A of the principal Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:-'6B. Special provisions as to citizenship of person covered
by proviso to clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 2. - (1) The Central
Government or an authority specified by it in this behalf may, subject to such
conditions, restrictions and manner as may be prescribed, on an application
made in this behalf, grant a certificate of registration or certificate of
naturalisation to a person referred to in the proviso to clause (b) of sub-
section (1) of section 2.(2)Subject to fulfilment of the conditions specified
in section 5 or the qualifications for naturalisation under the provisions of
the Third Schedule, a person granted the certificate of registration or
certificate of naturalisation under sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be a
citizen of India from the date of his entry into India.(3)On and from the date
of commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, any proceeding
pending against a person under this section in respect of illegal migration or
citizenship shall stand abated on conferment of citizenship to him:Provided
that such person shall not be disqualified for making application for
citizenship under this section on the ground that the proceeding is pending
against him and the Central Government or authority specified by it in this
behalf shall not reject his application on that ground if he is otherwise
found qualified for grant of citizenship under this section:Provided further
that the person who makes the application for citizenship under this section
shall not be deprived of his rights and privileges to which he was entitled on
the date of receipt of his application on the ground of making such
application.(4)Nothing in this section shall apply to tribal area of Assam,
Meghalaya, Mizoram or Tripura as included in the Sixth Schedule to the
Constitution and the area covered under "The Inner Line" notified under the
Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation, 1873, (Reg. 5 of 1873.)'.

### 4. Amendment of section 7D.

\- In section 7D of the principal Act,-(i)after clause (d), the following
clause shall be inserted, namely:-"(da) the Overseas Citizen of India
Cardholder has violated any of the provisions of this Act or provisions of any
other law for time being in force as may be specified by the Central
Government in the notification published in the Official Gazette;
or";(ii)after clause (f), the following proviso shall be inserted,
namely:-"Provided that no order under this section shall be passed unless the
Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder has been given a reasonable opportunity
of being heard.".

### 5. Amendment of section 18.

\- In section 18 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), after clause (ee),
the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-"(eei) the conditions,
restrictions and manner for granting certificate of registration or
certificate of naturalisation under sub-section (1) of section 6B;".

### 6. Amendment of Third Schedule.

\- In the Third Schedule to the principal Act, in clause (d), the following
proviso shall be inserted, namely:-'Provided that for the person belonging to
Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi or Christian community in Afghanistan,
Bangladesh or Pakistan, the aggregate period of residence or service of
Government in India as required under this clause shall be read as "not less
than five years" in place of "not less than eleven years".'.

