## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-NINTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1988

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-NINTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1988

## Act 059 of 1988

  * Published in Gazette of India on 11 March 1988 
  * Commenced on 30 March 1988 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 March 1988.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Fifty-ninth
Amendment) Bill, 1988 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Fifty-ninth
Amendment) Act, 1988_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** Under clause (5)
of article 356 of the Constitution, a resolution approving the continuance in
force of a Presidential Proclamation issued under clause (1) of that article
beyond a period of one year cannot be passed by either House of Parliament
unless the two conditions specified in that clause are met. The one-year
period in the case of the Proclamation made with respect to the State of
Punjab is due to expire on the 10th May, 1988. In view of the continued
disturbed situation in Punjab, escalation in the activities of terrorists and
anti-national forces resulting in the death of innocent men, women and
children and of the fact that the Punjab State Legislative Assembly had to be
dissolved because of the virtual impossibility of forming a popular Government
in the prevailing circumstances, the continuance in force of the said
Proclamation beyond the period of one year may be necessary in Punjab. Article
356(5) of the Constitution is, therefore, proposed to be amended so as to
facilitate the extension of the said Proclamation, if necessary up to a period
of three years as permissible under clause (4) of that article.The continuance
of the Proclamation after the 10th May, 1988 may not, it is felt, be effective
as terrorist activities had been on the increase. It may be necessary to
invoke the provisions of article 352 of the Constitution to declare a partial
Emergence either in the whole of the State of Punjab or in particular
districts of that State. If such a situation arises, the expression "armed
rebellion" included in that article as one of the grounds for declaration of
Emergency (which alone could be resorted to in the case of an Internal
Emergency) may not be appropriate in the prevailing situation in Punjab to
declare a Proclamation in that State. It is, therefor, felt that article 352
may be suitably amended in its application to the State of Punjab to include
"internal disturbance" as one of the grounds that the integrity of India is
threatened by internal disturbance in any part of the territory of India so as
to facilitate the taking of action under that article if it becomes necessary
at a future date. The expression "internal disturbance" was one of the grounds
included in that article from the commencement of the Constitution till it was
amended by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978.
Consequentially, articles 358 and 359 are also proposed to be amended so as to
provide for the automatic suspension of article 19 of the Constitution and the
issuing of an order by the President suspending the operation of any of the
other provisions contained in Part III (except article 20) under article 359,
if and when a Proclamation of Emergency on the ground of internal disturbance
is issued in relation to the whole or any part of the State of Punjab.As the
proposed amendments are only for the purpose of curbing the terrorist
activities in the State of Punjab more effectively, the powers that are
proposed to be conferred by these amendments would not be resorted to for any
period beyond what is absolutely necessary for achieving the aforesaid object.
Accordingly, the amendments proposed in articles 352, 358 and 359 have been
made to be operative only for a period of two years from the commencement of
this Amendment.The Bill seeks to achieve the aforesaid objects.An Act further
to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-
ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-This Act may be called the Constitution (Fifty-ninth
Amendment) Act, 1988.

### 2. Amendment of article 356.-In article 356 of the Constitution, in clause
(5), for the proviso, the following proviso shall be substituted, namely:-

"Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to the Proclamation issued
under clause (1) on the 11th day of May, 1987 with respect to the State of
Punjab.".

### 3. Insertion of new article 359A.-

(1)After article 359 of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:-`359A. Application of this Part to the State of Punjab.-
Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, this Part shall, in relation to
the State of Punjab, be subject to the following modifications, namely:-(a)in
article 352,-(i)in clause (1),-(A)for the opening portion, the following shall
be substituted, namely:-"If the President is satisfied that a grave emergency
exists whereby-(a)the security of India or of any part of the territory
thereof is threatened, whether by war or external aggression or armed
rebellion; or(b)the integrity of India is threatened by internal disturbance
in the whole or any part of the territory of Punjab,he may, by Proclamation,
make a declaration to that effect in respect of the whole of Punjab or of such
part of the territory thereof as may be specified in the Proclamation.";(B)in
the Explanation,-(1)after the words "armed rebellion", the words ", or that
the integrity of India is threatened by internal disturbance in the whole or
any part of the territory of Punjab," shall be inserted;(2)after the words "or
rebellion", the words "or disturbance" shall be inserted;(ii)in clause (9),
after the words "armed rebellion", at both the places where they occur, the
words "or internal disturbance" shall be inserted;(b)in article 358, in clause
(1), after the words "or by external aggression", the words "or by armed
rebellion, or that the integrity of India is threatened by internal
disturbance in the whole or any part of the territory of Punjab," shall be
inserted;(c)in article 359, for the words and figures "articles 20 and 21", at
both the places where they occur, the word and figures "article 20" shall be
substituted.'.(2)The amendment made to the Constitution by sub-section (1)
shall cease to operate on the expiry of a period of two years from the
commencement of this Act, except as respects things done or omitted to be done
before such cesser.[The Constitution (Fifty-Ninth Amendment) Act, 1988,
rendered power in the hands of the Central Government to declare an Emergency
in the state of Punjab. Under this act, Article 356 of the Indian Constitution
was amended to allow the President’s rule in the state of Punjab for a period
of up to three years as previously, the maximum period for this rule was two
years. It also added Article 359A to the Indian Constitution.Also Refer]

