## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (SEVENTY-SECOND AMENDMENT) ACT, 1992

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (SEVENTY-SECOND AMENDMENT) ACT, 1992

## Act 062 of 1992

  * Published in Gazette of India on 14 December 1992 
  * Commenced on 20 April 1993 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 December 1992.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Seventy-
fifth Amendment) Bill, 1991 (Bill No. 209 of 1991) which was enacted as THE
CONSTITUTION (Seventy-second Amendment) Act, 1992_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND
REASONS** For restoring peace and harmony in the areas of the State of Tripura
where disturbed conditions prevailed, a Memorandum of Settlement was signed by
the Government of India with Tripura National Volunteers on 12-8-1988. The
said Memorandum provides for a greater share of tribals in the governance of
the State. The said Memorandum envisages amendment of the Constitution to
provide that notwithstanding anything contained in the Constitution, the
number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tripura reserved
for Scheduled Tribes shall be, such number of seats as bears to the total
number of seats, a proportion not less than the number, as on the date of
coming into force of the Constitutional amendment, of members belonging to the
Scheduled Tribes in the existing Assembly bears to the total number of seats
in the existing Assembly. It also provides that the amendments shall not
affect any representation in the existing Assembly of the State of Tripura
until its dissolution.

### 2. In order to implement the said Memorandum, action is to be taken to
determine the seats which are to be reserved for Scheduled Tribes in the State
of Tripura. Reservation of seats for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in
the Legislative Assembly of any State is governed by the provisions of article
332 of the Constitution. Having regard to the special circumstances obtaining
in the State of Tripura, it is proposed to further amend article 332 of the
Constitution for making a temporary provision for the determination of the
number of seats reserved for Scheduled Tribes until the re-adjustment of seats
on the basis of the first census after the year 2000 under article 170 of the
Constitution for the State of Tripura.

### 3. The Bill seeks to achieve the aforesaid objects.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of IndiaBE it enacted by Parliament
in the Forty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-(1) This Act may be called the
Constitution (Seventy-second Amendment) Act, 1992.

(2)It shall come into force on such date_679 as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2\. Amendment of article 332.- (I) In article 332 of the Constitution,
after clause (3A), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-

"(3B) Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (3), until the re-
adjustment, under article 170, takes effect on the basis of the first census
after the year 2000, of the number of seats in the Legis-lative Assembly of
the State of Tripura, the seats which shall be reserved for the Scheduled
Tribes in the Legislative Assembly shall be, such number of seats as bears to
the total number of seats, a proportion not less than the number, as on the
date of coming into force of THE CONSTITUTION (Seventy-second Amendment) Act,
1992, of members belonging to the Scheduled Tribes in the Legislative Assembly
in existence on the said date bears to the total number of seats in that
Assembly.".(2)The amendment made to article 332 of the Constitution by sub-
section (I) shall not affect any representation in the Legislative Assembly of
the State of Tripura until the dissolution of the Legislative Assembly
existing at the commencement of this Act.[The Constitution (Seventy-second
Amendment) Act, 1992, provides the reservation of seats to the Scheduled
tribes (ST) in the legislative assembly of the State of Tripura. It is valid
till the date of re-adjustment of seats based on the first census after the
year 2000, as provided for in Article 170 of the Indian Constitution for the
state of Tripura.Also Refer]

