## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-FIFTH AMENDMENT) ACT 1990

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-FIFTH AMENDMENT) ACT 1990

## Act 065 of 1990

  * Published in Gazette of India on 21 May 1990 
  * Commenced on 7 June 1990 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 May 1990.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Sixty-eighth
Amendment) Bill, 1990 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Sixty-fifth
Amendment) Act, 1990_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** Article 338 of the
Constitution provides for a Special Officer for the Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes to investigate all matters relating to the safeguards
provided for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes under the Constitution
and to report to the President on their working. It is felt that a high level
five-member Commission under article 338 will be a more effective arrangement
in respect of the constitutional safeguards for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes than a single Special Officer as at present. It is also felt that it is
necessary to elaborate the functions of the said Commission so as to cover
measures that should be taken by the Union or any State for the effective
implementation of those safeguards and other measures for the protection,
welfare and socio-economic development of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes and to entrust to the Commission such other functions in relation to
the protection, welfare and development and advancement of the Scheduled
Castes and Scheduled Tribes as the President may, subject to any law made by
Parliament, by rule specify. It is also felt that the reports of the said
Commission shall be laid before Parliament and the Legislatures of the States.

### 2. The Bill seeks to achieve the aforesaid objects.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Forty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Constitution (Sixty-fifth Amendment) Act,
1990.(2)It shall come into force on such date_677 as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2\. Amendment of article 338.-

In article 338 of the Constitution,-(a)for the marginal heading, the following
marginal heading shall be substituted, namely:-"National Commission for
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.";(b)for clauses (1) and (2), the
following clauses shall be substituted, namely:-"(1) There shall be a
Commission for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to be known as the
National Commission for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.(2)Subject
to the provisions of any law made in this behalf by Parliament, the Commission
shall consist of a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and five other Members and
the conditions of service and tenure of office of the Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson and other Members so appointed shall be such as the President may
by rule determine.(3)The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and other Members of
the Commission shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand
and seal.(4)The Commission shall have the power to regulate its own
procedure.(5)It shall be the duty of the Commission-(a)to investigate and
monitor all matters relating the safeguards provided for the Scheduled Castes
and Scheduled Tribes under this Constitution or under any other law for the
time being in force or under any order of the Government and to evaluate the
working of such safeguards;(b)to inquire into specific complaints with respect
to the deprivation of rights and safeguards of the Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes;(c)to participate and advise on the planning process of
socio-economic development of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and to
evaluate the progress of their development under the Union and any State;(d)to
present to the President, annually and at such other times as the Commission
may deem fit, reports upon the working of those safeguards;(e)to make in such
reports recommendations as to the measures that should be taken by the Union
or any State for the effective implementation of those safeguards and other
measures for the protection, welfare and socio-economic development of the
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes; and(f)to discharge such other functions
in relation to the protection, welfare and development and advancement of the
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as the President may, subject to the
provisions of any law made by Parliament, by rule specify.(6)The President
shall cause all such reports to be laid before each House of Parliament along
with a memorandum explaining the action taken or proposed to be taken on the
recommendations relating to the Union and the reasons for the non-acceptance,
if any, of any of such recommendations.(7)Where any such report, or any part
thereof, relates to any matter with which any State Government is concerned, a
copy of such report shall be forwarded to the Governor of the State who shall
cause it to be laid before the Legislature of the State along with a
memorandum explaining the action taken or proposed to be taken on the
recommendations relating to the State and the reasons for the non-acceptance,
if any, of any of such recommendations.(8)The Commission shall, while
investigating any matter referred to in sub-clause (a) or inquiring into any
complaint referred to in sub-clause (b) of clause (5), have all the powers of
a civil court trying a suit and in particular in respect of the following
matters, namely:-(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person from
any part of India and examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and
production of any document;(c)receiving evidence on
affidavits;(d)requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any court
or office;(e)issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses and
documents;(f)any other matter which the President may, by rule,
determine.(9)The Union and every State Government shall consult the Commission
on all major policy matters affecting Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes.";(c)existing clause (3) shall be renumbered as clause (10).[The
Constitution (Sixty-fifth Amendment) Act, 1990, changed the Constitution’s
Article 338 to create a National Commission for Scheduled Castes and Tribes.
The Commission shall consist of a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, and five
other Members. The conditions of service and tenure of the Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson, and other Members shall be determined by the President through
rules, subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament that is in the
best interests of the country. The President is required to appoint the
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, and other Members of the National Commission
established under the 65th amendment of the Indian constitution by warrant
duly signed by the President and sealed. A Special Officer for Scheduled
Castes and Scheduled Tribes is established under Original Article 338 of the
Constitution to look into any issues about the constitutional protections for
SCs and STs. This special officer is also mandated to work for the SC’s and
STs’ welfare.Also Refer]

