## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987

## Act 27 of 1987

  * Published on 17 June 1987 
  * Commenced on 17 June 1987 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 June 1987.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987Tamil Nadu Act
27 of 1987Statement of Objects and Reasons - Madras Metropolitan Area Ground-
water (Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1987. - There is often
acute scarcity of water in the Madras city due to consecutive failure of
monsoon rains. The available water in the Poondi, Cholavaram and Red Hills
reservoirs which are situate in the Chengalpattu District and which are the
main sources of supply of water to the Madras city is inadequate to meet the
requirements for drinking and other domestic purposes. The United Nations
Mission which investigated the possibility of supplementing water supply to
the Madras city had recognised that a better economic answer might lie in the
development of groundwater potential and had identified the Minjur,
Duranallur-Panjetti and Tamaraipakkam-Kilanur well fields in the Arni-
Korteliyar basin, the Poondi, Korteliyar Flood Plains and Kannigaiper aquifers
and also Poonamallee-Porur aquifer in Cooum-Adayar basin as having groundwater
for extraction. The United Nations Development Programme which also conducted
pre-investment studies on improving water supply and sewerage system of Madras
City concurred with the estimation of the Geological Survey of India that
groundwater can be extracted from the twenty kilometre stretch of the coastal
zone between South Madras and Kovalam. The Madras Metropolitan Water Supply
and Sewerage Board has reported that all other possibilities of augmenting
water supply to the Madras City have been exhausted and that it is necessary
to regulate and control the extract ion and use of groundwater in any form and
to conserve the same in the City of Madras and certain revenue villages in the
Chengalpattu District and to regulate and control the transport of
groundwater. Further, there is indiscriminate extraction of groundwater, by
industries and by private individuals and no authority has, at present, powers
to regulate and control such extraction of groundwater.2\. The Government
have, after careful examination of all aspects decided that it is necessary in
the public interest to regulate and control the extraction and use of
groundwater in any form and to conserve groundwater in the scheduled area and
also to regulate and control the transport of groundwater in such area.
Further, for the effective implementation of the pro posed Act, it has also
been decided to make necessary provision for regulating the sinking of well in
the scheduled area.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decisions.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated 11th May 1987.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Chennai
Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) (Amendment) Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu
Act 37 of 200. - The Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act,
1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1987) was enacted to regulate and control the
extraction, use or transport of groundwater in the city of Chennai and in
certain villages specified in the Schedule to the said Act. In order to check
the depleting groundwater levels and to improve the groundwater through
recharge and to regulate the extraction of groundwater more effectively, it
has been considered necessary to make Rain Water Harvesting mandatory;
restrict the depth of the wells based on hydrogeological nature, groundwater
potential and yield of the aquifer of the area; register the existing wells
and regulate the use of groundwater in scheduled area; authorise the competent
authority to grant or refuse a licence for extraction of groundwater
considering the availability of groundwater, enhance the quantum of the fine
for violation of the provisions of the Act and for seizure and confiscation of
properties used in the commission of any offence under the said Act.2\. To
achieve the above objects, the Government have decided to amend the said Act
suitably.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in
Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary dated
the 8th May 2002.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Chennai Metropolitan Area
Groundwater (Regulation) (Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 20. - As
per sub-section (2) of section 1 of the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater
(Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1987), the said Act extends to
the whole of the City of Chennai and the revenue villages in the Chengalpattu
District specified in the Schedule to the said Act. Since the erstwhile
Chengalpattu District has been bifurcated into Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur
Districts, the Government have decided to amend the said subsection (2) of
section 1 and the Schedule to the said Act, suitably.2\. The Government have
for administrative convenience also decided to amend section 8 of the said Act
so as to make the Managing Director, Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and
Sewerage Board or any officer of the said Board not below the rank of
Executive Engineer, in the City of Chennai and in relation to the villages
specified in the Schedule to the said Act, the Collector of Kancheepuram or
Tiruvallur District, as the case may be, or any officer not below the rank of
Zonal Deputy Tahsildar authorised by the Government, within whose jurisdiction
the village is situated, as competent authorities for the purpose of the said
Act.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part
IV -Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary dated the 8th
May 2002.Received the assent of the Governor on the June, 1987 and published n
the Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary,
dated 17th June 1987.An Act to regulate and control the extraction, use or
transport of groundwater and to conserve groundwater in certain areas in the
State of Tamil Nadu.Whereas there is often acute scarcity of water due to
consecutive failure of monsoon rains;And Whereas the available water in the
Poondi, Cholavaram and Red Hills reservoirs which are the main sources of
supply of water to the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
City is inadequate to meet the requirements for drinking and other domestic
purposes of the people in the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).] City;And Whereas the United Nations Mission which investigated the
possibility of supplementing water supply to [Chennai] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu
Act 28 of 1996).] has recognised that a better economic answer might lie in
the development of groundwater potential and had identified the Minjur,
Duranallur-Panjetti and Tamaraipakkam-Kilanur Well fields in the Ami-
Korteliyar basin, the Poondi, Korteliyar Flood Plains and Kannigaipper
aquifers and also Poonamalle-Porur aquifer in Cooum-Adayar basin as having
groundwater for extraction;And Whereas the United Nations Development
Programme which conducted pre-investment studies on improving water supply and
sewerage systems of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City
of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
concurred with the estimation of the Geological Survey of India that ground
water can be extracted from the twenty kilometre stretch of the coastal zone
between South [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] and
Kovalam;And Whereas the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board has reported that all other
possibilities of augmenting water supply to the [Chennai] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu
Act 28 of 1996).] City have been exhausted and that it is necessary to
regulate and control the extraction and use of ground water in any form and to
conserve the same in the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).] and the district of [Chengalpattu] [This district was bifurgated into
two districts, namely, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur Districts. Now, there is
no district in the name of Chengalpattu.] and to regulate and control the
transport of groundwater;And Whereas based on the United Nations Development
Programme studies, a scheme of artificial re-charge of the Ami-Korteliyar
basin with excess flood water flowing into the sea is to be taken up by
interlinking Ami and Korteliyar at two or more feasible points and also by
constructing sufficient number of check dams at the appropriate places in the
Korteliyar river course;And Whereas such re-charge will enable optimum
utilisation of groundwater and formation of a hydraulic barrier against sea
water instrusion;And Whereas the Government have, after careful examination of
all aspects, decided that it is necessary in the public interest to regulate
and control the extraction and use of groundwater in any form and to conserve
the ground-water in the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).] and certain revenue villages in the district of [Chengalpattu] [This
district was bifurgated into two districts, namely, Kancheepuram and
Thiruvalhtr Districts. Now, there is no district in the name of Chengalpattu.]
and to regulate and control the transport of groundwater;Be it enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Thirty-eighth Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)'This Act may be called the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).] Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987.(2)It extends to
whole of City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] and the
revenue villages in the [Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts] [Substituted
for the words 'Chengalpattu district' by the Chennai Metropolitan Area
Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 2008).]
specified in the Schedule.(3)Sections 14 and 15 shall come into force on such
date as the Government may, by notification, appoint and the rest of this Act
shall come into force at once.Notes. - This Act came into force on the 17th
June 1987-

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Board" means the
[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration
of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Metropolitan Water Supply and
Sewerage Board established under section 3 of the [Chennai] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1978 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1978);(b)"competent authority" means the authority specified in
section 8;(c)"date of commencement of this Act" means the date of publication
of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette;(d)"domestic purposes" means
the purposes of drinking, cooking, bathing, washing and flushing of toilet,
and the expression "domestic" with all its grammatical and cognate expressions
shall be construed accordingly.Explanation. - In the case of any educational
institution, hospital, nursing home or hostel, "domestic purposes" shall
include the purposes for which water is used for carrying on the work
pertaining to such educational institution, hospital, nursing home or
hostel;(e)"Government" means the State Government;(f)"groundwater" means the
water which exists below the surface of the ground;(g)"scheduled area" means
the whole of the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
and the villages notified in the Schedule;(h)"sink" with all its grammatical
variations and cognate expressions includes digging, drilling, boring or
deepening;(i)"well" means a well sunk for the purpose of searching or
extracting groundwater and includes an open well, dug well, borewell, dug-cum-
bore well, tube well, filter point or any contrivance which when installed,
could be utilised for extracting groundwater.

### 3. Grant of permit to sink well in the scheduled area.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force,
no person shall sink a well in the scheduled area unless he has obtained a
permit in this behalf from the competent authority.(2)Any person desiring to
sink a well in the scheduled area shall apply to the competent authority for
the grant of a permit for this purpose and shall not proceed with any activity
connected with such sinking unless a permit has been granted by the competent
authority.(3)Every application made under sub-section (2) shall be in such
form and contain such particulars as may be prescribed [and shall be
accompanied by such fee not exceeding two hundred and fifty rupees as may be
prescribed] [Added by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation)
Amendment Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1997) with effect from 10th May
1997.].(4)On receipt of an application under sub-section (2), if the competent
authority is satisfied that it shall be in the public interest so to do, it
may-(a)grant, subject to such terms, conditions and restrictions as may be
specified, a permit authorising the sinking of well: [* * *] [The world 'or'
was omitted by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation)
Amendment Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2002) with effect from 21st December
2002.][Provided that the competent authority, while granting the permit may,
after having regard to the hydro-geological conditions, water table
conditions, groundwater potential and yield of the aquifer, restrict the depth
of the well; or] [The proviso was inserted by the Chennai Metropolitan Area
Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2002) with
effect from 21st December 2002.](b)refuse to grant a permit:Provided that no
permit shall be refused unless the applicant has been given an opportunity of
being heard.(5)The decision regarding the grant or refusal to grant the permit
shall be intimated by the competent authority to the applicant within such
period as may be prescribed.(6)In granting or refusing to grant permit under
sub-section (4), the competent authority shall have regard to the following
matters, namely:-(a)the purpose or purposes for which the well is to be
sunk;(b)the existence of other competitive users;(c)the existence of other
wells in the locality;(d)the availability of groundwater;(e)[ the existence of
other sources of water other than wells compatibility;] [Substituted for
clause (e) by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment
Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2002) with effect from 21st November
2002.](f)the compatibility with the existing water resources;(g)the factors
that affect, control or prevent pollution;(h)the possibility for rain water
harvesting and conservation;(i)such other matter as may be prescribed.(7)The
permit shall be in such form as may be prescribed.

### 4. Registration of existing wells and use of groundwater in scheduled
area.

(1)The competent authority shall, within such time as may be prescribed,
prepare and maintain a register showing,-(a)[ the number of wells that were in
existence in the scheduled area immediately before the date of commencement of
this Act;] [Substituted for clauses (a) and (b) by the Chennai Metropolitan
Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2002)
with effect from 21st November 2002.](b)the use of groundwater in the
scheduled area for agricultural purposes immediately before the date of
commencement of this Act;(c)the number of wells from which water is extracted
for domestic purposes;(d)the number of wells from which water is extracted for
industries, automobile service centres, multipurpose halls and other
commercial centres;(e)the number of water sources both public and
private.(2)Every register prepared and maintained under sub-section (1) shall
contain the following particulars, namely:-(i)the type of well and its exact
location;(ii)the device used for lifting the groundwater;(iii)the date from
which the groundwater is being used;(iv)the purpose, or purposes for which the
groundwater is being used;(v)the quantity of groundwater utilised;(vi)the
extent, location and the survey number of the area where ground-water is used
for agricultural purposes;(vii)[ the details of the methods adopted for
groundwater conservation and rain water harvesting; [Substituted for 'item
(vii)' by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment
Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of2002) with effect from 21st November
2002.](viii)the quality of water with scientific evidence;(ix)such other
matter as may be prescribed.](3)The competent authority shall, as soon as may
be after the preparation of the register under sub-section (1) and in any case
not later than such time as may be prescribed, cause to be published in such
manner as may be prescribed,-(i)in the case of revenue village specified in
the Schedule, at convenient places in the revenue village itself; and(ii)in
relation to other areas, at such places as may be prescribed;an extract from
the said register in so far as the entries in the said register relate to the
revenue village or to other area concerned.(4)(a)Where, upon the publication
of the extracts under sub-section (3), any land owner or occupier having an
interest in any land situate in the scheduled area [or any other person]
[Inserted by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment
Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2002) with effect from 21st November 2002.] is
aggrieved by the non-inclusion of the particulars as to the existence of any
well or the use of groundwater for agricultural purposes in relation to any
such land, or by the inclusion of incorrect particulars relating thereto, he
shall make an application to the competent authority within such time and in
such manner as may be prescribed [and shall be accompanied by such fee not
exceeding two hundred and fifty rupees as maybe prescribed] [Inserted by the
Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment Act, 2002 (Tamil
Nadu Act 37 of 2002) with effect from 21st November 2002.] for inclusion, or,
as the case may be, for modification of the particulars relating to such land
as entered in the said register:Provided that the competent authority may, in
its discretion, allow such further time as may be prescribed for making any
such application, if it is satisfied that any [owner, occupier or other
person] [Substituted for the words 'owner or occupier' by the Chennai
Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act
29 of 1997) with effect from 10th May 1997.] referred to in this clause had
sufficient cause for not making the application in time.(b)Upon receipt of an
application under clause (a), the competent authority shall, after making such
enquiry as he may deem fit, [pass an order in writing, within such time as may
be prescribed, including or refusing to include or modifying or refusing to
modify] [Substituted for the words 'include or refuse to include or modify or
refuse to modify' by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation)
Amendment Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1997) with effect from 10th May
1997.] the particulars relating to such land in the register:[Provided that no
order under this clause refusing to include or modify the particulars shall be
passed unless the applicant has been given an opportunity of being heard.]
[Proviso as inserted by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation)
Amendment Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2002) with effect from 21st July
2002.](5)The competent authority shall, upon application made by the owner or
the occupier of the land concerned, furnish an extract relating to his land in
respect of which entries have been made in the said register [on payment of
such fee not exceeding two hundred and fifty rupees as may be prescribed.]
[Substituted for the words 'on payment of such fee as may be prescribed' by
the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment Act, 1997
(Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1997) with effect from 10th May 1997.]

### 5. Licence for extraction, use or transport of groundwater.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force
and subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) to (7), on and from the date
of commencement of this Act,-(a)no person shall extract or use groundwater in
the scheduled area for any purpose other than domestic purposes;(b)no person
shall transport groundwater by means of any lorry, trailer or any other goods
vehicle.(2)If any person desires to,-(i)extract or use groundwater in the
scheduled area for any purpose other than domestic purposes; or(ii)transport
groundwater by means of any lorry, trailer or any other goods vehicle,then, he
shall make an application to the competent authority for the grant of a
licence for such extraction, use or transport.(3)Every application under sub-
section (2) shall be made in such form and in such manner and within such
period and shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed [and shall be
accompanied by such fee not exceeding five thousand rupees as may be
prescribed] [Added by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation)
Amendment Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1997) with effect from 10th May
1997.].(4)On receipt of an-application under sub-section (2), if the competent
authority is satisfied that it shall be in the public interest so to do, it
may-(a)grant, on payment of such fees as may be prescribed and subject to such
terms, conditions and restrictions as may be specified, a licence
authorising-(i)[ the extraction or use of groundwater for any purpose other
than domestic purposes; or] [Substituted for the words 'on payment of such fee
as may be prescribed' by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater
(Regulation) Amendment Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1997) with effect from
10th May 1997.](ii)the transport of groundwater by means of lorry, trailer or
any other goods vehicle; or(b)refuse to grant a licence:Provided that no
person shall be refused a licence unless he has been given an opportunity of
being heard:Provided further that where the competent authority to whom an
application is made under sub-section (2), fails to inform the applicant of
its decision on the application within a period of ninety days from the date
of receipt of such application, the licence shall be deemed to have been
granted to the applicant and such person shall, for the purposes of this Act,
be deemed to be a holder of a licence.(5)In granting or refusing a licence
under this section, the competent authority shall have regard to-(a)the
purpose or purposes for which groundwater is to be used;(b)the existence of
other competitive users;(c)the availability of groundwater and other sources
of water;(d)the effect on other sources of water supply;(e)the compatibility
with the existing water supply system;(f)the availability of factors
controlling or preventing pollution;(g)[ the quality of groundwater; [Clauses
(g) to (k) were added by Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation)
Amendment Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2002) with effect from 21st November
2002.](h)the objection from local residents against commercial
extraction;(i)the availability of factors contributing to or causing
pollution;(j)the measures taken for conservation of groundwater and harvesting
of rain water and their maintenance;(k)such other matter as may be
prescribed.](6)The licence shall be in such form as may be
prescribed.(7)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) to
(6)-(i)every person extracting or using groundwater in the scheduled area for
any purpose other than domestic purposes; or(ii)every per son transporting or
using groundwater by means of any lorry, trailer or any other goods vehicle,
immediately before the date of the commencement of this Act, may continue to
extract, use or transport groundwater for a period not exceeding ninety days
from the said date:Provided that such person has applied for a licence
therefor under this section within a period of fifteen days from the said
date.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, the expression "goods
vehicle" shall have the same meaning assigned to it in section 2(8) of the Now
[Motor Vehicles Act, 1939] [Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of
1988).].

### 5A. [ Prohibition of use of groundwater in certain cases. [Section 5-A was
inserted by Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment Act,
2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2002) with effect from 21st November 2002.]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no person shall,-(a)extract
groundwater for non-potable use by an industry when alternate sources are
available from the authorized water supply agencies;(b)extract groundwater for
use in swimming poolProvided that the competent authority may grant permission
to any organisation including a Government Department to extract groundwater
for use in swimming pools owned or maintained by such organisation for
promoting sports;(c)extract groundwater for gardening purposes.]

### 6. Cancellation of permit or license.

(1)If the competent authority is satisfied, either on a reference made to it
in this behalf or otherwise, that -(a)any permit granted under sub-section (4)
of section 3 or any licence granted under sub-section (4) of section 5 has
been obtained by fraud or misrepresentation as to an essentially; or(b)a
holder of a permit, or as the case may be, a licence, has failed to comply
with or contravened any of the terms, conditions and restrictions subject to
which, the permit or licence has been granted or has contravened any of the
provisions of this Act or the rules made under this Act,then, without
prejudice to any other penalty to which such holder may be liable under this
Act, the competent authority may, after giving to such holder, an opportunity
of showing cause, by order cancel the permit or licence.(2)On cancellation of
the permit or licence under sub-section (1), the competent authority shall, by
order, require the holder of the permit or licence, as the case may be, to
close or seal off at his own cost the well concerned in such manner as the
competent authority may specify in such order and the holder of such permit or
licence shall comply with such order.(3)Where any holder of a permit or
licence fails to comply with any order made, under sub-section (2), the
competent authority may, after giving the holder of the permit or licence due
notice in that behalf, enter upon the premises where the well is situate and
close or seal off the well and the cost incurred therefor shall be recoverable
from such holder of the permit or licence as an arrear of land revenue.

### 7. Exemption.

\- Nothing in this Act shall apply to,-(i)the Board or any officer of the said
Board in the discharge of his duties or performance of his functions as an
officer of such Board; and(ii)any person extracting groundwater from any
well,-(a)without the aid of any pumpset; or(b)with the aid of pumpset of
capacity not exceeding 0.5 Horse Power in respect of any one well.

### 8. Competent authority.

(1)The competent authority, for the purpose of this Act, shall be,-(a)in the
City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).], [the Managing
Director of the Board or any Officer of the Board not below the rank of
Executive Engineer authorised by the Government in this behalf; and]
[Substituted for the expression 'the Board; and' by the Chennai Metropolitan
Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 43 of
2008).](b)[ in relation to the villages specified in the Schedule, the
Collector of Kancheepuram district or Tiruvallur district, as the case may be,
or any officer not below the rank of Zonal Deputy Tahsildar authorised by the
Government in this behalf, within whose jurisdiction the village is situated.]
[Clause (b) was substituted by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater
(Regulation) Amendment Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 2008).](2)If the
competent authority or any person duly authorised by it in this behalf has
reason to believe that an offence under this Act has been, or is being, or
likely to be, committed, the competent authority or the person so authorised
may enter and inspect with such assistance as may be necessary at any time by
day or by night, any place to satisfy itself or himself whether any of the
provisions of this Act or the rules made under this Act or of any of the
terms, conditions and restrictions, subject to which the permit or licence has
been granted are contravened or otherwise not complied with.

### 9. Appeal.

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order made under this Act may, [within such
period and in such manner and accompanied by such fee not exceeding two
thousand rupees] [Substituted for the words 'within such period and in such
manner' by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment
Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1997) w.e.f. 10th May 1997.] as may be
prescribed, appeal to such authority as the Government may, by notification,
specified in this behalf.(2)In deciding the appeal, the authority specified
under sub-section (1) shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed and the
decision of such authority on such appeal shall be final and shall not be
called in question in any Court of law.

### 10. Offences and penalties.

(1)If any person contravenes, or fails to comply with, any of the provisions
of this Act or the rules made under this Act or of the terms, conditions and
restrictions, subject to which the permit or licence has been granted, he
shall be punished for the first offence with fine which may extend to [two
thousand rupees] [Substituted for 'five hundred rupees' by the Chennai
Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act
37 of 2002) w.e.f. 21st November 2002.] and for the second or any subsequent
offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with
fine which may extend to [five thousand rupees] [Substituted for 'one thousand
rupees' by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment
Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2002) w.e.f. 21st November 2002.], or with
both.(2)Any person who, after having been convicted of any offence under this
Act, continues to commit the same offence shall be punished with a further
fine which may extend to [five hundred rupees] [Substituted for 'one thousand
rupees' by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment
Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of2002) w.e.f. 21st November 2002.] for every day
during which he continues so to offend after such conviction.

### 11. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence punishable under this Act has been committed by a company,
every person, who, at the time the offence was committed, was in-charge of,
and was responsible to, the company, for the conduct of the business of the
company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided
that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable
to any punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his
knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission
of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1),
where any offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is
proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of,
or is attributable to, any neglect on the part of, any director, manager,
secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary
or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall
be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For
the purpose of this section-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes
a firm or other association of individuals; and(b)"director" in relation to a
firm means a partner in the firm.

### 12. Offences under this Act to be cognizable.

(1)Any offence punishable under this Act shall be a cognizable offence within
the meaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1974 (Central Act 2 of
1974).(2)No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this
Act, except upon a complaint in writing by the authority or an officer
generally or specially authorised by the Government in this behalf.

### 12A. [ Seizure and confiscation of property. [Sections 12-A to 12-G were
inserted by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment
Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2002) which came into force on 21st November
2002.]

(1)The Government may appoint an officer to be authorised officer to exercise
the powers and perform the functions of the authorised officer under this
section and sections 12-B and 12-G and different officers may be appointed as
authorised officers for different areas.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained
in this Act or in any other law for the time being in force, where an offence
under this Act is believed to have been committed, the competent authority may
seize any vehicle or other article including pump, tube, tool or equipment
used in committing offence under this Act and shall without any unreasonable
delay, produce the vehicle together with the articles so seized before the
authorised officer.(3)Where any vehicle or other article is produced before
the authorised officer under sub-section (2) and if he is satisfied that an
offence under this Act has been committed, the authorised officer may, whether
or not a prosecution is instituted for the commission of such offence, order
confiscation of the vehicle or other articles so seized.(4)Where the
authorised officer, after passing an order of confiscation under sub-section
(3), is of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do,
he may order the confiscated vehicle or other article to be sold by public
auction.(5)Where any confiscated property is sold under sub-section (4), and
where the order of confiscation made under this section is set aside or
annulled by an order under section 12-C or section 12-D, the proceeds of such
sale, after deduction of the expenses of, or incidental to, such auction,
shall be paid to the owner thereof or to the person from whom it was seized,
as may be specified in such order.

### 12B. Issue of show cause notice before confiscations.

(1)No order confiscating any vehicle or other article shall be made under
section 12-A except after notice in writing to the person from whom it is
seized informing him of the grounds on which it is proposed to confiscate and
considering his objections, if any:Provided that no order confiscating a motor
vehicle shall be made except after giving notice in writing to the registered
owner thereof, if, in the opinion of the authorised officer, it is practicable
to do so and considering his objections, if any.(2)Without prejudice to the
provisions of sub-section (1), no order confiscating any vehicle or other
article shall be made under section 12-A, if the owner of the vehicle or other
article, proves to the satisfaction of the authorised officer that it was used
in committing the offence under this Act without the knowledge or connivance
of the owner himself, his agent, if any, and the person in-charge of the
vehicle or other article and each of them had taken all reasonable and
necessary precautions against such use.

### 12C. Revision.

\- The Government may, on its own motion or otherwise, call for and examine
the records of the authorised officer in respect of any order under section
12-A, make such inquiry or cause such inquiry to be made and pass such orders,
as they deem fit:Provided that no proceeding shall be initiated under this
section against any order passed under section 12-A, if the time for appeal
against that order has not expired:Provided further that no order prejudicial
to any person shall be passed under this section unless such person has been
given an opportunity of making his representation and his representation is
considered.

### 12D. Appeal.

\- Any person aggrieved by any order passed under section 12-A or 12-C may,
within thirty' days from the date of communication to him of such order,
appeal to the Sessions Judge having jurisdiction over the area wherein the
property has been seized and the Sessions Judge shall pass such order as he
may think fit, which shall be final and shall not be called in question in any
Court of law.

### 12E. Order of confiscation no bar for inflicting any punishment.

\- Any order of confiscation under section 12-A or 12-C or 12-D shall not be a
bar for inflicting any punishment to which the persons affected thereby is
liable under this Act.

### 12F. Property confiscated to vest with Government.

\- When an order for confiscation of any property has been passed and such
order has become final, every vehicle or other article confiscated under
section 12-A, or when sold under subsection (4) of section 12-A, the sale
proceeds thereof shall vest with the Government.

### 12G. Bar of jurisdiction.

\- Where any vehicle or other article is seized under section 12-A,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act or in the Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974) or in any other Jaw for
the time being in force, the authorised officer under section 12-A, or the
Government under section 12-C or the Sessions Judge under section 12-D alone
have jurisdiction to pass orders in respect of custody, possession, delivery
or disposal of such property and no Court shall have such jurisdiction.]

### 13. Application of this Act to extraction and use of groundwater for
agricultural purpose.

(1)Sections 3 and 4 and so much of section 6 and of sections 10 to 12 as they
relate to the contravention of the said section 3 shall apply to every person
using groundwater in the schedule area for agricultural purposes immediately
before the date of commencement of this Act and to the competent
authority.(2)Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (1), nothing contained
in this Act shall apply to any person using groundwater in the scheduled area
for agricultural purposes immediately before the date of commencement of this
Act.

### 14. Implementation of scheme for artificial re-charge.

\- [(1)] [Section 14 was renumbered as sub section (1) of that section and
after sub-section (1) as so renumbered, sub-section (2) was added by the
Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment Act, 2003 (Tamil
Nadu Act 37 of 2002) which came into force on 21st November 2002.] Without
prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this Act and with a view to ensure
optimum utilization of groimdwater and formation of hydraulic barrier against
sea water intrusion, the Government shall issue instructions to the Board for
implementing within such period as may be prescribed the scheme for artificial
re-charge of the Ami-Korteliyar basin with the excess flood water flowing into
the sea by inter-linking Ami-Korteliyar at two or more feasible points and
also by constructing sufficient number of check dams at the appropriate places
in the Korteliyar river course.(2)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in any
other law for the time being in force to augment the groundwater
storage,-(a)in every building owned or maintained by the Government or a
company or other institution owned or controlled by the Government, there
shall be provision for rain water harvesting which shall be made in such
manner and within such time as may be prescribed;(b)on or after the
commencement of the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation)
Amendment Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2002), every person who constructs a
building, whether for residential or non-residential purpose, shall provide
rainwater harvesting structures in such manner as may be prescribed;(c)the
owner or occupier of any building in existence on the date of commencement of
the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment Act, 2002
(Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2002) shall provide rainwater harvesting structures in
such buildings in such manner and within such period as may be
prescribed;(d)water bodies, whether public or private, shall be used only for
the purpose of storing water and not for any other purposes as such water
bodies are contributing to groundwater recharge.]Explanation. - For the
purpose of this clause, "water bodies" mean lakes, ponds, tanks and the like.

### 15. Power of board to make regulations.

\- With a view to prevent sea water intrusion, the Board shall make
regulations for assessing scientifically, from time to time, the quantity of
water which can be drawn from the Minjur, Duranallur-Panjetti and
Tamaraipakkam-Kilanur well fields in the Arni-Korteliyar basin, the Poondi,
Korteliyar Flood Plains and Kannigaipper aquifers and also Poonamalle-Porur
aquifer in Cooum-Adayar basin and for fixing up the limits of the drawal of
groundwater by the Board:Provided that no regulation shall have effect unless
a draft of the regulations has been sent by the Board to the Government and
the approval of the Government has been obtained therefor.

### 16. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
person for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act.

### 17. Other laws not affected.

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of this Act shall be
in addition to, and not in derogation of, the provisions of any other law for
the time being in force.

### 17A. [ Power to amend Schedule. [Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Act 13 of
1995, w.e.f. 7.7.1995.]

\- The Government may, by notification, alter, amend, or add to, the Schedule
or omit any of the entries specified in the Schedule and upon the issue of
such notification, the Schedule shall be deemed to be amended accordingly.]
[Section 14 was renumbered as sub-section (1) of that section and after sub-
section (1) as so renumbered, sub-section (2) was added by the Chennai
Metropolitan Area Ground cater (Regulation) Amendment Act, 2003 (Tamil Nadu
Act 37 of 2002) which came into force on 21st November 2002.]

### 18. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this
Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the date
on which they are published.(3)Every rule made and every notification issued
under this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued, be
placed on the Table of the Legislative Assembly and if, before the expiry of
the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes
any modification in any such rule or notification or the Assembly decides that
the rule or notification should not be made or issued, the rule or
notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of
no effect, as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or notification.

## Schedule

[See sections 1(2) and 2(g)]The following revenue village in the [Kancheepuram
and Thiruvallur Districts] [Substituted for the words 'Chengalpattu District'
by the Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 2008.], namely:-

S.No. | Name of the village | Village number | Taluk  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
1. | Vallur | 42 | Ponneri  
2 | Manopuram | 107 | Do  
3. | Lingapaiyanpettai | 158 | Do  
4. | Kalapakkam | 51 | Do  
5. | Kattupalli | 92 | Do  
6. | Ariyanuvoyal | 49 | Do  
7. | Minjur | 50 | Do  
8. | Nallore | 54 | Do  
9. | Thottakadu | 52 | Do  
10. | Thiruvallivoyal | 105 | Do  
11. | Anuppampattu | 81 | Do  
12. | Vannipakkam | 56 | Do  
13. | Marathur | 89 | Do  
14. | Lakshmipuram | 157 | Do  
15. | Peruvoyal | 146 | Do  
16. | Puduvoyal | 122 | Do  
17. | Narashunpettai | 35 | Do  
18. | Valudalambedu | 39 | Do  
19. | Nayar | 34 | Do  
20. | Seemapuram | 41 | Do  
21. | Madiyoor | 40 | Do  
22. | Lingasamudram. | 109 | Do  
23. | Sivapuram | 110 | Do  
24. | Pulikulam | 82 | Do  
25. | Murichambedu | 55 | Do  
26. | Kumarasiralapakkam | 84 | Do  
27. | Devadanam | 83 | Do  
28. | Velampakkam | 53 | Do  
29. | Siruvelur Kanniambakkam Kolatti | 86 | Do  
30. | Kanniambakkam | 85 | Do  
31. | Kolatti | 47 | Do  
32. | Nandhiyambakkam | 46 | Do  
33. | Athipattu | 43 | Do  
34. | Velur | 87 | Do  
35. | Kadamancheri | 88 | Do  
36. | Voyalur | 91 | Do  
37. | Ennore | 44 | Do  
38. | Thirukandalam | 76 | Thiruvcllore  
39. | Akkaraipakkam | 57 | Do  
40. | Neyveli | 77 | Do  
41. | Anathanakkavakkam | 64 | Do  
42. | Panjetty | 68 | Do  
43. | Chinnamhedu | 127 | Ponneri  
44. | Nalliankuppam | 128 | Do  
45. | Arni | 129 | Do  
46. | Doramallore | 122 | Do  
47. | Vadakkunallore | 124 | Do  
4%. | Pondavakkam | 131 | Do  
49. | Sevithupanapakkam | 125 | Do  
50. | Nekkunram | 31 | Do  
51. | Vichoor | 13 | Do  
52. | Sekkancheri | 30 | Do  
53. | Gangaiyad Kuppam | 58 | Do  
54. | Thirunilai | 15 | Do  
55. | Vellivoyal | 12 | Do  
56. | Thirunilai | 58 | Thiruvellore  
57. | Amudanallur | 59 | Do  
58. | Kadanallur | 59 | Do  
59. | Koovampakkam | 60 | Do  
60. | Manjankaranai | 62 | Do  
61. | Madavilagam | 65 | Do  
62. | Kattupakkam | 63 | Do  
63. | Madavaram | 130 | Do  
64. | Kilatneni | 312 | Do  
65. | Adarabakkam | 309 | Do  
66. | Natham | 313 | Do  
67. | Ernavakkam | 311 | Do  
68. | Bandikayanur | 310 | Do  
69. | Savundapuram | 126 | Do  
70. | Peravallur | 120 | Do  
71. | Panjetti | 70 | Do  
72. | Alingivakkam | 65 | Do  
73. | Vairavarnkuppam | 121 | Do  
74. | Andarkuppam | 74 | Do  
75. | Periyanjeri | 75 | Do  
76. | Madavaram | 73 | Do  
77. | Tachur | 71 | Do  
78. | Chellapillaiarkuppam | 69 | Do  
79. | Neduvarambakkam | 67 | Do  
80. | Sennivakkam | 72 | Do  
81. | Attipedu | 66 | Do  
82. | Erulupattu | 64 | Do  
83. | Sayanvaram | 76 | Do  
84. | Vadakkupattu | 77 | Do  
85. | Amur | 78 | Do  
86. | Ponneri | 116 | Do  
87. | Elanambedin | 80 | Do  
88. | Atreyamangalam | 79 | Do  
89. | Anuppampattu | 81 | Do  
90. | Kilampakkam | 78C | Thiruvellore  
91. | Athangigavanoor | 81 | Do  
92. | Vengal | 90 | Do  
93. | Arumbakkam | 139 | Do  
94. | Vadamadurai | 80 | Do  
95. | Othikkadu | 160 | Do  
96. | Perumudivakkam | 75 | Do  
97. | Kadirvedu | 91 | Do  
98. | Thalakkancheri | 164D | Do  
99. | Chittathur | 158 | Do  
100. | Karikalavakkam | 144 | Do  
101. | Gomugambedu | 85A | Do  
102. | Guruvoyal | 73 | Do  
103. | Sethupakkam | 83 | Do  
104. | Magaral | 84 | Do  
105. | Tamaraipakkam | 85 | Do  
106. | Agaram | 82 | Do  
107. | Pagalmedu | 88 | Do  
108. | Perathur | 145 | Do  
109. | Melanoor | 137 | Do  
110. | Panapakkam | 55 | Do  
111. | Melakandiyoor | 147 | Do  
112. | Ikkadu | 159 | Do  
113. | Sembedu | 93 | Do  
114. | Chittambakkam | Do | 136  
115. | Punnapakkam | 161 | Do  
116. | Kalyanakuppam | 167 | Do  
117. | Veeraragha vapuram | 145 A | Do  
118. | Thandalam | 156 | Do  
119. | Kizhanoor | 138 | Do  
120. | Thirukkancheri | 140 | Do  
121. | Vishnu vakkam | 143 | Do  
122. | Vilampakkam | 142 | Do  
123. | Vadathur | 146 | Do  
124. | Velliyur | 92 | Do  
125. | Punnapakkam | 87 | Do  
126. | Alapakkam | 78 | Do  
127. | Kerani | 72 | Do  
128. | Alingivakkam | 74 | Do  
129. | Karani | 74 | Do  
130. | Kottivakkam | 141 | Saidapet  
131. | Palavakkam | 142 | Do  
132. | Neelankarai | 145 | Do  
133. | Injambakkam | 146 | Do  
134. | Sholinganallur | 189 | Do  
135. | Uthandi | 191 | Do  
136. | Karapakkam (East of B. Canal) | 147 | Do  
137. | Oggiamthorapakkam (East of B. Canal) | 148 | Do  
138. | Palikkaranai (East of B. Canal) | 149 | Do  
139. | Aladu | 111 | Ponneri  
140. | Ramanjeri | 118 | Thiruvellore  
141. | Karamainizambath | 119 | Do  
142. | Kunnavalam | 120 | Do  
143. | Poondi | 125 | Do  
144. | Movur | 127 | Do  
145. | Neyveli | 128 | Do  
146. | Ramathandalam | 131 | Do  
147. | Siyancheri | 132 | Do  
148. | Erayur | 133 | Do  
149. | Meyyur | 134 | Do  
150. | Mortnavedi | Do | 135  
151. | Thohikalai | 153 | Do  
152. | Ayalur | 154 | Do  
153. | Kilambakkam | 155 | Do  
154. | Pullarampakkm | 162 | Do  
155. | Perumbakkam | 163 | Do  
156. | Thiruppasur | 165 | Do  
157. | Pandur | 166 | Do  
158. | Kanagavallipuram | 167 | Do  
159. | Pattaraiperamhudur | 168 | Do  
160. | Melvilagam | 169 | Do  
161. | Kilvilagam | 170 | Do  
162. | Kallganur | 171 | Do  
163. | Vidayur | 172 | Do  
164. | Nemiliagaram | 173 | Thiruvellore  
165. | Athupakkam | 174 | Do  
166. | Karanai | 175 | Do  
167. | Palliarakuppam | 176 | Do  
168. | Pirayankuppam | 177 | Do  
169. | Venmanamhudur | 178 | Do  
170. | Kadambathur | 179 | Do  
171. | Egathur | 180 | Do  
172. | Selai | 181 | Do  
173. | Pirayankuppam | 182 | Do  
174. | Kakkalakalur | 183 | Do  
175. | Thanneerkulam | 184 | Do  
176. | Puthur | 185 | Do  
177. | Tholur | 186 | Do  
178. | Sirukadal | 187 | Do  
179. | Sevapettai | 188 | Do  
180. | Ayathur | 189 | Do  
181. | Perumalpattu | 193 | Do  
182. | Tirur | 194 | Do  
183. | Vengathur Armvoyal | 201 | Do  
184. | Kasavanallathur | 208 | Do  
185. | Agaram | 209 | Do  
186. | Panapakkan | 210 | Do  
187. | Ramankoil | 211 | Do  
188. | Madankuppam | 212 | Do  
189. | Senna aram | 213 | Do  
190. | Senji | 214 | Do  
191. | Thennankaranai | 215 | Do  
192. | Citrampakkam | 216 | Do  
193. | Perambakkam | 217 | Do  
194. | Kavankulathur | 218 | Do  
195. | Pudumavilangai | 219 | Do  
196. | Ainmanambakkam | 86 | Do  
197. | Gerukampundi | 141 | Do  
198. | Kannathur Reddikuppam | 35 | Chengalpattu  
199. | Muttukadu | 36 | Do  
200. | Kovilanthangal (Kanjithotti) | 44 | Do  
201. | Yeeraraghavapuram | 9 | Sriperumbudur  
202. | Parivakkam | 10 | Do  
203. | Panavedu Natham | 11 | Do  
204. | PidariThangal | 12 | Do  
205. | Kolappancheri | 13 | Do  
206. | Kulathuvanchery | Do | 45  
207. | Srinivasapuram | 46 | Do  
208. | Kattupakkam | 47 | Do  
209. | Ghenneerkuppam | 48 | Do  
210. | Koparasanallur | 49 | Do  
211. | Ayyppanthangal | 50 | Do  
212. | Thelliaragaram | 51 | Do  
213. | Mugalivakkam | 53 | Do  
214. | Mangadu | 42 | Do  
215. | Mogappair | 81 | Saidapet  
216. | Nelambu | 82 | Do  
217. | Adayalambatru | 83 | Do  
218. | Ayanabakkam | 85 | Do  
219. | Noombal | 92 | Do  
220. | Sivabootham | 93 | Do  
221. | Ghettiaragaram | 94 | Do  
222. | Thandalam | 95 | Do  
223. | Kuppam | 96 | Do  
224. | Kavambakkam | 97 | Do  
225. | Porur | 98 | Do  
226. | Mettukuppam | 99 | Do  
227. | Nerkundram | 100 | Do  
228. | Virugambakkam | 101 | Do  
229. | Ramapuram | 102 | Do  
230\. [ [Added by the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Amendment Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1995) with effect from 7th July 1995.] | Mathur | 35 | Chengalpattu]  
231. | Manjambakkam | 36 | Do  
232. | Madhavaram | 44 | Do  
233. | Tambaram | 9 | Sriperumbudur  
234. | Ambattur | 10 | Do  
235. | Maduravoyal | 11 | Do  
236. | Manali | 12 | Do  
237. | Chinnasekkadu | 13 | Do  
238. | Thiruvottiyur | 45 | Do  
239. | Ayapakkam | 46 | Do  
240. | Ghitalapakkam | 129 | Do  
241. | Hastinapuram | 127 | Do  
242. | Alapakkam | 82 | Do  
243. | Korattur | 54 | Do  
244\. [ [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 166, Municipal Administration and Water Supply (Metro-water) Department, dated 21st November 2002.] | Perungalathur | 134 | Tambaram]  
245. | Mudichur | 135 | Do  
246. | Irumbuliyur | 137 | Do  
247. | Peerkankaranai | 134 | Do  
248. | Kadaperi | 132 | Do  
249. | Pulikoradu | 131 | Do  
250. | Chithalapakkam | 148 | Do  
251. | Selaiyur | 139 | Do  
252. | Sembakkam | 125 | Do  
253. | Rajakilpakkam. | 140 | Do  
254. | Gowrivakkam | 141 | Do  
255. | Vengaivasal | 148 | Do  
256. | Madampakkam | 143 | Do  
257. | Thiruvancheri | 138 | Do  
258. | Agaramthen | 146 | Do  
259. | Vengambakkam | 145 | Do  
260. | Kaspapuram | 144 | Do  
261. | Nandambakkam | 91 | Tambaram  
262. | Parankimalai | 94 | Do  
263. | Alandur | 90 | Do  
264. | Adambakkam | 107 | Do  
265. | Pazhavanthangal | 95 | Do  
266. | Nanganallur | 105 | Do  
267. | Meenambakkam | 96 | Do  
268. | Kowlbazaar | 97 | Do  
269. | Anakaputhur | 98 | Do  
270. | Pozhichalur | 99 | Do  
271. | Pammal | 100 | Do  
272. | Zamin Pallavaram | 125 | Do  
273. | Contonment Pallavaram | 120 | Do  
274. | Isa Pallavaram | 101 | Do  
275. | Trisulam | 103 | Do  
276. | Thalakkanancheri | 104 | Do  
277. | UUagaram | 106 | Do  
278. | Moovarasampattu | 124 | Do  
279. | Madipakkam | 123 | Do  
280. | Nanmangalam | 121 | Do  
281. | Nemillicheri | 126 | Do  
282. | Kovilambakkalfl | 122 | Do  
283. | Thiruneermalai | 130 | Do  
284. | Perungudi | 113 | Do  
285. | Seevaram | 114 | Do  
286. | Medavakkam | 130 | Do  
287. | Jalladianpettai | 154 | Do  
288. | Perumbakkam | 153 | Do  
289. | Sittalapakkam | 148 | Do  
290. | Kovilancheri | 147 | Do  
291. | Madurapakkam | 149 | Do  
292. | Moolacheri | 150 | Do  
293. | Ottiampakkam | 151 | Do  
294. | Arasankazhani | 152 | Do  
295. | Seminaryeri | 156 | Tambaram  
296. | Sholinganallur | 155 | Do  
297. | Sandavellur | 34 | Sriperumpudur  
298. | Sendamangalam | 29 | Do  
299. | Moondramkattalai | 87 | Do  
300. | Palur | 87 | Chengalpattu  
301. | Kannigaiper | 90 | Uthukottai  
302. | Amur | 108 | Ponneri

