## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTIETH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1984

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTIETH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1984

## Act 50 of 1984

  * Published in Gazette of India on 18 August 1984 
  * Commenced on 11 September 1984 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 August 1984.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Fifty-second
Amendment) Bill, 1984 (Bill No. 80 of 1984) which was enacted as THE
CONSTITUTION (Fiftieth Amemdment) Act, 1984_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND
REASONS** By article 33 of the Constitution, Parliament is empowered to enact
laws determining to what extent any of the rights conferred by Part III of the
Constitution shall, in their application to the members of the Armed Forces or
the Forces charged with the maintenance of public order, be restricted or
abrogated so as to ensure the proper discharge of their duties and the
maintenance of discipline among them.

### 2. It is proposed to amend article 33 so as to bring within its ambit-

(i)the members of the Forces charged with the protection of property belonging
to, or in the charge or possession of, the State; or(ii)persons employed in
any bureau or other organization established by the State for purposes of
intelligence or counter intelligence; or(iii)persons employed in, or in
connection with, the telecommunication systems set up for the purposes of any
Force, bureau or organisation.Experience has revealed that the need for
ensuring proper discharge of their duties and the maintenance of discipline
among them is of paramount importance in the national interest.

### 3. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Thirty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Fiftieth Amendment) Act, 1984.

### 2\. Substitution of article 33.-

For article 33 of the Constitution, the following article shall be
substituted, namely:-"33. Power of Parliament to modify the rights conferred
by this Part in their application to Forces, etc.-Parliament may, by law,
determine to what extent any of the rights conferred by this Part shall, in
their application to,-(a)the members of the Armed Forces; or(b)the members of
the Forces charged with the maintenance of public order; or(c)persons employed
in any bureau or other organisation established by the State for purposes of
intelligence or counter intelligence; or(d)persons employed in, or in
connection with, the telecommunication systems set up for the purposes of any
Force, bureau or organisation referred to in clauses (a) to (c), be restricted
or abrogated so as to ensure the proper discharge of their duties and the
maintenance of discipline among them.".[The Constitution (Fiftieth Amendment)
Act, 1984, dealt with the modification of Article 33 majorly. The Act has been
amended to include employees working for the State for purposes of
intelligence and counterintelligence bureaus, as well as those hired for
telecommunication systems related to any Force, bureau, or organization. This
amendment was made to ensure that employees perform their duties properly and
maintain discipline. The amendment recognizes the importance of maintaining
proper performance and discipline in these organizations.Also Refer]

