## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (SEVENTY-SIXTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1994

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (SEVENTY-SIXTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1994

## Act 076 of 1994

  * Published in Gazette of India on 23 August 1994 
  * Commenced on 31 August 1994 
  * [This is the version of this document from 23 August 1994.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Eighty-fifth
Amendment) Bill, 1994 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Seventy-sixth
Amendment) Act, 1994_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The policy of
reservation of seats in Educational Institutions and reservation of
appointments of posts in public services for Backward Classes, Scheduled
Castes and Scheduled Tribes has had a long history in Tamil Nadu dating back
to the year 1921. The extent of reservation has been increased by the State
Government from time to time, consistent with the needs of the majority of the
people and it has now reached the level of 69 per cent. (18 per cent.
Scheduled Castes, 1 per cent. Scheduled Tribes and 50 per cent. Other Backward
Classes).

### 2. The Supreme Court delivered its judgment in Indira Sawhney and others
Vs. Union of India and Others (AIR 1993 SC 477) on 16th November, 1992,
holding that the total reservations under article 16(4) should not exceed 50
per cent.

### 3. The issue of admission to educational institutions for the academic
year 1993-94 came up before the High Court of Madras in a writ petition. The
High Court of Madras held that the Tamil Nadu Government could continue its
reservation policy as hitherto followed during that academic year and that the
quantum of reservation should be brought down to 50 per cent. during the
academic year 1994-95. The Government of Tamil Nadu had filed a Special Leave
Petition against the High Court of Madras in order that the present
reservation policy of the State Government should be reaffirmed so as to
ensure to continue advancement of the Backward Classes. However, the Supreme
Court of India passed an interim order reiterating that the reservation should
not exceed 50 per cent. in the matter of admission to educational
institutions.

### 4. In the special Session of Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly held on 9th
November, 1993, it had been unanimously resolved to call upon the Central
Government to take steps immediately to bring a suitable amendment to the
Constitution of India as to enable the Government of Tamil Nadu to continue
its policy of 69 per cent. reservation in Government Services and for
admission in Educational Institutions as at present. An all parties meeting
had also been held on 26th November, 1993 in Tamil Nadu urging that there
should not be any doubt or delay in ensuring the continued implementation of
69 per cent. reservation for the welfare and advancement of the backward
classes.

### 5. The Tamil Nadu Government enacted a legislation namely Tamil Nadu
Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats
in Educational Institution and of appointments or posts in the Services under
the State) Bill, 1993 and forwarded it to the Government of India for
consideration of the President of India in terms of article 31-C of the
Constitution.

### 6. In view of the importance and sensitive nature of the matter, the Union
Home Minister held meetings with the leaders of Political Parties on 13th
July, 1994 to discuss the provisions of the Bill. The general consensus among
the leaders was that the Bill should be assented to. Accordingly, the
President gave his assent to the Bill on 19th July, 1994.

### 7. The Tamil Nadu Government accordingly notified the Tamil Nadu Backward
Classes, Schedule Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in
Educational Institutions and of appointment or posts in the Services under the
State) Act, 1993 as Act No. 45 of 1994 on 19th July, 1994.

### 8. The Tamil Nadu Government requested the Government of India on 22nd
July, 1994 that the aforementioned Tamil Nadu Act 45 of 1994 be included in
the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution of India for the reasons given below:-

"The said Act attracts article 31C of the Constitution, as falling within the
purview of clauses (b) and (c) of article 39 and articles 38 and 46 of the
Constitution-vide section 2 of the Act. The Act has been passed relying on the
directive principles of State Policy enshrined in Part IV of the Constitution
and in particular, articles 38, 39 (b) and (c) and 46 of the Constitution. As
the Act is to give effect to the directive principles of State Policy
contained, inter alia, in article 39(b) and (c), the said Act will get the
protection of article 31C of the Constitution and therefore, cannot be
challenged under articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution, with reference to
which article 14, the reservation exceeding 50 per cent. has been struck down
by the Supreme Court. Now it has been decided to address the Government of
India for including the Act in the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution, so that
the law cannot be challenged as violative of any of the fundamental rights
contained in Part III of the Constitution including articles 15 and 16, and
gets protection under article 31B of the Constitution."

### 9. The Government of India has already supported the provision of the
State legislation by giving the President's assent to the Tamil Nadu Bill. As
a corollary to this decision, it is now necessary that the Tamil Nadu Act 45
of 1994 is brought within the purview of the Ninth Schedule to the
Constitution so that it gets protection under article 31B of the Constitution
in regard to the judicial review.

### 10. The Bill seeks to achieve the aforementioned objective.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Forty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Seventy-sixth Amendment) Act, 1994.

### 2\. Amendment of the Ninth Schedule.-

In the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution, after entry 257 and before the
Explanation, the following entry shall be inserted, namely:-"257A. The Tamil
Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of
Seats in Educational Institution and of Appointments or Posts in the Services
under the State) Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu Act 45 of 1994).".[The Constitution
(Seventy-sixth Amendment) Act, 1994, allows the continuation of the 69%
reservation in Tamil Nadu by adding the relevant Tamil Nadu Act to the
Constitution’s 9th Schedule.This constitutional amendment modifies schedule 9
of the Indian Constitution. It deals with reserving seats in educational
institutions and appointments or posts in state-run services for members of
backward classes, scheduled castes, and scheduled tribes. On November 16,
1992, the Supreme Court of India established a ceiling of 50% on the total
percentage of reservations permitted under Article 16(4) of the
Constitution.Also Refer]

