## Union of India - Act

## The Consumer Protection Act, 1986

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Consumer Protection Act, 1986

## Act 68 of 1986

  * Published in Gazette 68 on 24 December 1986 
  * Assented to on 24 December 1986 
  * Commenced on 24 December 1986 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2002.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Consumer Protection (Amendment) Act, 2002 (Act 62 of 2002) on 1 January 2002] 
  2. [Repealed by Consumer Protection Act, 2019 (Act 35 of 2019) on 9 August 2019] 

The Consumer Protection Act, 1986[24th December, 1986]Act No. 68 of 1986An Act
to provide for better protection of the interests of consumers and for that
purpose to make provision for the establishment of consumer councils and other
authorities for the settlement of consumers' disputes and for matters
connected therewith.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-seventh Year of
the Republic of India as follows:—

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent, commencement and application.—

(1)This Act may be called the Consumer Protection Act, 1986.(2)It extends to
the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.(3)It shall come into
force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification, appoint and
different dates may be appointed for different States and for different
provisions of this Act.(4)Save as otherwise expressly provided by the Central
Government by notification, this Act shall apply to all goods and services.

### 2. Definitions.—

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)“appropriate
laboratory” means a laboratory or organisation—(i)recognised by the Central
Government;(i)any establishment described as a branch by the opposite party;
or(ii)any establishment carrying on either the same or substantially the same
activity as that carried on by the head office of the
establishment;(ii)recognised by a State Government, subject to such guidelines
as may be prescribed by the Central Government in this behalf; or(iii)any such
laboratory or organisation established by or under any law for the time being
in force, which is maintained, financed or aided by the Central Government or
a State Government for carrying out analysis or test of any goods with a view
to determining whether such goods suffer from any defect;( aa) “branch office”
means—(b)“complainant” means—(i)a consumer; or(ii)any voluntary consumer
association registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or under any
other law for the time being in force; or(iii)the Central Government or any
State Government; or(iv)one or more consumers, where there are numerous
consumers having the same interest;(v)in case of death of a consumer, his
legal heir or representative;who or which makes a complaint;(c)“complaint”
means any allegation in writing made by a complainant that—(i)an unfair trade
practice or a restrictive trade practice has been adopted by any trader or
service provider;(ii)the goods bought by him or agreed to be bought by him
suffer from one or more defects;(iii)the services hired or availed of or
agreed to be hired or availed of by him suffer from deficiency in any
respect;(iv)a trader or the service provider, as the case may be, has charged
for the goods or for the services mentioned in the complaint, a price in
excess of the price—(a)fixed by or under any law for the time being in
force;(b)displayed on the goods or any package containing such
goods;(c)displayed on the price list exhibited by him by or under any law for
the time being in force;(d)agreed between the parties;(v)goods which will be
hazardous to life and safety when used are being offered for sale to the
public,—(a)in contravention of any standards relating to safety of such goods
as required to be complied with, by or under any law for the time being in
force;(b)if the trader could have known with due diligence that the goods so
offered are unsafe to the public;(vi)services which are hazardous or likely to
be hazardous to life and safety of the public when used, are being offered by
the service provider which such person could have known with due diligence to
be injurious to life and safety;with a view to obtaining any relief provided
by or under this Act;(d)“consumer” means any person who,—(i)buys any goods for
a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly
promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of
such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or
promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any system of deferred
payment, when such use is made with the approval of such person, but does not
include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial
purpose; or(ii)hires or avails of any services for a consideration which has
been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system
of deferred payment and includes any beneficiary of such services other than
the person who hires or avails of the services for consideration paid or
promised, or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred
payment, when such services are availed of with the approval of the first
mentioned person but does not include a person who avails of such services for
any commercial purpose;Explanation.— For the purposes of this
clause,"commecial purpose" does not include use by a person of goods bought
and used by him and services availed by him exclusively for the purposes of
earning his livelihood by means of self-employment;(e)“consumer dispute” means
a dispute where the person against whom a complaint has been made, denies or
disputes the allegations contained in the complaint;(f)“defect” means any
fault, imperfection or shortcoming in the quality, quantity, potency, purity
or standard which is required to be maintained by or under any law for the
time being in force or under any contract, express or implied, or as is
claimed by the trader in any manner whatsoever in relation to any
goods;(g)“deficiency” means any fault, imperfection, shortcoming or inadequacy
in the quality, nature and manner of performance which is required to be
maintained by or under any law for the time being in force or has been
undertaken to be performed by a person in pursuance of a contract or otherwise
in relation to any service;(h)“District Forum” means a Consumer Disputes
Redressal Forum established under clause (a) of section 9;(i)“goods” means
goods as defined in the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 (3 of 1930);(j)“manufacturer”
means a person who—(i)makes or manufactures any goods or parts thereof;
or(ii)does not make or manufacture any goods but assembles parts thereof made
or manufactured by others; or(iii)puts or causes to be put his own mark on any
goods made or manufactured by any other manufacturer;( jj) “member” includes
the President and a member of the National Commission or a State Commission or
a District Forum, as the case may be;(k)“National Commission” means the
National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission established under clause (c)
of section 9;(l)“notification” means a notification published in the Official
Gazette;(m)“person” includes,—(i)a firm whether registered or not;(ii)a Hindu
undivided family;(iii)a co-operative society;(iv)every other association of
persons whether registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of
1860) or not;(n)“prescribed” means prescribed by rules made by the State
Government, or as the case may be, by the Central Government under this Act;(
nn) “regulation” means the regulations made by the National Commission under
this Act;'( nnn) “restrictive trade practice” means a trade practice which
tends to bring about manipulation of price or its conditions of delivery or to
affect flow of supplies in the market relating to goods or services in such a
manner as to impose on the consumers unjustified costs or restrictions and
shall include—(a)delay beyond the period agreed to by a trader in supply of
such goods or in providing the services which has led or is likely to lead to
rise in the price;(b)any trade practice which requires a consumer to buy, hire
or avail of any goods or, as the case may be, services as condition precedent
to buying, hiring or availing of other goods or services;(o)“service” means
service of any description which is made available to potential users and
includes, but not limited to, the provision of facilities in connection with
banking, financing insurance, transport, processing, supply of electrical or
other energy, board or lodging or both, housing construction, entertainment,
amusement or the purveying of news or other information, but does not include
the rendering of any service free of charge or under a contract of personal
service;( oo) "spurious goods and services" mean such goods and services which
are claimed to be genuine but they are actually not so;(p)“State Commission”
means a Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission established in a State under
clause (b) of section 9;(q)“trader” in relation to any goods means a person
who sells or distributes any goods for sale and includes the manufacturer
thereof, and where such goods are sold or distributed in package form,
includes the packer thereof;(r)“unfair trade practice” means a trade practice
which, for the purpose of promoting the sale, use or supply of any goods or
for the provision of any service, adopts any unfair method or unfair or
deceptive practice including any of the following practices, namely:—(1)the
practice of making any statement, whether orally or in writing or by visible
representation which,—(i)falsely represents that the goods are of a particular
standard, quality, quantity, grade, composition, style or model;(ii)falsely
represents that the services are of a particular standard, quality or
grade;(iii)falsely represents any re-built, second-hand, renovated,
reconditioned or old goods as new goods;(iv)represents that the goods or
services have sponsorship, approval, performance, characteristics,
accessories, uses or benefits which such goods or services do not
have;(v)represents that the seller or the supplier has a sponsorship or
approval or affiliation which such seller or supplier does not have;(vi)makes
a false or misleading representation concerning the need for, or the
usefulness of, any goods or services;(vii)gives to the public any warranty or
guarantee of the performance, efficacy or length of life of a product or of
any goods that is not based on an adequate or proper test thereof:Provided
that where a defence is raised to the effect that such warranty or guarantee
is based on adequate or proper test, the burden of proof of such defence shall
lie on the person raising such defence;(viii)makes to the public a
representation in a form that purports to be--(i)a warranty or guarantee of a
product or of any goods or services; or(ii)a promise to replace, maintain or
repair an article or any part thereof or to repeat or continue a service until
it has achieved a specified result,if such purported warranty or guarantee or
promise is materially misleading or if there is no reasonable prospect that
such warranty, guarantee or promise will be carried out;(ix)materially
misleads the public concerning the price at which a product or like products
or goods or services, have been or are, ordinarily sold or provided, and, for
this purpose, a representation as to price shall be deemed to refer to the
price at which the product or goods or services has or have been sold by
sellers or provided by suppliers generally in the relevant market unless it is
clearly specified to be the price at which the product has been sold or
services have been provided by the person by whom or on whose behalf the
representation is made;(x)gives false or misleading facts disparaging the
goods, services or trade of another person.Explanation.— For the purposes of
clause (1), a statement that is —(a)expressed on an article offered or
displayed for sale, or on its wrapper or container; or(b)expressed on anything
attached to, inserted in, or accompanying, an article offered or displayed for
sale, or on anything on which the article is mounted for display or sale;
or(c)contained in or on anything that is sold, sent, delivered, transmitted or
in any other manner whatsoever made available to a member of the public,shall
be deemed to be a statement made to the public by, and only by, the person who
had caused the statement to be so expressed, made or contained;(2)permits the
publication of any advertisement whether in any newspaper or otherwise, for
the sale or supply at a bargain price, of goods or services that are not
intended to be offered for sale or supply at the bargain price, or for a
period that is, and in quantities that are, reasonable, having regard to the
nature of the market in which the business is carried on, the nature and size
of business, and the nature of the advertisement.Explanation.— For the purpose
of clause (2), “bargaining price” means—(a)a price that is stated in any
advertisement to be a bargain price, by reference to an ordinary price or
otherwise, or(b)a price that a person who reads, hears or sees the
advertisement, would reasonably understand to be a bargain price having regard
to the prices at which the product advertised or like products are ordinarily
sold;(3)permits—(a)the offering of gifts, prizes or other items with the
intention of not providing them as offered or creating impression that
something is being given or offered free of charge when it is fully or partly
covered by the amount charged in the transaction as a whole;(b)the conduct of
any contest, lottery, game of chance or skill, for the purpose of promoting,
directly or indirectly, the sale, use or supply of any product or any business
interest;(3A)withholding from the participants of any scheme offering gifts,
prizes or other items free of charge, on its closure the information about
final results of the scheme.Explanation.— For the purposes of this sub-clause,
the participants of a scheme shall be deemed to have been informed of the
final results of the scheme where such results are within a reasonable time
published, prominently in the same newspapers in which the scheme was
originally advertised;(4)permits the sale or supply of goods intended to be
used, or are of a kind likely to be used, by consumers, knowing or having
reason to believe that the goods do not comply with the standards prescribed
by competent authority relating to performance, composition, contents, design,
constructions, finishing or packaging as are necessary to prevent or reduce
the risk of injury to the person using the goods;(5)permits the hoarding or
destruction of goods, or refuses to sell the goods or to make them available
for sale or to provide any service, if such hoarding or destruction or refusal
raises or tends to raise or is intended to raise, the cost of those or other
similar goods or services;(6)manufacture of spurious goods or offering such
goods for sale or adopting deceptive practices in the provision of
services.(2)Any reference in this Act to any other Act or provision thereof
which is not in force in any area to which this Act applies shall be construed
to have a reference to the corresponding Act or provision thereof in force in
such area.

### 3. Act not in derogation of any other law.—

The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of
the provisions of any other law for the time being in force.

## Chapter II  
Consumer Protection Councils

### 4. The Central Consumer Protection Council.—

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification, establish with effect from
such date as it may specify in such notification, a Council to be known as the
Central Consumer Protection Council (hereinafter referred to as the Central
Council).(2)The Central Council shall consist of the following members,
namely:—(a)the Minister in charge of the consumer affairs in the Central
Government, who shall be its Chairman, and(b)such number of other official or
non-official members representing such interests as may be prescribed.

### 5. Procedure for meetings of the Central Council.—

(1)The Central Council shall meet as and when necessary, but at least one
meeting of the Council shall be held every year.(2)The Central Council shall
meet at such time and place as the Chairman may think fit and shall observe
such procedure in regard to the transaction of its business as may be
prescribed.

### 6. Objects of the Central Council.—

The objects of the Central Council shall be to promote and protect the rights
of the consumers such as,—(a)the right to be protected against the marketing
of goods and services which are hazardous to life and property;(b)the right to
be informed about the quality, quantity, potency, purity, standard and price
of goods or services, as the case may be so as to protect the consumer against
unfair trade practices;(c)the right to be assured, wherever possible, access
to a variety of goods and services at competitive prices;(d)the right to be
heard and to be assured that consumer's interests will receive due
consideration at appropriate fora;(e)the right to seek redressal against
unfair trade practices or restrictive trade practices or unscrupulous
exploitation of consumers; and(f)the right to consumer education.

### 7. The State Consumer Protection Councils.—

(1)The State Government shall, by notification, establish with effect from
such date as it may specify in such notification, a Council to be known as the
Consumer Protection Council for.....................(hereinafter referred to
as the State Council).(2)The State Council shall consist of the following
members, namely:—(a)the Minister incharge of consumer affairs in the State
Government who shall be its Chairman;(b)such number of other official or non-
official members representing such interests as may be prescribed by the State
Government.(c)such number of other official or non-official members, not
exceeding ten, as may be nominated by the Central Government.(3)The State
Council shall meet as and when necessary but not less than two meetings shall
be held every year.(4)The State Council shall meet at such time and place as
the Chairman may think fit and shall observe such procedure in regard to the
transaction of its business as may be prescribed by the State Government.

### 8. Objects of the State Council.—

The objects of every State Council shall be to promote and protect within the
State the rights of the consumers laid down in clauses (a) to (f) of section
6.

### 8A. The District Consumer Protection Council.—

(1)The State Government shall establish for every district, by notification, a
council to be known as the District Consumer Protection Council with effect
from such date as it may specify in such notification.(2)The District Consumer
Protection Council (hereinafter referred to as the District Council) shall
consist of the following members, namely:—(a)the Collector of the district (by
whatever name called), who shall be its Chairman; and(b)such number of other
official and non-official members representing such interests as may be
prescribed by the State Government.(3)The District Council shall meet as and
when necessary but not less than two meetings shall be held every year.(4)The
District Council shall meet as such time and place within the district as the
Chairman may think fit and shall observe such procedure in regard to the
transaction of its business as may be prescribed by the State Government.

### 8B. Objects of the District Council.—

The objects of every District Council shall be to promote and protect within
the district the rights of the consumers laid down in clauses (a) to (f) of
section 6.

## Chapter III  
Consumer Disputes Redressal Agencies

### 9. Establishment of Consumer Disputes Redressal Agencies.—

There shall be established for the purposes of this Act, the following
agencies, namely:—(a)a Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum to be known as the
“District Forum” established by the State Government *** in each district of
the State by notification:Provided that the State Government may, if it deems
fit, establish more than one District Forum in a district;(b)a Consumer
Disputes Redressal Commission to be known as the “State Commission”
established by the State Government *** in the State by notification; and(c)a
National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission established by the Central
Government by notification.

### 10. Composition of the District Forum.—

(1)Each District Forum shall consist of,—(a)a person who is, or has been, or
is qualified to be a District Judge, who shall be its President;(b)two other
members, one of whom shall be a woman, who shall have the following
qualifications, namely:—(i)be not less than thirty-five years of
age,(ii)possesss a bachelor’s degree from a recognised university,(iii)be
persons of ability, integrity and standing, and have adequate knowledge and
experience of at least ten years in dealing with problems relating to
economics, law, commerce, accountancy, industry, public affairs or
administration:Provided that a persons shall be disqualifed for appointment as
a member, if he—(a)has been convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for an
offence which, in the opinion of the State Government, involves moral
turpitude; or(b)is an undischarged insolvent; or(c)is of unsound mind and
stands so declared by a competent court; or(d)has been removed or dismissed
from the service of the Government or a body corporate owned or controlled by
the Government; or(e)has, in the opinion of the State Government, such
financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially the discharge
by him of his functions as a member; or(f)has such other disqualifications as
may be prescribed by the State Government;(1A)Every appointment under sub-
section (1) shall be made by the State Government on the recommendation of a
selection committee consisting of the following, namely:—(i)President of the
State Commission —Chairman.(ii)Secretary, Law Department of the State
—Member.(iii)Secretary, incharge of the Department —Member: dealing with
consumer affairs in the StateProvided that where the President of the State
Commission is, by reason of absence or otherwise, unable to act as Chairman of
the Selection Committee, the State Government may refer the matter to the
Chief Justice of the High Court for nominating a sitting Judge of that High
Court to act as Chairman.(2)Every member of the District Forum shall hold
office for a term of five years or up to the age of sixty-five years,
whichever is earlier:Provided that a member shall be eligible for re-
appointment for another term of five years or up to the age of sixty-five
years, whichever is earlier, subject to the condition that he fulfils the
qualifications and other conditions for appointment mentioned in clause (b) of
sub-section (1) and such re-appointment is also made on the basis of the
recommendation of the Selection Committee:Provided further that a member may
resign his office in writing under his hand addressed to the State Government
and on such resignation being accepted, his office shall become vacant and may
be filled by appointment of a person possessing any of the qualifications
mentioned in sub-section (1) in relation to the category of the member who is
required to be appointed under the provisions of sub-section (1A) in place of
the person who has resigned:Provided also that a person appointed as the
President or as a member, before the commencement of the Consumer Protection
(Amendment) Act, 2002, shall continue to hold such office as President or
member, as the case may be, till the completion of his term.(3)The salary or
honorarium and other allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions
of service of the members of the District Forum shall be such as may be
prescribed by the State Government:Provided that the appointment of a member
on whole-time basis shall be made by the State Government on the
recommendation of the President of the State Commission taking into
consideration such factors as may be prescribed including the work load of the
District Forum.

### 11. Jurisdiction of the District Forum.—

(1)Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the District Forum shall have
jurisdiction to entertain complaints where the value of the goods or services
and the compensation, if any, claimed does not exceed rupees twenty lakhs.(2)A
complaint shall be instituted in a District Forum within the local limits of
whose jurisdiction,—(a)the opposite party or each of the opposite parties,
where there are more than one, at the time of the institution of the
complaint, actually and voluntarily resides or carries on business or has a
branch office or personally works for gain, or(b)any of the opposite parties,
where there are more than one, at the time of the institution of the
complaint, actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on business or has a
branch office, or personally works for gain, provided that in such case either
the permission of the District Forum is given, or the opposite parties who do
not reside, or carry on business or have a branch office, or personally work
for gain, as the case may be, acquiesce in such institution; or(c)the cause of
action, wholly or in part, arises.

### 12. Manner in which complaint shall be made.—

(1)A complaint in relation to any goods sold or delivered or agreed to be sold
or delivered or any service provided or agreed to be provided may be filed
with a District Forum by—(a)the consumer to whom such goods are sold or
delivered or agreed to be sold or delivered or such service provided or agreed
to be provided;(b)any recognised consumer association whether the consumer to
whom the goods sold or delivered or agreed to be sold or delivered or service
provided or agreed to be provided is a member of such association or
not;(c)one or more consumers, where there are numerous consumers having the
same interest, with the permission of the District Forum, on behalf of, or for
the benefit of, all consumers so interested; or(d)the Central or the State
Government, as the case may be, either in its individual capacity or as a
representative of interests of the consumers in general.(2)Every complaint
filed under sub-section (1) shall be accompanied with such amount of fee and
payable in such manner as may be prescribed.(3)On receipt of a complaint made
under sub-section (1), the District Forum may, by order, allow the complaint
to be proceeded with or rejected:Provided that a complaint shall not be
rejected under this sub-section unless an opportunity of being heard has been
given to the complainant:Provided further that the admissibility of the
complaint shall ordinarily be decided within twenty-one days from the date on
which the complaint was received.(4)Where a complaint is allowed to be
proceeded with under sub-section (3), the District Forum may proceed with the
complaint in the manner provided under this Act:Provided that where a
complaint has been admitted by the District Forum, it shall not be transferred
to any other court or tribunal or any authority set up by or under any other
law for the time being in force.Explanation.— For the purposes of this
section, “recognised consumer association” means any voluntary consumer
association registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or any other
law for the time being in force.

### 13. Procedure on admission of complaint.—

(1)The District Forum shall, on admission of a complaint, if it relates to any
goods,—(a)refer a copy of the admitted complaint, within twenty-one days from
the date of its admission to the opposite party mentioned in the complaint
directing him to give his version of the case within a period of thirty days
or such extended period not exceeding fifteen days as may be granted by the
District Forum.(b)where the opposite party on receipt of a complaint referred
to him under clause (a) denies or disputes the allegations contained in the
complaint, or omits or fails to take any action to represent his case within
the time given by the District Forum, the District Forum shall proceed to
settle the consumer dispute in the manner specified in clauses (c) to
(g);(c)where the complaint alleges a defect in the goods which cannot be
determined without proper analysis or test of the goods, the District Forum
shall obtain a sample of the goods from the complainant, seal it and
authenticate it in the manner prescribed and refer the sample so sealed to the
appropriate laboratory along with a direction that such laboratory make an
analysis or test, whichever may be necessary, with a view to finding out
whether such goods suffer from any defect alleged in the complaint or from any
other defect and to report its findings thereon to the District Forum within a
period of forty-five days of the receipt of the reference or within such
extended period as may be granted by the District Forum;(d)before any sample
of the goods is referred to any appropriate laboratory under clause (c), the
District Forum may require the complainant to deposit to the credit of the
Forum such fees as may be specified, for payment to the appropriate laboratory
for carrying out the necessary analysis or test in relation to the goods in
question;(e)the District Forum shall remit the amount deposited to its credit
under clause (d) to the appropriate laboratory to enable it to carry out the
analysis or test mentioned in clause (c) and on receipt of the report from the
appropriate laboratory, the District Forum shall forward a copy of the report
along with such remarks as the District Forum may feel appropriate to the
opposite party;(f)if any of the parties disputes the correctness of the
findings of the appropriate laboratory, or disputes the correctness of the
methods of analysis or test adopted by the appropriate laboratory, the
District Forum shall require the opposite party or the complainant to submit
in writing his objections in regard to the report made by the appropriate
laboratory;(g)the District Forum shall thereafter give a reasonable
opportunity to the complainant as well as the opposite party of being heard as
to the correctness or otherwise of the report made by the appropriate
laboratory and also as to the objection made in relation thereto under clause
(f) and issue an appropriate order under section 14.(2)The District Forum
shall, if the complaints admitted by it under section 12 relates to goods in
respect of which the procedure specified in sub-section (1) cannot be
followed, or if the complaint relates to any services,—(a)refer a copy of such
complaint to the opposite party directing him to give his version of the case
within a period of thirty days or such extended period not exceeding fifteen
days as may be granted by the District Forum;(b)where the opposite party, on
receipt of a copy of the complaint, referred to him under clause (a) denies or
disputes the allegations contained in the complaint, or omits or fails to take
any action to represent his case within the time given by the District Forum,
the District Forum shall proceed to settle the consumer dispute,—(i)on the
basis of evidence brought to its notice by the complainant and the opposite
party, where the opposite party denies or disputes the allegations contained
in the complaint, or(ii)ex parte on the basis of evidence brought to its
notice by the complainant where the opposite party omits or fails to take any
action to represent his case within the time given by the Forum;(c)where the
complainant fails to appear on the date of hearing before the District Forum,
the District Forum may either dismiss the complaint for default or decide it
on merits.(3)No proceedings complying with the procedure laid down in sub-
sections (1) and (2) shall be called in question in any court on the ground
that the principles of natural justice have not been complied with.(3A)Every
complaint shall be heard as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be
made to decide the complaint within a period of three months from the date of
receipt of notice by opposite party where the complaint does not require
analysis or testing of commodities and within five months, if it requires
analysis or testing of commodities:Provided that no adjournment shall be
ordinarily granted by the District Forum unless sufficient cause is shown and
the reasons for grant of adjournment have been recorded in writing by the
Forum:Provided further that the District Forum shall make such orders as to
the costs occasioned by the adjournment as may be provided in the regulations
made under this Act:Provided also that in the event of a complaint being
disposed of after the period so specified, the District Forum shall record in
writing, the reasons for the same at the time of disposing of the said
complaint.(3B)Where during the pendency of any proceeding before the District
Forum, it appears to it necessary, it may pass such interim order as is just
and proper in the facts and circumstances of the case.(4)For the purposes of
this section, the District Forum shall have the same powers as are vested in a
civil court under Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) while trying a
suit in respect of the following matters, namely:—(i)the summoning and
enforcing the attendance of any defendant or witness and examining the witness
on oath,(ii)the discovery and production of any document or other material
object producible as evidence,(iii)the reception of evidence on
affidavits,(iv)the requisitioning of the report of the concerned analysis or
test from the appropriate laboratory or from any other relevant
source,(v)issuing of any commission for the examination of any witness,
and(vi)any other matter which may be prescribed.(5)Every proceeding before the
District Forum shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning
of sections 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), and the
District Forum shall be deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of section
195, and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974).(6)Where the complainant is a consumer referred to in sub-clause (iv) of
clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 2, the provisions of rule 8 of Order
I of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) shall
apply subject to the modification that every reference therein to a suit or
decree shall be construed as a reference to a complaint or the order of the
District Forum thereon.(7)In the event of death of a complainant who is a
consumer or of the opposite party against whom the complaint has been filed,
the provisions of Order XXII of the First Scheduled to the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) shall apply subject to the modification that every
reference therein to the plaintiff and the defendant shall be construed as
reference to a complainant or the opposite party, as the case may be.

### 14. Finding of the District Forum.—

(1)If, after the proceeding conducted under section 13, the District Forum is
satisfied that the goods complained against suffer from any of the defects
specified in the complaint or that any of the allegations contained in the
complaint about the services are proved, it shall issue an order to the
opposite party directing him to do one or more of the following things,
namely:—(a)to remove the defect pointed out by the appropriate laboratory from
the goods in question;(b)to replace the goods with new goods of similar
description which shall be free from any defect;(c)to return to the
complainant the price, or, as the case may be, the charges paid by the
complainant;(d)to pay such amount as may be awarded by it as compensation to
the consumer for any loss or injury suffered by the consumer due to the
negligence of the opposite party:Provided that the District Forum shall have
the power to grant punitive damages in such circumstances as it deems
fit;(e)to remove the defects in goods or deficiencies in the services in
question;(f)to discontinue the unfair trade practice or the restrictive trade
practice or not to repeat them;(g)not to offer the hazardous goods for
sale;(h)to withdraw the hazardous goods from being offered for sale;( ha) to
cease manufacture of hazardous goods and to desist from offering services
which are hazardous in nature;( hb) to pay such sum as may be determined by
it, if it is of the opinion that loss or injury has been suffered by a large
number of consumers who are not identifiable conveniently:Provided that the
minimum amount of sum so payable shall not be less than five per cent. of the
value of such defective goods sold or services provided, as the case may be,
to such consumers:Provided further that the amount so obtained shall be
credited in favour of such person and utilized in such manner as may be
prescribed;( hc) to issue corrective advertisement to neutralize the effect of
misleading advertisement at the cost of the opposite party responsible for
issuing such misleading advertisement;(i)to provide for adequate costs to
parties.(2)Every proceeding referred to in sub-section (1) shall be conducted
by the President of the District Forum and at least one member thereof sitting
together:Provided that where a member, for any reason, is unable to conduct a
proceeding till it is completed, the President and the other member shall
continue the proceeding from the stage at which it was last heard by the
previous member.(2A)Every order made by the District Forum under sub-section
(1) shall be signed by its President and the member or members who conducted
the proceeding:Provided that where the proceeding is conducted by the
President and one member and they differ on any point or points, they shall
state the point or points on which they differ and refer the same to the other
member for hearing on such point or points and the opinion of the majority
shall be the order of the District Forum.(3)Subject to the foregoing
provisions, the procedure relating to the conduct of the meetings of the
District Forum, its sittings and other matters shall be such as may be
prescribed by the State Government.

### 15. Appeal.—

Any person aggrieved by an order made by the District Forum may prefer an
appeal against such order to the State Commission within a period of thirty
days from the date of the order, in such form and manner as may be
prescribed:Provided that the State Commission may entertain an appeal after
the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied that there was
sufficient cause for not filing it within that period:Provided further that no
appeal by a person, who is required to pay any amount in terms of an order of
the District Forum, shall be entertained by the State Commission unless the
appellant has deposited in the prescribed manner fifty per cent. of that
amount or twenty-five thousand rupees, whichever is less.

### 16. Composition of the State Commission.—

(1)Each State Commission shall consist of—(a)a person who is or has been a
Judge of a High Court, appointed by the State Government, who shall be its
President:Provided that no appointment under this clause shall be made except
after consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court;(b)not less than
two, and not more than such number of members, as may be prescribed, and one
of whom shall be a woman, who shall have the following qualifications,
namely:—(i)be not less than thirty-five years of age;(ii)possess a bachelor’s
degree from a recognised university; and(iii)be persons of ability, integrity
and standing, and have adequate knowledge and experience of at least ten years
in dealing with problems relating to economics, law, commerce, accountancy,
industry, public affairs or administration:Provided that not more than fifty
per cent. of the members shall be from amongst persons having a judicial
background.Explanation.— For the purposes of this clause, the expression
“persons having a judicial background” shall mean persons having knowledge and
experience for at least a period of ten years as a presiding officer at the
district level court or any tribunal at equivalent level:Provided further that
a person shall be disqualified for appointment as a member, if he—(a)has been
convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for an offence which, in the opinion
of the State Government, involves moral turpitude; or(b)is an undischarged
insolvent; or(c)is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent
court; or(d)has been removed or dismissed from the service of the Government
or a body corporate owned or controlled by the Government; or(e)has, in the
opinion of the State Government, such financial or other interest, as is
likely to affect prejudicially the discharge by him of his functions as a
member; or(f)has such other disqualifications as may be prescribed by the
State Government.(1A)Every appointment under sub-section (1) shall be made by
the State Government on the recommendation of a Selection Committee consisting
of the following members, namely:—(i)President of the State
Commission.......Chairman;(ii)Secretary of the Law Department of the
State.......Member;(iii)Secretary incharge of the Department dealing with
Consumer Affairs in the State.......Member:Provided that where the President
of the State Commission is, by reason of absence or otherwise, unable to act
as Chairman of the Selection Committee, the State Government may refer the
matter to the Chief Justice of the High Court for nominating a sitting Judge
of that High Court to act as Chairman.(1B)(i)The jurisdiction, powers and
authority of the State Commission may be exercised by Benches thereof.(ii)A
Bench may be constituted by the President with one or more members as the
President may deem fit.(iii)If the members of a Bench differ in opinion on any
point, the points shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority,
if there is a majority, but if the members are equally divided, they shall
state the point or points on which they differ, and make a reference to the
President who shall either hear the point or points himself or refer the case
for hearing on such point or points by one or more or the other members and
such point or points shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority
of the members who have heard the case, including those who first heard
it.(2)The salary or honorarium and other allowances payable to, and the other
terms and conditions of service *** of, the members of the State Commission
shall be such as may be prescribed by the State Government.Provided that the
appointment of a member on whole-time basis shall be made by the State
Government on the recommendation of the President of the State Commission
taking into consideration such factors as may be prescribed including the work
load of the State Commission.(3)Every member of the State Commission shall
hold office for a term of five years or up to the age of sixty-seven years,
whichever is earlier:Provided that a member shall be eligible for re-
appointment for another term of five years or up to the age of sixty-seven
years, whichever is earlier, subject to the condition that he fulfils the
qualifications and other conditions for appointment mentioned in clause (b) of
sub-section (1) and such re-appointment is made on the basis of the
recommendation of the Selection Committee:Provided further that a person
appointed as a President of the State Commission shall also be eligible for
re-appointment in the manner provided in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of this
section:Provided also that a member may resign his office in writing under his
hand addressed to the State Government and on such resignation being accepted,
his office shall become vacant and may be filled by appointment of a person
possessing any of the qualifications mentioned in sub-section (1) in relation
to the category of the member who is required to be appointed under the
provisions of sub-section (1A) in place of the person who has
resigned.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), a person
appointed as the President or as a member, before the commencement of the
Consumer Protection (Amendment) Act, 2002, shall continue to hold such office
as President or member, as the case may be, till the completion of his term.

### 17. Jurisdiction of the State Commission.—

(1)Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the State Commission shall
have jurisdiction—(a)to entertain—(i)complaints where the value of the goods
or services and compensation, if any, claimed exceeds rupees twenty lakhs but
does not exceed rupees one crore; and(ii)appeals against the orders of any
District Forum within the State; and(b)to call for the records and pass
appropriate orders in any consumer dispute which is pending before or has been
decided by any District Forum within the State, where it appears to the State
Commission that such District Forum has exercised a jurisdiction not vested in
it by law, or has failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or has acted in
exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.(2)A
complaint shall be instituted in a State Commission within the limits of whose
jurisdiction,—(a)the opposite party or each of the opposite parties, where
there are more than one, at the time of the institution of the complaint,
actually and voluntarily resides or carries on business or has a branch office
or personally works for gain; or(b)any of the opposite parties, where there
are more than one, at the time of the institution of the complaint, actually
and voluntarily resides, or carries on business or has a branch office or
personally works for gain, provided that in such case either the permission of
the State Commission is given or the opposite parties who do not reside or
carry on business or have a branch office or personally works for gain, as the
case may be, acquiesce in such institution; or(c)the cause of action, wholly
or in part, arises.

### 17A. Transfer of cases.—

On the application of the complainant or of its own motion, the State
Commission may, at any stage of the proceeding, transfer any complaint pending
before the District Forum to another District Forum within the State if the
interest of justice so requires.

### 17B. Circuit Benches.—

The State Commission shall ordinarily function in the State Capital but may
perform its functions at such other place as the State Government may, in
consultation with the State Commission, notify in the Official Gazette, from
time to time.

### 18. Procedure applicable to State Commissions.—

The provisions of sections 12, 13 and 14 and the rules made thereunder for the
disposal of complaints by the District Forum shall, with such modifications as
may be necessary, be applicable to the disposal of disputes by the State
Commission.

### 18A. Vacancy in the office of the President.—

***

### 19. Appeals.—

Any person aggrieved by an order made by the State Commission in exercise of
its powers conferred by sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of section 17 may prefer
an appeal against such order to the National Commission within a period of
thirty days from the date of the order in such form and manner as may be
prescribed:Provided that the National Commission may entertain an appeal after
the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied that there was
sufficient cause for not filing it within that period:Provided further that no
appeal by a person, who is required to pay any amount in terms of an order of
the State Commission, shall be entertained by the National Commission unless
the appellant has deposited in the prescribed manner fifty per cent. of the
amount or rupees thirty-five thousand, whichever is less.

### 19A. Hearing of appeal.—

An appeal filed before the State Commission or the National Commission shall
be heard as expeditiously as possible and an endeavour shall be made to
finally dispose of the appeal within a period of ninety days from the date of
its admission:Provided that no adjournment shall be ordinarily granted by the
State Commission or the National Commission, as the case may be, unless
sufficient cause is shown and the reasons for grant of adjournment have been
recorded in writing by such Commission:Provided further that the State
Commission or the National Commission, as the case may be, shall make such
orders as to the costs occasioned by the adjournment as may be provided in the
regulations made under this Act:Provided also that in the event of an appeal
being disposed of after the period so specified, the State Commission or the
National Commission, as the case may be, shall record in writing the reasons
for the same at the time of disposing of the said appeal.

### 20. Composition of the National Commission.—

(1)The National Commission shall consist of—(a)a person who is or has been a
Judge of the Supreme Court, to be appointed by the Central Government, who
shall be its President:Provided that no appointment under this clause shall be
made except after consultation with the Chief Justice of India;(b)not less
than four, and not more than such number of members, as may be prescribed, and
one of whom shall be a woman, who shall have the following qualifications,
namely:—(i)be not less than thirty-five years of age;(ii)possess a bachelor’s
degree from a recognised university; and(iii)be persons of ability, integrity
and standing and have adequate knowledge and experience of at least ten years
in dealing with problems relating to economics, law, commerce, accountancy,
industry, public affairs or administration:Provided that not more than fifty
per cent. of the members shall be from amongst the persons having a judicial
background.Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, the expression
“persons having judicial background” shall mean persons having knowledge and
experience for at least a period of ten years as a presiding officer at the
district level court or any tribunal at equivalent level:Provided further that
a person shall be disqualified for appointment, if he —(a)has been convicted
and sentenced to imprisonment for an offence which, in the opinion of the
Central Government, involves moral turpitude; or(b)is an undischarged
insolvent; or(c)is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent
court; or(d)has been removed or dismissed from the service of the Government
or a body corporate owned or controlled by the Government; or(e)has, in the
opinion of the Central Government, such financial or other interest as is
likely to affect prejudicially the discharge by him of his functions as a
member; or(f)has such other disqualifications as may be prescribed by the
Central Government:Provided also that every appointment under this clause
shall be made by the Central Government on the recommendation of a Selection
Committee consisting of the following, namely:—(a)a person who is a Judge of
the Supreme Court, —Chairman; to be nominated by the Chief Justice of
India;(b)the Secretary in the Department of Legal —Member; Affairs in the
Government of India;(c)Secretary of the Department dealing with —Member.
consumer affairs in the Government of India;(1A)(i)The jurisdiction, powers
and authority of the National Commission may be exercised by Benches
thereof.(ii)A Bench may be constituted by the President with one or more
members as the President may deem fit.(iii)If the members of a Bench differ in
opinion on any point, the points shall be decided according to the opinion of
the majority, if there is a majority, but if the members are equally divided,
they shall state the point or points on which they differ, and make a
reference to the President who shall either hear the point or points himself
or refer the case for hearing on such point or points by one or more or the
other members and such point or points shall be decided according to the
opinion of the majority of the members who have heard the case, including
those who first heard it.(2)The salary or honorarium and other allowances
payable to and the other terms and conditions of service *** of the members of
the National Commission shall be such as may be prescribed by the Central
Government.(3)Every member of the National Commission shall hold office for a
term of five years or up to the age of seventy years, whichever is
earlier:Provided that a member shall be eligible for re-appointment for
another term of five years or up to the age of seventy years, whichever is
earlier, subject to the condition that he fulfils the qualifications and other
conditions for appointment mentioned in clause (b) of sub-section (1) and such
re-appointment is made on the basis of the recommendation of the Selection
Committee:Provided further that a person appointed as a President of the
National Commission shall also be eligible for re-appointment in the manner
provided in clause (a) of sub-section (1):Provided also that a member may
resign his office in writing under his hand addressed to the Central
Government and on such resignation being accepted, his office shall become
vacant and may be filled by appointment of a person possessing any of the
qualifications mentioned in sub-section (1) in relation to the category of the
member who is required to be appointed under the provisions of sub-section
(1A) in place of the person who has resigned.(4)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (3), a person appointed as a President or as a member
before the commencement of the Consumer Protection (Amendment) Act, 2002 shall
continue to hold such office as President or member, as the case may be, till
the completion of his term.

### 21. Jurisdiction of the National Commission.—

Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the National Commission shall
have jurisdiction—(a)to entertain—(i)complaints where the value of the goods
or services and compensation, if any, claimed exceeds rupees one crore;
and(ii)appeals against the orders of any State Commission; and(b)to call for
the records and pass appropriate orders in any consumer dispute which is
pending before or has been decided by any State Commission where it appears to
the National Commission that such State Commission has exercised a
jurisdiction not vested in it by law, or has failed to exercise a jurisdiction
so vested, or has acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with
material irregularity.

### 22. Power and procedure applicable to the National Commission.—

(1)The provisions of sections 12, 13 and 14 and the rules made thereunder for
the disposal of complaints by the District Forum shall, with such
modifications as may be considered necessary by the Commission, be applicable
to the disposal of disputes by the National Commission.(2)Without prejudice to
the provisions contained in sub-section (1), the National Commission shall
have the power to review any order made by it, when there is an error apparent
on the face of record.

### 22A. Power to set aside ex parte orders.—

Where an order is passed by the National Commission ex parte against the
opposite party or a complainant, as the case may be, the aggrieved party may
apply to the Commission to set aside the said order in the interest of
justice.

### 22B. Transfer of cases.—

On the application of the complainant or of its own motion, the National
Commission may, at any stage of the proceeding, in the interest of justice,
transfer any complaint pending before the District Forum of one State to a
District Forum of another State or before one State Commission to another
State Commission.

### 22C. Circuit Benches.—

The National Commission shall ordinarily function at New Delhi and perform its
functions at such other place as the Central Government may, in consultation
with the National Commission, notify in the Official Gazette, from time to
time.

### 22D. Vacancy in the office of the President.—

When the office of President of a District Forum, State Commission, or of the
National Commission, as the case may be, is vacant or a person occupying such
office is, by reason of absence or otherwise, unable to perform the duties of
his office, these shall be performed by the senior-most member of the District
Forum, the State Commission or of the National Commission, as the case may
be:Provided that where a retired Judge of a High Court is a member of the
National Commission, such member or where the number of such members is more
than one, the senior-most person among such members, shall preside over the
National Commission in the absence of President of that Commission.

### 23. Appeal.—

Any person, aggrieved by an order made by the National Commission in exercise
of its powers conferred by sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of section 21, may
prefer an appeal against such order to the Supreme Court within a period of
thirty days from the date of the order:Provided that the Supreme Court may
entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it
is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within that
period:Provided further that no appeal by a person who is required to pay any
amount in terms of an order of the National Commission shall be entertained by
the Supreme Court unless that person has deposited in the prescribed manner
fifty per cent. of that amount or rupees fifty thousand, whichever is less.

### 24. Finality of orders.—

Every order of a District Forum, the State Commission or the National
Commission shall, if no appeal has been preferred against such order under the
provisions of this Act, be final.

### 24A. Limitation period.—

(1)The District Forum, the State Commission or the National Commission shall
not admit a complaint unless it is filed within two years from the date on
which the cause of action has arisen.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (1), a complaint may be entertained after the period specified in
sub-section (1), if the complainant satisfies the District Forum, the State
Commission or the National Commission, as the case may be, that he had
sufficient cause for not filing the complaint within such period:Provided that
no such complaint shall be entertained unless the National Commission, the
State Commission or the District Forum, as the case may be, records its
reasons for condoning such delay.

### 24B. Administrative control.—

(1)The National Commission shall have administrative control over all the
State Commissions in the following matters, namely:—(i)calling for periodical
return regarding the institution, disposal, pendency of cases;(ii)issuance of
instructions regarding adoption of uniform procedure in the hearing of
matters, prior service of copies of documents produced by one party to the
opposite parties, furnishing of English translation of judgments written in
any language, speedy grant of copies of documents;(iii)generally overseeing
the functioning of the State Commissions or the District Fora to ensure that
the objects and purposes of the Act are best served without in any way
interfering with their quasi-judicial freedom.(2)The State Commission shall
have administrative control over all the District Fora within its jurisdiction
in all matters referred to in sub-section (1).

### 25. Enforcement of orders of the District Forum, the State Commission or
the National Commission.—

(1)Where an interim order made under this Act is not complied with, the
District Forum or the State Commission or the National Commission, as the case
may be, may order the property of the person, not complying with such order to
be attached.(2)No attachment made under sub-section (1) shall remain in force
for more than three months at the end of which, if the non-compliance
continues, the property attached may be sold and out of the proceeds thereof,
the District Forum or the State Commission or the National Commission may
award such damages as it thinks fit to the complainant and shall pay the
balance, if any, to the party entitled thereto.(3)Where any amount is due from
any person under an order made by a District Forum, State Commission or the
National Commission, as the case may be, the person entitled to the amount may
make an application to the District Forum, the State Commission or the
National Commission, as the case may be, and such District Forum or the State
Commission or the National Commission may issue a certificate for the said
amount to the Collector of the district (by whatever name called) and the
Collector shall proceed to recover the amount in the same manner as arrears of
land revenue.

### 26. Dismissal of frivolous or vexatious complaints.—

Where a complaint instituted before the District Forum, the State Commission
or, as the case may be, the National Commission is found to be frivolous or
vexatious, it shall, for reasons to be recorded in writing, dismiss the
complaint and make an order that the complainant shall pay to the opposite
party such cost, not exceeding ten thousand rupees, as may be specified in the
order.

### 27. Penalties.—

(1)Where a trader or a person against whom a complaint is made or the
complainant fails or omits to comply with any order made by the District
Forum, the State Commission or the National Commission, as the case may be,
such trader or person or complainant shall be punishable with imprisonment for
a term which shall not be less than one month but which may extend to three
years, or with fine which shall not be less than two thousands rupees but
which may extend to ten thousand rupees, or with both:(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), the
District Forum or the State Commission or the National Commission, as the case
may be, shall have the power of a Judicial Magistrate of the first class for
the trial of offences under this Act, and on such conferment of powers, the
District Forum or the State Commission or the National Commission, as the case
may be, on whom the powers are so conferred, shall be deemed to be a Judicial
Magistrate of the first class for the purpose of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).(3)All offences under this Act may be tried
summarily by the District Forum or the State Commission or the National
Commission, as the case may be.

### 27A. Appeal against order passed under section 27.—

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973
(2 of 1974), an appeal under section 27, both on facts and on law, shall lie
from—(a)the order made by the District Forum to the State Commission;(b)the
order made by the State Commission to the National Commission; and(c)the order
made by the National Commission to the Supreme Court.(2)Except as aforesaid,
no appeal shall lie to any court from any order of a District Forum or a State
Commission or the National Commission.(3)Every appeal under this section shall
be preferred within a period of thirty days from the date of an order of a
District Forum or a State Commission or, as the case may be, the National
Commission:Provided that the State Commission or the National Commission or
the Supreme Court, as the case may be, may entertain an appeal after the
expiry of the said period of thirty days, if, it is satisfied that the
appellant had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within the period
of thirty days.

## Chapter IV  
Miscellaneous

### 28. Protection of action taken in good faith.—

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the members
of the District Forum, the State Commission or the National Commission or any
officer or person acting under the direction of the District Forum, the State
Commission or the National Commission for executing any order made by it or in
respect of anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done by such
member, officer or person under this Act or under any rule or order made
thereunder.

### 28A. Service of notice, etc.—

(1)All notices, required by this Act to be served, shall be served in the
manner hereinafter mentioned in sub-section (2).(2)The service of notices may
be made by delivering or transmitting a copy thereof by registered post
acknowledgment due addressed to opposite party against whom complaint is made
or to the complainant by speed post or by such courier service as are approved
by the District Forum, the State Commission or the National Commission, as the
case may be, or by any other means of transmission of documents (including FAX
message).(3)When an acknowledgment or any other receipt purporting to be
signed by the opposite party or his agent or by the complainant is received by
the District Forum, the State Commission or the National Commission, as the
case may be, or postal article containing the notice is received back by such
District Forum, State Commission or the National Commission, with an
endorsement purporting to have been made by a postal employee or by any person
authorised by the courier service to the effect that the opposite party or his
agent or complainant had refused to take delivery of the postal article
containing the notice or had refused to accept the notice by any other means
specified in sub-section (2) when tendered or transmitted to him, the District
Forum or the State Commission or the National Commission, as the case may be,
shall declare that the notice had been duly served on the opposite party or to
the complainant:Provided that where the notice was properly addressed, pre-
paid and duly sent by registered post acknowledgment due, a declaration
referred to in this sub-section shall be made notwithstanding the fact that
the acknowledgment has been lost or mislaid, or for any other reason, has not
been received by the District Forum, the State Commission or the National
Commission, as the case may be, within thirty days from the date of issue of
notice.(4)All notices required to be served on an opposite party or to
complainant shall be deemed to be sufficiently served, if addressed in the
case of the opposite party to the place where business or profession is
carried and in case of complainant, the place where such person actually and
voluntarily resides.

### 29. Power to remove difficulties.—

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order in the Official Gazette, make such
provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as appear to it to
be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty:Provided that no such
order shall be made after the expiry of a period of two years from the
commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this section shall, as soon
as may be after it is made, be laid before each House of Parliament.(3)If any
difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of the Consumer
Protection (Amendment) Act, 2002, the Central Government may, by order, do
anything not inconsistent with such provisions for the purpose of removing the
difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a
period of two years from the commencement of the Consumer Protection
(Amendment) Act, 2002.(4)Every order made under sub-section (3) shall be laid
before each House of Parliament.

### 29A. Vacancies or defects in appointment not to invalidate orders.—

No act or proceeding of the District Forum, the State Commission or the
National Commission shall be invalid by reason only of the existence of any
vacancy amongst its members or any defect in the constitution thereof.

### 30. Power to make rules.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out
the provisions contained in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 2, clause
(b) of sub-section (2) of section 4, sub-section (2) of section 5, sub-section
(2) of section 12, clause (vi) of sub-section (4) of section 13, clause (hb)
of sub-section (1) of section 14, section 19, clause (b) of sub-section (1)
and sub-section (2) of section 20, section 22 and section 23 of this
Act.(2)The State Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out
the provisions contained in clause (b) of sub-section (2) and sub-section (4)
of section 7, clause (b) of sub-section (2) and sub-section (4) of section 8A,
clause (b) of sub-section (1) and sub-section (3) of section 10, clause (c) of
sub-section (1) of section 13, clause (hb) of sub-section (1) and sub-section
(3) of section 14, section 15 and clause (b) of sub-section (1) and sub
section (2) of section 16 of this Act.

### 30A. Power of the National Commission to make regulations.—

(1)The National Commission may, with the previous approval of the Central
Government, by notification, make regulations not inconsistent with this Act
to provide for all matters for which provision is necessary or expedient for
the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular
and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such
regulations may make provisions for the cost of adjournment of any proceeding
before the District Forum, the State Commission or the National Commission, as
the case may be, which a party may be ordered to pay.

### 31. Rules and regulations to be laid before each House of Parliament.—

(1)Every rule and every regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as soon
as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in
session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or
regulation or both Houses agree that the rule or regulation should not be
made, the rule or regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or regulation.(2)Every rule made by a
State Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is
made, before the State Legislature.

