## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (SEVENTY-FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 1992

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (SEVENTY-FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 1992

## Act 071 of 1992

  * Published in Gazette of India on 20 August 1992 
  * Commenced on 31 August 1992 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 August 1992.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Seventy-
eighth Amendment) Bill, 1992 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Seventy-
first Amendment) Act, 1992_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** There have
been demands for inclusion of certain languages in the Eighth Schedule to the
Constitution. It is proposed to include Konkani, Manipuri and Nepali languages
in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution. The Bill seeks to give effect to
this decision.

### 2. The Napali language is also known in some areas as `Gorkha Bhasa'. In
the Census operations, other nomenclatures such as `Gorkhali', `Gorkdhi',
`Gurkhiya', `Khaskura' or `Naipali' have also been used.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Forty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Seventy-first Amendment) Act, 1992.

### 2\. Amendment of Eighth Schedule.-

In the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution,-(a)existing entry 7 shall be re-
numbered as entry 8, and before entry 8 as so re-numbered, the entry "7.
Konkani." shall be inserted;(b)existing entry 8 shall be re-numbered as entry
10, and before entry 10 as so re-numbered, the entry "9. Manipuri." shall be
inserted;(c)existing entries 9 to 15 shall be re-numbered as entries 12 to 18
respectively, and before entry 12 as so re-numbered, the entry "11. Nepali."
shall be inserted.[The Constitution (Seventy-first Amendment) Act, 1992,
amended the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution so as to include Konkani,
Meitei (officially called "Manipuri") and Nepali languages, thereby raising
the total number of languages listed in the schedule to eighteen. The Eighth
Schedule lists languages that the Government of India has the responsibility
to develop. The Eighth Schedule to the Constitution originally included 14
languages Sindhi was included by the 21st Amendment, enacted in 1967. Bodo,
Dogri, Santhali and Maithili were included in the Eighth Schedule in 2004,
through the 92nd Amendment, raising the total number of languages to 22. Also
Refer]

