## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (SEVENTY-NINTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1999

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (SEVENTY-NINTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1999

## Act 079 of 1999

  * Published in Gazette of India on 21 October 1999 
  * Commenced on 21 January 2000 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 October 1999.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Eighty-
Fourth Amendment) Bill, 1999 which was enacted as the Constitution (Seventy-
ninth Amendment) Act, 2000._****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** Article 334
of the Constitution lays down that the provisions of the Constitution relating
to the reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes
and the representation of Anglo-Indian community by nomination in the Lok
Sabha and in the Legislative Assemblies of the States shall cease to have
effect on the expiration of a period of fifty years from the commencement of
the Constitution. Although the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes have
made considerable progress in the last fifty years, the reasons which weighed
with the Constituent Assembly in making provisions with regard to the
aforesaid reservation of seats and nomination of members, have not ceased to
exist. It is, therefore, proposed to continue the reservation for the
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes and the representation of the Anglo-
Indians by nomination for a further period of ten years.The Bill seeks to
achieve the above objectAn act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE
it enacted by Parliament in the Fiftieth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-Short title and Commencement:(1)This Act may be called the
Constitution (Seventy-Ninth Amendment) Act, 1999.(2)It shall come into force
on the 25th day of January, 2000.

### 2\. Amendment of article 334: In article 334 of the Constitution, for the
words "fifty years", the words "sixty years" shall be substituted.

[The Constitution (Seventy-ninth Amendment) Act, 1999, extended the period of
reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and
representation of the Anglo-Indians in the Lok Sabha and the State Legislative
Assemblies for another ten years, i.e. up to 26 January 2010. Article 334 of
the Constitution had originally required the reservation of seats to cease in
1960, but this was extended to 1970 by the 8th Amendment. The period of
reservation was extended to 1980, 1990, and 2000 by the 23rd, 45th and 62nd
Amendments respectively. The 79th Amendment extended this period to 2010. The
period of reservation was further extended to 2020 and 2030 by the 95th and
104th Amendments.Also Refer ]

