## Union of India - Act

## The Citizenship Act, 1955

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Citizenship Act, 1955

## Act 57 of 1955

  * Published on 30 December 1955 
  * Commenced on 30 December 1955 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 December 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2003 (Act 6 of 2004) on 1 January 2004] 
  2. [Amended by THE CITIZENSHIP (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2005 (Act 32 of 2005) on 24 August 2005] 
  3. [Amended by THE CITIZENSHIP (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2015 (Act 01 of 2015) on 10 March 2015] 
  4. [Amended by The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (Act 47 of 2019) on 12 December 2019] 
  5. [Amended by The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (Act 47 of 2019) on 12 December 2019] 

The Citizenship Act, 1955(57 of 1955)Last Updated 13th December, 2019Statement
of Objects and Reasons. - Articles 5 to 9 of the Constitution determine who
are Indian citizens at the commencement of the Constitution and article 10
provides for their continuance as such citizens subject to the provisions of
any law that may be made by Parliament. The Constitution does not, however,
make any provision with respect to the acquisition of citizenship after its
commencement or the termination of citizenship or other matters relating to
citizenship. Under article 11, the Constitution expressly saves the power of
Parliament to make a law to provide for such matters. It is obviously
necessary to make such a law to supplement the provisions of the Constitution
and this Bill seeks to achieve this object.This Bill provides for the
acquisition of citizenship, after the commencement of the Constitution, by
birth, descent, registration, naturalisation and incorporation of territory.
It also makes necessary provisions for the termination and deprivation of
citizenship under certain circumstances. The Bill also seeks to formally
recognize Commonwealth citizenship and permit the Central Government to extend
on a reciprocal basis such rights of an Indian citizen as may be agreed upon
to the citizens of other Commonwealth countries and the Republic of
Ireland.Amendment Act 65 of 1985-Statement of Objects and Reasons. - The core
of the Memorandum of Settlement (Assam Accord) relates to the foreigners'
issue, since the agitation launched by the A.A.S.U. arose out of their
apprehensions regarding the continuing influx of foreign nationals into Assam
and the fear about adverse effects upon the political, social cultural and
economic life of the State.(2) Assam Accord being a political settlement,
legislation is required to give effect to the relevant clauses of the Assam
Accord relating to the foreigners' issue.(3) It is intended that all persons
of Indian origin who came to Assam before the 1st January, 1966 (including
such of those whose names were included in the electoral rolls used for the
purpose of General Election to the House of the People held in 1967) and who
have been ordinarily resident in Assam ever since shall be deemed to be
citizens of India as from the 1st day of January, 1966. Further, every person
of Indian origin who came on or after the 1st January, 1966 but before the
25th March, 1971 from territories presently included in Bangladesh and who has
been ordinarily resident in Assam ever since and who has been detected in
accordance with the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and the Foreigners
(Tribunals) Order, 1964, shall, upon registration, be deemed to be a citizen
for all purposes as from the date of expiry of a period of ten years from the
date of detection as a foreigner. It is also intended that in the intervening
period of 10 years, these persons should not suffer from any other disability
vis-a-vis citizens, excepting the right to vote and that proper record shall
be maintained of such persons. To inspire confidence, judicial element should
be associated to determine eligibility in each and every case under this
category.Amendment Act 6 of 2004-Statement of Objects and Reasons. - The
Citizenship Act, 1955 which provides for the acquisition of citizenship, after
the commencement of the Constitution by birth, descent, registration,
naturalisation and incorporation of territory under certain circumstances, and
also provides for the termination and deprivation of citizenship, was among
those 109 Central Acts identified for a review by the Commission on Review of
Administrative Laws constituted by the Central Government under the
Chairmanship of Shri P.C. Jain in 1998. Subsequently, the High Level Committee
on Indian Diaspora constituted by the Central Government, inter alia,
recommended the amendment of this Act to provide for the grant of dual
citizenship to persons of Indian origin belonging to certain specified
countries. The Central Government has accordingly decided to make provisions
for the grant of dual citizenship and has taken the opportunity of introducing
a scheme for the compulsory registration of every citizen of India, and for
this purpose to issue national identity cards.2\. The above objects are
proposed to be achieved, inter alia, by amending provisions of the Citizenship
Act so as to-(i) make acquisition of Indian citizenship by registration and
naturalisation more stringent;(ii) prevent illegal migrants from becoming
eligible for Indian citizenship;(iii) simplify the procedure to facilitate the
re-acquisition of Indian citizenship by persons of full age who are children
of Indian citizens, and former citizens of independent India;(iv) provide for
the grant of overseas citizenship of India to persons of Indian origin
belonging to specified countries, and Indian citizens who choose to acquire
the citizenship of any of these countries at a later date;(v) provide for the
compulsory registration and issue of a national identity card to all citizens
of India;(vi) enhance the penalty for violation of its provisions, as well as
the rules framed under it; and(vii) to omit all provisions recognizing, or
relating to the Commonwealth citizenship from the Act.Amendment Act 32 of
2005-Statement of Objects and Reasons. - The Citizenship Act, 1955 provides
for the acquisition of citizenship, at the commencement of the Constitution by
birth, descent, registration, naturalization and incorporation of territory
under certain circumstances, and also provides for the termination and
deprivation of citizenship: High Powered Committee on Indian Diaspora,
constituted by the Central Government, inter alia, recommended the amendment
of the said Act to provide for grant of dual citizenship to persons of Indian
origin belonging to certain specified countries. The Central Government has,
accordingly, notified the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2003 (6 of 2004) making
provision for acquisition of Overseas Citizenship of India (OCI) by the
Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs) of 16 specified countries other than Pakistan
and Bangladesh. The Prime Minister in the Pravasi Bhartiya Divas, 2005 made a
statement on OCI scheme that the Government has decided to grant OCI to all
overseas Indians who migrated from India after 26th January, 1950 as long as
their home countries allow dual citizenship under their local laws. In order
to implement the Government's decision, an Ordinance called the Citizenship
(Amendment) Ordinance, 2005 was promulgated on 28th June, 2005 to extend the
scope of OCI or PIOs of all countries except Pakistan and Bangladesh as long
as their countries allow dual citizenship. The said Ordinance is proposed to
be replaced by a Bill by amending the provisions of the Citizenship Act, 1955
so as to-(i) expand the scope of grant of Overseas Citizenship of India to
Persons of Indian Origin of all countries except Pakistan and Bangladesh;
and(ii) reduce the period of residence in India from two years to one year for
the persons registered as Overseas Citizens of India to acquire Indian
citizenship.2\. The Bill seeks to replace the aforesaid Ordinance.Amendment
Act 65 of 1957-Statement of Objects and Reasons. Section 2 (1)(c) of the
citizenship Act, 1955, empowers the Central Government to declare, by
notification in the Official Gazettee, the citizenship or nationality law in
relation to any country specified in the First Schedule at the request of the
Government of that country. Where such a declaration is made, persons of full
age and capacity who are the citizens of that particular country may, subject
to such conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed in this behalf, be
registered as citizens as may be prescribed in this behalf, be registered as
citizens of India under the provisions of section 5(1)(e) of the Citizenship
Act. Since the enactment of the Citizenship Act in 1955, Ghana, the Federation
of Malaya and Singapore have become Commonwealth countries. In order to enable
the Government of India to notify, on a reciprocal basis, the citizenship or
nationality law of these countries as and when it become necessary, it is
proposed to amend the Act to include these countries also in the First
Schedule.Amendment Act 51 of 1986-Statement of Objects and Reasons. A large
number of persons of Indian origin have entered the territory of India from
Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and some Africa countries and they are residing in
India. Government has taken a serious view of the entry of persons
clandestinely into India and with a view to making the provisions of the
Citizenship Act relating to the grant of Indian citizenship more stringent it
is proposed inter alia to make the following changes in the Citizenship Act,
1955, namely:-(i) under the existing provisions every person born in India on
or after the 26th day of January, 1950. shall he a citizen of India by birth.
With a view to preventing automatic acquisition of citizenship of India by
birth, it is proposed to amend the Act to provide that every person born in
India after the commencement of the antendine Act will become a citizen of
India by birth only if at the time of his birth either of his parents is a
citizen of India;(ii) under the Act, certain categories of persons may apply
for citizenship by registration. One such category is of those persons of
Indian origin who are ordinarily residents in India and have been so residents
for six months immediately before making an application for registration.
Another category is of women who are, or have been, married to citizens of
India. These provisions are proposed to be made more stringent by providing
that a person would be eligible for citizenship by registration only if he is
ordinarily resident in India and have been so resident for five years
immediately before staking an application for registration. It is also
proposed to change the word "women" by "person" in the latter category so that
the eligibility of citizenship through marriage to citizens of India now
admissible to women only is extended to men also.(iii) under the Act, a person
who is not a citizen of a Commonwealth country referred to in the First
Schedule to the Act may apply for the grant Of a certificate of naturalization
if he has resided in India for the period of at least five years. It is
proposed to increase this period to ten years.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve
the aforesaid objects. Gazette of Ind., 4-11-1986, Pt. II, Section 2. Ext., P.
3 (No. 43).Amendment Act 39 of 1992-Statement of Objects and Reasons. India is
a signatory to the Convention on Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination
against Women adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 18th
December, 1979. Article 9(2) of the Convention requires that the "States
Parties shall giant woutcn equal rights with men with respect to the
nationality of their children". Sub-section (1) of section 4 of the
Citizenship Act, 1955 provides that a person born outside India on or after
26th January, 1950 shall he a citizen of India by descent only if his father
is an Indian citizen at the time of his birth. With a view to eliminate
discrimination against women in respect of nationality of their children and
in order to bring the provisions of the Citizenship Act, 1955 in conformity
with article 9(2) of the aforesaid Convention, it is proposed to amend the
said Act so as to provide that every person born outside India on or after the
coining into force of the provisions of the Bill shall become a citizen of
India by descent it either of his parents is a citizen of India.2\. The Bill
seeks to achieve the aforesaid object. - Gazette of India, 31-5-1990, Pt. II.
Section 2, Ext., p. 3 (No. 30).[30th December, 1955]An Act to provide for the
acquisition and determination of Indian citizenship.Be it enacted by
Parliament in the Sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:

### 1. Short title.

\- This Act may be called The Citizenship Act , 1955.

### 2. Interpretation.

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)a Government in India
means the Central Government or a State Government;(b)illegal migrant means a
foreigner who has entered into India(i)without a valid passport or other
travel documents and such other document or authority as may be prescribed by
or under any law in that behalf; or(ii)with a valid passport or other travel
documents and such other document or authority as may be prescribed by or
under any law in that behalf but remains therein beyond the permitted period
of time;**[Provided that any person belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain,
Parsi or Christian community from Afghanistan, Bangladesh or Pakistan, who
entered into India on or before the 31st day of December, 2014 and who has
been exempted by the Central Government by or under clause (c) of sub-section
(2) of section 3 of the Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920 or from the
application of the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946 or any rule or order
made thereunder, shall not be treated as illegal migrant for the purposes of
this Act;][Inserted by Act No. 47 of 2019, dated 12.12.2019.]**(d)Indian
consulate means the office of any consular officer of the Government of India
where a register of births is kept, or where there is no such office, such
office as may be prescribed;(e)minor means a person who has not attained the
age of eighteen years;(ee)[ "overseas citizen of India Cardholder" means a
person registered as an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder by the Central
Government under section 7A] [Substituted by Act No. 1 of 2015.];(f)person
does not include any company or association or body of individuals, whether
incorporated or not;(g)prescribed means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;[* * *](h)undivided India means India as defined in the Government of
India Act, 1935, as originally enacted.(2)For the purposes of this Act, a
person born aboard a registered ship or aircraft, or aboard an unregistered
ship or aircraft of the Government of any country, shall be deemed to have
been born in the place in which the ship or aircraft was registered or, as the
case may be, in that country.(3)Any reference in this Act to the status or
description of the father of a person at the time of that persons birth shall,
in relation to a person born after the death of his father, be construed as a
reference to the status or description of the father at the time of the
fathers death; and where that death occurred before, and the birth occurs
after, the commencement of this Act, the status or description which would
have been applicable to the father had he died after the commencement of this
Act shall be deemed to be the status or description applicable to him at the
time of his death.(4)For the purposes of this Act, a person shall be deemed to
be of full age if he is not a minor and of full capacity if he is not of
unsound mind.Acquisition Of Citizenship

### 3. Citizenship by birth.

(1)Except as provided in sub-section (2), every person born in India(a)on or
after the 26th day of January, 1950, but before the 1st day of July,
1987;(b)on or after the 1st day of July, 1987, but before the commencement of
the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2003 and either of whose parents is a citizen
of India at the time of his birth;(c)on or after the commencement of the
Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2003, where(i)both of his parents are citizens of
India; or(ii)one of whose parents is a citizen of India and the other is not
an illegal migrant at the time of his birth, shall be a citizen of India by
birth.(2)a person shall not be a citizen of India by virtue of this section if
at the time of his birth(a)either his father or mother possesses such immunity
from suits and legal process as is accorded to an envoy of a foreign sovereign
power accredited to the President of India and he or she, as the case may be,
is not a citizen of India; or(b)his father or mother is an enemy alien and the
birth occurs in a place then under occupation by the enemy.

### 4. Citizenship by descent.

(1)A person born outside India shall be a citizen of India by descent,(a)on or
after the 26th day of January, 1950, but before the 10th day of December,
1992, if his father is a citizen of India at the time of his birth; or(b)on or
after the 10th day of December, 1992, if either of his parents is a citizen of
India at the time of his birth:Provided that if the father of a person
referred to in clause (a) was a citizen of India by descent only, that person
shall not be a citizen of India by virtue of this section unless(a)his birth
is registered at an Indian consulate within one year of its occurrence or the
commencement of this Act, whichever is later, or, with the permission of the
Central Government, after the expiry of the said period; or(b)his father is,
at the time of his birth, in service under a Government in India:Provided
further that if either of the parents of a person referred to in clause (b)
was a citizen of India by descent only, that person shall not be a citizen of
India by virtue of this section, unless(a)his birth is registered at an Indian
consulate within one year of its occurrence or on or after the 10th day of
December, 1992, whichever is later, or, with the permission of the Central
Government, after the expiry of the said period; or(b)either of his parents
is, at the time of his birth, in service under a Government in India:Provided
also that on or after the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act,
2003, a person shall not be a citizen of India by virtue of this section,
unless his birth is registered at an Indian consulate in such form and in such
manner, as may be prescribed,(i)within one year of its occurrence or the
commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2003, whichever is later;
or(ii)with the permission of the Central Government, after the expiry of the
said period:Provided also that no such birth shall be registered unless the
parents of such person declare, in such form and in such manner as may be
prescribed, that the minor does not hold the passport of another country.(1-A)
a minor who is a citizen of India by virtue of this section and is also a
citizen of any other country shall cease to be a citizen of India if he does
not renounce the citizenship or nationality of another country within six
months of attaining full age.(2)If the Central Government so directs, a birth
shall be deemed for the purposes of this section to have been registered with
its permission, notwithstanding that its permission was not obtained before
the registration.(3)For the purposes of the proviso to sub-section (1), [any
person] [Substituted by Act 39 of 1992, Section 2, for " any male person"
(w.e.f. 10.12.1992).] born outside undivided India who was, or was deemed to
be, a citizen of India at the commencement of the Constitution shall be deemed
to be a citizen of India by descent only.

### 5. Citizenship by registration.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this section and such other conditions and
restrictions as may be prescribed, the Central Government may, on an
application made in this behalf, register as a citizen of India any person not
being an illegal migrant who is not already such citizen by virtue of the
Constitution or of any other provision of this Act if he belongs to any of the
following categories, namely:(a)a person of Indian origin who is ordinarily
resident in India for seven years before making an application for
registration;(b)a person of Indian origin who is ordinarily resident in any
country or place outside undivided India;(c)a person who is married to a
citizen of India and is ordinarily resident in India for seven years before
making an application for registration;(d)minor children of persons who are
citizens of India;(e)a person of full age and capacity whose parents are
registered as citizens of India under clause (a) of this sub-section or sub-
section (1) of section 6;(f)a person of full age and capacity who, or either
of his parents, was earlier citizen of independent India, and [is ordinarily
resident in India for twelve months] [Substituted the words 'has been residing
in India for one year' by Act No. 1 of 2015.] immediately before making an
application for registration.(g)a person of full age and capacity who has been
registered as an [Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder] [Substituted the words
'Overseas Citizen of India' by Act No. 1 of 2015.] for five years, and who [is
ordinarily resident in India for twelve months] [Substituted the words 'has
been residing in India for one year' by Act No. 1 of 2015.] before making an
application for registration.Explanation. - 1. For the purposes of clauses (a)
and (c), an applicant shall be deemed to be ordinarily resident in India
if(i)he has resided in India throughout the period of twelve months
immediately before making an application for registration; and(ii)he has
resided in India during the eight years immediately preceding the said period
of twelve months for a period of not less than six years.Explanation 2.For the
purposes of this sub-section, a person shall be deemed to be of Indian origin
if he, or either of his parents, was born in undivided India or in such other
territory which became part of India after the 15th day of August, 1947.(1A)[
The Central Government, if it is satisfied that special circumstances exist,
may after recording the circumstances in writing, relax the period of twelve
months, specified in clauses (f) and (g) and clause (i) of Explanation 1 of
sub-section (1), up to a maximum of thirty days which may be in different
breaks.] [Inserted by Act No. 1 of 2015.](2)No person being of full age shall
be registered as a citizen of India under sub-section (1) until he has taken
the oath of allegiance in the form specified in the Second Schedule.(3)No
person who has renounced, or has been deprived of, his Indian citizenship or
whose Indian citizenship has terminated, under this Act shall be registered as
a citizen of India under sub-section (1) except by order of the Central
Government.(4)The Central Government may, if satisfied that there are special
circumstances justifying such registration, cause any minor to be registered
as a citizen of India.(5)a person registered under this section shall be a
citizen of India by registration as from the date on which he is so
registered; and a person registered under the provisions of clause (b)(ii) of
article 6 or article 8 of the Constitution shall be deemed to be a citizen of
India by registration as from the commencement of the Constitution or the date
on which he was so registered, whichever may be later.(6)[ If the Central
Government is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary to
grant exemption from the residential requirement under clause (c) of sub-
section (1) to any person or a class of persons, it may, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, grant such exemption.] [Inserted by Act 6 of 2004,
Section 5 (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).]

### 6. Citizenship by naturalisation.

(1)Where an application is made in the prescribed manner by any person of full
age and capacity [not being an illegal migrant] [Substituted by Act 6 of 2004,
Section 6, for " who is not a citizen of a country specified in the First
Schedule" (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).] for the grant of a certificate of
naturalisation to him, the Central Government may, if satisfied that the
applicant is qualified for naturalisation under the provisions of the Third
Schedule, grant to him a certificate of naturalisation:Provided that, if in
the opinion of the Central Government, the applicant is a person who has
rendered distinguished service to the cause of science, philosophy, art,
literature, world peace or human progress generally, it may waive all or any
of the conditions specified in the Third Schedule.(2)The person to whom a
certificate of naturalisation is granted under sub-section (1)shall, on taking
the oath of allegiance in the form specified in the Second Schedule, be a
citizen of India by naturalisation as from the date on which that certificate
is granted.

### 6A. [ Special provisions as to citizenship of persons covered by the Assam
Accord. [Inserted by Act 65 of 1985, Section 2 (w.e.f. 7.12.1985).]

(1)For the purposes of this section(a)Assam means the territories included in
the State of Assam immediately before the commencement of the Citizenship
(Amendment) Act, 1985;(b)detected to be a foreigner means detected to be a
foreigner in accordance with the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946 (31 of
1946), and the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964by a Tribunal constituted
under the said Order;(c)specified territory means the territories included in
Bangladesh immediately before the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment)
Act, 1985;(d)a person shall be deemed to be of Indian origin, if he, or either
of his parents or any of his grandparents was born in undivided India;(e)a
person shall be deemed to have been detected to be a foreigner on the date on
which a Tribunal constituted under the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964
submits its opinion to the effect that he is a foreigner to the officer or
authority concerned.(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (6) and (7),
all persons of Indian origin who came before the 1st day of January, 1966 to
Assam from the specified territory (including such of those whose names were
included in the electoral rolls used for the purposes of the General Election
to the House of the People held in 1967) and who have been ordinarily resident
in Assam since the dates of their entry into Assam shall be deemed to be
citizens of India as from the 1st day of January, 1966.(3)Subject to the
provisions of sub-sections (6) and (7), every person of Indian origin
who(a)came to Assam on or after the 1st day of January, 1966 but before the
25th day of March, 1971 from the specified territory; and(b)has, since the
date of his entry into Assam, been ordinarily resident in Assam; and(c)has
been detected to be a foreigner, shall register himself in accordance with the
rules made by the Central Government in this behalf under section 18 with such
authority (hereafter in this sub-section referred to as the registering
authority) as may be specified in such rules and if his name is included in
any electoral roll for any Assembly or Parliamentary constituency in force on
the date of such detection, his name shall be deleted therefrom.Explanation. -
In the case of every person seeking registration under this sub-section, the
opinion of the Tribunal constituted under the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order,
1964 holding such person to be a foreigner, shall be deemed to be sufficient
proof of the requirement under clause (c) of this sub-section and if any
question arises as to whether such person complies with any other requirement
under this sub-section, the registering authority shall,(i)if such opinion
contains a finding with respect to such other requirement, decide the question
in conformity with such finding;(ii)if such opinion does not contain a finding
with respect to such other requirement, refer the question to a Tribunal
constituted under the said Order having jurisdiction in accordance with such
rules as the Central Government may make in this behalf under section 18 and
decide the question in conformity with the opinion received on such
reference.(4)a person registered under sub-section (3) shall have, as from the
date on which he has been detected to be a foreigner and till the expiry of a
period of ten years from that date, the same rights and obligations as a
citizen of India (including the right to obtain a passport under the Passports
Act, 1967 (15 of 1967) and the obligations connected therewith), but shall not
be entitled to have his name included in any electoral roll for any Assembly
or Parliamentary constituency at any time before the expiry of the said period
of ten years.(5)a person registered under sub-section (3) shall be deemed to
be a citizen of India for all purposes as from the date of expiry of a period
of ten years from the date on which he has been detected to be a
foreigner.(6)Without prejudice to the provisions of section 8,(a)if any person
referred to in sub-section (2) submits in the prescribed manner and form and
to the prescribed authority within sixty days from the date of commencement of
the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 1985, a declaration that he does not wish to
be a citizen of India, such person shall not be deemed to have become a
citizen of India under that sub-section;(b)if any person referred to in sub-
section (3) submits in the prescribed manner and form and to the prescribed
authority within sixty days from the date of commencement of the Citizenship
(Amendment) Act, 1985, for year or from the date on which he has been detected
to be a foreigner, whichever is later, a declaration that he does not wish to
be governed by the provisions of that sub-section and sub-sections (4) and
(5), it shall not be necessary for such person to register himself under sub-
section (3).Explanation. - Where a person required to file a declaration under
this sub-section does not have the capacity to enter into a contract, such
declaration may be filed on his behalf by any person competent under the law
for the time being in force to act on his behalf.(7)Nothing in sub-sections
(2) to (6) shall apply in relation to any person(a)who, immediately before the
commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 1985, is a citizen of
India;(b)who was expelled from India before the commencement of the
Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 1985, under the Foreigners Act, 1946 (31 of
1946).(8)Save as otherwise expressly provided in this section, the provisions
of this section shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in any
other law for the time being in force.]**6B. [ Special provisions as to
citizenship of person covered by proviso to clause (b) of sub-section (1) of
section 2. [Inserted by Act No. 47 of 2019, dated 12.12.2019.](1)The Central
Government or an authority specified by it in this behalf may, subject to such
conditions, restrictions and manner as may be prescribed, on an application
made in this behalf, grant a certificate of registration or certificate of
naturalisation to a person referred to in the proviso to clause (b) of sub-
section (1) of section 2.(2)Subject to fulfilment of the conditions specified
in section 5 or the qualifications for naturalisation under the provisions of
the Third Schedule, a person granted the certificate of registration or
certificate of naturalisation under sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be a
citizen of India from the date of his entry into India.(3)On and from the date
of commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, any proceeding
pending against a person under this section in respect of illegal migration or
citizenship shall stand abated on conferment of citizenship to him:Provided
that such person shall not be disqualified for making application for
citizenship under this section on the ground that the proceeding is pending
against him and the Central Government or authority specified by it in this
behalf shall not reject his application on that ground if he is otherwise
found qualified for grant of citizenship under this section:Provided further
that the person who makes the application for citizenship under this section
shall not be deprived of his rights and privileges to which he was entitled on
the date of receipt of his application on the ground of making such
application.(4)Nothing in this section shall apply to tribal area of Assam,
Meghalaya, Mizoram or Tripura as included in the Sixth Schedule to the
Constitution and the area covered under "The Inner Line" notified under the
Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation, 1873.]**

### 7. Citizenship by incorporation of territory.

\- If any territory becomes a part of India, the Central Government may, by
order notified in the Official Gazette, specify the persons who shall be
citizens of India by reason of their connection with that territory; and those
persons shall be citizens of India as from the date to be specified in the
order.Overseas Citizenship

### 7A. [ Registration of Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder. [Substituted
by Act No. 1 of 2015.]

(1)The Central Government may, subject to such conditions, restrictions and
manner as may be prescribed, on an application made in this behalf, register
as an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder-(a)any person of full age and
capacity,-(i)who is a citizen of another country, but was a citizen of India
at the time of, or at any time after the commencement of the Constitution;
or(ii)who is a citizen of another country, but was eligible to become a
citizen of India at the time of the commencement of the Constitution;
or(iii)who is a citizen of another country, but belonged to a territory that
became part of India after the 15th day of August,1947; or(iv)who is a child
or a grandchild or a great grandchild of such a citizen; or(b)a person, who is
a minor child of a person mentioned in clause (a); or(c)a person, who is a
minor child, and whose both parents are citizens of India or one of the
parents is a citizen of India; or(d)spouse of foreign origin of a citizen of
India or spouse of foreign origin of an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder
registered under section 7A and whose marriage has been registered and
subsisted for a continuous period of not less than two years immediately
preceding the presentation of the application under this section:Provided that
for the eligibility for registration as an Overseas Citizen of India
Cardholder, such spouse shall be subjected to prior security clearance by a
competent authority in India:Provided further that no person, who or either of
whose parents or grandparents or great grandparents is or had been a citizen
of Pakistan, Bangladesh or such other country as the Central Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, specify, shall be eligible for
registration as an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder under this sub-
section.(2)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify the date from which the existing Persons of Indian Origin
Cardholders shall be deemed to be Overseas Citizens of India
Cardholders.Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-section, "Persons of
Indian Origin Cardholders" means the persons registered as such under
notification number 26011/4/98 F.I., dated the 19th August, 2002, issued by
the Central Government in this regard.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (1), the Central Government may, if it is satisfied that special
circumstances exist, after recording the circumstances in writing, register a
person as an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder.

### 7B. Conferment of rights on Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder shall be entitled to such
rights, other than the rights specified under sub-section (2), as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this
behalf.(2)An Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder shall not be entitled to the
rights conferred on a citizen of India-(a)under article 16 of the Constitution
with regard to equality of opportunity in matters of public
employment;(b)under article 58 of the Constitution for election as
President;(c)under article 66 of the Constitution for election as Vice-
President;(d)under article 124 of the Constitution for appointment as a Judge
of the Supreme Court;(e)under article 217 of the Constitution for appointment
as a Judge of the High Court;(f)under section 16 of the Representation of the
People Act,1950 in regard to registration as a voter;(g)under sections 3 and 4
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 with regard to the eligibility
for being a member of the House of the People or of the Council of States, as
the case may be;(h)under sections 5, 5A and section 6 of the Representation of
the People Act, 1951 with regard to the eligibility for being a member of the
Legislative Assembly or the Legislative Council, as the case may be, of a
State;(i)for appointment to public services and posts in connection with
affairs of the Union or of any State except for appointment in such services
and posts as the Central Government may, by special order in that behalf,
specify.(3)Every notification issued under sub-section (1) shall be laid
before each House of Parliament.

### 7C. Renunciation of Overseas Citizen of India Card.

(1)If any Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder of full age and capacity makes
in prescribed manner a declaration renouncing the Card registering him as an
Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder, the declaration shall be registered by
the Central Government, and upon such registration, that person shall cease to
be an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder.(2)Where a person ceases to be an
Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder under sub-section (1), the spouse of
foreign origin of that person, who has obtained Overseas Citizen of India Card
under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 7A, and every minor child of
that person registered as an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder shall
thereupon cease to be an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder.

### 7D. Cancellation of registration as Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder.

\- The Central Government may, by order, cancel the registration granted under
sub-section (1) of section 7A, if it is satisfied that-(a)the registration as
an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder was obtained by means of fraud, false
representation or the concealment of any material fact; or(b)the Overseas
Citizen of India Cardholder has shown disaffection towards the Constitution,
as by law established; or(c)the Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder has,
during any war in which India may be engaged, unlawfully traded or
communicated with an enemy or been engaged in, or associated with, any
business or commercial activity that was to his knowledge carried on in such
manner as to assist an enemy in that war; or(d)the Overseas Citizen of India
Cardholder has, within five years after registration under sub-section (1) of
section 7A, been sentenced to imprisonment for a term of not less than two
years; or**(da) [ the Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder has violated any of
the provisions of this Act or provisions of any other law for time being in
force as may be specified by the Central Government in the notification
published in the Official Gazette; or][Inserted by Act No. 47 of 2019, dated
12.12.2019.]**(e)it is necessary so to do in the interests of the sovereignty
and integrity of India, the security of India, friendly relations of India
with any foreign country, or in the interests of the general public; or(f)the
marriage of an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder, who has obtained such
Card under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 7A,-(i)has been dissolved
by a competent court of law or otherwise; or(ii)has not been dissolved but,
during the subsistence of such marriage, he has solemnised marriage with any
other person.]**[Provided that no order under this section shall be passed
unless the Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder has been given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard.][Inserted by Act No. 47 of 2019, dated
12.12.2019.]**Termination of citizenship

### 8. Renunciation of citizenship.

(1)If any citizen of India of full age and capacity, [* * *] [The words " who
is also a citizen or national of another country" omitted by Act 6 of 2004,
Section 8 (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).] makes in the prescribed manner a declaration
renouncing his Indian citizenship, the declaration shall be registered by the
prescribed authority; and, upon such registration, that person shall cease to
be a citizen of India:Provided that if any such declaration is made during any
war in which India may be engaged, registration thereof shall be withheld
until the Central Government otherwise directs.(2)Where [a person]
[Substituted by Act 39 of 1992, Section 3, for " a male person" (w.e.f.
10.12.1987).] ceases to be a citizen of India under sub-section (1), every
minor child of that person shall thereupon cease to be a citizen of
India:Provided that any such child may, within one year after attaining full
age, make a declaration [in the prescribed form and manner] [Inserted by Act 6
of 2004, Section 8 (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).]that he wishes to resume Indian
citizenship and shall thereupon again become a citizen of India.[* * *] [Sub-
Section (3) omitted by Act 6 of 2004, Section 8 (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).]

Prior to its omission, sub-Section (3) read as under:-(3) For the purpose of
this section, any woman who is, or has been, married shall be deemed to be of
full age.  
---  
  
### 9. Termination of citizenship.

(1)Any citizen of India who by naturalisation, registration or otherwise
voluntarily acquires, or has at any time between the 26th January, 1950 and
the commencement of this Act, voluntarily acquired, the citizenship of another
country shall, upon such acquisition or, as the case may be, such
commencement, cease to be a citizen of India:Provided that nothing in this
sub-section shall apply to a citizen of India who, during any war in which
India may be engaged, voluntarily acquires the citizenship of another country,
until the Central Government otherwise directs:(2)If any question arises as to
whether, when or how any [citizen of India] [Substituted by Act 6 of 2004,
Section 9, for " person" (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).] has acquired the citizenship of
another country, it shall be determined by such authority, in such manner, and
having regard to such rules of evidence, as may be prescribed in this behalf.

### 10. Deprivation of citizenship.

(1)A citizen of India who is such by naturalisation or by virtue only of
clause (c) of article 5 of the Constitution or by registration otherwise than
under clause (b)(ii) of article 6 of the Constitution or clause (a) of sub-
section (1) of section 5 of this Act, shall cease to be a citizen of India, if
he is deprived of that citizenship by an order of the Central Government under
this section.(2)Subject to the provisions of this section, the Central
Government may, by order, deprive any such citizen of Indian citizenship, if
it is satisfied that(a)the registration or certificate of naturalisation was
obtained by means of fraud, false representation or the concealment of any
material fact; or(b)that citizen has shown himself by act or speech to be
disloyal or disaffected towards the Constitution of India as by law
established; or(c)that citizen has, during any war in which India may be
engaged unlawfully traded or communicated with an enemy or been engaged, in or
associated with, any business that was to his knowledge carried on in such
manner as to assist an enemy in that war; or(d)that citizen has, within five
years after registration or naturalisation, been sentenced in any country to
imprisonment for a term of not less than two years; or(e)that citizen has been
ordinarily resident out of India for a continuous period of seven years, and
during that period, has neither been at any time a student of any educational
institution in a country outside India or in the service of a Government in
India or of an international organisation of which India is a member, nor
registered annually in the prescribed manner at an Indian consulate his
intention to retain his citizenship of India.(3)The Central Government shall
not deprive a person of citizenship under this section unless it is satisfied
that it is not conducive to the public good that that person should continue
to be a citizen of India.(4)Before making an order under this section, the
Central Government shall give the person against whom the order is proposed to
be made notice in writing informing him of the ground on which it is proposed
to be made and, if the order is proposed to be made on any of the grounds
specified in sub-section (2)other than clause (e) thereof, of his right, upon
making application therefor in the prescribed manner, to have his case
referred to a committee of inquiry under this section.(5)If the order is
proposed to be made against a person on any of the grounds specified in sub-
section (2) other than clause (e) thereof and that person so applies in the
prescribed manner, the Central Government shall, and in any other case it may,
refer the case to a Committee of Inquiry consisting of a chairman (being a
person who has for at least ten years held a judicial office) and two other
members appointed by the Central Government in this behalf.(6)The Committee of
Inquiry shall, on such reference, hold the inquiry in such manner as may be
prescribed and submit its report to the Central Government; and the Central
Government shall ordinarily be guided by such report in making an order under
this section.Supplemental

### 11. Commonwealth citizenship.

\- [Omitted by the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2003 (6 of 2004), section 10
(w.e.f. 3-12-2004).]

### 12. Power to confer rights of Indian citizen or citizens of certain
countries.

\- [Omitted by the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2003 (6 of 2004), section 10
(w.e.f. 3-12-2004).]

### 13. Certificate of citizenship in case of doubt.

\- The Central Government may, in such cases as it thinks fit, certify that a
person, with respect to whose citizenship of India a doubt exists, is a
citizen of India; and a certificate issued under this section shall, unless it
is proved that it was obtained by means of fraud, false representation or
concealment of any material fact, be conclusive evidence that person was such
a citizen on the date thereof, but without prejudice to any evidence that he
was such a citizen at an earlier date.

### 14. Disposal of application under [sections 5, 6 and 7-A] [Substituted by
Act 6 of 2004, Section 11, for " sections 5 and 6" (w.e.f 3.12.2004).].

(1)The prescribed authority or the Central Government may, in its discretion,
grant or refuse an application under [section 5, 6 or section 7-A]
[Substituted by Act 6 of 2004, Section 11, for " sections 5 and 6" (w.e.f
3.12.2004).] and shall not be required to assign any reasons for such grant or
refusal.(2)Subject to the provisions of section 15, the decision of the
prescribed authority or the Central Government on any such application as
aforesaid shall be final and shall not be called in question in any
Court.[14-A. Issue of national identity cards. [Inserted by Act 6 of 2004,
Section 12 (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).](1)The Central Government may compulsorily
register every citizen of India and issue national identity card to him.(2)The
Central Government may maintain a National Register of Indian Citizens and for
that purpose establish a National Registration Authority.(3)On and from the
date of commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2003, the Registrar
General, India, appointed under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the
Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969 (18 of 1969) shall act as the
National Registration Authority and he shall function as the Registrar General
of Citizen Registration.(4)The Central Government may appoint such other
officers and staff as may be required to assist the Registrar General of
Citizen Registration in discharging his functions and responsibilities.(5)The
procedure to be followed in compulsory registration of the citizens of India
shall be such as may be prescribed.]

### 15. Revision.

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order made under this Act by the prescribed
authority or any officer or other authority (other than the Central
Government) may, within a period of thirty days from the date of the order,
make an application to the Central Government for revision of that
order:Provided that the Central Government may entertain the application after
the expiry of the said period of thirty days, if it is satisfied that the
applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from making the application in
time:Provided further that an application for a review of an order passed in
terms of the provisions of section 14-A shall be disposed of in the manner
provided for in the procedure as may be laid down under clause (ia) of sub-
section (2) of section 18.(2)On receipt of any such application under sub-
section (1), the Central Government shall, after considering the application
of the aggrieved person and any report thereon which the officer or authority
making the order may submit, make such order in relation to the application as
it deems fit, and the decision of the Central Government shall be final.[15-A.
Review. [Inserted by Act 6 of 2004, Section 13 (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).](1)Any
person aggrieved by an order made by the Central Government, may, within
thirty days from the date of such order, make an application for review of
such order:Provided that the Central Government may entertain application
after the expiry of the said period of thirty days, if it is satisfied that
the applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from making the application in
time:Provided further that an application for a review of an order passed in
terms of the provisions of section 14-A shall be disposed of in the manner
provided for in the procedure as may be laid down under clause (ia) of sub-
section (2) of section 18.(2)On receipt of an application under sub-section
(1), the Central Government shall make such order as it deems fit, and the
decision of the Central Government on such review shall be final.]

### 16. Delegation of powers.

\- The Central Government may, by order, direct that any power which is
conferred on it by any of the provisions of this Act other than those of
section 10 and section 18 shall, in such circumstances and under such
conditions, if any, as may be specified in the order, be exercisable also by
such officer or authority as may be so specified.

### 17. Offences.

\- Any person who, for the purpose of procuring anything to be done or not to
be done under this Act, knowingly makes any representation which is false in a
material particular shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to [five years] [Substituted by Act 6 of 2004, Section 14, for " six
months" (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).], or [with fine which may extend to fifty thousand
rupees] [Substituted by Act 6 of 2004, Section 14,for " with fine" (w.e.f.
3.12.2004).], or with both.

### 18. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide
for(a)the registration of anything required or authorised under this Act to be
registered, and the conditions and restrictions in regard to such
registration;(aa)[ the form and manner in which a declaration under sub-
section (1) of section 4 shall be made;] [Inserted by Act 6 of 2004, Section
15 (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).](b)the forms to be used and the registers to be
maintained under this Act;(c)the administration and taking of oaths of
allegiance under this Act and the time within which and the manner in which,
such oaths shall be taken and recorded;(d)the giving of any notice required or
authorised to be given by any person under this Act;(e)the cancellation of the
registration of, and the cancellation and amendment of certificate of
naturalisation relating to, persons deprived of citizenship under this Act,
and the delivering up of such certificates for those purposes;(ee)[ the manner
and form in which and the authority to whom declarations referred to in
clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (6) of section 6-A shall be submitted and
other matters connected with such declarations;] [Inserted by Act 65 of 1985,
Section 3 (w.e.f. 7.12.1985).]**(eei) [ the conditions, restrictions and
manner for granting certificate of registration or certificate of
naturalisation under sub-section (1) of section 6B;][Inserted by Act No. 47 of
2019, dated 12.12.2019.]**(eea)[ the conditions and the manner subject to
which a person may be registered as an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder
under sub-section (1) of section 7A; [Inserted by Act No. 1 of 2015.](eeb)the
manner of making declaration for renunciation of Overseas Citizen of India
Card under sub-section (1) of section 7C;](f)the registration at Indian
consulates of the births and deaths of persons of any class or description
born or dying outside India;(g)the levy and collection of fees in respect of
applications, registrations, declarations and certificates under this Act, in
respect of the taking of an oath of allegiance, and in respect of the supply
of certified or other copies of documents;(h)the authority to determine the
question of acquisition of citizenship of another country, the procedure to be
followed by such authority and rules of evidence relating to such cases;(i)the
procedure to be followed by the committees of inquiry appointed under section
10 and the conferment on such committees of any of the powers, rights and
privileges of Civil Courts;(ia)[ the procedure to be followed in compulsory
registration of the citizens of India under sub-section (5) of section 14-A;]
[Inserted by Act 6 of 2004, Section 15 (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).](j)the manner in
which applications for revision may be made and the procedure to be followed
by the Central Government in dealing with such applications; and(k)any other
matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed under this Act.(3)In making any
rule under this section, the Central Government may provide that a breach
thereof shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees:[Provided that any rule made in respect of a matter specified in clause
(ia) of sub-section (2) may provide that a breach thereof shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine
which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both.] [Inserted by Act 6 of
2004, Section 15 (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).](4)[ Every rule made under this section
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule.] [Substituted by Act 4 of 1986, Section 2 and Sch. (w.e.f. 15.5.1986).]

### 19. Repeals.

\- [Repealed by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1960 (58 of 1960), section 2
and the First Schedule (w.e.f. 26-10-1960).]THE FIRST SCHEDULE[Omitted by the
Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2003 (6 of 2004), section 16 (w.e.f.
3-12-2004).]THE SECOND SCHEDULESee sections 5(2) and 6(2)]OATH OF ALLEGIANCEI,
A/B........................................do solemnly affirm (or swear) that
I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law
established, and that I will faithfully observe the laws of India and fulfil
my duties as a citizen of India.The Third ScheduleSee section
6(1)]Qualifications For NaturalisationThe qualifications for naturalisation of
a person [* * *] [The words " who is not a citizen of a country specified in
the First Schedule" omitted by Act 6 of 2004, Section 18 (w.e.f. 3.12.2004)]
are(a)that he is not a subject or citizen of any country where citizens of
India are prevented by law or practice of that country from becoming subjects
or citizens of that country by naturalisation;(b)that, if he is a citizen of
any country, [he undertakes to renounce the citizenship of that country in the
event of his application for Indian citizenship being accepted] [Substituted
by Act 6 of 2004, Section 18, for " he has renounced the citizenship of that
country in accordance with the law therein in force in that behalf and has
notified such renunciation to the Central Government" (w.e.f.
3.12.2004).];(c)that he has either resided in India or been in the service of
a Government in India or partly the one and partly the other, throughout the
period of twelve months immediately preceding the date of the
application;[Provided that if the Central Government is satisfied that special
circumstances exist, it may, after recording the circumstances in writing,
relax the period of twelve months up to a maximum of thirty days which may be
in different breaks.] [Inserted by Act No. 1 of 2015.](d)that during the
[fourteen years] [Substituted by Act 6 of 2004, Section 18, for " twelve
years" (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).]immediately preceding the said period of twelve
months, he has either resided in India or been in the service of a Government
in India, or partly the one and partly the other, for periods amounting in the
aggregate to not less than [eleven years] [Substituted by Act 6 of 2004,
Section 18, for " nine years" (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).];**[Provided that for the
person belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi or Christian community
in Afghanistan, Bangladesh or Pakistan, the aggregate period of residence or
service of Government in India as required under this clause shall be read as
"not less than five years" in place of "not less than eleven years".][Inserted
by Act No. 47 of 2019, dated 12.12.2019.]**(e)that he is of good
character;(f)that he has an adequate knowledge of a language specified in the
Eighth Schedule to the Constitution;and(g)that in the event of a certificate
of naturalisation being granted to him, he intends to reside in India, or to
enter into or continue in, service under a Government in India or under an
international organisation of which India is a member or under a society,
company or body of persons established in India:Provided that the Central
Government may, if in the special circumstances of any particular case it
thinks fit,(i)allow a continuous period of twelve months ending not more than
six months before the date of the application to be reckoned, for the purposes
of clause (c) above, as if it had immediately preceded that date;(ii)allow
periods of residence or service earlier than [fifteen years] [Substituted by
Act 6 of 2004, Section 18, for " thirteen years" (w.e.f. 3.12.2004).] before
the date of the application to be reckoned in computing the aggregate
mentioned in clause (d) above.The Fourth Schedule[Omitted by the Citizenship
(Amendment) Act, 2005 (32of 2005), section 5 (w.r.e.f. 28-6-2005).]

