## Union of India - Act

## The Central Educational Institutions (Reservation In Admission) Act, 2006

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Central Educational Institutions (Reservation In Admission) Act, 2006

## Act 5 of 2007

  * Published on 3 January 2007 
  * Commenced on 3 January 2007 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 January 2007.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Central Educational Institutions (Reservation In Admission) Act, 2006

### 5. of 2007

### 342.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-Part IV of the Constitution containing the
Directive Principles of State Policy, in article 46, lays down that the State
shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the
weaker sections of the people, and, in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and
the Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice. Access to
education is of utmost importance in insuring advancement of persons belonging
to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, and the socially and
educationally backward classes of citizens, who are also referred to as the
Other Backward Classes (OBCs).2\. The Constitution (93rd Amendment) Act, 2005,
inserted clause (5) in article 15 of the Constitution, with a view to promote
.the educational advancement of the socially and educationally backward
classes of citizens, the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes through
special provisions relating to admission of students belonging to these
categories in all educational institutions, including private educational
institutions, whether aided or unaided by the State. In terms of this
provision, Parliament as well as the State Legislatures are empowered to make
appropriate laws for the educational advancement of the weaker sections of the
people.3\. With a view to give effect to the Constitutional provisions, it is
expedient and necessary to make statutory provisions in the proposed Bill for
reservation in matters of admissions for the students belonging to the
Scheduled Castes (SCs), the Scheduled Tribes (STs) and the socially and
educationally backward classes of citizens (OBCs) in the Central Educational
Institutions, including Institutions deemed to be Universities established,
maintained or aided by the Central Government. The provisions of the proposed
Bill, inter alia, will not apply to the minority educational institutions
referred to in clause (1) of article 30.4\. The Bill seeks to achieve the
above objective.[3rd January, 2007]An Act to provide for the reservation in
admission of the students belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled
Tribes and the Other Backward Classes of citizens, to certain Central
Educational Institutions established, maintained or aided by the Central
Government, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it
enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title .-This Act may be called The Central Educational
Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act, 2006.

### 2. Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"academic session" means the period in a calendar year, or a part thereof,
during which a Central Educational Institution is open for teaching or
instruction in any branch of study or faculty;(b)"annual permitted strength"
means the number of seats, in a course or programme for teaching or
instruction in each branch of study or faculty authorised by an appropriate
authority for admission of students to a Central Educational
Institution;(c)"appropriate authority" means the University Grants Commission,
the Bar Council of India, the Medical Council of India, the All India Council
for Technical Education or any other authority or body established by or under
a Central Act for the determination, co-ordination or maintenance of the
standards of higher education in any Central Educational
Institution;(d)"Central Educational Institution" means-(i)a University
established or incorporated by or under a Central Act;(ii)an institution of
national importance set up by an Act of Parliament;(iii)an institution,
declared as a deemed University under section 3 of the University Grants
Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956), and maintained by or receiving aid from the
Central Government;(iv)an institution maintained by or receiving aid from the
Central Government, whether directly or indirectly, and affiliated to an
institution referred to in clause (i) or clause (ii) , or a constituent unit
of an institution referred to in clause (iii) ;(v)an educational institution
set up by the Central Government under the Societies Registration Act, 1860
(21 of 1860);(e)"faculty" means the faculty of a Central Educational
Institution;(f)"Minority Educational Institution" means an institution
established and administered by the minorities under clause (1) of article 30
of the Constitution and so declared by an Act of Parliament or by the Central
Government or declared as a Minority Educational Institution under the
National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions Act, 2004 (2 of
2005);(g)"Other Backward Classes" means the class or classes of citizens who
are socially and educationally backward, and are so determined by the Central
Government;(h)"Scheduled Castes" means the Scheduled Castes notified under
article 341 of the Constitution;(i)"Scheduled Tribes" means the Scheduled
Tribes notified under article 342 of the Constitution;(ia)[ "specified north-
eastern region" means the area comprising of the States of Arunachal Pradesh,
Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura and the tribal areas of
Assam referred to in the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution;(ib)"State seats",
in relation to a Central Educational Institution, means such seats, if any,
out of the annual permitted strength in each branch of study or faculty as are
earmarked to be filled from amongst the eligible students of the State in
which such institution is situated.](j)"teaching or instruction in any branch
of study" means the teaching or instruction in a branch of study leading to
three principal levels of qualifications at bachelor (undergraduate) masters
(postgraduate) and doctoral levels.

### 3. Reservation of seats in Central Educational Institutions .-The
reservation of seats in admission and its extent in a Central Educational
Institution shall be provided in the following manner, namely:-

(i)out of the annual permitted strength in each branch of study or faculty,
fifteen per cent. seats shall be reserved for the Scheduled Castes;(ii)out of
the annual permitted strength in each branch of study or faculty, seven and
one-half per cent. seats shall be reserved for the Scheduled Tribes;(iii)out
of the annual permitted strength in each branch of study or faculty, twenty-
seven per cent. seats shall be reserved for the Other Backward
Classes.[Provided that the State seats, if any, in a Central Educational
Institution situated in the tribal areas referred to in the Sixth Schedule to
the Constitution shall be governed by such reservation policy for the
Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the Other Backward Classes, as may
be specified, by notification in the Official Gazette, by the Government of
the State where such institution is situated :Provided further that if there
are no State seats in a Central Educational Institution and the seats reserved
for the Scheduled Castes exceed the percentage specified under clause (i) or
the seats reserved for the Scheduled Tribes exceed the percentage specified
under clause (ii) or the seats reserved for the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes taken together exceed the sum of percentages specified under
clauses (i) and (ii), but such seats are­(a)less than fifty per cent. of the
annual permitted strength on the date immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, the total percentage of the seats required to be
reserved for the Other Backward Classes under clause (iii) shall be restricted
to the extent such sum of percentages specified under clauses (i) and (ii)
falls short of fifty per cent. of the annual permitted strength;(b)more than
fifty per cent. of the annual permitted strength on the date immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, in that case no seat shall be
reserved for the Other Backward Classes under clause (iii) but the extent of
the reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes
shall not be reduced in respect of Central Educational Institutions in the
specified north-eastern region.]

### 4. Act not to apply in certain cases .-The provisions of section 3 of this
Act shall not apply to-

(a)[***](b)the institutions of excellence, research institutions, institutions
of national and strategic importance specified in the Schedule to this
Act:Provided that the Central Government may, as and when considered
necessary, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the Schedule;(c)a
Minority Educational Institution as defined in this Act;(d)a course or
programme at high levels of specialisation, including at the post-doctoral
level, within any branch of study or faculty, which the Central Government
may, in consultation with the appropriate authority, specify.

### 5\. Mandatory increase of seats .-(1) Notwithstanding anything contained
in clause (iii) of section 3 and in any other law for the time being in force,
every Central Educational Institution shall, with the prior approval of the
appropriate authority, increase the number of seats in a branch of study or
faculty over and above its annual permitted strength so that the number of
seats, excluding those reserved for the persons belonging to the Scheduled
Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the Other Backward Classes, is not less than
the [number of such seats available or actually filled, whichever be less,]
for the academic session immediately preceding the date of the coming into
force of this Act.

(2)Where, on a representation by any Central Educational Institution, the
Central Government, in consultation with the appropriate authority, is
satisfied that for reasons of financial, physical or academic limitations or
in order to maintain the standards of education, the annual permitted strength
in any branch of study or faculty of such institution cannot be increased for
the academic session following the commencement of this Act, it may permit by
notification in the Official Gazette, such institution to increase the annual
permitted strength over a maximum period of [six years] [Substituted for the
words "three years" Act No. 31 of 2012] beginning with the academic session
following the commencement of this Act; and then, the extent of reservation
for the Other Backward Classes as provided in clause (iii) of section 3 shall
be limited for that academic session in such manner that the number of seats
available to the Other Backward Classes for each academic session are
commensurate with the increase in the permitted strength for each year.

### 6. Reservation of seats in admissions to begin in calendar year, [2008]

.-The Central Educational Institutions shall take all necessary steps, which
are required in giving effect to the provisions of sections 3, 4 and 5 of this
Act, for the purposes of reservation of seats in admissions to its academic
sessions commencing on and from the calendar year, 2007.

### 7. Laying of notifications before Parliament .-Every notification made
under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each
House of Parliament while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions,
and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or
the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the notification or both Houses agree that the notification
should not be made, the notification shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that notification.

The Schedule[See section 4(b)]

Sl. No. | Names of the Institutions of Excellence, etc.  
---|---  
1. |  Homi Bhabha National Institute, Mumbai and its constituentunits, namely:  
(i) | Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Trombay;  
(ii) | Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research, Kalpakkam  
(iii) | Raja Ramanna Centre for Advanced Technology, Indore;  
(iv) | Institute for Plasma Research, Gandhinagar;  
(v) | Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre, Kolkata;  
(vi) | Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics, Kolkata;  
(vii) | Institute of Physics, Bhubaneshwar;  
(viii) | Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai;  
(ix) | Harish-Chandra Research Institute, Allahabad;  
(x) | Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbi.  
2. | Tata Institute of Fundamental Reserch, Mumbai.  
3. |  North-Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health andMedical Science Shillong.  
4. | National Brain Research Centre, Manesar, Gurgaon.  
5. |  Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research,Bangalore.  
6. | Physical Research Laboratory, Ahmedabad.  
7. | Space Physics Laboratory, Thiruvananthapuram.  
8. | Indian Institute of Remote Sensing, Dehradun.

