## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (THIRTY-SEVENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1975

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (THIRTY-SEVENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1975

## Act 37 of 1975

  * Published in Gazette of India on 19 March 1975 
  * Commenced on 3 May 1975 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 March 1975.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Thirty-
seventh Amendment) Bill, 1975 which was enacted as the Constitution (Thirty-
seventh Amendment) Act, 1975_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The Union
territory of Arunachal Pradesh is at present administered through a Chief
Commissioner. It has a Pradesh Council, consisting mostly of representatives
of Zila Parishads, which functions as an advisory body on important matters
relating to the administration of the Union territory. Some members of the
Pradesh Council are also associated with the Chief Commissioner in the day-to-
day administration as Counsellors. It is proposed to replace the Pradesh
Council by a Legislative Assembly and the Counsellors by a Council of
Ministers, as in certain other Union territories specified in article 239A of
the Constitution. The Bill, therefore, seeks to include Arunachal Pradesh in
that article.

### 2. Under article 240 of the Constitution, the President is empowered to
make regulations for the Union territory of Arunchal Pradesh. With the
Constitution of a Legislative Assembly for the Union territory, it is proposed
to provide that, as in the case of other Union territories with Legislatures,
this power may be exercised only when the Assembly is either dissolved or its
functioning remains suspended. The Bill seeks to amend article 240 also to
achieve this object.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Twenty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Thirty-seventh Amendment) Act, 1975.

### 2\. Amendment of article 239A.-

In article 239A of the Constitution, in clause (1), for the words "Pondicherry
and Mizoram", the words "Pondicherry, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh" shall be
substituted.

### 3. Amendment of article 240.-

In article 240 of the Constitution, in clause (1), in both the provisos, for
the words "Pondicherry or Mizoram", the words "Pondicherry, Mizoram or
Arunachal Pradesh" shall be substituted.[The Constitution (Thirty-Seventh
Amendment) Act, 1975, dealt with the reorganization of the legislative and
administrative wing of Arunachal Pradesh. Part VIII of our constitution deals
with The Union Territories. By this amendment to Article 239A and Article 240,
local legislatures and council of ministers were provided for Arunachal
Pradesh.Also Refer ]

