## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1959

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1959

## MINISTRYOFLAWANDJUSTICE 08 of 1959

  * Published in Gazette of India on 17 December 1954 
  * Commenced on 5 January 1960 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 December 1954.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to THE CONSTITUTION (Fourth
Amendment) Bill, 1954 which was enacted as the Constitution (Fourth Amendment)
Act, 1954_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** This Bill seeks to amend
articles 31, 31A and 305 of, and the Ninth Schedule to, the Constitution.

### 2. Recent decisions of the Supreme Court have given a very wide meaning to
clauses (1) and (2) of article 31. Despite the difference in the wording of
the two clauses, they are regarded as dealing with the same object. The
deprivation of property referred to in clause (1) is to be construed in the
widest sense as including any curtailment of a right to property. Even where
it is caused by a purely regulatory provision of law and is not accompanied by
an acquisition or taking possession of that or any other property right by the
State, the law, in order to be valid according to these decisions, has to
provide for compensation under clause (2) of the article. It is considered
necessary, therefore, to re-state more precisely the State's power of
compulsory acquisition and requisitioning of private property and distinguish
it from cases where the operation of regulatory or prohibitory laws of the
State results in "deprivation of property". This is sought to be done in
clause 2 of the Bill.

### 3. It will be recalled that the zamindari abolition laws which came first
in our programme of social welfare legislation were attacked by the interests
affected mainly with reference to articles 14, 19 and 31, and that in order to
put an end to the dilatory and wasteful litigation and place these laws above
challenge in the courts, articles 31A and 31B and the Ninth Schedule were
enacted by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act. Subsequent judicial
decisions interpreting articles 14, 19 and 31 have raised serious difficulties
in the way of the Union and the States putting through other and equally
important social welfare legislation on the desired lines, e.g., the
following:-

(i)While the abolition of zamindari system and the numerous intermediaries
between the State and the tiller of the soil has been achieved for the most
part, our next objectives in land reform are the fixing of limits to the
extent of agricultural land that may be owned or occupied by any person, the
disposal of any land held in excess of the prescribed maximum and the further
modification of the rights of land owners and tenants in agricultural
holdings.(ii)The proper planning of urban and rural areas require the
beneficial utilisation of vacant and waste lands and the clearance of slum
areas.(iii)In the interest of national economy the State should have full
control over the mineral and oil resources of the country, including in
particular, the power to cancel or modify the terms and conditions of
prospecting licenses, mining leases and similar agreements. This is also
necessary in relation to public utility undertakings which supply power, light
or water to the public under licenses granted by the State.(iv)It is often
necessary to take over under State management for a temporary period a
commercial or industrial undertaking or other property in the public interest
or in order to secure the better management of the undertaking or property.
Laws providing for such temporary transference to State management should be
permissible under the Constitution.(v)The reforms in company law now under
contemplation, like the progressive elimination of the managing agency system,
provision for the compulsory amalgamation of two or more companies in the
national interest, the transfer of an undertaking from one company to another,
etc., require to be placed above challenge.It is accordingly proposed in
clause 3 of the Bill to extend the scope of article 31A so as to cover these
categories of essential welfare legislation.

### 4. As a corollary to the proposed amendment of article 31A, it is proposed
in clause 5 of the Bill to include in the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution
two more State Acts and four Central Acts which fall within the scope of sub-
clauses (d) and (f) of clause (1) of the revised article 31A. The effect will
be their complete, retrospective validation under the provisions of article
31B.

### 5. A recent judgment of the Supreme Court in Saghir Ahmed v. the State of
U.P. has raised the question whether an Act providing for a State monopoly in
a particular trade or business conflicts with the freedom of trade and
commerce guaranteed by article 301, but left the question undecided. Clause
(6) of article 19 was amended by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act in
order to take such State monopolies out of the purview of sub-clause (g) of
clause (1) of that article, but no corresponding provision was made in Part
XIII of the Constitution with reference to the opening words of article 301.
It appears from the judgment of the Supreme Court that notwithstanding the
clear authority of Parliament or of a State Legislature to introduce State
monopoly in a particular sphere of trade or commerce, the law might have to be
justified before the courts as being "in the public interest" under article
301 or as amounting to a "reasonable restriction" under article 304(b). It is
considered that any such question ought to the final decision of the
Legislatue. Clause 4 of the Bill accordingly proposes an amendment of article
305 to make this clear.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Tenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:---

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Eighth Amendment) Act, 1959.

### 2\. Amendment of article 334.-

In article 334 of the Constitution, for the words "ten years" the words
"twenty years" shall be substituted.[The Constitution (Eighth Amendment) Act,
1959, which changed Article 334 of the Constitution, is an important milestone
in Indian history. The amendment to Article 334 of the Constitution extended
the period of reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes and representation of the Anglo-Indians in the Lok Sabha and the State
Legislative Assemblies by ten years, until 26 January 1970. Article 334 had
stipulated that the reservation of seats should expire within ten years from
the commencement of the Constitution (i.e. 26 January 1960). However, the
extension of the reservation was necessary to provide these marginalized
communities with greater opportunities to participate in the political process
and have their voices heard. Subsequent amendments further extended the period
of reservation to 1980, 1990, 2000, 2010, 2020, and 2030 through the 23rd,
45th, 62nd, 79th, 95th, and 104th Amendments, respectively.Also Refer ]

