## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1987

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1987

## Rule THE-COIMBATORE-CITY-MUNICIPAL-CORPORATION-SERVICE-RULES-1987 of 1987

  * Published on 17 December 1986 
  * Commenced on 17 December 1986 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 December 1986.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1987Published vide
Notification G.O. Ms. No. 1351, Municipal Administration and Water Supply,
dated 17th December 1986No. SRO A-48/87. - In exercise of the powers conferred
by sub-section (1) of section 430, read with sub-section (1) of section 108 of
the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of
1981), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

## Part I – 1. Short title and commencement.

\- These rules may be called the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Service
Rules, 1986.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,-(1)"Act" means the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981,
(Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981).(2)"Appointed to the Service" - A person is said
to be "appointed to the Service" when in accordance with these rules or in
accordance with the rules applicable at the time, as the case may be, he
discharges for the first time, the duties of a post borne on the cadre of the
service or commences the probation, instruction or training, if any,
prescribed for members thereof;(3)"Approved Candidate" - A person is said to
be an "approved candidate" of a Corporation service if his name appears in the
authoritative list of candidates selected for appointment to any class or
category of the service;(4)"Approved Probationer" - "Approved Probationer" in
a class or category of the sendee means a member of that class or category of
the service who has satisfactorily completed his probation and awaits
appointment as full member of such class or category of the
service.(5)"Backward Classes" - "Backward Classes" means the communities
classified by Government, from time to time, as such in the General Rules for
the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Services;(6)"Commissioner" means the
Commissioner, Corporation of Coimbatore;(7)"Committee" means the "Appointments
Committee" or the with "Appeal Committee" in accordance the
context;(8)"Corporation" - "Corporation" means the Municipal Corporation of
Coimbatore;(9)"Council" - "Council" means the Council of the Municipal
Corporation of Coimbatore;(10)"Discharge of a member of the service" -
"Discharge of a member of the service" means dispensing with the service for
want of vacancy;(11)"Duty" - A person is said to be "on duty" as a member of
the service-(a)When he is performing the duties of a post borne on the cadre
of the service or is undergoing the probation, instruction or training, if
any, prescribed for the service;(b)When he is on joining time; or(c)When he is
absent from duty during vacation or on authorised holidays or on casual leave
taken in accordance with the instructions regulating such leave having been on
duty immediately before and immediately after such absence;(12)"Full Member" -
"Full Member" of the service means, a member of the service who has been
appointed substantively to a permanent post borne on the cadre
thereof;(13)"General Rules" - "General Rules" shall mean the rules.in Part II
of these rules;(14)"Member of the service" - "Member of the service" means a
person who has been appointed to the service and who has not retired or
resigned or has been removed or dismissed, or has been discharged otherwise
than for want of vacancy. He may be a probationer or approved probationer of a
full member of that service;(15)"Military duty" - "Military duty"
means,-(a)duty of any kind (including a course of training) involving
subjection to Naval, Military or Air Force Law; or(b)duty (including a course
of training) with a liability to serve overseas or in any operational area in
Naval, Military or Air Force Unit or formation or under Military, Munitions or
Stores authorises or in factories; or(c)whole-time duty in-(i)the Civil
Pioneer Force, the Madras Civil Labour Units or the Madras Labour Units for
Ceylon; or(ii)the A. R. P. or any other Civil Defence Organisation specified
by the Central Government; or(iii)any post created for the efficient
prosecution of the war of 1939-1946 or associated with the training of war
technicians, if duty in such post is declared by the Central Government to be
military duty.Explanation. - No duty shall be treated as military duty unless
either of the following conditions is satisfied:-(i)it must have been rendered
within the period commencing on the 3rd September 1939 and ending with the
21st November 1984, Provided that if it commenced on or after the 2nd April
1946, it shall not be reckoned as Military duty; orIt must have commenced on
any date on or after the 26th October 1962.(16)"Probationer" - "Probationer"
in the service means a member of the sendee who has not completed his
probation;(17)"Promotion" - "Promotion" means the appointment of a member of
any category of the service or a class or service to a higher category or
class of the service;(18)"Recruited direct" - A person is said to be recruited
direct when he is not already a member of the Corporation service, to which
the direct recruitment is made;(19)"Reversion" - "Reversion" shall mean the
reversion of a member of a class or category of the service to a lower class
or category of the service for want of a vacancy;(20)"Scheduled Castes" -
"Scheduled Castes" means the communities classified as such in the General
Rules of the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Services.Explanation. - No
person who professes a religion different from Hinduism shall be deemed to be
a member of Scheduled Caste;(21)"Scheduled Tribes" - "Scheduled Tribes" means
the communities classified as such in the General Rules for the Tamil Nadu
State and Subordinate Services;(22)"Service" - "Service" shall mean any one of
the following Corporation Services-(a)General Services;(b)Engineering and
Water Supply Services;(c)Town Planning Service;(d)Medical
Service;(e)Educational Service; and(f)Public Health Services;(23)"Special
Rules" - "Special Rules" shall mean the rules applicable to the classes of
services classified;(24)"Transfer" - "Transfer" shall mean the posting of a
holding one post to another identical post under the Corporation;(25)"War
Service" - "War Service" means,-(a)service of any kind in a unit of formation
liable for services overseas or in any operational area or in the Indian
National Army (I. N. A.);(b)service in India under Military, Munitions or
stores authorities or in factories with a liability to serve overseas or in
any operational area;(c)All the service involving subjection to Naval,
Military or Air Force Law;(d)A period of training with a military unit or
formation involving liability to serve overseas or in any operational
area;(e)Valuable service rendered to the fighting forces in other ways e.g.,
by way or recruiting;(f)Service in A. R. F. or any other Civil Defence
Organisation specified in this behalf by the Central or State Government;
and(g)(1) Any service connected with the prosecution of the war which a person
was required to undertake by a competent authority under the provision of any
law for the time being in force;(2)service in any of the
following:-(i)National War Front Organisation;(ii)Camouflage
Organisation;(iii)Special Organisation for the Production of war supplies
thought small scale industries;(iv)Any post associated with the training of
war technicians, if duty in such post is declared by the Central Government to
be "Military duty" ;(v)Post of Special Constable on coastal patrol
duty;(vi)Survey of India if the service was temporary and involved liability
for serve overseas;

## Part II – General Rules

### 1. Scope of the General Rules. - The rules in this Part shall apply to
Classes I to IV of the Corporation Establishment specified in section 106 of
the Act and to the holders of every post, whether temporary or permanent in
any Class or Category of each sendee.

Explanation. - If any doubt arises as to whether these rules shall apply to
any person or not, in a particular Class or Category of the service, the
matter shall be referred to the Government whose decision shall be final.

### 2\. Relation to the Special Rules. - If any provision in the General Rules
contained in this Part is repugnant to a provision contained in the Special
Rules applicable to Class-I, Class-II, Class-III and Class-IV services, the
latter shall in respect of the service prevail over the provisions in the
General Rules in this Part.

### 3. List of approved candidates. - All first appointments to the service
shall be made by the appointing authority from a list of approved candidates.
Such list except in respect of Classes I and II shall be prepared by the
appointing authority in the manner laid down in rule 4. Where the candidates
in such list are arranged in order of preference, appointments to the service
shall be made in such order.

### 4. Procedure for appointment. - All appointments and promotions shall be
made by the authority competent as provided for under section 106 of the Act.
Vacancies for the posts in Classes II, III and IV in the service shall be
notified to the local employment exchange and shall be filled up only from
among the candidates sponsored by the employment exchange. In case where the
employment exchange intimates non-availability of suitable qualified
candidates then selection of candidates may be made by advertisement. The
Commissioner shall prepare a tabulated statement giving particulars of the
candidates in Form 4 in the appendix and place the same before the council in
respect of posts classified as Class II and Appointments Committee in respect
of posts classified as Classes III and IV. In respect of all the categories in
Class II service, the council will select candidates included in the tabulated
statement after personal interview by the Appointment Committee of the
counsel, subject to confirmation by the Government. In respect of all the
categories in Classes III and IV services, the Appointment Committee will
select candidates from amongst the candidates included in the tabulated
statement after personal interview, if necessary. Every candidate selected for
appointment shall possess the qualifications prescribed for the respective
posts and shall be physically found suitable on being sent for medical
examination:

Provided that the Commissioner may be provided in rule 8, appoint temporarily
such persons as may be in his opinion be required for any purpose connected
with the running of the administration, if candidates from the list of
approved candidates in respect of all the categories in Classes III and IV are
not readily available. The Commissioner shall report the appointments
Committee appointments made for its ratification.

### 5. Right of probationers and approved probationers to re-appointments. - A
vacancy in any class or category of any of the service shall not be filled by
the appointment of a person who has not yet commenced his probation in such
class or category of the service when an approved probationer or probationer
therein is available for such appointment.

### 6. Discharge or reversion and re-appointments of probationers and approved
probationers. - (a) Probationers and approved probationers shall be reverted
or discharged for want of vacancy in the following order:-

(i)the probationers in the order of juniority; and(ii)the approved
probationers in the order of juniority.(b)The order of reversion or discharge
may be departed from in cases where such order will involve exceptional
administrative inconvenience.

### 7. Members absent from duty. - The absence of a member of the services
from duty whether on leave or on foreign service or on deputation or for any
other reason and whether his lien in a post borne on the cadre of the service
is suspended or not, shall not, if he is otherwise fit, render him ineligible
in his turn:-

(a)for re-appointment to a substantive or officiating vacancy in the class,
category, grade or post in which he may be a probationer of an approved
probationer;(b)for promotion from a lower to a higher category in the service
and the case may be in the same manner as if he has not been absent. The shall
be entitled to all the privileges in respect of appointment, seniority,
probation and appointments as full member which he would have enjoyed but for
his absence subject to his completing satisfactorily the period of probation
on his return.

### 8. Temporary appointments and promotion. - (a) The appointing authority
may appoint any person temporarily for a period not exceeding six months or
promote any person temporarily fora period not exceeding three months in order
to fill up a vacancy which has arisen in any category or class or the service,
in the public interest and where there will be undue delay in making an
appointment in accordance with the rules.

(b)Where it is necessary to promote an officer against whom an enquiry into
allegations of corruption or misconduct is pending, the appointing authority
may promote him temporarily pending enquiry into the charges against him.(c)A
person appointed or promoted temporarily under sub-rules (a) or (b) shall not
be regarded as a probationer in such class or category of the service. The
services of such a person shall liable to be terminated by the appointing
authority at any time without notice and without reasons being assigned.(d)A
person appointed or promoted temporarily under sub-rule (a) or (b) shall be
paid the minimum of the time scale of pay or his substantive pay, as the case
may be, applicable to the post whichever is higher.

### 9. Appointment on contract. - Notwithstanding anything contained in these
rules wherever it is necessary in the interest of the administration or in the
public interest to appoint a person to any class or category of the service
otherwise than in accordance with the rules, the Commissioner may, with the
prior approval of the Government, appoint any person on contract for a period
not exceeding three years at a time. A person, who is so appointed shall not
be regarded as a member of the service to which he is appointed.

### 10. Qualifications. - The minimum general educational qualification
wherever referred to in the special rules shall mean the qualification
prescribed in the said rules, or any other qualifications as prescribed, from
time to time, in Schedule I to Part II or the General Rules for the Tamil Nadu
State and Subordinate Services. Any person who has appeared for the
examination mentioned in rule 12(a)(ii) of the General Rules of the State and
Subordinate Services in Volume I of the Tamil Nadu Services Manual and has
obtained the minimum marks specified therein shall be deemed to posses the
minimum general educational qualification:

Provided that a candidate who has rendered war service shall be deemed to
possess the minimum general educational qualification, if he has appeared for
the Secondary School Leaving Certificate Examination of the State and declared
eligible for admission to collegiate course of studies.

### 11. Age limit. - The age limit prescribed in the special rules shall riot
apply to the appointment of a candidate belonging to any of the Scheduled
Caste, Scheduled Tribe or Backward Classes to a post included in the service
for which the special rules-prescribed a qualification lower than degree of
any University if the candidate posses a general educational qualification
higher than the minimum general educational qualification. A candidate who has
rendered war service is eligible to deduct from his age, the period of his war
service for the purpose of computing his age for appointment.

### 12. Special qualifications to be acquired or special tests to be passed. -
No person shall be eligible for appointment to any class or category of the
service unless he possesses such special qualifications and has passed such
special tests, as may be prescribed in that behalf in the special by the
Government.

### 13. Appointment of women. - Women alone shall be appointed to posts in any
institution or establishment specially provided for them:

Provided that man may be appointed, if suitable or qualified women are not
available for such appointment.

### 14. Reservation of appointments. - Where the special rules lay down that
the rule of reservation of appointments shall apply to any class or category
of the service, the order of such reservation shall be the same as in rule 22
of the General Rules for the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Services, as
amended, from time to time.

### 15. Date of commencement of probation of persons appointed or promoted
temporarily. - If a person, who is appointed or promoted temporarily under
rule 8 of these rules, is subsequently appointed thereto in accordance with
the rule, it shall be open to the appointing authority to allow such person to
commence his probation from the date of such appointment or promotion or from
an earlier date, such date not being earlier to the date of his first
temporary appointment or promotion under rule 8 as the appointing authority
may in his discretion decide:

Provided that this rule shall not be construed as authorising the appointment
or promotion or probation of a person from a date on which he did not possess
the qualifications prescribed for such appointments or promotion.

### 16. Duty in higher post to count for probation in lower post. - A
probationer in any class or category of the service shall be eligible to count
towards his probation, if any, his duty performed otherwise than in a
substantive capacity on regular appointment to a higher class or category of
the service.

Nothing contained in this rule shall be construed as authorising the promotion
of a probationer in contravention of rules.

### 17. Duty on temporary promotion to count for probation in lower post. - A
probationer in any class or category of the service who is promoted
temporarily under the provisions of rule 8 of these rules to a higher class or
category of the service shall be entitled to count towards his probation, if
any, in the former class or category the period of duty performed by him in
the latter class or category, as the case may be, during which he would have
held the post in the former class or category but for his temporary
appointment on promotion.

### 18. Completion of probation and drawal of arrears of increments. - Any
delay in passing order of completion of probation shall not monetarily affect
the approved probationer and arrears of increments shall be allowed from the
date of completion of probation as a matter of course, subject to the
following conditions, namely:-

(1)that the probation would have been declared to have been satisfactory
completed from the date ordered, even if the question of declaration of
probation had been taken up earlier;(2)that the declaration of satisfactory
completion of probation was delayed by factors which would not in any case,
change the date of such completion;(3)that the person whose probation is
declared to have been satisfactorily completed is qualified as on the date
ordered; and(4)that declaration of satisfactory completion of probation was
not the result of any relaxation of rules.

### 19. Appointing authority to consider suitability for full membership. - As
soon as a probationer in any class or category of the service has completed
his period of probation prescribed in the rules or the extended period of
probation referred to in rule 21, as the case may be, the appointing authority
shall consider his suitability for full membership to the class or category,
as the case may be:

Provided that he has passed the tests, if any, which he should pass during the
period of his probation. If the appointing authority is satisfied that the
probationer is suitable for full membership, he shall pass an order declaring
him to be an approved probationer.

### 20. Extension of probation. - If the appointing authority is of the
opinion that the probationer should continue to be on probation in order to
enable him to decide upon his suitability for full membership or if the
probationer has not passed the test or tests, if any, which the probationer
should pass within the period of probation, he should be given time to enable
him to pass the tests, the appointing authority may extend his period of
probation for a period of not exceeding one year.

### 21. Completion of termination of probation. - If on the conclusion of the
period of probation or the extended period of probation, as the case may be,
the appointing authority is satisfied that the probationer is not suitable for
full membership, he shall pass an order terminating his probation after giving
the probation. If on the conclusion of the period of probation the
probationer, has not passed the tests, if any, prescribed by the rules, the
appointing authority shall terminate his probation unless the probation is
extended under rule 20. If the probationer does not pass the tests within the
extended period of probation, the appointing authority shall terminate his
probation.

### 22. Automatic completion of probation. - A probationer in any class or
category of the service shall be deemed to have completed his probation
automatically unless within a period of six months calculate, from the date on
which he completed his period of probation or the extended period of
probation, as the case may be,-

(i)a communication asking him to show cause why his probation should not be
terminated is served on him; or(ii)disciplinary proceedings are initiated
against him for corruption or other serious misconduct and he is specifically
informed in writing that the question of considering the suitability for full
membership will be taken up only after the conclusion of the disciplinary
proceeding.Nothing in this rule shall be construed as entitling a probationer
to automatic completion of probation if he has not passed the tests which
under the special rules he should pass within the period of his probation.

### 23. Appeal against termination of probation. - A probationer whose
probation has been terminated for reason other than failure to pass the
prescribed test shall be entitled to appeal to next higher authority and
within the period of limitation within which an appeal would be preferred
against the orders of termination passed by the appointing authority against a
member of the service.

### 24. Appointment of mil members. - The senior most approved probationer in
a class or category, as the case the may be, of a service shall, at the
earliest possible opportunity, be appointed as a full member in a substantive
vacancy existing in such class or category. If the substantive vacancy exists
from a date prior to the date of completion of probation, he shall be
appointed retrospectively as a full member from such date provided that no
person shall be appointed from a date which is earlier to the date on which he
commenced his probation.

### 25. Seniority. - (a) The seniority of a person appointed to any class or
category of the service shall be determined with reference to his rank in the
list of approved candidates or promotion panel, as the case may be.

(b)Application for the revision of seniority of a person appointed to any
class or category of the service shall be submitted to the appointing
authority within a period of three years from the date of appointment to such
class or category of, within a period of three years from the date of order
fixing the seniority, as the case may be. Any application received after the
said period of three years shall be summarily rejected. This shall not,
however, be applicable to cases of rectifying orders, resulting from mistake
of facts.

### 26. Promotion. - Every promotion to a class or category or the service to
which promotion shall be made from a promotion panel drawn up by the
appointing authority in a manner laid down in rule 27.

### 27. Promotion panel. - Selection of candidates for higher posts shall be
regulated as follows:-

(a)The Commissioner shall assess the number of vacancies that would occur by
superannuation of existing incumbents, creation of new or additional posts
within a period of six months or one year, as he considers necessary under
each class or category of the serviced.(b)The Commissioner shall, thereafter,
cause a panel of candidates prepared in the order of preference based on their
qualifications, merit and ability Seniority being taken into account only, if
qualification, merit and ability are approximately equal.(c)The number of
persons to be included in the panel will be equal to twice the number of
vacancies or such number as the Commissioner may decide.(d)Separate panel
shall be prepared for each category of the service for which the qualification
and scale of pay fixed are different.(e)The Commissioner shall arrange the
names of all eligible candidates in the order of their seniority in the class
from which promotion has to be made and also record his own views on the
fitness or otherwise of the candidates. He shall, thereafter, place the list
before the appointing authority which shall scrutinise them and draw promotion
panel for each class.(f)Any modification to the list placed by the
Commissioner shall be justified by the appointing authority and the reasons
therefor shall be recorded by it in writing.(g)The panel as approved by the
appointing authority shall be maintained by the Commissioner and the
appointments shall be made in the order in which their names are arranged in
the panel.

### 28. Completion of probation and promotion. - (a) A person who is appointed
to the service in a class or category thereof shall not be promoted from the
said class or category until he has completed his probation therein.

(b)Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (a), member of the service in any
class or category may be promoted from the said class or category even though
he may not have completed his probation therein.

### 29. Merit and seniority in the matter of promotion. - (a) All promotions
shall be made on grounds of merit and ability of the members of the service,
his seniority being taken into account only when merit and ability are
approximately equal except where the special rules governing the service
specially require that promotion to any class or category thereof shall be
made on the basis of seniority alone.

(b)Where the special rule governing the service requires that promotion to any
class or category thereof shall be made on the basis of seniority alone, the
order of seniority may be departed from in the following cases,
namely:-(i)Where promotion is given on grounds of conspicuous merit and
ability;(ii)Where promotion has been withheld as measure of penalty.

### 30. Representation against supersession of claim of promotion. - Every
member of the service whose claim for promotion is passed over shall have the
right to make a representation for redressal of his grievance. Such
representation shall be made to the authority to which an appeal would lie
against an order of dismissal passed on full member of the class or category
of the service, as the case may be, and within two months from the date on
which the cause for making the representation accrued. The aforesaid authority
shall examine every such representation on its merits and pass suitable order.

### 31. Revision of orders of promotion. - Nothing contained in rule 30 shall
be construed as preventing the authority mentioned in that rule from suo moto
examining any order promoting a member of service and revising it any manner
as it considers equitable.

### 32. Posting and transfers. - (a) A member in a class or a category of
service may be required to serve in any post borne on the cadre of such class
or category or service;

(b)All transfers and posting shall be made by Commissioner.

### 33. Consequences of resignation. - A member of the service shall if he
resigns his appointment, forfeit not only the service rendered by him in the
particular post held by him at the time of resignation, but all his previous
services under Corporation. The re-appointment of such person to any post in
the service shall be treated in the same way as first appointment to the
service by direct recruitment and the rules governing such appointment shall
apply and on such re-appointment, he shall not be entitled to count to any
portion of his previous service for any benefit of concession admissible under
any rule or order.

### 34. Reduction of full member. - If a full member of any class or category
of the service is substantively reduced to a lower class or category therein,
he shall be deemed to be a full member of the latter and the permanent cadre
thereof shall, if there is no vacancy in which he could be absorbed; be deemed
to be increased by one:

Provided that against every such addition, an officiating or temporary
vacancy, if any, in such lower class or category shall be kept unfilled and
such addition shall be absorbed in the first permanent vacancy that arises
subsequently in such lower class or category, as the case may be.

### 35. Appointment in place of members dismissed, removed, compulsorily
retired or reduced. - Where a person has been dismissed, removed, compulsorily
retired or substantively reduced from any class or category, no vacancy caused
thereby or arising subsequently in such class or category shall be
substantively filled to the prejudice of such person until the expiry of a
period of one year from the date of such dismissal, removal, compulsory
retirement or reduction or until the appeal, if any, preferred by him against
such dismissal, removal, compulsory retirement or reduction is decided
whichever is later.

### 36. Re-employment of pensioners. - Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in these rules or the special rules, the Government shall have the
power to re-employ in any class or category of any of the service any person
who has retired from the service. The re-employment of such person shall not
be regarded as first appointment to the service, nor it shall confer on him
the status of a member of the service in which he is re-employed.

### 37. Relinquishment of rights by members. - Any person may, in writing,
relinquish any right or privilege temporarily for a period of three years may
be admitted under these rules or the special rules, if in the opinion of the
appointing authority, such relinquishment is not opposed to public interest
and nothing contained in these rules or the special rules shall be deemed to
require the recognition of any right or privilege to the extent to which it
has been so relinquished.

### 38. Power to relax. - Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules or
the special rules, the Government shall have the power to deal with the case
of any person or class of persons serving in the service or any candidate or
class of candidates for appointment to the service in such manner as may
appear to them to be just and equitable. Provided that where any such rule is
applicable to the case of any person or class of persons, the case shall not
be dealt with in any manner less favourable to him or them than that provided
by that rule.

### 39. Alteration of date of birth. - (a) The date of birth of a member of
the service shall be the date found on record in the S.S.L.C. or Matriculation
Register or any school certificate which he produced at the time of his
appointment to the service. If a member of the service claims subsequently
that his date of birth is different from that entered in the S. S. L. C. or
Matriculation Register or school certificate, he shall make an application to
the Commissioner, explaining how the mistake occurred and also produce the
evidence on which he relies.

(b)An application for alteration of date of birth should not normally be
accepted by the Commissioner if it is made five years after the member had
entered the service unless the applicant furnished adequate reasons for not
making his application earlier.(c)The Commissioner send the relevant records
to the Collector of the district concerned, who shall have the matter enquired
into by an officer of the Revenue Department not lower in rank than Revenue
Divisional Officer. The Collector shall forward with his remarks, if any, the
report of the Revenue Divisional Officer concerned and all the relevant
records to the Government. Thereupon the Government shall pass suitable orders
thereon.(d)In considering the question of permitting an alteration in the date
of birth as entered in the official records even when such entry is proved to
have been due to a bonafide mistake, the Government shall take into
consideration the circumstances whether the applicant would normally be
eligible for appointment to the post at the time of entry into sendee, had his
age been correctly stated and what would have been its effect on his service
and Government may permit the alteration subject to such conditions as they
may deem fit to impose.(e)The procedure laid down in sub-rules (a) to (d)
shall be followed also in case where alteration of date of birth is proposed
suo moto by the Commissioner on the basis of medical opinion, in the absence
of other authoritative records.

### 40. Furnishing of security deposit in a particular class or category of
the service. - It shall be open to the council to direct with the prior
approval of the Government and by means of a general or special orders that a
person before he is appointed to a particular class or category of the service
shall furnish security "to posts for which security is prescribed" for a
specified amount. The amount of security and the manner of taking it shall be
given in the order. No person shall be appointed to any class or category of
the service unless he furnished security in accordance with the said order.

### 41. Pay and allowances. - The pay and allowances of the Corporation
establishment in classes I to IV shall be fixed by the Government, from time
to time, in accordance with section 108 of the Act. The provisions of the
Tamil Nadu Travelling Allowance Rules issued by the Government from time to
time, shall apply to the Corporation establishment for purpose of claiming
travelling allowance and daily allowance.

### 42. Holidays. - (a) The offices and institutions under the control of the
Corporation shall be permitted only such public and special local holiday as
may be sanctioned by the Government from time to time, in respect or
Government offices and institutions:

Provided that the grant of holidays to educational institutions under the
control of the Corporation shall be regulated in accordance with the Tamil
Nadu Educational Rules.(b)No holiday other than those sanctioned to Government
Offices and institutions shall be granted to offices and institutions under
the control of the Corporation without the previous sanction of the
Government:Provided, however the Commissioner is permitted to order closure of
the Corporation offices for a day or part of a day as a mark of respect
whenever any officer of the Corporation of the status of a head of department
passes away.

### 43. Rules applicable to Government servants to apply. - The provisions of
the Fundamental Rules, the Tamil Nadu Leave Rules, 1933, the Tamil Nadu Manual
of Special Pay and Allowances Tamil Nadu Pension Code as amended, from time to
time, shall apply in so far as they are not inconsistent with the rules made
under the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25
of 1981).

### 44. Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the appropriate
authority shall, if it is of the opinion that it is in the public interest so
to do, have the absolute right to retire any member of the service by giving
him notice of not less than three months in writing or three months pay and
allowance in lieu of such notice, at any time after he has attained the age of
fifty years or fifty five years in the case of basic servant, as the case may
be, or after he has completed thirty years of qualifying service. Any member
of service, who has attained the age of fifty years or who has completed
twenty, five years of qualifying service, may, likewise, retire from service
by giving notice of not less than three months, in writing to the appropriate
authority.

Explanation I. - For the purpose of this rule, appropriate authority means the
authority, which has the power to make substantive appointment to the post or
service from which the member of the service is required to retire or want to
retire.Explanation II. - For the purpose of this rule, the three months notice
may be given before the member of the said service attains the age of fifty
years, provided that the retirement takes place after he has attained that
age.Explanation III. - In computing the notice period of three months, the
date of service of the notice shall be included.Explanation IV. - When a
member of the service under suspension or against whom disciplinary action is
pending, seeks to retire voluntarily under this rule, the specific permission
of the appropriate authority for such voluntary retirement is necessary. The
appropriate authority may withheld the permission sought by the
member.Explanation V. - The powers conferred on the appropriate authority
under this rule may also be exercised by any higher authority.

### 45. (a) A member of service who has completed qualifying service of not
less than twenty years, may retire from service by giving notice of not less
than three months in writing to the appointing authority. Before giving such
notice, he may satisfy himself by means of a reference to the appointing
authority that he has completed twenty years of qualifying sendee for pension.

Explanation I. - For the purpose of this clause, the period of notice shall
commence from the date of its receipt by the appointing authority.Explanation
II. - The term "appointing authority" shall include the immediate official
superior to the member and the period of three months I notice shall commence
from the date of receipt of the notice by the said immediate superior, in case
where a member has to address the appointing authority through proper
channel.(b)The member of the service desiring to retire under sub-rule (a)
shall be given weightage up to five years in addition to the qualifying
service rendered by him subject to the conditions that the total qualifying
service after adding the weightage shall not exceed the qualifying service he
would have had if he had voluntarily retired under the rule 44 in completion
of twenty-five years, whichever is earlier. The weightage given under this
sub-rule shall be an addition to the qualifying service for the purpose of
calculating pension and gratuity only and it shall not entitle the member
retiring voluntarily to any notional fixation of pay for the said purpose. The
pension and, gratuity shall be based on the actual emoluments on the date of
retirement.(c)The notice of voluntary retirement issued by a member of the
service under sub-rule (a) shall be accepted by the appointing authority, if
the date of retirement on the expiry of such notice is earlier than the date
on which the member concerned could have retired, voluntarily under the rule
45, except where,-(1)disciplinary proceedings are contemplated pending against
the member concerned for the imposition of a major penalty; or(2)prosecution
is contemplated pending in a Court of law against the member concerned.(d)The
member shall be deemed to have been retired from service at the end of the
period of notice issued under sub-rule (a) unless the appointing authority
issues an order to the contrary before expiry of the period of notice.(e)The
member may also withdraw the notice of voluntary retirement subsequently, with
the approval of the appointing authority:Provided that the request for such
withdrawal shall be made before the expiry of the period of
notice.AppendixForm 4Appointment Committees Docket Form

### 1\. Name of post

### 2\. General qualification

### 3\. Technical qualification

### 4\. Scale of pay and allowances

### 5\. Number of vacancies existing

### 6\. Number of vacancies anticipated in the year

S.No. | Name of applicant | Nationality and | Qualifications Caste General and Technical | Decision of the Committee  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  | 

