## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-EIGHTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1987

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-EIGHTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1987

## Act 058 of 1987

  * Published in Gazette of India on 17 February 1987 
  * Commenced on 9 December 1987 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 February 1987.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Fifty-sixth
Amendment) Bill, 1987 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Fifty-eighth
Amendment) Act, 1987_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The Constitution
of India was adopted by the Constituent Assembly in English. A Hindi
translation of the Constitution, signed by the members of the Constituent
Assembly, was also published in 1950 under the authority of the President of
the Constituent Assembly in accordance with a resolution adopted by that
Assembly.

### 2. There has been a general demand for the publication of an authoritative
text of the Constitution in Hindi incorporating therein all the subsequent
amendments. It is also imperative to have an authoritative text of the
Constitution for facilitating its use in the legal process. Any Hindi version
of the Constitution should not only conform to the Hindi translation published
by the Constituent Assembly, but should also be in conformity with the
language, style and terminology adopted in the authoritative texts of Central
Acts in Hindi. It is, therefore, proposed to amend the Constitution so as to
empower the President of India to publish under his authority the translation
of the Constitution in Hindi signed by the members of the Constituent Assembly
with such modifications as may be necessary to bring it in conformity with the
language, style and terminology adopted in the authoritative texts of Central
Acts in the Hindi language. The President would also be authorised to publish
the translation in Hindi of every amendment of the Constitution made in
English.

### 3. The Bill seeks to achieve the aforesaid objects.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Thirty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Fifty-eighth Amendment) Act, 1987.

### 2\. Amendment of the heading of Part XXII.-

In Part XXII of the Constitution, in the heading, after the word,
"COMMENCEMENT", the words ", AUTHORITATIVE TEXT IN HINDI" shall be inserted.

### 3\. Insertion of new article 394A.-

After article 394 of the Constitution, the following article shall be
inserted, namely:-"394A. Authoritative text in the Hindi language.-(1)The
President shall cause to be published under his authority,-(a)the translation
of this Constitution in the Hindi language, signed by the members of the
Constituent Assembly, with such modifications as may be necessary to bring it
in conformity with the language, style and terminology adopted in the
authoritative texts of Central Acts in the Hindi language, and incorporating
therein all the amendments of this Constitution made before such publication;
and(b)the translation in the Hindi language of every amendment of this
Constitution made in the English language.(2)The translation of this
Constitution and of every amendment thereof published under clause (1) shall
be construed to have the same meaning as the original thereof and if any
difficulty arises in so construing any part of such translation, the President
shall cause the same to be revised suitably.(3)The translation of this
Constitution and of every amendment thereof published under this article shall
be deemed to be, for all purposes, the authoritative text thereof in the Hindi
language.".[The Constitution (Fifty-eighth Amendment) Act, 1987, brings about
changes in the way the Constitution was written. Initially, the whole
constitution was written in English, but with the introduction of the 58th
Amendment, the provision to have a Hindi version of the Constitution came into
force. Moreover, every subsequent amendment shall also be written in Hindi
along with the English language and should have the same sanctity as that of
the English version. The President holds the authority to bring about any
changes in the Hindi translation if it does not obey the criteria set by
Central Acts regarding the language, style, and terminology.Also Refer]

