## Union of India - Act

## The Customs Act, 1962

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Customs Act, 1962

## Act 52 of 1962

  * Published on 13 December 1962 
  * Commenced on 13 December 1962 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 December 1962.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Customs Act, 1962(52 OF 1962)

### 7.

/419Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Sea Customs Act which lays down the
basic law relating to customs was enacted more than 80 years ago. It has been
amended from time to time and some important amendments were made by the Sea
Customs (Amendment) Act, 1955. General and comprehensive revision of the Act
has not so far been undertaken. Several provisions of the Act have become
obsolete. Difficulties have also been experienced in the implementation of
certain other provisions. The trade has been pressing for certain changes and
facilities. Smuggling, consequent to controlled economy, has presented new
problems. To meet these requirements, it has become necessary to revise the
Act.The Land Customs Act was passed in 1924. It is not a self-contained Act
and applies by reference, provisions of the Sea Customs Act to land customs
with certain modifications. There is no separate law relating to air customs,
and the administration of air customs is governed by certain rules made under
the Indian Aircraft Act, 1911. While revising the Sea Customs Act, it is
proposed to consolidate the provisions relating to sea customs, land customs
and air customs into one comprehensive measure.The Notes on Clauses explain in
detail all the changes which are proposed to be introduced in the new as
compared with the existing law.Amendment Act 80 of 1985-Statement of Objects
and Reasons.-The Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), provides for the levy of
duties of customs. It is proposed to make certain amendments to the Act so as
to remove certain practical difficulties experienced in the administration of
the Act.2\. The Bill provides, among other things, for the following
amendments, namely:-(i) Section 20 of the Act provides for the re-importation
of goods produced or manufactured in India free of duty if such importation
takes place within three years of their export. It is proposed to amend this
section to enable the Central Government to extend the said period of three
years in certain cases in the public interest;(ii) Section 28 of the Act
empowers the proper officer to serve notice on the person chargeable with the
duty for payment of duties not levied, short-levied or erroneously refunded by
reason of collusion or any wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts by the
importer or the exporter or his agent or employees within a period of five
years from the relevant date as defined in the section. The Assistant
Collector of Customs then determines the amount due from the concerned person.
In order to ensure a more judicious exercise of this power, it is proposed to
suitably amend this section to provide that this power is exercised by the
Collector of Customs;(iii) Section 48 of the Act provides for the procedure
for the sale of goods if they are not cleared, warehoused or transhipped
within two months after their unloading. It is proposed to reduce this period
to forty-five days;(iv) Section 61 deals with the period for which the goods
may remain warehoused without payment of interest on the amount of duty
payable. It is proposed to suitably amend this section to provide for a longer
warehousing period without payment of interest in respect of some more
categories of goods;(v) Section 74 provides for allowing drawback on the
export of goods in respect of which duty has been paid on the importation
thereof. It is proposed to suitably amend this section so as to allow such
drawback also on goods exported as baggage or by post;(vi) Section 75 deals
with drawback on imported materials used in the manufacture of goods which are
exported. It is proposed to amend this section so as to allow such payment of
drawback in the case of goods exported by post also retrospectively from the
13th day of May, 1983.The provision for allowing drawback on goods exported by
post which was in the Act originally got excluded from the 13th day of May,
1983 when an amendment was made to the relevant provisions. In view of this,
the amendment is proposed to be made retrospectively from that date and a
necessary validating provision has also been included ;(vii) Section 110 of
the Act deals with the seizure of goods, documents and things. It is proposed
to suitably amend this section to provide for the procedure to be adopted for
the disposal of certain seized goods having regard to their perishable nature
or depreciation in their value with the passage of time or other relevant
circumstances;(viii) Section 125 provides for option to the owner of the goods
to pay fine in lieu of confiscation thereof in addition to any duty and
charges payable thereon. It is proposed to suitably amend this section so as
to specifically provide that whenever any fine in lieu of confiscation of
goods is imposed on any owner of the goods, such owner shall also be liable
for duty and charges payable in respect of such goods. It is also proposed to
clarify that in a case where the owner of the goods is not known, the person
from whose possession or custody such goods are seized will be made
responsible for the payment of the fine, duty and other charges;(ix) Section
129-C provides for the procedure of the Appellate Tribunal constituted under
the Act. With a view to providing facility for speedy disposal of appeals by
Special Benches of the Appellate Tribunal, it is proposed to amend this
section so as to enable the constitution of special Benches of not less than
two members instead of three members, as at present. It is also proposed to
provide that in case of difference of opinion on any point among the members
of any such Bench, the point shall be decided by the President of the
Appellate Tribunal;(x) It is proposed to take over power to enable the Central
Board of Excise and Customs to issue orders or instructions to officers of
customs in respect of classification of goods or of the levy of duty thereon
for the purpose of achieving uniformity in respect of these matters.3\. The
Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.Amendment Act 29 of 1988-Statement of
Objects and Reasons.-The Customs Act, 1962 and the Central Excises and Salt
Act, 1944 provide for the levy and collection of duties of customs and excise,
respectively. The Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate Tribunal is being set
up for adjudication of disputes with respect to the determination of the rates
of duties of customs and central excise on goods and to the valuation of goods
for the purposes of assessment of such duties. It is proposed to make certain
amendments in these Acts to streamline the procedures, to safeguard revenue
interest, to mitigate hardships of the assessees in assessment matters, and to
include the provisions relating to the powers to grant exemption from duty of
excise in the Central Excises and Salt Act, itself which presently are
available in the Central Excise Rules.2\. The Bill, accordingly, provides
mainly for the following amendments:-(i) to specify Principal Collectors as a
separate class of officers and empowering the Central Government to delegate
to them certain powers presently exercised by the Central Board of Excise and
Customs;(ii) to restore powers of the Board and the Collectors to revise
assessment orders passed by the subordinate officers and making such orders
appealable to the said Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate Tribunal;(iii) to
empower the Central Government to grant refund of duties in cases where an
assessee had paid duties as an exception to the generally prevalent practice
if the Central Government issues notification under section 28-A of the
Customs Act or, as the case may be, under section 11-C of the Central Excises
and Salt Act and the assessee had not passed on the duty incidence to others
and the claim is made within six months of issue of the said notification.
Such notifications, when issued, will be laid before each House of
Parliament;(iv) to accept micro films, facsimile copies and statement
contained in a document produced by a computer as a document and as evidence
for the purposes of the said Acts. This will, however, be subject to certain
conditions and safeguards;(v) to include in the Central Excises and Salt Act,
itself provisions of rule 8 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 which authorises
the Central Government to grant exemption from duties of excise on any
excisable goods or payment thereof since these are important substantive
provisions and should more appropriately find place in the Act itself.
Notification granting exemption from duties of excise, whenever issued under
the new provisions, will be laid before each House of Parliament.3\. The Bill
seeks to achieve the above objectives. The Notes on clauses explain the
provisions of the Bill.Amendment Act 40 of 1991-Statement of Objects and
Reasons.-The question of "unjust enrichment" in cases of goods subject to duty
of excise or customs has been the subject-matter of discussion for quite
sometime now. The concept of "unjust enrichment", in so far as it relates to
the said duties, is that any refund of these duties made to any manufacturer
or importer, who may have initially paid these duties but had passed on the
same to the buyers, would be in the nature of a windfall gain to such
manufacturer or importer.2\. The Public Accounts Committee made an inquiry
into all aspects of the issue relating to refund of central excise duty. The
Committee presented its report to the Parliament on the 11th day of March,
1991. The Committee has also recommended for the introduction of suitable
legislation to amend the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 and the Customs
Act, 1962 to deny refunds in cases of unjust enrichment.3\. The Bill aims at
giving effect to the aforesaid recommendation of the Committee and proposes
the following main amendments in the said Acts, namely:-(a) the manufacturer
or importer of goods shall not be entitled to refund of the duty of excise or,
as the case may be, the duty of customs if he has already passed on the
incidence of such duty to the buyer;(b) the burden of proof that the incidence
of the duty has not been passed on to the buyer shall be on the person
claiming the refund;(c) every person, who is liable to pay duty of excise or,
as the case may be, the duty of customs on any goods, shall be under an
obligation to prominently indicate, at the time of clearance of the goods, in
all the documents relating to assessment, etc., the amount of duty which will
form part of the price at which such goods will be sold;(d) the refund of any
of the said duties is proposed to be made only to the person who has
ultimately borne the incidence of such duty;(e) it is proposed to establish a
Consumer Welfare Fund wherein the amount of duty of excise or, as the case may
be, the duty of customs, which is not refundable to the manufacturer or
importer or the buyer in accordance with the proposed provisions, shall be
credited. In addition, any income from investment of the amount credited to
the Fund and any other monies received by the Central Government for the
purposes of the Fund will be credited to the Fund. The Fund will be utilised
by the Central Government for the welfare of the consumers in accordance with
the rules to be made in this behalf;(f) it is also proposed to provide that
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any judgment, decree,
order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal or any Court or in any other
provision of the said Acts, etc. no refund shall be made except as provided in
new sub-section (2) of section 11-B of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944
or new sub-section (2) of section 27 of the Customs Act, 1962;(g) it is also
proposed to provide that where any manufacturer or importer of goods has
collected any amount in any manner from the buyer as representing the duty of
excise or, as the case may be, the duty of customs, he shall pay the said
amount to the credit of the Central Government and the said amount shall be
utilised in adjusting the duty payable by the manufacturer or importer on
finalisation of assessment. The surplus, if any, will be dealt with in
accordance with the aforesaid provisions of section 11-B of the Central
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 and section 27 of the Customs Act, 1962.4\. The
Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.Amendment Act 55 of 1991-Statement of
Objects and Reasons. This Bill aims at amending the provisions mainly relating
to warehousing of goods after import without payment of duty under the Customs
Act, 1962. Under the present law the imported goods may be stored in bonded
warehouses till their actual clearance for home consumption on payment of
appropriate duty or their re-export without payment of duty to any foreign
port.2\. Existing provisions permit warehousing for three months and charging
of interest at the rate of 18 per cent, on delayed clearance which are being
misused by the importers by blocking large amounts of revenues.3\. Besides, at
present, there is no time-limit for payment of duty under section 47 of the
Customs Act, 1962 and also for payment of interest for delayed payment of
duty.4\. This Bill seeks to curtail the period of warehousing, prescribe the
increased rate of interest on duty leviable on the warehoused goods, ensure
prompt payment of duty and impose interest on delayed payments of duty.5\. The
proposed amendments will expedite the realisation of revenue and discourage
indiscriminate warehousing of imported goods and ensure prompt payment of
duties.6\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.(iii) Act 25 of 1978 :-
The Bill seeks to carry out certain amendments in the Customs Act, 1962 and
the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944. Essentially the amendments are
intended to remove certain practical difficulties experienced in the operation
of Customs and Central Excises laws, and doubts regarding the interpretation
of certain important provisions therein, to provide facilities to exporters
and to increase the minimum punishment of smuggling. Some of the amendments to
the Customs Act and the Central Excises and Salt Act are similar in nature.The
Bill also seeks to amend the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963, with a view
to raise the minimum strength of members of each of the two Boards (the
Central Board of Direct Taxes and the Central Board of Excise and Customs) as
it has become necessary in view of the phenomenal increase in the
responsibilities of the two Boards.The Notes on clauses appended to the Bill
explain in detail the various provisions thereof. - Gazette of India, 1974,
Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., P. 918.Act 27 of 1988.- The Customs Act, 1962 (52 of
1962) deals with the law relating to levy of duties of customs. Section 14
thereof provides for the valuation of goods for the purposes of assessment of
duties of customs chargeable on goods by reference to their value. Article VII
of the General Agreement on Trade and Tariff (GATT), to which India is a
contracting party, lays down general principles on customs valuation. The
provisions of the said section 14 are, therefore, based on Article VII of
GATT.2\. During the Tokyo Round of Multi-lateral Trade Negotiations under the
GATT (1973-1979), an Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the GATT,
also known as GATT Code of Valuation, was adopted. This Agreement lays down
elaborate rules to provide for greater uniformity and certainty in the
application of Art. VII of the GATT for determining the value of imported
good's. As India is contracting party to this Agreement also, we are required
to implement the said GATT Code of Valuation.3\. The purpose of the Bill is,
therefore, to suitably amend Section 14 of the Customs Act so as to enable the
Central Government to frame rules on the basis of GATT Code of Valuation for
the determination of the price of imported goods.Act 8 of 1999.- Section 75-A
of the Customs Act, 1962, which was inserted by the Finance Act, 1995,
provides that where any drawback payable to a claimant under section 74 or
section 75 of the Customs Act as the case may be, is not paid within a period
of three months from the date of filing of claim to the date of payment of
such drawback, there shall be paid to the claimant in addition to the amount
of drawback interest fixed under section 27-A of the said Act from the date
after the expiry of the said period of three months till the date of payment
of such drawback.2\. With a view to arrest the declining trend in exports,
several measures were announced by the Government in the recent past to give a
special package of measures for boosting exports. One of the measures includes
a commitment on the part of the Government to pay interest to exporters if
Government dues by way of duty drawback is delayed beyond two months. Thus,
with a view to reduce the time limit from three months to two months as given
under section 75-A of the Act, it is necessary to amend that section. The
reduced time-limit of two months instead of the present three months will
expedite the process of payment of drawback, and, thereby emphasise the
urgency of delivering export related benefits to the exporters within shortest
possible time.3\. Simultaneously, it is proposed to empower the Central
Government to levy interest where the claimant has been sanctioned drawback
erroneously, if such drawback is not refunded by him within a period of two
months, instead of the present three months.4\. The proposed amendments will
expedite the process of payment of drawback and realization of revenue.5\. The
Bill seeks to achieve the above objects. - Gazette of India, 21-12-1998, Pt.
II - Section 2, Ext. P. 7 (No. 49).Act 49 of 2005.- Under the direct and
indirect tax enactments, an appeal lies to the High Court on a substantial
question of law. Due to pendency of a large number of cases in the High
Courts, huge revenue is blocked in such litigations. This is adversely
affecting the national economy. Hence, urgent measures are required to be
taken to speed up taxation matters pending before the High Courts. To achieve
the aforesaid objective, it is proposed to establish a Tax Tribunal to be
known as the National Tax Tribunal to hear cases on substantial question of
law from the decisions of the Income-tax Tribunal to hear cases on substantial
question of law from the decisions of the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal and
the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal. This Tribunal is being
set up under Article 323B of the Constitution and will act through its
Benches. A person who has been a Judge of the Supreme Court or the Chief
Justice of a High Court shall be the Chairperson of the National Tax Tribunal.
The number of Benches to hear the cases under the direct tax laws and indirect
tax laws shall be decided by the Central Government from time to time. With
the establishment of the National Tax Tribunal all matters and proceedings
pending in appeals and references under the direct tax laws and indirect tax
laws before the High Courts shall stand transferred to it.2\. The Bill seeks
to achieve the above objects. The notes on clauses explain the various
provisions of the Bill.[13th December, 1962]An Act to consolidate and amend
the law relating to Customs.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirteenth Year
of the Republic of India as follows:-

Brought into force on 1.2.1963. Act extended to Sikkim with effect from
1.10.1979 vide Notification No. 185/79-Cus., dated 1.10.1979.  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called The Customs Act, 1962.(2)It extends to the whole of
India, [and save as otherwise provided in this Act, it applies also to any
offence or contravention thereunder committed outside India by any person]
[Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.](3)It
shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(1)[ "adjudicating
authority" means any authority competent to pass any order or decision under
this Act, but does not include the Board, [Commissioner (Appeals)]
[Substituted by Act 44 of 1980,Section 50 and Schedule V, for sub-Section
(1)(w.e.f. 11.10.1982).] [or Appellate Tribunal; [Substituted by Act 44 of
1980, Section 50 and Schedule V, for sub-Section (1) (w.e.f. 11.10.1982).
](1-A) "aircraft" has the same meaning as in the Aircraft Act, 1934 (22 of
1934);(1-B) "Appellate Tribunal" means the Customs, Excise and [Service Tax]
[Appellate Tribunal constituted under section 129;] [Substituted by Act 44 of
1980, Section 50 and Schedule V, for sub-Section (1) (w.e.f. 11.10.1982).
](2)[ "assessment" means determination of the dutiability of any goods and the
amount of duty, tax, cess or any other sum so payable, if any, under this Act
or under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (hereinafter referred to as the Customs
Tariff Act) or under any other law for the time being in force, with reference
to - [Substituted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.](a)the tariff classification of such goods as determined in
accordance with the provisions of the Customs Tariff Act;(b)the value of such
goods as determined in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the
Customs Tariff Act;(c)exemption or concession of duty, tax, cess or any other
sum, consequent upon any notification issued therefor under this Act or under
the Customs Tariff Act or under any other law for the time being in
force;(d)the quantity, weight, volume, measurement or other specifics where
such duty, tax, cess or any other sum is leviable on the basis of the
quantity, weight, volume, measurement or other specifics of such goods;(e)the
origin of such goods determined in accordance with the provisions of the
Customs Tariff Act or the rules made thereunder, if the amount of duty, tax,
cess or any other sum is affected by the origin of such goods;(f)any other
specific factor which affects the duty, tax, cess or any other sum payable on
such goods,and includes provisional assessment, self-assessment, re-assessment
and any assessment in which the duty assessed is nil;](3)"baggage" includes
unaccompanied baggage but does not include motor vehicles;(3A)[ "beneficial
owner" means any person on whose behalf the goods are being imported or
exported or who exercises effective control over the goods being imported or
exported;] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated
31.3.2017.](4)"bill of entry" means a bill of entry referred to in section
46;(5)"bill of export" means a bill of export referred to in section
50;(6)"Board" means the [[Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs] [
Substituted by Act 54 of 1963, Section 5, for Certain words (w.e.f.
1.1.1964).] constituted under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of
1963)];(7)"coastal goods" means goods, other than imported goods, transported
in a vessel from one port in India to another;[(7-A) "Commissioner (Appeals)"
means a person appointed to be a Commissioner of Customs (Appeals) under sub-
section (1) of section 4; [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 51, for
Clauses (7-A) and (8) (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).](8)"Commissioner of Customs", except
for the purposes of Chapter XV, includes an Additional Commissioner of
Customs;](9)"conveyance" includes a vessel, an aircraft and a
vehicle;(10)"customs airport" means any airport appointed under clause (a) of
section 7 to be a customs airport;(11)"customs area" means the area of a
customs station [or a warehouse] [Inserted by Notification No. 18 of 2017,
dated 4.5.2017.] and includes any area in which imported goods or export goods
are ordinarily kept before clearance by Customs Authorities;(12)"customs port"
means any port appointed under clause (a) of section 7 to be a customs port
[and includes a place appointed under clause (aa) of that section to be an
inland container depot] [ Inserted by Act 11 of 1983, Section 46 (w.e.f.
13.5.1983).];(13)"customs station" means any customs port, [customs airport,
international courier terminal, foreign post office] [Substituted 'customs
airport' by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated 31.3.2017.] or land
customs station;(14)"dutiable goods" means any goods which are chargeable to
duty and on which duty has not been paid;(15)"duty" means a duty of customs
leviable under this Act;(16)"entry", in relation to goods, means an entry made
in a bill of entry, shipping bill or bill of export and includes [***]
[Omitted 'in the case of goods imported or to be exported by post, the entry
referred to in section 82 or' by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated
31.3.2017.] the entry made under the regulations made under section
84;(17)"examination", in relation to any goods, includes measurement and
weighment thereof;(18)"export", with its grammatical variations and cognate
expressions, means taking out of India to a place outside India;(19)"export
goods" means any goods which are to be taken out of India to a place outside
India;(20)"exporter", in relation to any goods at any time between their entry
for export and the time when they are exported, includes [any owner,
beneficial owner] [Substituted 'any owner' by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of
2017), dated 31.3.2017.] or any person holding himself out to be the
exporter;(20A)[ "foreign post office" means any post office appointed under
clause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 7 to be a foreign post office;]
[Inserted by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated
31.3.2017.](21)"foreign-going vessel or aircraft" means any vessel or aircraft
for the time being engaged in the carriage of goods or passengers between any
port or airport in India and any port or airport outside India, whether
touching any intermediate port or airport in India or not, and includes-(i)any
naval vessel of a foreign Government taking part in any naval
exercises;(ii)any vessel engaged in fishing or any other operations outside
the territorial waters of India;(iii)any vessel or aircraft proceeding to a
place outside India for any purpose whatsoever;[(21-A) "Fund" means the
Consumer Welfare Fund established under section 12-C of the [Central Excises
and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944)] [Inserted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 9 (w.e.f.
20.9.1991).];](22)"goods" includes-(a)vessels, aircrafts and
vehicles;(b)stores;(c)baggage;(d)currency and negotiable instruments;
and(e)any other kind of movable property;(23)"import", with its grammatical
variations and cognate expressions, means bringing into India from a place
outside India;(24)"import manifest" or "import report" means the manifest or
report required to be delivered under section 30;(25)"imported goods" means
any goods brought into India from a place outside India but does not include
goods which have been cleared for home consumption;(26)"importer", in relation
to any goods at any time between their importation and the time when they are
cleared for home consumption, includes [any owner, beneficial owner]
[Substituted 'any owner' by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated
31.3.2017.] or any person holding himself out to be the importer;(27)"India"
includes the territorial waters of India;(28)"Indian customs waters" means the
[waters extending into the sea up to the limit of [Exclusive Economic Zone
under section 7] [Substituted by Act 25 of 1978, Section 2 (w.e.f. 1.7.1978).
] of the Territorial Waters, Continental Shelf, Exclusive Economic Zone and
other Maritime Zones Act, 1976 (80 of 1976)] and includes any bay, gulf,
harbour, creek or tidal river;(28A)[ "international courier terminal" means
any place appointed under clause (f) of sub-section (1) of section 7 to be an
international courier terminal;] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of
2017), dated 31.3.2017.](29)"land customs station" means any place appointed
under clause (b) of section 7 to be a land customs station;(30)"market price",
in relation to any goods, means the wholesale price of the goods in the
ordinary course of trade in India;[(30-A) "National Tax Tribunal" means the
National Tax Tribunal established under section 3 of the National Tax Tribunal
Act, 2005;] [ Inserted by Act49 of 2005, Section 30 and Schedule, Part VI (yet
to be enforced).](30AA)[ "notification" means notification published in the
Official Gazette and the expression "notify" with its cognate meaning and
grammatical variation shall be construed accordingly;] [Inserted by Finance
Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.](30B)[ "passenger name record
information" means the records prepared by an operator of any aircraft or
vessel or vehicle or his authorised agent for each journey booked by or on
behalf of any passenger;] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017),
dated 31.3.2017.](31)"person-in-charge" means,-(a)in relation to a vessel, the
master of the vessel;(b)in relation to an aircraft, the commander or pilot-in-
charge of the aircraft;(c)in relation to a railway train, the conductor, guard
or other person having the chief direction of the train;(d)in relation to any
other conveyance, the driver or other person-in-charge of the
conveyance;(32)"prescribed" means prescribed by regulations made under this
Act;(33)"prohibited goods" means any goods the import or export of which is
subject to any prohibition under this Act or any other law for the time being
in force but does not include any such goods in respect of which the
conditions subject to which the goods are permitted to be imported or exported
have been complied with;(34)"proper officer", in relation to any functions to
be performed under this Act, means the officer of customs who is assigned
those functions by the Board or the [Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by
Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector of Customs" (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).];(35)"regulations" means the regulations made by the Board under
any provision of this Act;(36)"rules" means the rules made by the Central
Government under any provision of this Act;(37)"shipping bill" means a
shipping bill referred to in section 50;(38)"stores" means goods for use in a
vessel or aircraft and includes fuel and spare parts and other articles of
equipment, whether or not for immediate fitting;(39)"smuggling", in relation
to any goods, means any act or omission which will render such goods liable to
confiscation under section 111 or section 113;(40)"tariff value", in relation
to any goods, means the tariff value fixed in respect thereof under sub-
section (2) of section 14;(41)"value", in relation to any goods, means the
value thereof determined in accordance with the provisions of [sub-section (1)
or sub-section (2) of section 14] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 94,
for " sub-Section (1) of Section 14" (w.e.f. 10.10.2007).];(42)"vehicle" means
conveyance of any kind used on land and includes a railway
vehicle;(43)"warehouse" means a public warehouse appointed under section 57 or
a private warehouse licensed under section 58;(44)"warehoused goods" means
goods deposited in a warehouse;(45)"warehousing station" means a place
declared as a warehousing station under section 9.

## Chapter II  
Officers Of Customs

### 3. [ Classes of officers of customs. [Substituted by Act 22 of 1995,
Section 52, for Sections 3 and 4 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995). ]

\- There shall be the following classes of officers of customs,
namely:-(a)Chief Commissioner of Customs;(b)Commissioners of
Customs;(c)Commissioners of Customs (Appeals);(cc)[ Joint Commissioners of
Customs;](d)[ Deputy Commissioners of Customs; [Substituted by Act 22 of 1995,
Section 52, for Sections 3 and 4 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995). ](e)Assistant
Commissioners of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs; and(f)such other
class of officers of customs as may be appointed for the purposes of this
Act.]

### 4. Appointment of officers of customs.

(1)The [Board] [ Substituted by Act 20 of 2002, Section 117, for " Central
Government" (w.e.f. 11.5.2002).] may appoint such persons as it thinks fit to
be officers of customs.(2)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section
(1), the [Board may authorise a Chief Commissioner of Customs or] [
Substituted by Act 20 of 2002, Section 117, for " Central Government may
authorise the Board," (w.e.f. 11.5.2002).] a [Joint or [Deputy or Assistant
Commissioner of Customs to appoint officers of customs below the rank of
Assistant Commissioner of Customs] [Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section
101, for " Deputy Commissioners of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). ].]

### 5. Powers of officers of customs.

(1)Subject to such conditions and limitations as the Board may impose, an
officer of customs may exercise the powers and discharge the duties conferred
or imposed on him under this Act.(2)An officer of customs may exercise the
powers and discharge the duties conferred or imposed under this Act on any
other officer of customs who is subordinate to him.(3)Notwithstanding anything
contained in this section, [a [Commissioner (Appeals)] [Substituted by Act 44
of 1980, Section 50 and Schedule V (w.e.f. 11.10.1982). ] shall not exercise
the powers and discharge the duties conferred or imposed on an officer of
customs other than those specified in Chapter XV and section 108.

### 6. Entrustment of functions of Board and customs officers on certain other
officers.

\- The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
entrust either conditionally or unconditionally to any officer of the Central
or the State Government or a local authority any functions of the Board or any
officer of customs under this Act.

## Chapter III  
Appointment Of Customs Ports, Airports, Warehousing Stations, Etc.

### 7\. Appointment of customs ports, airports, etc.

\- [(1)] [ Section 7 renumbered as sub-Section (1) thereof by Act 32 of 2003,
Section 105 (w.e.f. 14.5.2003).] The [Board] [ Substituted by Act 32 of 2003,
Section 105, for " Central Government" (w.e.f. 14.5.2003).] may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint-(a)the ports and airports which
alone shall be customs ports or customs airports for the unloading of imported
goods and the loading of export goods or any class of such goods;(aa)[ the
places which alone shall be inland container depots for the unloading of
imported goods and the loading of export goods or any class of such goods;] [
Inserted by Act 11 of 1983, Section 47 (w.e.f. 13.5.1983).](b)the places which
alone shall be land customs stations for the clearance of goods imported or to
be exported by land or inland water or any class of such goods;(c)the routes
by which alone goods or any class of goods specified in the notification may
pass by land or inland water into or out of India, or to or from any land
customs station from or to any land frontier;(d)the ports which alone shall be
coastal ports for the carrying on of trade in coastal goods or any class of
such goods with all or any specified ports in India.(e)[ the post offices
which alone shall be foreign post offices for the clearance of imported goods
or export goods or any class of such goods; [Inserted by Finance Act, 2017
(Act No. 7 of 2017), dated 31.3.2017.](f)the places which alone shall be
international courier terminals for the clearance of imported goods or export
goods or any class of such goods.](2)[ Every notification issued under this
section and in force immediately before the commencement of the Finance Act,
2003 shall, on such commencement, be deemed to have been issued under the
provisions of this section as amended by section 98 of the Finance Act, 2003
and shall continue to have the same force and effect after such commencement
until it is amended, rescinded or superseded under the provisions of this
section.] [ Inserted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 105 (w.e.f. 14.5.2003).]

### 8. Power to approve landing places and specify limits of customs area.

\- The [Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50,
for " Collector of Customs" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] may,-(a)approve proper places
in any customs port or customs airport or coastal port for the unloading and
loading of goods or for any class of goods;(b)specify the limits of any
customs area.

### 9. Power to declare places to be warehousing stations.

\- The Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare places to
be warehousing stations at which alone public warehouses may be appointed and
private warehouses may be licensed.

### 10. Appointment of boarding stations.

\- The [Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50,
for " Collector of Customs" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint, in or near any customs port, a b oarding station
for the purpose of boarding of, or disembarkation from, vessels by officers of
customs.

## Chapter IV  
Prohibitions On Importation And Exportation Of Goods

### 11. Power to prohibit importation or exportation of goods.

(1)If the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary so to do for
any of the purposes specified in sub-section (2), it may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, prohibit either absolutely or subject to such conditions
(to be fulfilled before or after clearance) as may be specified in the
notification, the import or export of goods of any specified
description.(2)The purposes referred to in sub-section (1) are the following:
-(3)[ Any prohibition or restriction or obligation relating to import or
export of any goods or class of goods or clearance thereof provided in any
other law for the time being in force, or any rule or regulation made or any
order or notification issued thereunder, shall be executed under the
provisions of that Act only if such prohibition or restriction or obligation
is notified under the provisions of this Act, subject to such exceptions,
modifications or adaptations as the Central Government deems fit.] [Inserted
by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.](a)the maintenance
of the security of India;(b)the maintenance of public order and standards of
decency or morality;(c)the prevention of smuggling;(d)the prevention of
shortage of goods of any description;(e)the conservation of foreign exchange
and the safeguarding of balance of payments;(f)the prevention of injury to the
economy of the country by the uncontrolled import or export of gold or
silver;(g)the prevention of surplus of any agricultural product or the product
of fisheries;(h)the maintenance of standards for the classification, grading
or marketing of goods in international trade;(i)the establishment of any
industry;(j)the prevention of serious injury to domestic production of goods
of any description;(k)the protection of human, animal or plant life or
health;(l)the protection of national treasures of artistic, historic or
archaeological value;(m)the conservation of exhaustible natural
resources;(n)the protection of patents, trade marks and copyrights;(o)the
prevention of deceptive practices;(p)the carrying on of foreign trade in any
goods by the State, or by a Corporation owned or controlled by the State to
the exclusion, complete or partial, of citizens of India;(q)the fulfilment of
obligations under the Charter of the United Nations for the maintenance of
international peace and security;(r)the implementation of any treaty,
agreement or convention with any country;(s)the compliance of imported goods
with any laws which are applicable to similar goods produced or manufactured
in India;(t)the prevention of dissemination of documents containing any matter
which is likely to prejudicially affect friendly relations with any foreign
State or is derogatory to national prestige;(u)the prevention of the
contravention of any law for the time being in force; and(v)any other purpose
conducive to the interests of the general public.[CHAPTER IV-A [Chapters IV-A,
IV-B and IV-C inserted by Act 12 of 1969, Section 2 (w.e.f. 3.1.1969). ]
Detection Of Illegally Imported Goods And Prevention Of The Disposal Thereof

### 11A. Definitions.

\- In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"illegal import"
means the import of any goods in contravention of the provisions of this Act
or any other law for the time being in force;(b)"intimated place" means a
place intimated under sub-section (1), sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), as
the case may be, of section 11-C;(c)"notified date", in relation to goods of
any description, means the date on which the notification in relation to such
goods is issued under section 11-B;(d)"notified goods" means goods specified
in the notification issued under section 11-B.

### 11B. Power of Central Government to notify goods.

\- If, having regard to the magnitude of the illegal import of goods of any
class or description, the Central Government is satisfied that it is expedient
in the public interest to take special measures for the purpose of checking
the illegal import, circulation or disposal of such goods, or facilitating the
detection of such goods, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify goods of such class or description.

### 11C. Persons possessing notified goods to intimate the place of storage,
etc.

(1)Every person who owns, possesses or controls, on the notified date, any
notified goods, shall, within seven days from that date, deliver to the proper
officer a statement (in such form, in such manner and containing such
particulars as may be specified by rules made in this behalf) in relation to
the notified goods owned, possessed or controlled by him and the place where
such goods are kept or stored.(2)Every person who acquires, after the notified
date, any notified goods, shall, before making such acquisition, deliver to
the proper officer an intimation containing the particulars of the place where
such goods are proposed to be kept or stored after such acquisition and shall,
immediately on such acquisition, deliver to the proper officer a statement (in
such form, in such manner and containing such particulars as may be specified
by rules made in this behalf) in relation to the notified goods acquired by
him:Provided that a person who has delivered a statement, whether under sub-
section (1) or sub-section (2), in relation to any notified goods, owned,
possessed, controlled or acquired by him, shall not be required to deliver any
further statement in relation to any notified goods acquired by him, after the
date of delivery of the said statement, so long as the notified goods so
acquired are kept or stored at the intimated place.(3)If any person intends to
shift any notified goods to any place other than the intimated place, he
shall, before taking out such goods from the intimated place, deliver to the
proper officer an intimation containing the particulars of the place to which
such goods are proposed to be shifted.(4)No person shall, after the expiry of
seven days from the notified date, keep or store any notified goods at any
place other than the intimated place.(5)Where any notified goods have been
sold or transferred, such goods shall not be taken from one place to another
unless they are accompanied by the voucher referred to in section 11-F.(6)No
notified goods (other than those which have been sold or transferred) shall be
taken from one place to another unless they are accompanied by a transport
voucher (in such form and containing such particulars as may be specified by
rules made in this behalf) prepared by the persons owning, possessing or
controlling such goods.

### 11D. Precautions to be taken by persons acquiring notified goods.

\- No person shall acquire (except by gift or succession, from any other
individual in India), after the notified date, any notified goods-(i)unless
such goods are accompanied by,-(a)the voucher referred to in section 11-F or
the memorandum referred to in sub-section (2) of section 11-G, as the case may
be, or(b)in the case of a person who has himself imported any goods, any
evidence showing clearance of such goods by the Customs Authorities;
and(ii)unless he has taken, before acquiring such goods from a person other
than a dealer having a fixed place of business, such reasonable steps as may
be specified by rules made in this behalf, to ensure that the goods so
acquired by him are not goods which have been illegally imported.

### 11E. Persons possessing notified goods to maintain accounts.

(1)Every person who, on or after the notified date, owns, possesses, controls
or acquires any notified goods shall maintain (in such form and in such manner
as may be specified by rules made in this behalf) a true and complete account
of such goods and shall, as often as he acquires or parts with any notified
goods, make an entry in the said account in relation to such acquisition or
parting with, and shall also state therein the particulars of the person from
whom such goods have been acquired or in whose favour such goods have been
parted with, as the case may be, and such account shall be kept, alongwith the
goods, at the place of storage of the notified goods to which such accounts
relate:Provided that it shall not be necessary to maintain separately accounts
in the form and manner specified by rules made in this behalf in the case of a
person who is already maintaining accounts which contain the particulars
specified by the said rules.(2)Every person who owns, possesses or controls
any notified goods and who uses any such goods for the manufacture of any
other goods, shall maintain (in such form, in such manner and containing such
particulars as may be specified by rules made in this behalf) a true and
complete account of the notified goods so used by him and shall keep such
account at the intimated place.

### 11F. Sale, etc., of notified goods to be evidenced by vouchers.

\- On and from the notified date, no person shall sell or otherwise transfer
any notified goods, unless every transaction in relation to the sale or
transfer of such goods is evidenced by a voucher in such form and containing
such particulars as may be specified by rules made in this behalf.

### 11G. Sections 11-C, 11-E and 11-F not to apply to goods in personal use.

(1)Nothing in sections, 11-C, 11-E and 11-F shall apply to any notified goods
which are-(a)in personal use of the person by whom they are owned, possessed
or controlled, or(b)kept in the residential premises of a person for his
personal use.(2)If any person, who is in possession of any notified goods
referred to in sub-section (1), sells, or otherwise transfers for a valuable
consideration, any such goods, he shall issue to the purchaser or transferee,
as the case may be, a memorandum containing such particulars as may be
specified by rules made in this behalf and no such goods shall be taken from
one place to another unless they are accompanied by the said memorandum.

## Chapter IV  
B Prevention Or Detection Of Illegal Export Of Goods

### 11H. Definitions.

\- In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"illegal export"
means the export of any goods in contravention of the provisions of this Act
or any other law for the time being in force;(b)"intimated place" means a
place intimated under sub-section (1), sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), as
the case may be, of section 11-J;(c)"specified area" includes the Indian
customs waters, and such inland area, not exceeding one hundred kilometres in
width from any coast or other border of India, as the Central Government may,
having regard to the vulnerability of that area to smuggling, by notification
in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf:Provided that where a part of
any village, town or city falls within a specified area, the whole of such
village, town or city shall, notwithstanding that the whole of it is not
within one hundred kilometres from any coast or other border of India, be
deemed to be included in such specified area;(d)"specified date", in relation
to specified goods, means the date on which any notification is issued under
section 11-I in relation to those goods in any specified area;(e)"specified
goods" means goods of any description specified in the notification issued
under section 11-I in relation to a specified area.

### 11I. Power of Central Government to specify goods.

\- If, having regard to the magnitude of the illegal export of goods of any
class or description, the Central Government is satisfied that it is expedient
in the public interest to take special measures for the purpose of checking
the illegal export or facilitating the detection of goods which are likely to
be illegally exported, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify goods of such class or description.

### 11J. Persons possessing specified goods to intimate the place of storage,
etc.

(1)Every person who owns, possesses or controls, on the specified date, any
specified goods, the market price of which exceeds fifteen thousand rupees
shall, within seven days from that date, deliver to the proper officer an
intimation containing the particulars of the place where such goods are kept
or stored within the specified area.(2)Every person who acquires (within the
specified area), after the specified date, any specified goods,-(i)the market
price of which, or(ii)the market price of which together with the market price
of any specified goods of the same class or description, if any, owned,
possessed or controlled by him on the date of such acquisition, exceeds
fifteen thousand rupees, shall, before making such acquisition, deliver to the
proper officer an intimation containing the particulars of the place where
such goods are proposed to be kept or stored after such acquisition:Provided
that a person who has delivered an intimation, whether under sub-section (1)
or sub-section (2), in relation to any specified goods, owned, possessed,
controlled or acquired by him, shall not be required to deliver any further
intimation so long as the specified goods are kept or stored at the intimated
place.(3)If any person intends to shift any specified goods to which sub-
section (1) or sub-section (2) applies, to any place other than the intimated
place, he shall, before taking out such goods from the intimated place,
deliver to the proper officer an intimation containing the particulars of the
place to which such goods are proposed to be shifted.(4)No person shall, after
the expiry of seven days from the specified date, keep or store any specified
goods to which sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) applies, at any place other
than the intimated place.

### 11K. Transport of specified goods to be covered by vouchers.

(1)No specified goods shall be transported from, into or within any specified
area or loaded on any animal or conveyance in such area, unless they are
accompanied by a transport voucher (in such form and containing such
particulars as may be specified by rules made in this behalf) prepared by the
person owning, possessing, controlling or selling such goods:Provided that no
transport voucher shall be necessary for the transport, within a village, town
or city, of any specified goods the market price of which, on the date of
transport, does not exceed one thousand rupees.(2)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1), where the Central Government, after considering
the nature of any specified goods, the time, mode, route and the market price
of the goods intended to be transported, the purpose of the transportation and
the vulnerability of the specified area with regard to the illegal export of
such goods, is satisfied that it is expedient in the public interest so to do,
it may,-(i)by notification in the Official Gazette, specify goods of such
class or description and of a market price exceeding such sum as that
Government may notify; and different sums in relation to the specified goods
of the same class or description, or different classes or descriptions, may be
notified for the same specified area or for different specified areas,
and(ii)direct that no person shall transport any goods so specified unless the
transport voucher in relation to them has been countersigned by the proper
officer.

### 11L. Persons possessing specified goods to maintain accounts.

(1)Every person who, on or after the specified date, owns, possesses or
controls, within a specified area, any specified goods of a market price
exceeding fifteen thousand rupees, shall maintain (in such form and in such
manner as may be specified by rules made in this behalf) a true and complete
account of such goods and shall, as often as he acquires or parts with any
specified goods, make an entry in the said account in relation to such
acquisition or parting with, and shall also state therein the particulars of
the person from whom such goods have been acquired or in whose favour such
goods have been parted with, as the case may be, and such account shall be
kept, alongwith the goods, at the place of storage of the specified goods to
which such accounts relate:Provided that it shall not be necessary to maintain
separately accounts in the form and manner specified by rules made in this
behalf in the case of a person who is already maintaining accounts which
contain the particulars specified by the said rules.(2)Every person who owns,
possesses or controls any specified goods to which the provisions of sub-
section (1) apply, and who uses any such goods for the manufacture of any
other goods, shall maintain (in such form, in such manner and containing such
particulars as may be specified by rules made in this behalf) a true and
complete account of the specified goods so used by him and shall keep such
account at the intimated place.(3)If at any time, on a verification made by a
proper officer, it is found that any specified goods owned, possessed or
controlled by a person are lesser in quantity than the stock of such goods as
shown, at the time of such verification, in the accounts referred to in sub-
section (1), read with the accounts referred to in sub-section (2), it shall
be presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that such goods, to the extent
that they are lesser than the stock shown in the said accounts, have been
illegally exported and that the person owning, possessing or controlling such
goods has been concerned with the illegal export thereof.

### 11M. Steps to be taken by persons selling or transferring any specified
goods.

\- Except where he receives payment by cheque drawn by the purchaser, every
person who sells or otherwise transfers within any specified area, any
specified goods, shall obtain, on his copy of the sale or transfer voucher,
the signature and full postal address of the person to whom such sale or
transfer is made and shall also take such other reasonable steps as may be
specified by [rules] [ See the Specified Goods (Prevention of Illegal Export)
Rules, 1969.][made in this behalf to satisfy himself as to the identity of the
purchaser or the transferee, as the case may be, and if after an inquiry made
by a proper officer, it is found that the purchaser or the transferee, as the
case may be, is not either readily traceable or is a fictitious person, it
shall be presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that such goods have been
illegally exported and the person who had sold or otherwise transferred such
goods had been concerned in such illegal export:Provided that nothing in this
section shall apply to petty sales of any specified goods if the aggregate
market price obtained by such petty sales, made in the course of a day, does
not exceed two thousand and five hundred rupees.Explanation.-In this section
"petty sale" means a sale at a price which does not exceed one thousand
rupees.

## Chapter IV  
C Power To Exempt From The Provisions Of

CHAPTERS IV-A AND IV-B 11N. Power to exempt.\- If the Central Government is
satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to do, it may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, exempt generally, either absolutely or
subject to such conditions as may be specified in the notification, goods of
any class or description from all or any of the provisions of Chapter IV-A or
Chapter IV-B.] [Chapters IV-A, IV-B and IV-C inserted by Act 12 of 1969,
Section 2 (w.e.f. 3.1.1969). ]

## Chapter V  
Levy Of, And Exemption From, Customs Duties

### 12. Dutiable goods.

(1)Except as otherwise provided in this Act, or any other law for the time
being in force, duties of customs shall be levied at such rates as may be
specified under [the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975)] [ Substituted by
Act 51 of 1975, Section 13, for " Indian Tariff Act, 1934 (32 of 1934)"
(w.e.f. 2-8-1976).], or any other law for the time being in force, on goods
imported into, or exported from, India.(2)[ The provisions of sub-section (1)
shall apply in respect of all goods belonging to Government as they apply in
respect of goods not belonging to Government.] [ Substituted by Act 30 of
1963, Section 2, for sub-Section (2) (w.e.f. 1-10-1963).]

### 13. Duty on pilfered goods.

\- If any imported goods are pilfered after the unloading thereof and before
the proper officer has made an order for clearance for home consumption or
deposit in a warehouse, the importer shall not be liable to pay the duty
leviable on such goods except where such goods are restored to the importer
after pilferage.

Substituted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 95, for Section 14 (w.e.f. 10-10-2007).
Prior to its substitution, Section 14 read as under: " 14. Valuation of goods
for purposes of assessment.-(1) For the purposes of the Customs Tariff Act,
1975 (51 of 1975), or any other law for the time being in force whereunder a
duty of customs is chargeable on any goods by reference to their value, the
value of such goods shall be deemed to be the price at which such or like
goods are ordinarily sold, or offered for sale, for delivery at the time and
place of importation or exportation, as the case may be, in the course of
international trade, where-(a) the seller and the buyer have no interest in
the business of each other; or(b) one of them has no interest in the business
of the other, and the price is the sole consideration for the sale or offer
for sale:Provided that such price shall be calculated with reference to the
rate of exchange as in force on the date on which a bill of entry is presented
under section 46, or a shipping bill or bill of export, as the case maybe, is
presented under section 50;(1-A) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1),
the price referred to in that sub-section in respect of imported goods shall
be determined in accordance with the rules made in this behalf.(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub-section (1-A), if
the Board is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, fix tariff values for any class of
imported goods or export goods, having regard to the trend of value of such or
like goods, and where any such tariff values are fixed, the duty shall be
chargeable with reference to such tariff value.(3) For the purposes of this
section(a) " rate of exchange" means the rate of exchange-(i) determined by
the Board, or(ii) ascertained in such manner as the Board may direct,for the
conversion of Indian currency into foreign currency or foreign currency into
Indian currency;(b) " foreign currency" and " Indian currency" have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in clause (m) and clause (q) of section
2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999)." .  
---  
  
### 14. Valuation of goods.

(1)For the purposes of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975), or any other
law for the time being in force, the value of the imported goods and export
goods shall be the transaction value of such goods, that is to say, the price
actually paid or payable for the goods when sold for export to India for
delivery at the time and place of importation, or as the case may be, for
export from India for delivery at the time and place of exportation, where the
buyer and seller of the goods are not related and price is the sole
consideration for the sale subject to such other conditions as may be
specified in the rules made in this behalf:Provided that such transaction
value in the case of imported goods shall include, in addition to the price as
aforesaid, any amount paid or payable for costs and services, including
commissions and brokerage, engineering, design work, royalties and licence
fees, costs of transportation to the place of importation, insurance, loading,
unloading and handling charges to the extent and in the manner specified in
the rules made in this behalf:Provided further that the rules made in this
behalf may provide for,-(i)the circumstances in which the buyer and the seller
shall be deemed to be related;(ii)the manner of determination of value in
respect of goods when there is no sale, or the buyer and the seller are
related, or price is not the sole consideration for the sale or in any other
case;(iii)the manner of acceptance or rejection of value declared by the
importer or exporter, as the case may be, where the proper officer has reason
to doubt the truth or accuracy of such value, and determination of value for
the purposes of this section:Provided also that such price shall be calculated
with reference to the rate of exchange as in force on the date on which a bill
of entry is presented under section 46, or a shipping bill of export, as the
case may be, is presented under section 50.(2)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1), if the Board is satisfied that it is necessary
or expedient so to do, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, fix
tariff values for any class of imported goods or export goods, having regard
to the trend of value of such or like goods, and where any such tariff values
are fixed, the duty shall be chargeable with reference to such tariff
value.Explanation.-For the purposes of this section-(a)"rate of exchange"
means the rate of exchange-(i)determined by the Board, or(ii)ascertained in
such manner as the Board may direct, for the conversion of Indian currency
into foreign currency or foreign currency into Indian currency;(b)"foreign
currency" and "Indian currency" have the meanings respectively assigned to
them in clause (m) and clause (q) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange
Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999).

### 15. Date for determination of rate of duty and tariff valuation of
imported goods.

\- [(1) The rate of duty [* * * ] [Substituted by Act 20 of 1966, Section 3,
for " The rate of duty" (w.e.f. 31.8.1966). ] and tariff valuation, if any,
applicable to any imported goods, shall be the rate and valuation in
force,-(a)in the case of goods entered for home consumption under section 46,
on the date on which a bill of entry in respect of such goods is presented
under that section;(b)in the case of goods cleared from a warehouse under
section 68, on the date on which [a bill of entry for home consumption in
respect of such goods is presented under that section] [ Substituted by Act 32
of 2003, Section 106, for " the goods are actually removed from the warehouse"
(w.e.f. 14.5.2003).];(c)in the case of any other goods, on the date of payment
of duty:[Provided that if a bill of entry has been presented before the date
of entry inwards of the vessel or the arrival of the aircraft by which the
goods are imported, the bill of entry shall be deemed to have been presented
on the date of such entry inwards or the arrival, as the case may be.] [
Substituted by Act 33 of 1996, Section 59, for the proviso (w.e.f.
28.9.1996).](2)The provisions of this section shall not apply to baggage and
goods imported by post.[* * *] [ Sub-Section (3) omitted by Act 25 of 1978,
Section 4 (w.e.f. 1.7.1978).]

### 16. Date for determination of rate of duty and tariff valuation of export
goods.

\- [(1) The rate of duty and tariff valuation, if any, applicable to any
export goods, shall be the rate and valuation in force,-(a)in the case of
goods entered for export under section 50, on the date on which the proper
officer makes an order permitting clearance and loading of the goods for
exportation under section 51;(b)in the case of any other goods, on the date of
payment of duty.](2)The provisions of this section shall not apply to baggage
and goods exported by post.

### 17. Assessment of duty.

(1)After an importer has entered any imported goods under section 46 or an
exporter has entered any export goods under section 50 the imported goods or
the export goods, as the case may be, or such part thereof as may be necessary
may, without undue delay, be examined and tested by the proper
officer.(2)After such examination and testing, the duty, if any, leviable on
such goods shall, save as otherwise provided in section 85, be
assessed.[Provided that the selection of cases for verification shall
primarily be on the basis of risk evaluation through appropriate selection
criteria.] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.](3)[ For [the purpose of verification] [Substituted by Finance Act,
2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated 31.3.2017.] under sub-section (2), the proper
officer may require the importer, exporter or any other person to produce any
document or information, whereby the duty leviable on the imported goods or
export goods, as the case may be, can be ascertained and thereupon, the
importer, exporter or such other person shall produce such document or furnish
such information.] [ Substituted by Act 23 of 1986, Section 50, for sub-
Section (1) (w.e.f. 13.5.1986).](4)Notwithstanding anything contained in this
section, imported goods or export goods may, prior to the examination or
testing thereof, be permitted by the proper officer to be assessed to duty on
the basis of the statements made in the entry relating thereto and the
documents produced and the information furnished under sub-section (3); but if
it is found subsequently on examination or testing of the goods or otherwise
that any statement in such entry or document or any information so furnished
is not true in respect of any matter relevant to the assessment, the goods
may, without prejudice to any other action which may be taken under this Act,
be re-assessed to duty.(5)[ Where any assessment done under sub-section (2) is
contrary to the claim of the importer or exporter [***] [ Inserted by Act 29
of 2006, Section 20 (w.e.f. 13.7.2006).], and in cases other than those where
the importer or the exporter, as the case may be, confirms his acceptance of
the said assessment in writing, the proper officer shall pass a speaking order
within fifteen days from the date of assessment of the bill of entry or the
shipping bill, as the case may be.]

### 18. Provisional assessment of duty.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act but without prejudice to the
provisions contained in Section 46 [and Section 50] [Inserted by Finance Act,
2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.] -[(1-A) Where, pursuant to the
provisional assessment under sub-section (1), if any document or information
is required by the proper officer for final assessment, the importer or
exporter, as the case may be, shall submit such document or information within
such time, and the proper officer shall finalise the provisional assessment
within such time and in such manner, as may be prescribed.] [Inserted by
Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.](a)where the proper
officer is satisfied that an importer or exporter is unable to produce any
document or furnish any information necessary for the assessment of duty on
the imported goods or the export goods, as the case may be; or(b)where the
proper officer deems it necessary to subject any imported goods or export
goods to any chemical or other test for the purpose of assessment of duty
thereon; or(c)where the importer or the exporter has produced all the
necessary documents and furnished full information for the assessment of duty
but the proper officer deems it necessary to make further enquiry for
assessing the duty, the proper officer may direct that the duty leviable on
such goods may, pending the production of such documents or furnishing of such
information or completion of such test or enquiry, be assessed provisionally
if the importer or the exporter, as the case may be, furnishes such security
as the proper officer deems fit for the payment of the deficiency, if any,
between the duty finally assessed and the duty provisionally assessed.(2)When
the duty leviable on such goods is assessed finally in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, then-(a)in the case of goods cleared for home
consumption or exportation, the amount paid shall be adjusted against the duty
finally assessed and if the amount so paid falls short of, or is in excess of
[the duty finally assessed] [ Substituted by Act 56 of 1974, Section 3 and
Schedule II, for " the finally assessed" (w.e.f. 20.12.1974).], the importer
or the exporter of the goods shall pay the deficiency or be entitled to a
refund, as the case may be;(b)in the case of warehoused goods, the proper
officer may, where the duty finally assessed is in excess of the duty
provisionally assessed, require the importer to execute a bond, binding
himself in a sum equal to twice the amount of the excess duty.(3)The importer
or exporter shall be liable to pay interest, on any amount payable to the
Central Government, consequent to the final assessment order under sub-section
(2), at the rate fixed by the Central Government under section [28-AA]
[Substituted '28-AB' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.] from the first day of the month in which the duty is provisionally
assessed till the date of payment thereof.(4)Subject to sub-section (5), if
any refundable amount referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (2) is not
refunded under that sub-section within three months from the date of
assessment of duty finally, there shall be paid an interest on such unrefunded
amount at such rate fixed by the Central Government under section 27-A till
the date of refund of such amount.(5)The amount of duty refundable under sub-
section (2) and the interest under sub-section (4), if any, shall, instead of
being credited to the Fund, be paid to the importer or the exporter, as the
case may be, if such amount is relatable to-(a)the duty and interest, if any,
paid on such duty paid by the importer, or the exporter, as the case may be,
if he had not passed on the incidence of such duty and interest, if any, paid
on such duty to any other person;(b)the duty and interest, if any, paid on
such duty on imports made by an individual for his personal use;(c)the duty
and interest, if any, paid on such duty borne by the buyer, if he had not
passed on the incidence of such duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty
to any other person;(d)the export duty as specified in section 26;(e)drawback
of duty payable under sections 74 and 75.

### 19. Determination of duty where goods consist of articles liable to
different rates of duty.

\- Except as otherwise provided in any law for the time being in force, where
goods consist of a set of articles, duty shall be calculated as
follows:-(a)articles liable to duty with reference to quantity shall be
chargeable to that duty;(b)articles liable to duty with reference to value
shall, if they are liable to duty at the same rate, be chargeable to duty at
that rate, and if they are liable to duty at different rates, be chargeable to
duty at the highest of such rates;(c)articles not liable to duty shall be
chargeable to duty at the rate at which articles liable to duty with reference
to value are liable under clause (b):Provided that,-(a)accessories of, and
spare parts or maintenance and repairing implements for, any article which
satisfy the conditions specified in the rules made in this behalf shall be
chargeable at the same rate of duty as that article;(b)if the importer
produces evidence to the satisfaction of the proper officer regarding the
value of any of the articles liable to different rates of duty, such article
shall be chargeable to duty separately at the rate applicable to it.

### 20. [ Re-importation of goods. [Substituted by Act 32 of 1994, Section 60,
for Section 20 (w.e.f. 13.5.1994). ]

\- If goods are imported into India after exportation therefrom, such goods
shall be liable to duty and be subject to all the conditions and restrictions,
if any, to which goods of the like kind and value are liable or subject, on
the importation thereof.[* * *]

### 21. Goods derelict, wreck, etc.

\- All goods, derelict, jetsam, flotsam and wreck brought or coming into
India, shall be dealt with as if they were imported into India, unless it be
shown to the satisfaction of the proper officer that they are entitled to be
admitted duty-free under this Act.

### 22. Abatement of duty on damaged or deteriorated goods.

(1)Where it is shown to the satisfaction of the [Assistant Commissioner of
Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999,
Section 100, for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs," (w.e.f. 11.5.1990).
Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).]-(a)that any imported goods had been damaged or had deteriorated
at any time before or during the unloading of the goods in India; or(b)that
any imported goods, other than warehoused goods, had been damaged at any time
after the unloading thereof in India but before their examination under
section 17, on account of any accident not due to any wilful act, negligence
or default of the importer, his employee or agent; or(c)that any warehoused
goods had been damaged at any time before clearance for home consumption on
account of any accident not due to any wilful act, negligence or default of
the owner, his employee or agent, such goods shall be chargeable to duty in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2).(2)The duty to be charged on
the goods referred to in sub-section (1) shall bear the same proportion to the
duty chargeable on the goods before the damage or deterioration which the
value of the damaged or deteriorated goods bears to the value of the goods
before the damage or deterioration.(3)For the purposes of this section, the
value of damaged or deteriorated goods may be ascertained by either of the
following methods at the option of the owner:-(a)the value of such goods may
be ascertained by the proper officer, or(b)such goods may be sold by the
proper officer by public auction or by tender, or with the consent of the
owner in any other manner, and the gross sale proceeds shall be deemed to be
the value of such goods.

### 23. Remission of duty on lost, destroyed or abandoned goods.

(1)[Without prejudice to the provisions of section 13, where it is shown] [
Substituted by Act 11 of 1983, Section 48 (w.e.f. 13.8.1983).] to the
satisfaction of the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner
of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for " Assistant
Commission of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these words were
substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] that any
imported goods have been lost [(otherwise than as a result of pilferage)] [
Inserted by Act 11 of 1983, Section 48 (w.e.f. 13.5.1983).] or destroyed, at
any time before clearance for home consumption, the [Assistant Commissioner of
Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [Substituted by Act 27 of 1999,
Section 100, for " Assistant Commission of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999).
Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f.
26.5.1995). ] shall remit the duty on such goods.(2)[ The owner of any
imported goods may, at any time before an order for clearance of goods for
home consumption under section 47 or an order for permitting the deposit of
goods in a warehouse under section 60 has been made, relinquish his title to
the goods and thereupon he shall not be liable to pay the duty thereon:] [
Substituted by Act 32 of 1994, Section 60 (w.e.f. 13.5.1994).][Provided that
the owner of any such imported goods shall not be allowed to relinquish his
title to such goods regarding which an offence appears to have been committed
under this Act or any other law for the time being in force.] [ Inserted by
Act 21 of 2006, Section 58 (w.e.f. 18.4.2006).]

### 24. Power to make rules for denaturing or mutilation of goods.

\- The Central Government may make rules for permitting at the request of the
owner the denaturing or mutilation of imported goods which are ordinarily used
for more than one purpose so as to render them unfit for one or more of such
purposes; and where any goods are so denatured or mutilated they shall be
chargeable to duty at such rate as would be applicable if the goods had been
imported in the denatured or mutilated form.

### 25. Power to grant exemption from duty.

(1)If the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary in the public
interest so to do, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt
generally either absolutely or subject to such conditions (to be fulfilled
before or after clearance) as may be specified in the notification goods of
any specified description from the whole or any part of duty of customs
leviable thereon.(2)[ If the Central Government is satisfied that it is
necessary in the public interest so to do, it may, by special order in each
case, exempt from the payment of duty, under circumstances of an exceptional
nature to be stated in such order, any goods on which duty is leviable.] [
Substituted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 107, for sub-Section (2) (w.e.f.
14.5.2003).][(2-A) The Central Government may, if it considers it necessary or
expedient so to do for the purpose of clarifying the scope or applicability of
any notification issued under sub-section (1) or order issued under sub-
section (2), insert an explanation in such notification or order, as the case
may be, by notification in the Official Gazette, at any time within one year
of issue of the notification under sub-section (1) or order under sub-section
(2), and every such explanation shall have effect as if it had always been the
part of the first such notification or order, as the case may be.] [ Inserted
by Act 20 of 2002, Section 119 (w.e.f. 11.5.2002).](3)[ An exemption under
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) in respect of any goods from any part of
the duty of customs leviable thereon (the duty of customs leviable thereon
being hereinafter referred to as the statutory duty) may be granted by
providing for the levy of a duty on such goods at a rate expressed in a form
or method different from the form or method in which the statutory duty is
leviable and any exemption granted in relation to any goods in the manner
provided in this sub-section shall have effect subject to the condition that
the duty of customs chargeable on such goods shall in no case exceed the
statutory duty.(4)[ Every notification issued under sub-section (1) [or sub-
section (2-A)] [Inserted by Act 11 of 1983, Section 49 (w.e.f. 13.5.1983).]
[shall,-(a)unless otherwise provided, come into force on the date of its issue
by the Central Government for publication in the Official Gazette;(b)also be
published and offered for sale on the date of its issue by the Directorate of
Publicity and Public Relations of the Board, New Delhi.(5)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (4), where a notification comes into force
on a date later than the date of its issue, the same shall be published and
offered for sale by the said Directorate of Publicity and Public Relations on
a date on or before the date on which the said notification comes into force.]
[Inserted by Act 21 of 1998, Section 99 (w.e.f. 1.8.1998). ](6)[
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no duty shall be collected if
the amount of duty leviable is equal to, or less than, one hundred rupees.] [
Inserted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 101 (w.e.f.
14.5.2003).][Explanation.-"Form or method", in relation to a rate of duty of
customs, means the basis, namely, valuation, weight, number, length, area,
volume or other measure with reference to which the duty is leviable.] [
Inserted by Act 20 of 2002, Section 119 (w.e.f. 11.5.2002).]

### 25A. [ Inward processing of goods. [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No.
13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.]

\- Where the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary in the
public interest so to do, it may, by notification, exempt such of the goods
which are imported for the purposes of repair, further processing or
manufacture, as may be specified therein, from the whole or any part of duty
of customs leviable thereon, subject to the following conditions,
namely:-(a)the goods shall be re-exported after such repair, further
processing or manufacture, as the case may be, within a period of one year
from the date on which the order for clearance of the imported goods is
made;(b)the imported goods are identifiable in the export goods; and(c)such
other conditions as may be specified in that notification.

### 25B. Outward processing of goods.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 20, where the Central
Government is satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to do,
it may, by notification, exempt such of the goods which are re-imported after
being exported for the purposes of repair, further processing or manufacture,
as may be specified therein, from the whole or any part of duty of customs
leviable thereon, subject to the following conditions, namely: -(a)the goods
shall be re-imported into India after such repair, further processing or
manufacture, as the case may be, within a period of one year from the date on
which the order permitting clearance for export is made;(b)the exported goods
are identifiable in the re-imported goods; and(c)such other conditions as may
be specified in that notification.]

### 26. Refund of export duty in certain cases.

\- Where on the exportation of any goods any duty has been paid, such duty
shall be refunded to the person by whom or on whose behalf it was paid,
if-(a)the goods are returned to such person otherwise than by way of re-
sale;(b)the goods are re-imported within one year from the date of
exportation; and(c)an application for refund of such duty is made before the
expiry of six months from the date on which the proper officer makes an order
for the clearance of the goods.

### 26A. [ Refund of import duty in certain cases. [Inserted by Act 33 of
2009, Section 85. ]

(1)Where on the importation of any goods capable of being easily identified as
such imported goods, any duty has been paid on clearance of such goods for
home consumption, such duty shall be refunded to the person by whom or on
whose behalf it was paid, if-(a)the goods are found to be defective or
otherwise not in conformity with the specifications agreed upon between the
importer and the supplier of goods:Provided that the goods have not been
worked, repaired or used after importation except where such use was
indispensable to discover the defects or non-conformity with the
specifications;(b)the goods are identified to the satisfaction of the
Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs as the
goods which were imported;(c)the importer does not claim drawback under any
other provision of this Act; and(d)(i)the goods are exported; or(ii)the
importer relinquishes his title to the goods and abandons them to customs;
or(iii)such goods are destroyed or rendered commercially valueless in the
presence of the proper officer, in such manner as may be prescribed and within
a period not exceeding thirty days from the date on which the proper officer
makes an order for the clearance of imported goods for home consumption under
section 47:Provided that the period of thirty days may, on sufficient cause
being shown, be extended by the Commissioner of Customs for a period not
exceeding three months:Provided further that nothing contained in this section
shall apply to the goods regarding which an offence appears to have been
committed under this Act or any other law for the time being in force.(2)An
application for refund of duty shall be made before the expiry of six months
from the relevant date in such form and in such manner as may be
prescribed.Explanation.-For the purposes of this sub-section, "relevant date"
means,-(a)in cases where the goods are exported out of India, the date on
which the proper officer makes an order permitting clearance and loading of
goods for exportation under section 51;(b)in cases where the title to the
goods is relinquished, the date of such relinquishment;(c)in cases where the
goods are destroyed or rendered commercially valueless, the date of such
destruction or rendering of goods commercially valueless.(3)No refund under
sub-section (1) shall be allowed in respect of perishable goods and goods
which have exceeded their shelf life or their recommended storage-before-use
period.(4)The Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify any
other condition subject to which the refund under sub-section (1) may be
allowed.]

### 27. [ Claim for refund of duty. [Substituted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 10
(w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ]

(1)Any person claiming refund of any duty -(i)paid by him in pursuance of an
order of assessment; or(ii)borne by him, may make an application for refund of
such [duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty] to the [Assistant
Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by
Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f.
11.5.1999). Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section
50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).]-(a)[ in the case of any import made by any individual
for his personal use or by Government or by any educational, research or
charitable institution or hospital, before the expiry of one year;
[Substituted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 10 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ](b)in any
other case, before the expiry of six months, from the date of payment of [duty
and interest, if any, paid on such duty] [in such form and manner] [
Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 54, for " in such form" (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).][as may be specified in the regulations made in this behalf and
the application shall be accompanied by such documentary or other evidence
(including the documents referred to in section 28-C) as the applicant may
furnish to establish that the amount of [duty and interest, if any, paid on
such duty] [Substituted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 10 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ]
[in relation to which such refund is claimed was collected from, or paid by,
him and the incidence of such [duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty]
[Substituted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 10 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ] [had not been
passed on by him to any other person: [Substituted by Act 40 of 1991, Section
10 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ]Provided that where an application for refund has been
made before the commencement of the Central Excises and Customs Laws
(Amendment) Act, 1991, such application shall be deemed to have been made
under this sub-section and the same shall be dealt with in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (2):Provided further that the limitation of one year
or six months, as the case may be, shall not apply where any [duty and
interest, if any, paid on such duty][has been paid under protest:[Provided
also that in the case of goods which are exempt from payment of duty by a
special order issued under sub-section (2) of section 25, the limitation of
one year or six months, as the case may be, shall be computed from the date of
issue of such order.] [Substituted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 10 (w.e.f.
20.9.1991). ][Provided also that where the duty becomes refundable as a
consequence of judgment, decree, order or direction of the appellate
authority, Appellate Tribunal or any Court, the limitation of one year or six
months, as the case may be, shall be computed from the date of such judgment,
decree, order or direction.] [ Inserted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 96 (w.e.f.
11.5.2007).]Explanation [I] [ Explanation renumbered as Explanation I thereof
by Act 21 of 1998, Section 100 (w.e.f. 1.8.1998).].-For the purposes of this
sub-section, "the date of payment of [duty and interest, if any, paid on such
duty] [ Substituted by Act 55 of 1991, Section 2, for " duty" (w.e.f.
23.12.1991).], in relation to a person, other than the importer, shall be
construed as "the date of purchase of goods" by such person.[Explanation
II.-Where any duty is paid provisionally under section 18, the limitation of
one year or six months, as the case may be, shall be computed from the date of
adjustment of duty after the final assessment thereof.] [ Inserted by Act 21
of 1998, Section 100 (w.e.f. 1.8.1998).](2)[ If, on receipt of any such
application, the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of
Customs] [Substituted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 10 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ] is
satisfied that the whole or any part of the [duty and interest, if any, paid
on such duty] [ Substituted by Act 55 of 1991, Section 2, for " duty" (w.e.f.
23.12.1991).][paid by the applicant is refundable, he may make an order
accordingly and the amount so determined shall be credited to the
Fund:Provided that the amount of [duty and interest, if any, paid on such
duty] [Substituted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 10 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ] as
determined by the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of
Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for " Assistant
Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these words were
substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).][under the
foregoing provisions of this sub-section shall, instead of being credited to
the Fund, be paid to the applicant, if such amount is relatable to-(a)the
[duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty][paid by the importer or the
exporter, as the case may be, if he had not passed on the incidence of such
[duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty] [Substituted by Act 40 of 1991,
Section 10 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ] [to any other person; [Substituted by Act 40
of 1991, Section 10 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ](b)the [duty and interest, if any,
paid on such duty][on imports made by an individual for his personal use;
[Substituted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 10 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ](c)the [duty
and interest, if any, paid on such duty][borne by the buyer, if he had not
passed on the incidence of such [duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty]
[Substituted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 10 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ][to any other
person; [Substituted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 10 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ](d)the
export duty as specified in section 26;(e)drawback of duty payable under
sections 74 and 75;(f)the [duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty][borne
by any other such class of applicants as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify: [Substituted by Act 40 of 1991,
Section 10 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ]Provided further that no notification under
clause (f) of the first proviso shall be issued unless in the opinion of the
Central Government the incidence of [duty and interest, if any, paid on such
duty] [Substituted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 10 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ] [has
not been passed on by the persons concerned to any other person.(g)[ the duty
paid in excess by the importer before an order permitting clearance of goods
for home consumption is made where -(i)such excess payment of duty is evident
from the bill of entry in the case of self-assessed bill of entry; or(ii)the
duty actually payable is reflected in the reassessed bill of entry in the case
of reassessment.](3)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any
judgment, decree, order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal [, the National
Tax Tribunal] [ Inserted by Act 49 of 2005, Section 30 and Schedule, Part VI
(w.e.f. 28.12.2005).][or any Court or in any other provision of this Act or
the regulations made thereunder or any other law for the time being in force,
no refund shall be made except as provided in sub-section (2).(4)Every
notification under clause (f) of the first proviso to sub-section (2) shall be
laid before each House of Parliament, if it is sitting, as soon as may be
after the issue of the notification, and, if it is not sitting, within seven
days of its re-assembly, and the Central Government shall seek the approval of
Parliament to the notification by a resolution moved within a period of
fifteen days beginning with the day on which the notification is so laid
before the House of the People and if Parliament makes any modification in the
notification or directs that the notification should cease to have effect, the
notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of
no effect, as the case may be, but without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done thereunder.(5)For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
declared that any notification issued under clause (f) of the first proviso to
sub-section (2), including any such notification approved or modified under
sub-section (4), may be rescinded by the Central Government at any time by
notification in the Official Gazette.] [Substituted by Act 40 of 1991, Section
10 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ] [Substituted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 10 (w.e.f.
20.9.1991). ]

### 27A. [ Interest on delayed refunds. [Inserted by Act 22 of 1995, Section
55 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).]

\- If any duty ordered to be refunded under sub-section (2) of section 27 to
an applicant is not refunded within three months from the date of receipt of
application under sub-section (1) of that section, there shall be paid to that
applicant interest at such rate, [not below five per cent.][and not exceeding
thirty per cent. per annum as is for the time being fixed [by the Central
Government, by notification in the Official Gazette] [Inserted by Act 22 of
1995, Section 55 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995). ],[on such duty from the date immediately
after the expiry of three months from the date of receipt of such application
till the date of refund of such duty:Provided that where any duty, ordered to
be refunded under sub-section (2) of section 27 in respect of an application
under sub-section (1) of that section made before the date on which the
Finance Bill, 1995 receives the assent of the President, is not refunded
within three months from such date, there shall be paid to the applicant
interest under this section from the date immediately after three months from
such date, till the date of refund of such duty.Explanation.-Where any order
of refund is made by the Commissioner (Appeals), Appellate Tribunal or any
Court against an order of the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] [Inserted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 55 (w.e.f.
26.5.1995). ][under sub-section (2) of section 27, the order passed by the
Commissioner (Appeals), Appellate Tribunal [, National Tax Tribunal] [Inserted
by Act 22 of 1995, Section 55 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995). ] or, as the case may be, by
the Court shall be deemed to be an order passed under that sub-section for the
purposes of this section.]

### 28. [ Notice for payment of duties, interest, etc. [Substituted by Act 22
of 1995, Section 56, for Section 28 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995). ]

(1)When any duty has not been levied or has been short-levied or erroneously
refunded, or when any interest payable has not been paid, part paid or
erroneously refunded, the proper officer may, -(a)in the case of any import
made by any individual for his personal use or by Government or by any
educational, research or charitable institution or hospital, within one
year;[Provided that before issuing notice, the proper officer shall hold Pre-
notice consultation with the person chargeable with duty or interest in such
manner as may be prescribed;](b)in any other case, within six months, from the
relevant date, serve notice on the person chargeable with the duty or interest
which has not been levied or charged or which has been so short-levied or part
paid or to whom the refund has erroneously been made, requiring him to show
cause why he should not pay the amount specified in the notice:Provided that
where any duty has not been levied or has been short-levied or the interest
has not been charged or has been part paid or the duty or interest has been
erroneously refunded by reason of collusion or any wilful mis-statement or
suppression of facts by the importer or the exporter or the agent or employee
of the importer or exporter, the provisions of this sub-section shall have
effect as if for the words "one year" and "six months", the words "five years"
were substituted:[* * *] [ The second and third provisos omitted by Act 32 of
2003, Section 109 (w.e.f. 14.5.2003).][Explanation.-Where the service of the
notice is stayed by an order of a Court, the period of such stay shall be
excluded in computing the aforesaid period of one year or six months or five
years, as the case may be.[(1-A) When any duty has not been levied or has been
short-levied or the interest has not been charged or has been part paid or the
duty or interest has been erroneously refunded by reason of collusion or any
wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts by the importer or the exporter
or the agent or employee of the importer or exporter, to whom a notice is
served under proviso to sub-section (1) by the proper officer, may pay duty in
full or in part as may be accepted by him, and the interest payable thereon
under section 28-AB and penalty equal to twenty-five per cent. of the duty
specified in the notice or the duty so accepted by such person within thirty
days of the receipt of the notice.] [Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section
56, for Section 28 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995). ](2)[ The proper officer, after
considering the representation, if any, made by the person on whom notice is
served under sub-section (1), shall determine the amount of duty or interest
due from such person (not being in excess of the amount specified in the
notice) and thereupon such person shall pay the amount so determined:[Provided
that if such person has paid the duty in full together with interest and
penalty under sub-section (1-A), the proceedings in respect of such person and
other persons to whom notice are served under sub-section (1) shall, without
prejudice to the provisions of sections 135, 135-A and 140, be deemed to be
conclusive as to the matters stated therein:Provided further that, if such
person has paid duty in part, interest and penalty under sub-section (1-A),
the proper officer shall determine the amount of duty or interest not being in
excess of the amount partly due from such person.] [Substituted by Act 22 of
1995, Section 56, for Section 28 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995). ][(2-A) Where any notice
has been served on a person under sub-section (1), the proper officer,-(i)in
case any duty has not been levied or has been short-levied, or the interest
has not been paid or has been part paid or the duty or interest has been
erroneously refunded by reason of collusion or any wilful mis-statement or
suppression of facts, where it is possible to do so, shall determine the
amount of such duty or the interest, within a period of one year; and(ii)in
any other case, where it is possible to do so, shall determine the amount of
duty which has not been levied or has been short-levied or erroneously
refunded or the interest payable which has not been paid, part paid or
erroneously refunded, within a period of six months, from the date of service
of the notice on the person under sub-section (1).(2-B) Where any duty has not
been levied or has been short-levied or erroneously refunded, or any interest
payable has not been paid, part paid or erroneously refunded, the person,
chargeable with the duty or the interest, may pay the amount of duty or
interest before service of notice on him under sub-section (1) in respect of
the duty or the interest, as the case may be, and inform the proper officer of
such payment in writing, who, on receipt of such information, shall not serve
any notice under sub-section (1) in respect of the duty or the interest so
paid:Provided that the proper officer may determine the amount of short-
payment of duty or interest, if any, which in his opinion has not been paid by
such person and, then, the proper officer shall proceed to recover such amount
in the manner specified in this section, and the period of "one year" or "six
months" as the case may be, referred to in sub-section (1) shall be counted
from the date of receipt of such information of payment.Explanation 1.-Nothing
contained in this sub-section shall apply in a case where the duty was not
levied or was not paid or the interest was not paid or was part paid or the
duty or interest was erroneously refunded by reason of collusion or any wilful
mis-statement or suppression of facts by the importer or the exporter or the
agent or employee of the importer or exporter.Explanation 2.-For the removal
of doubts, it is hereby declared that the interest under section 28-AB shall
be payable on the amount paid by the person under this sub-section and also on
the amount of short-payment of duty, if any, as may be determined by the
proper officer, but for this sub-section.(2-C) The provisions of sub-section
(2-B) shall not apply to any case where the duty or the interest had become
payable or ought to have been paid before the date on which the Finance Bill,
2001 receives the assent of the President.] [ Inserted by Act 14 of 2001,
Section 103 (w.e.f. 11.5.2001).](3)[ For the purposes of sub-section (1), the
expression "relevant date" means-(a)in a case where duty is not levied, or
interest is not charged, the date on which the proper officer makes an order
for the clearance of the goods;(b)in a case where duty is provisionally
assessed under section 18, the date of adjustment of duty after the final
assessment thereof;(c)in a case where duty or interest has been erroneously
refunded, the date of refund;(d)in any other case, the date of payment of duty
or interest.]

### 28A. [ Power not to recover duties not levied or short-levied as a result
of general practice. [Inserted by Act 25 of 1978, Section 7 (w.e.f.
1.7.1978).]

\- [(1)] [Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 56, for Section 28 (w.e.f.
26.5.1995). ][Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, if the Central
Government is satisfied-(a)that a practice was, or is, generally prevalent
regarding levy of duty (including non-levy thereof) on any goods imported
into, or exported from, India; and(b)that such goods were, or are,
liable-(i)to duty, in cases where according to the said practice the duty was
not, or is not being, levied, or(ii)to a higher amount of duty than what was,
or is being, levied, according to the said practice, then, the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that the whole
of the duty payable on such goods, or, as the case may be, the duty in excess
of that payable on such goods, but for the said practice, shall not be
required to be paid in respect of the goods on which the duty was not, or is
not being, levied, or was, or is being, short-levied, in accordance with the
said practice.](2)[ Where any notification under sub-section (1) in respect of
any goods has been issued, the whole of the duty paid on such goods, or, as
the case may be, the duty paid in excess of that payable on such goods, which
would not have been paid if the said notification had been in force, shall be
dealt with in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2) of section
27:Provided that the person claiming the refund of such duty or, as the case
may be, excess duty, makes an application in this behalf to the [Assistant
Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs, in the form
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 27, before the expiry of six months
from the date of issue of the said notification.] [Substituted by Act 40 of
1991, Section 11, for sub-Section (2) (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). Earlier, sub-Section
(2) was inserted by Act 29 of 1988, Section 3 (w.e.f. 1.7.1988). ]

### 28AA. [ Interest on delayed payment of duty. [Inserted by Act 22 of 1995,
Section 51 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995). ]

\- [(1)] [Inserted by Act 25 of 1978, Section 7 (w.e.f. 1.7.1978). ] [Subject
to the provisions contained in section 28-AB, where a person,] [ Substituted
by Act 33 of 1996, Section 61, for " Where a person" (w.e.f.
28.9.1996).][chargeable with the duty determined under sub-section (2) of
section 28, fails to pay such duty within three months from the date of such
determination, he shall pay, in addition to the duty, interest [at such rate
not below [ten per cent.] [Inserted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 51 (w.e.f.
26.5.1995). ][and not exceeding thirty-six per cent. per annum, as is for the
time being fixed by the Central Government, by notification in the Official
Gazette] [ Substituted by Act 10 of 2000, Section 80, for certain words
(w.e.f. 12.5.2000).][, on such duty from the date immediately after the expiry
of the said period of three months till the date of payment of such
duty:Provided that where a person, chargeable with duty determined under sub-
section (2) of section 28 before the date on which the Finance Bill, 1995
receives the assent of the President, fails to pay such duty within three
months from such date, then, such person shall be liable to pay interest under
this section from the date immediately after three months from such date, till
the date of payment of such duty.Explanation 1.-Where the duty determined to
be payable is reduced by the Commissioner (Appeals), Appellate Tribunal [,
National Tax Tribunal] [Inserted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 51 (w.e.f.
26.5.1995). ][or, as the case may be, the Court, the date of such
determination shall be the date on which an amount of duty is first determined
to be payable.Explanation 2.-Where the duty determined to be payable is
increased or further increased by the Commissioner (Appeals), Appellate
Tribunal [, National Tax Tribunal] [Inserted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 51
(w.e.f. 26.5.1995). ][or, as the case may be, the Court, the date of such
determination shall be,-(a)for the amount of duty first determined to be
payable, the date on which the duty is so determined;(b)for the amount of
increased duty, the date of order by which the increased amount of duty is
first determined to be payable;(c)for the amount of further increase of duty,
the date of order on which the duty is so further increased.](2)[ The
provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply to cases where the duty or the
interest becomes payable or ought to be paid on and after the date on which
the Finance Bill, 2001 receives the assent of the President.] [ Inserted by
Act 14 of 2001, Section 104 (w.e.f. 11.5.2001).]

### 28AB. [ Interest on delayed payment of duty in special cases. [Inserted by
Act 33 of 1996, Section 62 (w.e.f. 28.9.1996). ]

\- [(1) Where any duty has not been levied or paid or has been short-levied or
short-paid or erroneously refunded, the person who is liable to pay the duty
as determined under sub-section (2), or has paid the duty under sub-section
(2-B), of section 28, shall, in addition to the duty, be liable to pay
interest at such rate not below [ten per cent.] [Inserted by Act 22 of 1995,
Section 51 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995). ][and not exceeding thirty-six per cent. per
annum, as is for the time being fixed by the Central Government, by
notification in the Official Gazette, from the first day of the month
succeeding the month in which the duty ought to have been paid under this Act,
or from the date of such erroneous refund, as the case may be, but for the
provisions contained in sub-section (2), or sub-section (2-B) of section 28,
till the date of payment of such duty:Provided that in such cases where the
duty becomes payable consequent to issue of an order, instruction or direction
by the Board under section 151-A, and such amount of duty payable is
voluntarily paid in full, without reserving any right to appeal against such
payment at any subsequent stage, within forty-five days from the date of issue
of such order, instruction or direction, as the case may be, no interest shall
be payable and in other cases the interest shall be payable on the whole of
the amount, including the amount already paid.(2)[ The provisions of sub-
section (1) shall not apply to cases where the duty or interest had become
payable or ought to have been paid before the date on which the Finance Bill,
2001 receives the assent of the President.] [Substituted by Act 14 of 2001,
Section 105, for sub-Section (1) (w.e.f. 11.5.2001). ][Explanation 1.-Where
the duty determined to be payable is reduced by the Commissioner (Appeals),
the Appellate Tribunal [, National Tax Tribunal] [Inserted by Act 33 of 1996,
Section 62 (w.e.f. 28.9.1996). ] [or, as the case may be, the Court, the
interest shall be payable on such reduced amount of duty.Explanation 2.-Where
the duty determined to be payable is increased or further increased by the
Commissioner (Appeals), the Appellate Tribunal [, National Tax Tribunal]
[Inserted by Act 33 of 1996, Section 62 (w.e.f. 28.9.1996). ] [or, as the case
may be, the Court, the interest shall be payable on such increased or further
increased amount of duty.] [Inserted by Act 33 of 1996, Section 62 (w.e.f.
28.9.1996). ]

### 28B. [ Duties collected from the buyer to be deposited with the Central
Government. [Inserted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 12 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ]

(1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any order or
direction of the Appellate Tribunal [, National Tax Tribunal][or any Court or
in any other provision of this Act or the regulations made thereunder, [every
person who is liable to pay duty under this Act and has collected any amount
in excess of the duty assessed or determined or paid on any goods under this
Act from the buyer of such goods] [in any manner as representing duty of
customs, shall forthwith pay the amount so collected to the credit of the
Central Government.[(1-A) Every person who has collected any amount in excess
of the duty assessed or determined or paid on any goods or has collected any
amount as representing duty of customs on any goods which are wholly exempt or
are chargeable to nil rate of duty from any person in any manner, shall
forthwith pay the amount so collected to the credit of the Central
Government.] [Inserted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 12 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ](2)[
Where any amount is required to be paid to the credit of the Central
Government under [sub-section (1) or sub-section (1-A), as the case may be,] [
Substituted by Act 10 of 2000, Section 82, for sub-Section (2) (w.r.e.f.
20.9.1991).][and which has not been so paid, the proper officer may serve on
the person liable to pay such amount, a notice requiring him to show cause why
he should not pay the amount, as specified in the notice to the credit of the
Central Government.(3)The proper officer shall, after considering the
representation, if any, made by the person on whom the notice is served under
sub-section (2), determine the amount due from such person (not being in
excess of the amount specified in the notice) and thereupon such person shall
pay the amount so determined.(4)The amount paid to the credit of the Central
Government under [sub-section (1) or sub-section (1-A) or sub-section (3), as
the case may be,] [Inserted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 12 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991).
] shall be adjusted against the duty payable by the person on finalisation of
assessment or any other proceeding for determination of the duty relating to
the goods referred to in [sub-section (1) and sub-section (1-A).] [Substituted
by Act 18 of 2008, Section 68, for " sub-Section (1)" . ](5)[ Where any
surplus is left after the adjustment made under sub-section (4), the amount of
such surplus shall either be credited to the Fund or, as the case may be,
refunded to the person who has borne the incidence of such amount, in
accordance with the provisions of section 27 and such person may make an
application under that section in such cases within six months from the date
of the public notice to be issued by the Assistant Commissioner of Customs for
the refund of such surplus amount.] [Inserted by Act 40 of 1991, Section 12
(w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ]

### 28BA. [ Provisional attachment to protect revenue in certain cases. [
Inserted by Act 29 of 2006, Section 23 (w.e.f. 13.7.2006).]

(1)Where, during the pendency of any proceeding under section 28 or section
28-B, the proper officer is of the opinion that for the purpose of protecting
the interests of revenue, it is necessary so to do, he may, with the previous
approval of the Commissioner of Customs, by order in writing, attach
provisionally any property belonging to the person on whom notice is served
under sub-section (1) of section 28 or sub-section (2) of section 28-B, as the
case may be, in accordance with the rules made in this behalf under section
142.(2)Every such provisional attachment shall cease to have effect after the
expiry of a period of six months from the date of the order made under sub-
section (1):Provided that the Chief Commissioner of Customs may, for reasons
to be recorded in writing, extend aforesaid period by such further period or
periods as he thinks fit, so, however, that the total period of extension
shall not in any case exceed two years:Provided further that where an
application for settlement of case under section 127-B is made to the
Settlement Commission, the period commencing from the date on which such
application is made and ending with the date on which an order under sub-
section (1) of section 127-C is made shall be excluded from the period
specified in the preceding proviso.][CHAPTER V-A [ Inserted by Act 40 of 1991,
Section 13 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991).] Indicating Amount Of Duty In The Price Of
Goods, Etc., For Purpose Of Refund

### 28C. Price of goods to indicate the amount of duty paid thereon.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the
time being in force, every person who is liable to pay duty on any goods
shall, at the time of clearance of the goods, prominently indicate in all the
documents relating to assessment, sales invoice, and other like documents, the
amount of such duty which will form part of the price at which such goods are
to be sold.

### 28D. Presumption that incidence of duty has been passed on to the buyer.

\- Every person who has paid the duty on any goods under this Act shall,
unless the contrary is proved by him, be deemed to have passed on the full
incidence of such duty to the buyer of such goods.][CHAPTER V-B [Chapter V-B
inserted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 103 (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). ] Advance Rulings

### 28E. Definitions.

\- In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,-[***] [Omitted
'(a)'activity' means import or export;' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of
2018), dated 29.3.2018.](b)[ "advance ruling" means a written decision on any
of the questions referred to in section 28H raised by the applicant in his
application in respect of any goods prior to its importation or exportation;]
[Substituted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.](ba)[
"Appellate Authority" means the Authority for Advance Rulings constituted
under section 245-O of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961);] [Inserted by
Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.](c)[ "applicant"
means any person, - [Substituted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018),
dated 29.3.2018.](i)holding a valid Importer-exporter Code Number granted
under section 7 of the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992;
or(ii)exporting any goods to India; or(iii)with a justifiable cause to the
satisfaction of the Authority, who makes an application for advance ruling
under section 28H;][Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause, "joint
venture in India" means a contractual arrangement whereby two or more persons
undertake an economic activity which is subject to joint control and one or
more of the participants or partners or equity holders is a non-resident
having substantial interest in such arrangement;] [ Inserted by Act 22 of
2007, Section 97 (w.e.f. 11.5.2007).](d)[ "application" means an application
made to the Authority under sub-section (1) of section 28-H; [Chapter V-B
inserted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 103 (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). ](e)[ "Authority"
means the Customs Authority for Advance Rulings appointed under section
28EA;](f)"Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the [Appellate Authority]
[Substituted 'Authority' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.];(g)"Member" means a Member of the [Appellate Authority]
[Substituted 'Authority' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.] and includes the Chairperson; and(h)[ "non-resident", "Indian
company" and "foreign company" have the meanings respectively assigned to them
in clauses (30), (26) and (23-A) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43
of 1961).] [ Substituted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 110, for Clause (h)
(w.e.f. 14.5.2003).]

### 28EA. [ Customs Authority for Advance Rulings. [Inserted by Finance Act,
2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.]

(1)The Board may, for the purposes of giving advance rulings under this Act,
by notification, appoint an officer of the rank of Principal Commissioner of
Customs or Commissioner of Customs to function as a Customs Authority for
Advance Rulings:Provided that till the date of appointment of the Customs
Authority for Advance Rulings, the existing Authority for Advance Rulings
constituted under section 245-O of the Income-tax Act, 1961 shall continue to
be the Authority for giving advance rulings for the purposes of this
Act.(2)The offices of the Authority may be established in New Delhi and at
such other places, as the Board may deem fit.(3)Subject to the provisions of
this Act, the Authority shall exercise the powers and authority conferred on
it by or under this Act.]

### 28F. [ Authority for Advance Rulings. [Substituted by Finance Act, 2017
(Act No. 7 of 2017), dated 31.3.2017.]

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Authority for Advance Rulings
constituted under section 245-O of the Income-tax Act, 1961 shall be [the
Appellate Authority for deciding appeal under this Chapter and the said
Appellate Authority] shall exercise the jurisdiction, powers and authority
conferred on it by or under this Act:Provided that the Member from the Indian
Revenue Service (Customs and Central Excise), who is qualified to be a Member
of the Board, shall be the revenue Member of the [Appellate Authority]
[Substituted 'Authority' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.] for the purposes of this Act.(2)On and from the date on which the
Finance Bill, 2017 receives the assent of the President, every application and
proceeding pending before the erstwhile Authority for Advance Rulings (Central
Excise, Customs and Service Tax) shall stand transferred to the Authority from
the stage at which such application or proceeding stood as on the date of such
assent.][(2-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (2),
or any other law for the time being in force, the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, authorise an Authority constituted under
section 245-O of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), to act as an Authority
under this Chapter.(2-B) On and from the date of publication of notification
under sub-section (2-A), the Authority constituted under sub-section (1) shall
not exercise jurisdiction under this Chapter.(2-C) For the purposes of sub-
section (2-A), the reference to "an officer of the Indian Revenue Service who
is qualified to be a Member of Central Board of Direct Taxes" in clause (b) of
sub-section (2) of section 245-O of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961)
shall be construed as reference to "an officer of the Indian Customs and
Central Excise Service who is qualified to be a Member of the Board".(2-D) On
and from the date of the authorisation of Authority under sub-section (2-A),
every application and proceeding pending before the Authority constituted
under sub-section (1) shall stand transferred to the Authority so authorised
from the stage at which such proceedings stood before the date of such
authorisation.] [ Inserted by Act 33 of 2009, Section 86.](3)[ On and from the
date of appointment of the Customs Authority for Advance Rulings, every
application and proceeding pending before the erstwhile Authority for Advance
Rulings shall stand transferred to the Authority from the stage at which such
application or proceeding stood as on the date of such appointment.] [Inserted
by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.](4)The Central
Government shall provide the Authority with such officers and staff as may be
necessary for the efficient exercise of the powers of the Authority under this
Act.(5)The office of the Authority shall be located in Delhi.

### 28G. [ [Omitted by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated
31.3.2017.]

***]

28G. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate proceedings.- No proceeding before, or
pronouncement of advance ruling by, the Authority under this Chapter shall be
questioned or shall be invalid on the ground merely of the existence of any
vacancy or defect in the constitution of the Authority.  
---  
  
### 28H. Application for advance ruling.

\- An applicant desirous of obtaining an advance ruling under this Chapter may
make an application in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed,
stating the question on which the advance ruling is sought.(2)The question on
which the advance ruling is sought shall be in respect of, -(a)classification
of goods under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975);(b)applicability of a
notification issued under sub-section (1) of section 25, having a bearing on
the rate of duty;(c)the principles to be adopted for the purposes of
determination of value of the goods under the provisions of this Act;(d)[
Applicability Of Notifications Issued In Respect Of Tax Or Duties Under This
Act Or The Customs Tariff Act, 1975 Or Any Tax Or Duty Chargeable Under Any
Other Law For The Time Being In Force In The Same Manner As Duty Of Customs
Leviable Under This Act Or The Customs Tariff Act;] [Substituted By Finance
Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), Dated 29.3.2018.](e)[ determination of origin
of the goods in terms of the rules notified under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975
(51 of 1975) and matters relating thereto.] [ Inserted by Act 18 of 2005,
Section 67 (w.e.f. 13.5.2005).](f)[ any other matter as the Central Government
may, by notification, specify.] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of
2018), dated 29.3.2018.](3)[ The application shall be made in quadruplicate
and be accompanied by a fee of [ten thousand rupees] [Chapter V-B inserted by
Act 27 of 1999, Section 103 (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). ].(4)An applicant may withdraw
his application within thirty days from the date of the application.(5)[ The
applicant may be represented by any person resident in India who is authorised
in this behalf.Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section "resident"
shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (42) of section 2 of
the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961).] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act
No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.]

### 28I. Procedure on receipt of application.

(1)On receipt of an application, the Authority shall cause a copy thereof to
be forwarded to the Commissioner of Customs and, if necessary, call upon him
to furnish the relevant records:Provided that where any records have been
called for by the Authority in any case, such records shall, as soon as
possible, be returned to the Commissioner of Customs.(2)The Authority may,
after examining the application and the records called for, by order, either
allow or reject the application:Provided that the Authority shall not allow
the application [* * *] [ The words " except in the case of a resident
applicant" omitted by Act 20 of 2002, Section 122 (w.e.f. 11.5.2002).][where
the question raised in the application is-(a)already pending in the
applicant's case before any officer of customs, the Appellate Tribunal or any
Court;(b)the same as in a matter already decided by the Appellate Tribunal or
any Court:Provided further that no application shall be rejected, under this
sub-section unless an opportunity has been given to the applicant of being
heard:Provided also that where the application is rejected, reasons for such
rejection shall be given in the order.(3)A copy of every order made under sub-
section (2) shall be sent to the applicant and to the Commissioner of
Customs.(4)Where an application is allowed under sub-section (2), the
Authority shall, after examining such further material as may be placed before
it by the applicant or obtained by the Authority, pronounce its advance ruling
on the question specified in the application.(5)On a request received from the
applicant, the Authority shall, before pronouncing its advance ruling, provide
an opportunity to the applicant of being heard, either in person or through a
duly authorised representative.Explanation.-For the purposes of this sub-
section, "authorised representative" shall have the meaning assigned to it in
sub-section (2) of section 146-A.(6)The Authority shall pronounce its advance
ruling in writing within [three months] [Chapter V-B inserted by Act 27 of
1999, Section 103 (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). ] of the receipt of application.(7)A
copy of the advance ruling pronounced by the Authority, duly signed by the
Members and certified in the prescribed manner shall be sent to the applicant
and to the Commissioner of Customs, as soon as may be, after such
pronouncement.

### 28J. Applicability of advance ruling.

(1)The advance ruling pronounced by the Authority under section 28-I shall be
binding only-(a)on the applicant who had sought it;(b)in respect of any matter
referred to in sub-section (2) of section 28-H;(c)on the Commissioner of
Customs, and the customs authorities subordinate to him, in respect of the
applicant.(2)The advance ruling referred to in sub-section (1) shall be
binding as aforesaid unless there is a change in law or facts on the basis of
which the advance ruling has been pronounced.

### 28K. Advance ruling to be void in certain circumstances.

(1)Where the Authority finds, on a representation made to it by the
Commissioner of Customs or otherwise, that an advance ruling pronounced by it
under sub-section (6) of section 28-I has been obtained by the applicant by
fraud or misrepresentation of facts, it may, by order, declare such ruling to
be void abinitio and thereupon all the provisions of this Act shall apply
[***] [Omitted '(after excluding the period beginning with the date of such
advance ruling and ending with the date of order under this sub-section)' by
Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.] to the applicant as
if such advance ruling had never been made.[Provided that in computing the
period of two years referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section
28, or five years referred to in sub-section (4) thereof, for service of
notice for recovery of any duty not levied, short-levied, not paid or short-
paid on account of the advance ruling, the period beginning with the date of
such advance ruling and ending with the date of the order under this sub-
section shall be excluded.] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of
2018), dated 29.3.2018.](2)A copy of the order made under sub-section (1)
shall be sent to the applicant and the Commissioner of Customs.

### 28KA. [ Appeal. [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.]

(1)Any officer authorised by the Board, by notification, or the applicant may
file an appeal to the Appellate Authority against any ruling or order passed
by the Authority, within sixty days from the date of the communication of such
ruling or order, in such form and manner as may be prescribed:Provided that
where the Appellate Authority is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by
sufficient cause from presenting the appeal within the period so specified, it
may allow a further period of thirty days for filing such appeal.(2)The
provisions of sections 28-I and 28J shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the
appeal under this section.]

### 28L. Powers of Authority.

(1)The [Authority or Appellate Authority] [Substituted 'Authority' by Finance
Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.] shall, for the purpose of
exercising its powers regarding discovery and inspection, enforcing the
attendance of any person and examining him on oath, issuing commissions and
compelling production of books of account and other records, have all the
powers of a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908).(2)The [Authority or Appellate Authority] [Substituted 'Authority' by
Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.] shall be deemed to
be a Civil Court for the purposes of section 195, but not for the purposes of
Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), and every
proceeding before the [Authority or Appellate Authority] [Substituted
'Authority' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.] shall
be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and
228, and for the purpose of section 196, of the Indian Penal Code (45 of
1860).

### 28M. [ Procedure for Authority and Appellate Authority. [Substituted by
Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.]

(1)The Authority shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed.(2)The
Appellate Authority shall, subject to the provisions of this Chapter, have
power to regulate its own procedure in all matters arising out of the exercise
of its powers and authority under this Act.]

## Chapter VI  
Provisions Relating To Conveyances Carrying Imported Or Exported Goods

### 29. Arrival of vessels and aircrafts in India.

(1)The person-in-charge of a vessel or an aircraft entering India from any
place outside India shall not cause or permit the vessel or aircraft to call
or land-(a)for the first time after arrival in India; or(b)at any time while
it is carrying passengers or cargo brought in that vessel or aircraft;at any
place other than a customs port or a customs airport, as the case may
be.(2)The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply in relation to any
vessel or aircraft which is compelled by accident, stress of weather or other
unavoidable cause to call or land at a place other than a customs port or
customs airport but the person-in-charge of any such vessel or
aircraft-(a)shall immediately report the arrival of the vessel or the landing
of the aircraft to the nearest customs officer or the officer-in-charge of a
police station and shall on demand produce to him the log book belonging to
the vessel or the aircraft;(b)shall not without the consent of any such
officer permit any goods carried in the vessel or the aircraft to be unloaded
from, or any of the crew or passengers to depart from the vicinity of, the
vessel or the aircraft; and(c)shall comply with any directions given by any
such officer with respect to any such goods, and no passenger or member of the
crew shall, without the consent of any such officer, leave the immediate
vicinity of the vessel or the aircraft:Provided that nothing in this section
shall prohibit the departure of any crew or passengers from the vicinity of,
or the removal of goods from, the vessel or aircraft where the departure or
removal is necessary for reasons of health, safety or the preservation of life
or property.

### 30. Delivery of import manifest or import report.

\- [(1) The person-in-charge of-(i)a vessel; or(ii)an aircraft; or(iii)a
vehicle, carrying imported goods [or export goods] or any other person as may
be specified by the Central Government, by notification in the Official
Gazette, in this behalf shall, in the case of a vessel or an aircraft, deliver
to the proper officer an import manifest prior to the arrival of the vessel or
the aircraft, as the case may be, and in the case of a vehicle, an import
report within twelve hours after its arrival in the customs station, in [such
form and manner as may be prescribed] [Substituted 'the prescribed form' by
Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.] and if the import
manifest or the import report or any part thereof, is not delivered to the
proper officer within the time specified in this sub-section and if the proper
officer is satisfied that there was no sufficient cause for such delay, the
person-in-charge or any other person referred to in this sub-section, who
caused such delay, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty thousand
rupees.](2)The person delivering the import manifest or import report shall at
the foot thereof make and subscribe to a declaration as to the truth of its
contents.(3)If the proper officer is satisfied that the import manifest or
import report is in any way incorrect or incomplete, and that there was no
fraudulent intention, he may permit it to be amended or supplemented.

### 30A. [ Passenger and crew arrival manifest and passenger name record
information. [Inserted by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated
31.3.2017.]

(1)The person-in-charge of a conveyance that enters India from any place
outside India or any other person as may be specified by the Central
Government by notification in the Official Gazette, shall deliver to the
proper officer-(i)the passenger and crew arrival manifest before arrival in
the case of an aircraft or a vessel and upon arrival in the case of a vehicle;
and(ii)the passenger name record information of arriving passengers, in such
form, containing such particulars, in such manner and within such time, as may
be prescribed.(2)Where the passenger and crew arrival manifest or the
passenger name record information or any part thereof is not delivered to the
proper officer within the prescribed time and if the proper officer is
satisfied that there was no sufficient cause for such delay, the person-in-
charge or the other person referred to in sub-section (1) shall be liable to
such penalty, not exceeding fifty thousand rupees, as may be prescribed.] [
Substituted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 112, for sub-Section (1) (w.e.f.
14.5.2003).]

### 31. Imported goods not to be unloaded from vessel until entry inwards
granted.

(1)The master of a vessel shall not permit the unloading of any imported goods
until an order has been given by the proper officer granting entry inwards to
such vessel.(2)No order under sub-section (1) shall be given until an import
manifest has been delivered or the proper officer is satisfied that there was
sufficient cause for not delivering it.(3)Nothing in this section shall apply
to the unloading of baggage accompanying a passenger or a member of the crew,
mail bags, animals, perishable goods and hazardous goods.

### 32. Imported goods not to be unloaded unless mentioned in import manifest
or import report.

\- No imported goods required to be mentioned under the regulations in an
import manifest or import report shall, except with the permission of the
proper officer, be unloaded at any customs station unless they are specified
in such manifest or report for being unloaded at that customs station.

### 33. Unloading and loading of goods at approved places only.

\- Except with the permission of the proper officer, no imported goods shall
be unloaded, and no export goods shall be loaded, at any place other than a
place approved under clause (a) of section 8 for the unloading or loading of
such goods.

### 34. Goods not to be unloaded or loaded except under supervision of customs
officer.

\- Imported goods shall not be unloaded from, and export goods shall not be
loaded on, any conveyance except under the supervision of the proper
officer:Provided that the Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
give general permission and the proper officer may in any particular case give
special permission, for any goods or class of goods to be unloaded or loaded
without the supervision of the proper officer.

### 35. Restrictions on goods being water-borne.

\- No imported goods shall be water-borne for being landed from any vessel,
and no export goods which are not accompanied by a shipping bill, shall be
water-borne for being shipped, unless the goods are accompanied by a boat-note
in the prescribed form:Provided that the Board may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, give general permission, and the proper officer may in any
particular case give special permission, for any goods or any class of goods
to be water-borne without being accompanied by a boat-note.

### 36. Restrictions on unloading and loading of goods on holidays, etc.

\- No imported goods shall be unloaded from, and no export goods shall be
loaded on, any conveyance on any Sunday or on any holiday observed by the
Customs Department or on any other day after the working hours, except after
giving the prescribed notice and on payment of the prescribed fees, if
any:Provided that no fees shall be levied for the unloading and loading of
baggage accompanying a passenger or a member of the crew, and mail bags.

### 37. Power to board conveyances.

\- The proper officer may, at any time, board any conveyance carrying imported
goods or export goods and may remain on such conveyance for such period as he
considers necessary.

### 38. Power to require production of documents and ask questions.

\- For the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this Act, the proper
officer may require the person-in-charge of any conveyance or animal carrying
imported goods or export goods to produce any document and to answer any
questions and thereupon such person shall produce such documents and answer
such questions.

### 39. Export goods not to be loaded on vessel until entry-outwards granted.

\- The master of a vessel shall not permit the loading of any export goods,
other than baggage and mail bags, until an order has been given by the proper
officer granting entry-outwards to such vessel.

### 40. Export goods not to be loaded unless duly passed by proper officer.

\- The person-in-charge of a conveyance shall not permit the loading at a
customs station-(a)of export goods, other than baggage and mail bags, unless a
shipping bill or bill of export or a bill of transhipment, as the case may be,
duly passed by the proper officer, has been handed over to him by the
exporter;(b)of baggage and mail bags, unless their export has been duly
permitted by the proper officer.

### 41. Delivery of export manifest or export report.

(1)The person-in-charge of a conveyance carrying export goods [or imported
goods] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.]
shall, before departure of the conveyance from a customs station, deliver to
the proper officer in the case of a vessel or aircraft, an export manifest,
and in the case of a vehicle, an export report, in [such form and manner as
may be prescribed and in case, the person-in-charge fails to deliver the
departure manifest or export manifest or the export report or any part thereof
within such time, and the proper officer is satisfied that there is no
sufficient cause for such delay, such person-in-charge shall be liable to pay
penalty not exceeding fifty thousand rupees]: [Substituted 'the prescribed
form' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.][* * *]

Proviso omitted by Act 23 of 2004, Section 66 (w.e.f. 10.9.2004). Prior to its
omission, the proviso read as under:- " Provided that if the agent of the
person-in-charge of the conveyance furnishes such security as the proper
officer deems sufficient for duly delivering within seven days from the date
of departure of the conveyance the export manifest or the export report, as
the case may be, the proper officer may (subject to such rules as the Central
Government may make in this behalf) accept such manifest or report within the
aforesaid period."  
---  
  
(2)The person delivering the export manifest or export report shall at the
foot thereof make and subscribe to a declaration as to the truth of its
contents.(3)If the proper officer is satisfied that the export manifest or
export report is in any way incorrect or incomplete and that there was no
fraudulent intention, he may permit such manifest or report to be amended or
supplemented.

### 41A. [ Passenger and crew departure manifest and passenger name record
information. [Inserted by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated
31.3.2017.]

(1)The person-in-charge of a conveyance that departs from India to a place
outside India or any other person as may be specified by the Central
Government by notification in the Official Gazette, shall deliver to the
proper officer -(i)the passenger and crew departure manifest; and(ii)the
passenger name record information of departing passengers, in such form,
containing such particulars, in such manner and within such time, as may be
prescribed.(2)Where the passenger and crew departure manifest or the passenger
name record information or any part thereof is not delivered to the proper
officer within the prescribed time and if the proper officer is satisfied that
there was no sufficient cause for such delay, the person-in-charge or the
other person referred to in sub-section (1) shall be liable to such penalty,
not exceeding fifty thousand rupees, as may be prescribed.]

### 42. No conveyance to leave without written order.

(1)The person-in-charge of a conveyance which has brought any imported goods
or has loaded any export goods at a customs station shall not cause or permit
the conveyance to depart from that customs station until a written order to
that effect has been given by the proper officer.(2)No such order shall be
given until-(a)the person-in-charge of the conveyance has answered the
questions put to him under section 38;(b)the provisions of section 41 have
been complied with;(c)the shipping bills or bills of export, the bills of
transhipment, if any, and such other documents as the proper officer may
require, have been delivered to him;(d)all duties leviable on any stores
consumed in such conveyance, and all charges and penalties due in respect of
such conveyance or from the person-in-charge thereof have been paid or the
payment secured by such guarantee or deposit of such amount as the proper
officer may direct;(e)the person-in-charge of the conveyance has satisfied the
proper officer that no penalty is leviable on him under section 116 or the
payment of any penalty that may be levied upon him under that section has been
secured by such guarantee or deposit of such amount as the proper officer may
direct;(f)in any case where any export goods have been loaded without payment
of export duty or in contravention of any provision of this Act or any other
law for the time being in force relating to export of goods,-(i)such goods
have been unloaded, or(ii)where the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or
Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100,
for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these
words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] is
satisfied that it is not practicable to unload such goods, the person-in-
charge of the conveyance has given an undertaking, secured by such guarantee
or deposit of such amount as the proper officer may direct, for bringing back
the goods to India.

### 43. Exemption of certain classes of conveyances from certain provisions of
this Chapter.

(1)The provisions of sections 30, 41 and 42 shall not apply to a vehicle which
carries no goods other than the luggage of its occupants.(2)The Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt the following
classes of conveyances from all or any of the provisions of this
Chapter-(a)conveyances belonging to the Government or any foreign
Government;(b)vessels and aircraft which temporarily enter India by reason of
any emergency.

## Chapter VII  
Clearance Of Imported Goods And Export Goods

### 44. Chapter not to apply to baggage and postal articles.

\- The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to (a) baggage, and (b)
goods imported or to be exported by post.Clearance of imported goods

### 45. Restrictions on custody and removal of imported goods.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in any law for the time being in force, all
imported goods, unloaded in a customs area, shall remain in the custody of
such person as may be approved by the [Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted
by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector of Customs" (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).] until they are cleared for home consumption or are warehoused or
are transhipped in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VIII.(2)The
person having custody of any imported goods in a customs area, whether under
the provisions of sub-section (1) or under any law for the time being in
force,-(a)shall keep a record of such goods and send a copy thereof to the
proper officer;(b)shall not permit such goods to be removed from the customs
area or otherwise dealt with, except under and in accordance with the
permission in writing of the proper officer [or in such manner as may be
prescribed] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.].(3)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time
being in force, if any imported goods are pilfered after unloading thereof in
a customs area while in the custody of a person referred to in sub-section
(1), that person shall be liable to pay duty on such goods at the rate
prevailing on the date of delivery of an import manifest or, as the case may
be, an import report to the proper officer under section 30 for the arrival of
the conveyance in which the said goods were carried.] [ Inserted by Act 22 of
1995, Section 58 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).]

### 46. Entry of goods on importation.

(1)The importer of any goods, other than goods intended for transit or
transhipment, shall make entry thereof by presenting to the proper officer a
bill of entry for home consumption or warehousing [in such form and manner as
may be prescribed] [Substituted 'in the prescribed form' by Finance Act, 2018
(Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.]:Provided that if the importer makes
and subscribes to a declaration before the proper officer, to the effect that
he is unable for want of full information to furnish all the particulars of
the goods required under this sub-section, the proper officer may, pending the
production of such information, permit him, previous to the entry thereof (a)
to examine the goods in the presence of an officer of customs, or (b) to
deposit the goods in a public warehouse appointed under section 57 without
warehousing the same.(2)Save as otherwise permitted by the proper officer, a
bill of entry shall include all the goods mentioned in the bill of lading or
other receipt given by the carrier to the consignor.(3)[ The importer shall
present the bill of entry under sub-section (1) before the end of the next day
following the day (excluding holidays) on which the aircraft or vessel or
vehicle carrying the goods arrives at a customs station at which such goods
are to be cleared for home consumption or warehousing:Provided that a bill of
entry may be presented [at any time not exceeding thirty days prior to]
[Substituted by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated 31.3.2017.] of
the expected arrival of the aircraft or vessel or vehicle by which the goods
have been shipped for importation into India:Provided further that where the
bill of entry is not presented within the time so specified and the proper
officer is satisfied that there was no sufficient cause for such delay, the
importer shall pay such charges for late presentation of the bill of entry as
may be prescribed.](4)The importer while presenting a bill of entry shall at
the foot thereof make and subscribe to a declaration as to the truth of the
contents of such bill of entry and shall, in support of such declaration,
produce to the proper officer the invoice, if any, [and such other documents
relating to the imported goods as may be prescribed] [Substituted 'relating to
the imported goods' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.].(4A)[ The importer who presents a bill of entry shall ensure the
following, namely: -(a)the accuracy and completeness of the information given
therein;(b)the authenticity and validity of any document supporting it;
and(c)compliance with the restriction or prohibition, if any, relating to the
goods under this Act or under any other law for the time being in force.](5)If
the proper officer is satisfied that the interests of revenue are not
prejudicially affected and that there was no fraudulent intention, he may
permit substitution of a bill of entry for home consumption for a bill of
entry for warehousing or vice versa.

### 47. Clearance of goods for home consumption.

\- [(1)] [ Section 47 renumbered as sub-Section (1) thereof and sub-Section
(2) inserted by Act 55 of 1991, Section 3 (w.e.f. 23.12.1991).] [Where the
proper officer is satisfied that any goods entered for home consumption are
not prohibited goods and the importer has paid the import duty, if any,
assessed thereon and any charges payable under this Act in respect of the
same, the proper officer may make an order permitting clearance of the goods
for home consumption.(2)[The importer shall pay the import duty -(a)on the
date of presentation of the bill of entry in the case of self-assessment;
or(b)within one day (excluding holidays) from the date on which the bill of
entry is returned to him by the proper officer for payment of duty in the case
of assessment, reassessment or provisional assessment; or(c)in the case of
deferred payment under the proviso to sub-section (1), from such due date as
may be specified by rules made in this behalf,and if he fails to pay the duty
within the time so specified, he shall pay interest on the duty not paid or
short-paid till the date of its payment, at such rate, not less than ten per
cent. but not exceeding thirty-six per cent. per annum, as may be fixed by the
Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette.] [ Section 47
renumbered as sub-Section (1) thereof and sub-Section (2) inserted by Act 55
of 1991, Section 3 (w.e.f. 23.12.1991).][ on such duty till the date of
payment of the said duty:Provided that where the bill of entry is returned for
payment of duty before the commencement of the Customs (Amendment) Act, 1991
and the importer has not paid such duty before such commencement, the date of
return of such bill of entry to him shall be deemed to be the date of such
commencement for the purpose of this section:] [ Section 47 renumbered as sub-
Section (1) thereof and sub-Section (2) inserted by Act 55 of 1991, Section 3
(w.e.f. 23.12.1991).][Provided further that if the Board is satisfied that it
is necessary in the public interest so to do, it may, by order for reasons to
be recorded, waive the whole or part of any interest payable under this
section.] [ Inserted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 59 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).]

### 48. Procedure in case of goods not cleared, warehoused, or transhipped
within [thirty days] [ Substituted by Act 55 of 1991, Section 4, for " two
months" (w.e.f. 23.12.1991).] after unloading.

\- If any goods brought into India from a place outside India are not cleared
for home consumption or warehoused or transhipped [within [thirty days] [
Substituted by Act 80 of 1985, Section 4, for " within two months" (w.e.f.
27.12.1985).] from the date of the unloading thereof at a customs station or
within such further time as the proper officer may allow or if the title to
any imported goods is relinquished, such goods may, after notice to the
importer and with the permission of the proper officer be sold by the person
having the custody thereof:Provided that-(a)animals, perishable goods and
hazardous goods, may, with the permission of the proper officer, be sold at
any time;(b)arms and ammunition may be sold at such time and place and in such
manner as the Central Government may direct.Explanation. - In this section,
"arms" and "ammunition" have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the
Arms Act, 1959 (54 of 1959).

### 49. [ Storage of imported goods in warehouse pending clearance or removal.
[Substituted by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated 31.3.2017.]

\- Where, -(a)in the case of any imported goods, whether dutiable or not,
entered for home consumption, the Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs is satisfied on the application of the importer that
the goods cannot be cleared within a reasonable time;(b)in the case of any
imported dutiable goods, entered for warehousing, the Assistant Commissioner
of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs is satisfied on the application
of the importer that the goods cannot be removed for deposit in a warehouse
within a reasonable time,the goods may pending clearance or removal, as the
case may be, be permitted to be stored in a public warehouse for a period not
exceeding thirty days:Provided that the provisions of Chapter IX shall not
apply to goods permitted to be stored in a public warehouse under this
section:Provided further that the Principal Commissioner of Customs or
Commissioner of Customs may extend the period of storage for a further period
not exceeding thirty days at a time.]

### 50. Entry of goods for exportation.

(1)The exporter of any goods shall make entry thereof by presenting to the
proper officer in the case of goods to be exported in a vessel or aircraft, a
shipping bill, and in the case of goods to be exported by land, a bill of
export [in such form and manner as may be prescribed] [Substituted 'in the
prescribed form' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.].(2)The exporter of any goods, while presenting a shipping bill or
bill of export, shall at the foot thereof make and subscribe to a declaration
as to the truth of its contents.(3)[ The exporter who presents a shipping bill
or bill of export under this section shall ensure the following, namely:
-(a)the accuracy and completeness of the information given therein;(b)the
authenticity and validity of any document supporting it; and(c)compliance with
the restriction or prohibition, if any, relating to the goods under this Act
or under any other law for the time being in force.]

### 51. Clearance of goods for exportation.

\- Where the proper officer is satisfied that any goods entered for export are
not prohibited goods and the exporter has paid the duty, if any, assessed
thereon and any charges payable under this Act in respect of the same, the
proper officer may make an order permitting clearance and loading of the goods
for exportation.[Chapter VII-A] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of
2018), dated 29.3.2018.] Payments Through Electronic Cash Ledger

### 51A. Payment of duty, interest, penalty, etc.

(1)Every deposit made towards duty, interest, penalty, fee or any other sum
payable by a person under the provisions of this Act or under the Customs
Tariff Act, 1975 or under any other law for the time being in force or the
rules and regulations made thereunder, using authorised mode of payment shall,
subject to such conditions and restrictions, be credited to the electronic
cash ledger of such person, to be maintained in such manner, as may be
prescribed.(2)The amount available in the electronic cash ledger may be used
for making any payment towards duty, interest, penalty, fees or any other sum
payable under the provisions of this Act or under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975
or under any other law for the time being in force or the rules and
regulations made thereunder in such manner and subject to such conditions and
within such time as may be prescribed.(3)The balance in the electronic cash
ledger, after payment of duty, interest, penalty, fee or any other amount
payable, may be refunded in such manner as may be
prescribed.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, if the Board
is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by
notification, exempt the deposits made by such class of persons or with
respect to such categories of goods, as may be specified in the notification,
from all or any of the provisions of this section.

## Chapter VIII  
Goods In Transit

### 52. Chapter not to apply to baggage, postal articles and stores.

\- The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to (a) baggage, (b) goods
imported by post, and (c) stores.

### 53. [ Transit of certain goods without payment of duty. [Substituted by
Act 21 of 1998, Section 101, for Sections 53 to 55 (w.e.f. 1.8.1998). ]

\- Subject to the provisions of section 11, any goods imported in a conveyance
and mentioned in the import manifest or the import report, as the case may be,
as for transit in the same conveyance to any place outside India or any
customs station may be allowed to be so transited without payment of duty.

### 54. Transhipment of certain goods without payment of duty.

(1)Where any goods imported into a customs station are intended for
transhipment, a bill of transhipment shall be presented to the proper officer
in [such form and manner as may be prescribed] [Substituted 'the prescribed
form' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.]:[Provided
that where the goods are being transhipped under an international treaty or
bilateral agreement between the Government of India and Government of a
foreign country, a declaration for transhipment instead of a bill of
transhipment shall be presented to the proper officer in [such form and manner
as may be prescribed] [ Inserted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 106 (w.e.f.
11.5.1999).].] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.](2)[ Subject to the provisions of section 11, where any goods
imported into a customs station are mentioned in the import manifest or the
import report, as the case may be, as for transhipment to any place outside
India, such goods may be allowed to be so transhipped without payment of
duty.(3)Where any goods imported into a customs station are mentioned in the
import manifest or the import report, as the case may be, as for
transhipment-(a)to any major port as defined in the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15
of 1908), or the customs airport at Mumbai, Calcutta, Delhi or Chennai or any
other customs port or customs airport which the Board may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf, or(b)to any other customs
station and the proper officer is satisfied that the goods are bona fide
intended for transhipment of such customs station, the proper officer may
allow the goods to be transhipped, without payment of duty, subject to such
conditions as may be prescribed for the due arrival of such goods at the
customs station to which transhipment is allowed.

### 55. Liability of duty on goods transited under section 53 or transhipped
under section 54

.-Where any goods are allowed to be transited under section 53 or transhipped
under sub-section (3) of section 54 to any customs station, they shall, on
their arrival at such station, be liable to duty and shall be entered in like
manner as goods are entered on the first importation thereof and the
provisions of this Act and any rules and regulations shall, so far as may be,
apply in relation to such goods.] [Substituted by Act 21 of 1998, Section 101,
for Sections 53 to 55 (w.e.f. 1.8.1998). ]

### 56. Transport of certain classes of goods subject to prescribed
conditions.

\- Imported goods may be transported without payment of duty from one land
customs station to another, and any goods may be transported from one part of
India to another part through any foreign territory, subject to such
conditions as may be prescribed for the due arrival of such goods at the place
of destination.

## Chapter IX  
Warehousing

### 57. Appointing of public warehouses.

\- At any warehousing station, the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or
Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [[ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100,
for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these
words were substituted by Act 22of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).]] may
appoint public warehouses wherein dutiable goods may be deposited [* * *] [
The words " without payment of duty" omitted by Act 55 of 1991, Section 5
(w.e.f. 23.12.1991).].

### 58. Licensing of private warehouses.

(1)At any warehousing station, the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or
Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [[ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100,
for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these
words were substituted by Act 22of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).]] may
license private warehouses wherein dutiable goods imported by or on behalf of
the licensee, or any other imported goods in respect of which facilities for
deposit in a public warehouse are not available, may be deposited [* * *] [
The words " without payment of duty" omitted by Act 55 of 1991, Section 5
(w.e.f. 23.12.1991).].(2)The [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] [<SPAN class=amd1><A TITLE =] may cancel a licence
granted under sub-section (1)-(a)by giving one month's notice in writing to
the licensee; or(b)if the licensee has contravened any provision of this Act
or the rules or regulations or committed breach of any of the conditions of
the licence:Provided that before any licence is cancelled under clause (b),
the licensee shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(3)Pending
an enquiry whether a licence granted under sub-section (1) should be cancelled
under clause (b) of sub-section (2), the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or
Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100,
for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these
words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] may
suspend the licence.

### 59. Warehousing bond.

\- [(1) The importer of any goods specified in [* * *] [Substituted by Act 55
of 1991, Section 6, for sub-Section (1) (w.e.f. 23.12.1991). ][sub-section (1)
of section 61, which have been entered for warehousing and assessed to duty
under section 17 or section 18 shall execute a bond binding himself in a sum
equal to twice the amount of the duty assessed on such goods-(a)to observe all
the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations in respect of such
goods;(b)to pay on or before a date specified in a notice of demand,-(i)all
duties, and interest, if any, payable under sub-section (2) of section
61;(ii)rent and charges claimable on account of such goods under this Act,
together with interest on the same from the date so specified [at such rate
not below eighteen per cent. and not exceeding thirty-six per cent. per annum,
as is for the time being fixed by the Central Government, by notification in
the Official Gazette]; and(c)[ to discharge all penalties incurred for
violation of the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations in
respect of such goods.] [Substituted by Act 55 of 1991, Section 6, for sub-
Section (1) (w.e.f. 23.12.1991). ](2)For the purposes of sub-section (1), the
[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [<SPAN
class=amd1><A TITLE =] may permit an importer to enter into a general bond in
such amount as the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner
of Customs] [<SPAN class=amd1><A TITLE =] may approve in respect of the
warehousing of goods to be imported by him within a specified period.(3)A bond
executed under this section by an importer in respect of any goods shall
continue in force notwithstanding the transfer of the goods to any other
person or the removal of the goods to another warehouse:Provided that where
the whole of the goods or any part thereof are transferred to another person,
the proper officer may accept a fresh bond from the transferee in a sum equal
to twice the amount of duty assessed on the goods transferred and thereupon
the bond executed by the transferor shall be enforceable only for a sum
mentioned therein less the amount for which a fresh bond is accepted from the
transferee.

### 59A. [ Conditions for warehousing of certain goods. [Inserted by Act 55 of
1991, Section 7 (w.e.f. 23.12.1991). ]

\- [Repealed by the Finance Act, 1994 (32 of 1994), section 60 (w.e.f.
13-5-1994).] [Substituted by Act 55 of 1991, Section 6, for sub-Section (1)
(w.e.f. 23.12.1991). ]

### 60. Permission for deposit of goods in a warehouse.

\- When the provisions of [section 59 [* * *] [ Substituted by Act 55 of 1991,
Section 9, for " Section 59" (w.e.f. 23.12.1991).] have been complied with in
respect of any goods, the proper officer may make an order permitting the
deposit of the goods in a warehouse [* * *] [ The words " without payment of
duty" omitted by Act 55 of 1991, Section 5 (w.e.f. 23.12.1991).].[Provided
that such order may also be made electronically through the customs automated
system on the basis of risk evaluation through appropriate selection
criteria.] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.]

### 61. [ Period for which goods may remain warehoused. [Substituted by Act 32
of 1994, Section 60, for Section 61 (w.e.f. 13.5.1994). ]

(1)Any warehoused goods may be left in the warehouse in which they are
deposited or in any warehouse to which they may be removed,-(a)in the case of
capital goods intended for use in any hundred per cent. export oriented
undertaking, till the expiry of five years; [*](aa)[ in the case of goods
other than capital goods intended for use in any hundred per cent. export-
oriented undertaking, till the expiry of three years; and] [ Inserted by Act
32 of 2003, Section 113 (w.e.f. 14.5.2003).](b)[ in the case of any other
goods, till the expiry of one year, after the date on which the proper officer
has made an order under section 60 permitting the deposit of the goods in a
warehouse: [Substituted by Act 32 of 1994, Section 60, for Section 61 (w.e.f.
13.5.1994). ]Provided that-(i)[ in the case of any goods which are not likely
to deteriorate, the period specified in [clause (a) or clause (aa) or clause
(b)] [may, on sufficient cause being shown, be extended-(A)in the case of such
goods intended for use in any hundred per cent. export oriented undertaking,
by the Commissioner of Customs, for such period as he may deem fit; and(B)in
any other case, by the Commissioner of Customs, for a period not exceeding six
months and by the Chief Commissioner of Customs for such further period as he
may deem fit;](ii)[ in the case of any goods referred to in clause (b), if
they are likely to deteriorate, the aforesaid period of one year may be
reduced by the [Commissioner of Customs] [Substituted by Act 32 of 1994,
Section 60, for Section 61 (w.e.f. 13.5.1994). ][to such shorter period as he
may deem fit:Provided further that when the licence for any private warehouse
is cancelled, the owner of any goods warehoused therein shall, within seven
days from the date on which notice of such cancellation is given or within
such extended period as the proper officer may allow, remove the goods from
such warehouse to another warehouse or clear them for home consumption or
exportation.(2)[Where any warehoused goods-(i)specified in [sub-clause (a)][or
sub-clause (aa) of sub-section (1), remain in a warehouse beyond the period
specified in that sub-section by reason of extension of the aforesaid period
or otherwise, interest at such rate as is specified in section 47 shall be
payable, on the amount of duty payable at the time of clearance of the goods
in accordance with the provisions of section 15 on the warehoused goods, for
the period from the expiry of the said warehousing period till the date of
payment of duty on the warehoused goods; [Substituted by Act 27 of 1999,
Section 107, for certain words (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). ](ii)specified in sub-
clause (b) of sub-section (1), remain in warehouse beyond a period of [ninety
days][, interest shall be payable at such rate or rates not exceeding the rate
specified in section 47, as may be fixed by the Board, on the amount of duty
payable at the time of clearance of the goods in accordance with the
provisions of section 15 on the warehoused goods, for the period from the
expiry of the said [ninety days] [Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 107,
for certain words (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). ],[till the date of payment of duty on
the warehoused goods] [Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 107, for certain
words (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). ]:[Provided that the Board may, if it considers it
necessary so to do in the public interest, by order and under circumstances of
an exceptional nature, to be specified in such order, waive the whole or part
of any interest payable under this section in respect of any warehoused
goods:Provided further that the Board may, if it is satisfied that it is
necessary so to do in the public interest, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify the class of goods in respect of which no interest shall be
charged under this section.Explanation.-For the purposes of this section,
"hundred per cent. export oriented undertaking" has the same meaning as in
Explanation 2 to sub-section (1) of section 3 of the [Central Excises and Salt
Act, 1944 (1 of 1944)] [Substituted by Act 32 of 1994, Section 60, for Section
61 (w.e.f. 13.5.1994). ] [Substituted by Act 32 of 1994, Section 60, for
Section 61 (w.e.f. 13.5.1994). ] [ Substituted by Act 20 of 2002, Section 124,
for Clause (i) (w.e.f. 11.5.2002).].

### 62. Control over warehoused goods.

(1)All warehoused goods shall be subject to the control of the proper
officer.(2)No person shall enter a warehouse or remove any goods therefrom
without the permission of the proper officer.(3)The proper officer may cause
any warehouse to be locked with the lock of the Customs Department and no
person shall remove or break such lock.(4)The proper officer shall have access
to every part of a warehouse and power to examine the goods therein.

### 63. Payment of rent and warehouse charges.

(1)The owner of any warehoused goods shall pay to the warehouse-keeper rent
and warehouse charges at the rates fixed under any law for the time being in
force or where no rates are so fixed, at such rates as may be fixed by the
[Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for "
Collector of Customs" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).].(2)If any rent or warehouse charges
are not paid within ten days from the date when they became due, the
warehouse-keeper may, after notice to the owner of the warehoused goods and
with the permission of the proper officer cause to be sold (any transfer of
the warehoused goods notwithstanding) such sufficient portion of the goods as
the warehouse-keeper may select.

### 64. Owner's right to deal with warehoused goods.

\- With the sanction of the proper officer and on payment of the prescribed
fees, the owner of any goods may either before or after warehousing the
same-(a)inspect the goods;(b)separate damaged or deteriorated goods from the
rest;(c)sort the goods or change their containers for the purpose of
preservation, sale, export or disposal of the goods;(d)deal with the goods and
their containers in such manner as may be necessary to prevent loss or
deterioration or damage to the goods;(e)show the goods for sale; or(f)take
samples of goods without entry for home consumption, and if the proper officer
so permits, without payment of duty on such samples.

### 65. Manufacture and other operations in relation to goods in a warehouse.

(1)With the sanction of the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] [[ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for "
Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these words
were substituted by Act 22of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).]] and
subject to such conditions and on payment of such fees as may be prescribed,
the owner of any warehoused goods may carry on any manufacturing process or
other operations in the warehouse in relation to such goods.(2)Where in the
course of any operation permissible in relation to any warehoused goods under
sub-section (1), there is any waste or refuse, the following provisions shall
apply:-(a)if the whole or any part of the goods resulting from such operations
are exported, import duty shall be remitted on the quantity of the warehoused
goods contained in so much of the waste or refuse as has arisen from the
operations carried on in relation to the goods exported:Provided that such
waste or refuse is either destroyed or duty is paid on such waste or refuse as
if it had been imported into India in that form;(b)if the whole or any part of
the goods resulting from such operations are cleared from the warehouse for
home consumption, import duty shall be charged on the quantity of the
warehoused goods contained in so much of the waste or refuse as has arisen
from the operations carried on in relation to the goods cleared for home
consumption.

### 66. Power to exempt imported materials used in the manufacture of goods in
warehouse.

\- If any imported materials are used in accordance with the provisions of
section 65 for the manufacture of any goods and the rate of duty leviable on
the imported materials exceeds the rate of duty leviable on such goods, the
Central Government, if satisfied that in the interests of the establishment or
development of any domestic industry it is necessary so to do, may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, exempt the imported materials from the
whole or part of the excess rate of duty.

### 67. Removal of goods from one warehouse to another.

\- The owner of any warehoused goods may, with the permission of the proper
officer, remove them from one warehouse to another, [* * *] [ The words "
without payment of duty" omitted by Act 55 of 1991, Section 5 (w.e.f.
23.12.1991).], subject to such conditions as may be prescribed for the due
arrival of the warehoused goods at the warehouse to which removal is
permitted.

### 68. Clearance of warehoused goods for home consumption.

\- The importer of any warehoused goods may clear them for home consumption,
if-(a)a bill of entry for home consumption in respect of such goods has been
presented in the prescribed form;(b)the import duty leviable on such goods and
all penalties, rent, interest and other charges payable in respect of such
goods have been paid; and(c)an order for clearance of such goods for home
consumption has been made by the proper officer:[Provided that the order
referred to in clause (c) may also be made electronically through the customs
automated system on the basis of risk evaluation through appropriate selection
criteria:Provided further that] [Substituted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13
of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.] the owner of any warehoused goods may, at any time
before an order for clearance of goods for home consumption has been made in
respect of such goods, relinquish his title to the goods upon payment of rent,
interest, other charges and penalties that may be payable in respect of the
goods and upon such relinquishment, he shall not be liable to pay duty
thereon:[ [Provided also that] [ Inserted by Act 21 of 2006, Section 59
(w.e.f. 18.4.2006).] the owner of any such warehoused goods shall not be
allowed to relinquish his title to such goods regarding which an offence
appears to have been committed under this Act or any other law for the time
being in force.]

### 69. Clearance of warehoused goods for exportation.

(1)Any warehoused goods may be exported to a place outside India without
payment of import duty if-(a)[ a shipping bill or a bill of export or the form
as prescribed under section 84 has been presented in respect of such goods;]
[Substituted by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated 31.3.2017.](b)the
export duty, penalties, rent, interest and other charges payable in respect of
such goods have been paid; and(c)an order for clearance of such goods for
exportation has been made by the proper officer.[Provided that the order
referred to in clause (c) may also be made electronically through the customs
automated system on the basis of risk evaluation through appropriate selection
criteria.] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.](2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), if the
Central Government is of opinion that warehoused goods of any specified
description are likely to be smuggled back into India, it may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, direct that such goods shall not be exported to any
place outside India without payment of duty or may be allowed to be so
exported subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be specified in
the notification.

### 70. Allowance in case of volatile goods.

(1)When any warehoused goods to which this section applies are at the time of
delivery from a warehouse found to be deficient in quantity on account of
natural loss, the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of
Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for " Assistant
Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these words were
substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] may remit the
duty on such deficiency.(2)This section applies to such warehoused goods as
the Central Government, having regard to the volatility of the goods and the
manner of their storage, may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify.

### 71. Goods not to be taken out of warehouse except as provided by this Act.

\- No warehoused goods shall be taken out of a warehouse except on clearance
for home consumption or re-exportation, or for removal to another warehouse,
or as otherwise provided by this Act.

### 72. Goods improperly removed from warehouse, etc.

(1)In any of the following cases, that is to say,-(a)where any warehoused
goods are removed from a warehouse in contravention of section 71;(b)where any
warehoused goods have not been removed from a warehouse at the expiration of
the period during which such goods are permitted under section 61 to remain in
a warehouse;(c)where any warehoused goods have been taken under section 64 as
samples without payment of duty;(d)where any goods in respect of which a bond
has been executed under [section 59 [* * *] [ Substituted by Act 55 of 1991,
Section 9, for " Section 59" (w.e.f. 23.12.1991).] and which have not been
cleared for home consumption or exportation are not duly accounted for to the
satisfaction of the proper officer, the proper officer may demand, and the
owner of such goods shall forthwith pay, the full amount of duty chargeable on
account of such goods together with all penalties, rent, interest and other
charges payable in respect of such goods.(2)If any owner fails to pay any
amount demanded under sub-section (1), the proper officer may, without
prejudice to any other remedy, cause to be detained and sold, after notice to
the owner (any transfer of the goods notwithstanding) such sufficient portion
of his goods, if any, in the warehouse, as the said officer may select.

### 73. Cancellation and return of warehousing bond.

\- When the whole of the goods covered by any bond executed under [section 59
[* * *] [Substituted by Act 55 of 1991, Section 9, for " Section 59" (w.e.f.
23.12.1991). ] have been cleared for home consumption or exported or are
otherwise duly accounted for, and when all amounts due on account of such
goods have been paid, the proper officer shall cancel the bond as discharged
in full, and shall on demand deliver it, so cancelled, to the person who has
executed or is entitled to receive it.

## Chapter X  
Drawback

### 74. Drawback allowable on re-export of duty-paid goods.

(1)When any goods capable of being easily identified which have been imported
into India and upon which [any duty has been paid on importation, -(i)are
entered for export and the proper officer makes an order permitting clearance
and loading of the goods for exportation under section 51; or(ii)are to be
exported as baggage and the owner of such baggage, for the purpose of clearing
it, makes a declaration of its contents to the proper officer under section 77
(which declaration shall be deemed to be an entry for export for the purposes
of this section) and such officer makes an order permitting clearance of the
goods for exportation; or(iii)are entered for export by post under [clause (a)
of section 84] and the proper officer makes an order permitting clearance of
the goods for exportation, ninety-eight per cent. of such duty shall, except
as otherwise hereinafter provided, be re-paid as drawback, if-](a)the goods
are identified to the satisfaction of the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs
or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [[ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section
100, for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier,
these words were substituted by Act 22of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).]] as the goods which were imported; and(b)the goods are entered
for export within two years from the date of payment of duty on the
importation thereof:Provided that in any particular case the aforesaid period
of two years may, on sufficient cause being shown, be extended by the Board by
such further period as it may deem fit.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-section (1), the rate of drawback in the case of goods which have been
used after the importation thereof shall be such as the Central Government,
having regard to the duration of use, depreciation in value and other relevant
circumstances, may, by notification in the Official Gazette, fix.(3)[ The
Central Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this section and, in particular, such rules may-(a)provide for
the manner in which the identity of goods imported in different consignments
which are ordinarily stored together in bulk, may be established;(b)specify
the goods which shall be deemed to be not capable of being easily identified;
and(c)provide for the manner and the time within which a claim for payment of
drawback is to be filed.](4)For the purposes of this section-(a)goods shall be
deemed to have been entered for export on the date with reference to which the
rate of duty is calculated under section 16;(b)in the case of goods assessed
to duty provisionally under section 18, the date of payment of the provisional
duty shall be deemed to be the date of payment of duty.

### 75. Drawback on imported materials used in the manufacture of goods which
are exported.

(1)Where it appears to the Central Government that in respect of goods of any
class or description [manufactured, processed or on which any operation has
been carried out in India] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 61, for "
manufactured in India" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).][, being goods which have been
entered for export and in respect of which an order permitting the clearance
and loading thereof for exportation has been made under section 51 by the
proper officer] [ Substituted by Act 11 of 1983, Section 52, for " and
exported to any place outside India" (w.e.f. 13.5.1983).],[or being goods
entered for export by post under [clause (a) of section 84] [ Inserted by Act
80 of 1985, Section 7 (w.e.f. 27.12.1985).] and in respect of which an order
permitting clearance for exportation has been made by the proper officer] [
Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 60, for sub-Section (3) (w.e.f.
26.6.1995).], a drawback should be allowed of duties of customs chargeable
under this Act on any imported materials of a class or description used in the
[manufacture or processing of such goods or carrying out any operation on such
goods] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 61, for " manufacture of such
goods" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).], the Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, direct that drawback shall be allowed in respect of such
goods in accordance with, and subject to, the rules made under sub-section
(2):[Provided that no drawback shall be allowed under this sub-section in
respect of any of the aforesaid goods which the Central Government may, by
rules made under sub-section (2), specify, if the export value of such goods
or class of goods is less than the value of the imported materials used in the
[manufacture or processing of such goods or carrying out any operation on such
goods] [Inserted by Act 49 of 1991, Section 120 (w.e.f. 1.4.1991). ][or class
of goods, or is not more than such percentage of the value of the imported
materials used in the [manufacture or processing of such goods or carrying out
any operation on such goods] [Inserted by Act 49 of 1991, Section 120 (w.e.f.
1.4.1991). ] [or class of goods as the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf:] [Inserted by Act 49 of 1991,
Section 120 (w.e.f. 1.4.1991). ] [ Substituted by Act 80 of 1985, Section 6
(w.e.f. 27.12.1985).]Provided further that where any drawback has been allowed
on any goods under this sub-section and the sale proceeds in respect of such
goods are not received by or on behalf of the exporter in India within the
time allowed under the [Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999)] [
Substituted by Act 20 of 2002, Section 125, for " Foreign Exchange Regulation
Act, 1973 (46 of 1973)" (w.e.f. 11.5.2002).], such drawback shall be deemed
never to have been allowed and the Central Government may, by rules made under
sub-section (2), specify the procedure for the recovery or adjustment of the
amount of such drawback.][(1-A) Where it appears to the Central Government
that the quantity of a particular material imported into India is more than
the total quantity of like material that has been used in the goods
[manufactured, processed or on which any operation has been carried out in
India] [ Inserted by Act 25 of 1978, Section 10 (w.e.f. 1.7.1978).] [and
exported outside India, then, the Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, declare that so much of the material as is contained in
the goods exported shall, for the purpose of sub-section (1), be deemed to be
imported material.] [ Inserted by Act 25 of 1978, Section 10 (w.e.f.
1.7.1978).](2)The Central Government may make rules for the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of sub-section (1) and, in particular, such rules
may provide-(a)[ for the payment of drawback equal to the amount of duty
actually paid on the imported materials used in the manufacture or processing
of the goods or carrying out any operation on the goods or as is specified in
the rules as the average amount of duty paid on the materials of that class or
description used in the manufacture or processing of export goods or carrying
out any operation on export goods of that class or description either by
manufacturers generally or by persons processing or carrying on any operation
generally or by any particular manufacturer or particular person carrying on
any process or other operation, and interest, if any, payable thereon;] [
Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 61 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).](aa)[ for
specifying the goods in respect of which no drawback shall be allowed; [
Inserted by Act 49 of 1991, Section 120 (w.r.e.f. 1-4-1991). ](ab)for
specifying the procedure for recovery or adjustment of the amount of any
drawback which had been allowed under sub-section (1) [or interest chargeable
thereon];](b)for the production of such certificates, documents and other
evidence in support of each claim of drawback as may be necessary;(c)for
requiring the [manufacturer or the person carrying on any process or other
operation] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 61, for certain words
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995).] to give access to every part of his manufactory to any
officer of customs specially authorised in this behalf by the [Assistant
Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [[ Substituted by
Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" w.e.f.
11-5-1999). Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section
50 (w.e.f.

### 26\.

-5-1995).]] to enable such authorised officer to inspect the processes of [manufacture, process or any other operation carried out] [Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 61, for certain words (w.e.f. 26-5-1995). ] and to verify by actual check or otherwise the statements made in support of the claim for drawback;(d)[ for the manner and the time within which the claim for payment of drawback may be filed;] [ Inserted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 61 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).](3)[ The power to make rules conferred by sub-section (2) shall include the power to give drawback with retrospective effect from a date not earlier than the date of changes in the rates of duty on inputs used in the export goods.] [Inserted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 61 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).]

### 75A. [ Interest on drawback. [Inserted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 62
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995). ]

(1)Where any drawback payable to a claimant under section 74 or section 75 is
not paid within a [period of [one month] from the date of filing a claim for
payment of such drawback, there shall be paid to that claimant in addition to
the amount of drawback, interest at the rate fixed under section 27-A from the
date after the expiry of the said [period of [one month] [Substituted by Act 8
of 1999, Section 2, for " period of three months" and " three months" ,
respectively (w.e.f. 8-1-1999). ] till the date of payment of such drawback.

Proviso omitted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 115 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003). Prior to
its omission, the proviso read as under:-" Provided that where any drawback,
ordered to be paid under Section 74 or Section 75 in respect of a claim under
any of the said sections filed before the date on which the Finance Bill, 1995
receives the assent of the President, is not refunded within three months from
such date, there shall be paid to the applicant interest under this Section
from the date immediately after three months from such date, till the date
ofrefund of such drawback" .  
---  
  
[* * *]

Substituted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 98, for sub-Section (2) (w.e.f.
11-5-2007). Prior to its substitution, sub-Section (2) read as under:-" (2)
Where any drawback has been paid to the claimant erroneously, the claimant
shall, within a period of two months from the date of demand, pay in addition
to the said amount of drawback, interest at the rate fixed under Section 28-AA
from the date after the expiry of the said period of two months till the date
of recovery of such drawback." .  
---  
  
(2)Where any drawback has been paid to the claimant erroneously or it becomes
otherwise recoverable under this Act or the rules made thereunder, the
claimant shall, within a period of two months from the date of demand, pay in
addition to the said amount of drawback, interest at the rate fixed under
section 28-AB and the amount of interest shall be calculated for the period
beginning from the date of payment of such drawback to the claimant till the
date of recovery of such drawback.

### 76. Prohibition and regulation of drawback in certain cases.

(1)Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, no drawback shall be
allowed-[* * *] [ Clause (a) omitted by Act 11 of 1983, Section 53 (w.e.f.
13-5-1983).](b)in respect of any goods the market-price of which is less than
the amount of drawback due thereon;(c)where the drawback due in respect of any
goods is less than [fifty rupees] [ Substituted by Act 11 of 1983, Section 53,
for " five rupees" (w.e.f. 13-5-1983).].(2)Without prejudice to the provisions
of sub-section (1), if the Central Government is of opinion that goods of any
specified description in respect of which drawback may be claimed under this
Chapter are likely to be smuggled back into India, it may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, direct that drawback shall not be allowed in respect of
such goods or may be allowed subject to such restrictions and conditions as
may be specified in the notification.[* * *]

Chap. X-A (containing Sections 76-A to 76-N) omitted by Act 22 of 2007,
Section 99 (w.e.f.11-5-2007). Prior to its omission, Chap. X-A read as under:"
CHAPTER X-ASPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONE76-A.
Notification of special economic zone.-The Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify special economic zones
comprising specifically delineated areas where any goods admitted shall be
regarded, insofar as duties cf customs are concerned, as being outside the
customs territory of India as provided in this Chapter.76-B. Application of
provisions.-The provisions of this Chapter and other Chapters shall apply to
goods admitted to a special economic zone, but in the event of conflict
between the provisions of this Chapter and other Chapters, the provisions of
this Chapter shall prevail.76-C. Establishment and control.-(1) The Central
Government may make rules specifying the requirements relating to goods or
class of goods admissible to a special economic zone, the nature of operations
to which such goods or class of goods may be subjected to, the conditions to
be fulfilled and the procedures to be followed in this regard.(2) The Board
may specify, in the regulations made in this behalf, arrangements for customs
control in a special economic zone.(3) The proper officer shall have the right
to carry out checks, at any time, on the goods kept or stored in a special
economic zone.76-D. Admission of goods.-Subject to such conditions as may be
specified in the rules made in this behalf, any goods imported directly from
outside India or procured from within India shall be authorised for admission
to a special economic zone.76-E. Exemption from duties of customs.-Without
prejudice to the provisions of sections76-F, 76-G and 76-H, any goods admitted
to a special economic zone shall be exempt from duties of customs.76-F. Levy
of duties of customs.-Subject to the conditions as may be specified in the
rules made in this behalf,(a) any goods admitted to a special economic zone
from the domestic tariff area shall be chargeable to export duties at such
rates as are leviable on such goods when exported;(b) any goods removed from a
special economic zone for home consumption shall be chargeable to duties of
customs including anti-dumping, countervailing and safeguard duties under the
Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975), where applicable, as leviable on such
goods when imported; and(c) the rate of duty and tariff valuation, if any,
applicable to goods admitted to, or removed from, a special economic zone
shall be the rate and tariff valuation in force as on the date of such
admission or removal, as the case may be, and where such date is not
ascertainable, on the date of payment of the duty.76-G. Authorised
operations.-All goods admitted to a special economic zone shall undergo such
operations including processing or manufacturing as may be specified in the
rules made in this behalf.76-H. Goods utilised within a special economic
zone.-(1) The Central Government may make rules in this behalf to enumerate
the cases in which goods to be utilised inside a special economic zone may be
admitted free of duties of customs and lay down the requirements which shall
be fulfilled.(2) Goods utilised contrary to the provisions of rules made under
sub-Section (1) shall be chargeable to duties of customs in the same manner as
provided under clause (b) of Section 76-F as if they have been removed for
home consumption.76-I. Drawback on goods admitted to a special economic
zone.-Any goods admitted to a special economic zone from the domestic tariff
area for the purposes authorised under this Chapter shall be eligible for
drawback under Section 75 as if such goods are export goods for the purposes
of that section.76-J. Duration of stay.-Any goods admitted to a special
economic zone shall not be allowed to remain within such zone beyond such time
as may be specified in the rules made in this behalf.76-K. Security.-Any goods
admitted free of duty to a special economic zone or goods under transshipment
to and from such zone without payment of duty shall be subject to execution of
such bond and such surety or security as may be specified in the rules made in
this behalf.76-L. Transfer of ownership.-Any goods admitted to, or produced or
manufactured in, a special economic zone shall be allowed for transfer of
ownership subject to such conditions as may be specified in the rules made in
this behalf.76-M. Removal of goods.-Any goods admitted to, or produced or
manufactured in, a special economic zone may be removed in accordance with
such procedure as may be specified in the rules made in this behalf.76-N.
Closure of a special economic zone.-In the event of closure of a special
economic zone by the Central Government, by notification in the Official
Gazette, the goods admitted to, or produced or manufactured in, such zone
shall be removed within such time and in such manner as may be specified in
the rules made in this behalf." .-*Chap. X-A inserted by Act 20 of 2002,
Section 126 (w.e.f.15.8.2003).  
---  
  
## Chapter X  
A Special Provisions Relating To Special Economic Zone - Omitted

## Chapter XI  
Special Provisions Regarding Baggage, Goods Imported or Exported by [Post,
Courier] [Substituted 'Post' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.] and Stores Baggage

### 77. Declaration by owner of baggage.

\- The owner of any baggage shall, for the purpose of clearing it, make a
declaration of its contents to the proper officer.

### 78. Determination of rate of duty and tariff valuation in respect of
baggage.

\- The rate of duty and tariff valuation, if any, applicable to baggage shall
be the rate and valuation in force on the date on which a declaration is made
in respect of such baggage under section 77.

### 79. Bona fide baggage exempted from duty.

(1)The proper officer may, subject to any rules made under sub-section (2),
pass free of duty-(a)any article in the baggage of a passenger or a member of
the crew in respect of which the said officer is satisfied that it has been in
his use for such minimum period as may be specified in the rules;(b)any
article in the baggage of a passenger in respect of which the said officer is
satisfied that it is for the use of the passenger or his family or is a bona
fide gift or souvenir; provided that the value of each such article and the
total value of all such articles does not exceed such limits as may be
specified in the rules.(2)The Central Government may make rules for the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section and, in particular,
such rules may specify-(a)the minimum period for which any article has been
used by a passenger or a member of the crew for the purpose of clause (a) of
sub-section (1);(b)the maximum value of any individual article and the maximum
total value of all the articles which may be passed free of duty under clause
(b) of sub-section (1);(c)the conditions (to be fulfilled before or after
clearance) subject to which any baggage may be passed free of
duty.(3)Different rules may be made under sub-section (2) for different
classes of persons.

### 80. Temporary detention of baggage.

\- Where the baggage of a passenger contains any article which is dutiable or
the import of which is prohibited and in respect of which a true declaration
has been made under section 77, the proper officer may, at the request of the
passenger, detain such article for the purpose of being returned to him on his
leaving India [and if for any reason, the passenger is not able to collect the
article at the time of his leaving India, the article may be returned to him
through any other passenger authorised by him and leaving India or as cargo
consigned in his name.] [ Inserted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 63 (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).]

### 81. Regulations in respect of baggage.

\- The Board may make regulations,-(a)providing for the manner of declaring
the contents of any baggage;(b)providing for the custody, examination,
assessment to duty and clearance of baggage;(c)providing for the transit or
transhipment of baggage from one customs station to another or to a place
outside India.Goods imported or exported by post

### 82. [ [Omitted by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated 31.3.2017.]

***]

82\. Label or declaration accompanying goods to be treated as entry.- In the
case of goods imported or exported by post, any label or declaration
accompanying the goods, which contains the description, quantity and value
thereof, shall be deemed to be an entry for import or export, as the case may
be, for the purposes of this Act.  
---  
  
### 83. Rate of duty and tariff valuation in respect of goods imported or
exported by [post or courier] [Substituted 'post' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act
No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.].

(1)The rate of duty and tariff-value, if any, applicable to any goods imported
by [post or courier] [Substituted 'post' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of
2018), dated 29.3.2018.] shall be the rate and valuation in force on the date
on which the [postal authorities or the authorised courier] [Substituted
'postal authorities' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.] present to the proper officer a list containing the particulars of
such goods for the purpose of assessing the duty thereon:Provided that if such
goods are imported by a vessel and the list of the goods containing the
particulars was presented before the date of the arrival of the vessel, it
shall be deemed to have been presented on the date of such arrival.(2)The rate
of duty and tariff-value, if any, applicable to any goods exported by [post or
courier] [Substituted 'post' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.] shall be the rate and valuation in force on the date on which the
exporter delivers such goods to the [postal authorities or the authorised
courier] [Substituted 'postal authorities' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of
2018), dated 29.3.2018.] for exportation.

### 84. Regulations regarding goods imported or to be exported by post.

\- The Board may make regulations providing for-(a)[ the form and manner in
which an entry may be made in respect of goods imported or to be exported by
post;] [Substituted by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated
31.3.2017.](b)the examination, assessment to duty, and clearance of goods im-
ported or to be exported by post;(c)the transit or transhipment of goods
imported by post, from one customs station to another or to a place outside
India.Stores

### 85. Stores may be allowed to be warehoused without assessment to duty.

\- Where any imported goods are entered for warehousing and the importer makes
and subscribes to a declaration that the goods are to be supplied as stores to
vessels or aircrafts without payment of import duty under this Chapter, the
proper officer may permit the goods to be warehoused without the goods being
assessed to duty.

### 86. Transit and transhipment of stores.

(1)Any stores imported in a vessel or aircraft may, without payment of duty,
remain on board such vessel or aircraft while it is in India.(2)Any stores
imported in a vessel or aircraft may, with the permission of the proper
officer, be transferred to any vessel or aircraft as stores for consumption
therein as provided in section 87 or section 90.

### 87. Imported stores may be consumed on board a foreign-going vessel or
aircraft.

\- Any imported stores on board a vessel or aircraft (other than stores to
which section 90 applies) may, without payment of duty, be consumed thereon as
stores during the period such vessel or aircraft is a foreign-going vessel or
aircraft.

### 88. Application of section 69 and Chapter X to stores.

\- The provisions of section 69 and Chapter X shall apply to stores (other
than those to which section 90 applies) as they apply to other goods, subject
to the modifications that-(a)for the words "exported to any place outside
India" or the word "exported", wherever they [occur] [These words occur in
sub-Section (1) and (2) of Section 69, sub-Section (1) of Section 74 and sub-
Section (1) of Section 75. ], the words "taken on board any foreign-going
vessel or aircraft as stores" shall be substituted;(b)in the case of drawback
on fuel and lubricating oil taken on board any foreign-going aircraft as
stores, sub-section (1) of section 74 shall have effect as if for the words
"ninety-eight per cent", the words "the whole" were substituted.

### 89. Stores to be free of export duty.

\- Goods produced or manufactured in India and required as stores on any
foreign-going vessel or aircraft may be exported free of duty in such
quantities as the proper officer may determine, having regard to the size of
the vessel or aircraft, the number of passengers and crew and the length of
the voyage or journey on which the vessel or aircraft is about to depart.

### 90. Concessions in respect of imported stores for the Navy.

(1)Imported stores specified in sub-section (3) may without payment of duty be
consumed on board a ship of the Indian Navy.(2)The provisions of section 69
and Chapter X shall apply to stores specified in sub-section (3) as they apply
to other goods, subject to the modifications that-(a)for the words "exported
to any place outside India" or the word "exported" wherever they [occur]
[These words occur in sub-Section (1) and (2) of Section 69, sub-Section (1)
of Section 74 and sub-Section (1) of Section 75. ], the words "taken on board
a ship of the Indian Navy" shall be substituted;(b)for the words "ninety-eight
per cent" in sub-section (1) of section 74, the words "the whole" shall be
substituted.(3)The stores referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2) are the
following:-(a)stores for the use of a ship of the Indian Navy;(b)stores
supplied free by the Government for the use of the crew of a ship of the
Indian Navy in accordance with their conditions of service.

## Chapter XII  
Provisions Relating To Coastal Goods And Vessels Carrying Coastal Goods

### 91. Chapter not to apply to baggage and stores.

\- The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to baggage and stores.

### 92. Entry of coastal goods.

(1)The consignor of any coastal goods shall make an entry thereof by
presenting to the proper officer a bill of coastal goods in the prescribed
form.(2)Every such consignor while presenting a bill of coastal goods shall,
at the foot thereof, make and subscribe to a declaration as to the truth of
the contents of such bill.

### 93. Coastal goods not to be loaded until bill relating thereto is passed,
etc.

\- The master of a vessel shall not permit the loading of any coastal goods on
the vessel until a bill relating to such goods presented under section 92 has
been passed by the proper officer and has been delivered to the master by the
consignor.

### 94. Clearance of coastal goods at destination.

(1)The master of a vessel carrying any coastal goods shall carry on board the
vessel all bills relating to such goods delivered to him under section 93 and
shall, immediately on arrival of the vessel at any customs or coastal port,
deliver to the proper officer of that port all bills relating to the goods
which are to be unloaded at that port.(2)Where any coastal goods are unloaded
at any port, the proper officer shall permit clearance thereof if he is
satisfied that they are entered in a bill of coastal goods delivered to him
under sub-section (1).

### 95. Master of a coasting vessel to carry an advice book.

(1)The master of every vessel carrying coastal goods shall be supplied by the
Customs authorities with a book to be called the "advice book".(2)The proper
officer at each port of call by such vessel shall make such entries in the
advice book as he deems fit, relating to the goods loaded on the vessel at
that port.(3)The master of every such vessel shall carry the advice book on
board the vessel and shall on arrival at each port of call deliver it to the
proper officer at that port for his inspection.

### 96. Loading and unloading of coastal goods at customs port or coastal port
only.

\- No coastal goods shall be loaded on, or unloaded from, any vessel at any
port other than a customs port or a coastal port appointed under section 7 for
the loading or unloading of such goods.

### 97. No coasting vessel to leave without written order.

(1)The master of a vessel which has brought or loaded any coastal goods at a
customs or coastal port shall not cause or permit the vessel to depart from
such port until a written order to that effect has been given by the proper
officer.(2)No such order shall be given until-(a)the master of the vessel has
answered the questions put to him under section 38;(b)all charges and
penalties due in respect of that vessel or from the master thereof have been
paid or the payment secured by such guarantee or deposit of such amount as the
proper officer may direct;(c)the master of the vessel has satisfied the proper
officer that no penalty is leviable on him under section 116 or the payment of
any penalty that may be levied upon him under that section has been secured by
such guarantee or deposit of such amount as the proper officer may
direct;(d)the provisions of this Chapter and any rules and regulations
relating to coastal goods and vessels carrying coastal goods have been
complied with.

### 98. Application of certain provisions of this Act to coastal goods, etc.

(1)Sections 33, 34 and 36 shall, so far as may be, apply to coastal goods as
they apply to imported goods or export goods.(2)Sections 37 and 38 shall, so
far as may be, apply to vessels carrying coastal goods as they apply to
vessels carrying imported goods or export goods.(3)The Central Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that all or any of the other
provisions of Chapter VI and the provisions of section 45 shall apply to
coastal goods or vessels carrying coastal goods subject to such exceptions and
modifications as may be specified in the notification.

### 98A. [ Power to relax. [ Inserted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 64 (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).]

\- If the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary in the public
interest so to do it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt
generally, either absolutely or subject to such conditions as may be specified
in the notification, coastal goods or vessels carrying coastal goods from all
or any of the provisions of this Chapter.]

### 99. Power to make rules in respect of coastal goods and coasting vessels.

\- The Central Government may make rules for-(a)preventing the taking out of
India of any coastal goods the export of which is dutiable or prohibited under
this Act or any other law for the time being in force;(b)preventing, in the
case of a vessel carrying coastal goods as well as imported or export goods,
the substitution of imported or export goods by coastal goods.[Chapter XII-A]
[Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.] Audit

### 99A. Audit.

\- The proper officer may carry out the audit of assessment of imported goods
or export goods or of an auditee under this Act either in his office or in the
premises of the auditee in such manner as may be prescribed.Explanation. - For
the purposes of this section, "auditee" means a person who is subject to an
audit under this section and includes an importer or exporter or custodian
approved under section 45 or licensee of a warehouse and any other person
concerned directly or indirectly in clearing, forwarding, stocking, carrying,
selling or purchasing of imported goods or export goods or dutiable goods.

## Chapter XIII  
Searches, Seizure And Arrest

### 100. Power to search suspected persons entering or leaving India, etc.

(1)If the proper officer has reason to believe that any person to whom this
section applies has secreted about his person, any goods liable to
confiscation or any documents relating thereto, he may search that
person.(2)This section applies to the following persons, namely:-(a)any person
who has landed from or is about to board, or is on board any vessel within the
Indian customs waters;(b)any person who has landed from or is about to board,
or is on board a foreign-going aircraft;(c)any person who has got out of, or
is about to get into, or is in, a vehicle, which has arrived from, or is to
proceed to any place outside India;(d)any person not included in clauses (a),
(b) or (c) who has entered or is about to leave India;(e)any person in a
customs area.

### 101. Power to search suspected persons in certain other cases.

(1)Without prejudice to the provisions of section 100, if an officer of
customs empowered in this behalf by general or special order of the
[Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for "
Collector of Customs" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).], has reason to believe that any
person has secreted about his person any goods of the description specified in
sub-section (2) which are liable to confiscation, or documents relating
thereto, he may search that person.(2)The goods referred to in sub-section (1)
are the following:-(a)gold;(b)diamonds;(c)manufactures of gold or
diamonds;(d)watches;(e)any other class of goods which the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify.

### 102. Persons to be searched may require to be taken before Gazetted
Officer of customs or magistrate.

(1)When any officer of customs is about to search any person under the
provisions of section 100 or section 101, the officer of customs shall, if
such person so requires, take him without unnecessary delay to the nearest
Gazetted Officer of customs or magistrate.(2)If such requisition is made, the
officer of customs may detain the person making it until he can bring him
before the Gazetted Officer of customs or the magistrate.(3)The Gazetted
Officer of customs or the magistrate before whom any such person is brought
shall, if he sees no reasonable ground for search, forthwith discharge the
person but otherwise shall direct that search be made.(4)Before making a
search under the provisions of section 100 or section 101, the officer of
customs shall call upon two or more persons to attend and witness the search
and may issue an order in writing to them or any of them so to do ; and the
search shall be made in the presence of such persons and a list of all things
seized in the course of such search shall be prepared by such officer or other
person and signed by such witnesses.(5)No female shall be searched by any one
excepting a female.

### 103. Power to screen or X-ray bodies of suspected persons for detecting
secreted goods.

(1)Where the proper officer has reason to believe that any person referred to
in sub-section (2) of section 100 has any goods liable to confiscation
secreted inside his body, he may detain such person and produce him without
unnecessary delay before the nearest magistrate.(2)A magistrate before whom
any person is brought under sub-section (1) shall, if he sees no reasonable
ground for believing that such person has any such goods secreted inside his
body, forthwith discharge such person.(3)Where any such magistrate has
reasonable ground for believing that such person has any such goods secreted
inside his body and the magistrate is satisfied that for the purpose of
discovering such goods it is necessary to have the body of such person
screened or X-rayed, he may make an order to that effect.(4)Where a magistrate
has made any order under sub-section (3), in relation to any person, the
proper officer shall, as soon as practicable, take such person before a
radiologist possessing qualifications recognized by the Central Government for
the purpose of this section, and such person shall allow the radiologist to
screen or X-ray his body.(5)A radiologist before whom any person is brought
under sub-section (4) shall, after screening or X-raying the body of such
person, forward his report, together with any X-ray pictures taken by him, to
the magistrate without unnecessary delay.(6)Where on receipt of a report from
a radiologist under sub-section (5) or otherwise, the magistrate is satisfied
that any person has any goods liable to confiscation secreted inside his body,
he may direct that suitable action for bringing out such goods be taken on the
advice and under the supervision of a registered medical practitioner and such
person shall be bound to comply with such direction:Provided that in the case
of a female no such action shall be taken except on the advice and under the
supervision of a female registered medical practitioner.(7)Where any person is
brought before a magistrate under this section, such magistrate may for the
purpose of enforcing the provisions of this section order such person to be
kept in such custody and for such period as he may direct.(8)Nothing in this
section shall apply to any person referred to in sub-section (1), who admits
that goods liable to confiscation are secreted inside his body, and who
voluntarily submits himself for suitable action being taken for bringing out
such goods.Explanation.-For the purposes of this section, the expression
"registered medical practitioner" means any person who holds a qualification
granted by an authority specified in the Schedule to the Indian Medical
Degrees Act, 1916 (7 of 1916), or notified under section 3 of that Act, or by
an authority specified in any of the Schedules to the Indian Medical Council
Act, 1956 (102 of 1956).

### 104. [ Power to arrest. [ Substituted by Act 29 of 2006, Section 24, for
sub-Section (1) (w.e.f. 13.7.2006).]

(1)If an officer of Customs empowered in this behalf by general or special
order of the Commissioner of Customs has reason to believe that any person in
India or within the Indian customs waters has committed an offence punishable
under section 132 or section 133 or section 135 or section 135-A or section
136, he may arrest such person and shall, as soon as may be, inform him of the
grounds for such arrest.](2)Every person arrested under sub-section (1) shall,
without un-necessary delay, be taken to a magistrate.(3)Where an officer of
customs has arrested any person under sub-section (1), he shall, for the
purpose of releasing such person on bail or otherwise, have the same powers
and be subject to the same provisions as the officer-in-charge of a police-
station has and is subject to under the Code of [Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5
of 1898)] [ Now see the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974).].(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of [Criminal
Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)] [ Now see the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2
of 1974).], an offence under this Act shall not be cognizable.

### 105. Power to search premises.

(1)If the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of
Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for " Assistant
Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these words were
substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).], or in any area
adjoining the land frontier or the coast of India an officer of customs
specially empowered by name in this behalf by the Board, has reason to believe
that any goods liable to confiscation, or any documents or things which in his
opinion will be useful for or relevant to any proceeding under this Act, are
secreted in any place, he may authorise any officer of customs to search or
may himself search for such goods, documents or things.(2)The provisions of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), relating to searches shall,
so far as may be, apply to searches under this section subject to the
modification that sub-section (5) of section 165 of the said Code shall have
effect as if for the word "Magistrate", wherever it occurs, the words
[Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for "
Collector of Customs" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] were substituted.

### 106. Power to stop and search conveyances.

(1)Where the proper officer has reason to believe that any aircraft, vehicle
or animal in India or any vessel in India or within the Indian customs waters
has been, is being, or is about to be, used in the smuggling of any goods or
in the carriage of any goods which have been smuggled, he may at any time stop
any such vehicle, animal or vessel or, in the case of an aircraft, compel it
to land, and-(a)rummage and search any part of the aircraft, vehicle or
vessel;(b)examine and search any goods in the aircraft, vehicle or vessel or
on the animal;(c)break open the lock of any door or package for exercising the
powers conferred by clauses (a) and (b), if the keys are withheld.(2)Where for
the purposes of sub-section (1)-(a)it becomes necessary to stop any vessel or
compel any aircraft to land, it shall be lawful for any vessel or aircraft in
the service of the Government while flying her proper flag and any authority
authorised in this behalf by the Central Government to summon such vessel to
stop or the aircraft to land, by means of an international signal, code or
other recognized means, and thereupon, such vessel shall forthwith stop or
such aircraft shall forthwith land; and if it fails to do so, chase may be
given thereto by any vessel or aircraft as aforesaid and if after a gun is
fired as a signal the vessel fails to stop or the aircraft fails to land, it
may be fired upon;(b)it becomes necessary to stop any vehicle or animal, the
proper officer may use all lawful means for stopping it, and where such means
fail, the vehicle or animal may be fired upon.

### 106A. [ Power to inspect. [Inserted by Act 12 of 1969, Section 3 (w.e.f.
3.1.1969). ]

\- Any proper officer authorised in this behalf by the [Commissioner of
Customs][may, for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not the requirements
of this Act have been complied with, at any reasonable time, enter any place
intimated under Chapter IV-A or Chapter IV-B, as the case may be, and inspect
the goods kept or stored therein and require any person found therein, who is
for the time being in charge thereof, to produce to him for his inspection the
accounts maintained under the said Chapter IV-A or Chapter IV-B, as the case
may be, and to furnish to him such other information as he may reasonably
require for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not such goods have been
illegally imported, exported or are likely to be illegally exported.]
[Inserted by Act 12 of 1969, Section 3 (w.e.f. 3.1.1969). ]

### 107. Power to examine persons.

\- Any officer of customs empowered in this behalf by general or special order
of the [Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50,
for " Collector of Customs" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] may, during the course of any
enquiry in connection with the smuggling of any goods,-(a)require any person
to produce or deliver any document or thing relevant to the enquiry;(b)examine
any person acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case.

Substituted by Act 29 of 2006, Section 25, for sub-Section (1) (w.e.f.
13.7.2006). Prior to its substitution, sub-Section (1) read as under:- " (1)
Any Gazetted Officer of Customs shall have power to summon any person whose
attendance he considers necessary either to give evidence or to produce a
document or any other thing in any inquiry which such officer is making in
connection with the smuggling of any goods."  
---  
  
### 108. Power to summon persons to give evidence and produce documents.

(1)Any Gazetted Officer of Customs [* * *] [ The words " duly empowered by the
Central Government in this behalf," omitted by Act 18 of 2008, Section 69
(w.r.e.f. 13.7.2006).] shall have power to summon any person whose attendance
he considers necessary either to give evidence or to produce a document or any
other thing in any inquiry which such officer is making under this Act.(2)A
summons to produce documents or other things may be for the production of
certain specified documents or things or for the production of all documents
or things of a certain description in the possession or under the control of
the person summoned.(3)All persons so summoned shall be bound to attend either
in person or by an authorised agent, as such officer may direct; and all
persons so summoned shall be bound to state the truth upon any subject,
respecting which they are examined or make statements and produce such
documents and other things as may be required:Provided that the exemption
under section 132 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall be
applicable to any requisition for attendance under this section.(4)Every such
inquiry as aforesaid shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the
meaning of section 193 and section 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 108A. [ Obligation to furnish information. [Inserted by Notification No.
18 of 2017, dated 4.5.2017.]

(1)Any person, being -(a)a local authority or other public body or
association; or(b)any authority of the State Government responsible for the
collection of value added tax or sales tax or any other tax relating to the
goods or services; or(c)an income-tax authority appointed under the provisions
of the Incometax Act, 1961;(d)a Banking company within the meaning of clause
(a) of section 45A of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934; or(e)a co-operative
bank within the meaning of clause (dd ) of section 2 of the Deposit Insurance
and Credit Guarantee Corporation Act,1961; or(f)a financial institution within
the meaning of clause (c), or a non-banking financial company within the
meaning of clause (f), of section 45-I of the Reserve Bank of India Act,1934;
or(g)a State Electricity Board; or an electricity distribution or transmission
licensee under the Electricity Act, 2003, or any other entity entrusted, as
the case may be, with such functions by the Central Government or the State
Government; or(h)the Registrar or Sub-Registrar appointed under section 6 of
the Registration Act, 1908; or(i)a Registrar within the meaning of the
Companies Act, 2013; or(j)the registering authority empowered to register
motor vehicles under Chapter IV of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988; or(k)the
Collector referred to in clause (c) of section 3 of the Right to Fair
Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and
Resettlement Act, 2013; or(l)the recognised stock exchange referred to in
clause (f) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956;
or(m)a depository referred to in clause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of
the Depositories Act, 1996; or(n)the Post Master General within the meaning of
clause ( j) of section 2 of the Indian Post Office Act, 1898; or(o)the
Director General of Foreign Trade within the meaning of clause (d) of section
2 of the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act,1992; or(p)the General
Manager of a Zonal Railway within the meaning of clause (18) of section 2 of
the Railways Act,1989; or(q)an officer of the Reserve Bank of India
constituted under section 3 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934,who is
responsible for maintaining record of registration or statement of accounts or
holding any other information under any of the Acts specified above or under
any other law for the time being in force, which is considered relevant for
the purposes of this Act, shall furnish such information to the proper officer
in such manner as may be prescribed by rules made under this Act.(2)Where the
proper officer considers that the information furnished under sub-section (1)
is defective, he may intimate the defect to the person who has furnished such
information and give him an opportunity of rectifying the defect within a
period of seven days from the date of such intimation or within such further
period which, on an application made in this behalf, the proper officer may
allow and if the defect is not rectified within the said period of seven days
or, further period, as the case may be, so allowed, then, notwithstanding
anything contained in any other provision of this Act, such information shall
be deemed as not furnished and the provisions of this Act shall apply.(3)Where
a person who is required to furnish information has not furnished the same
within the time specified in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the proper
officer may serve upon him a notice requiring him to furnish such information
within a period not exceeding thirty days from the date of service of the
notice and such person shall furnish such information.

### 108B. Penalty for failure to furnish information return.

\- Where the person who is required to furnish information under section 108A
fails to do so within the period specified in the notice issued under sub-
section (3) thereof, the proper officer may direct such person to pay, by way
of penalty, a sum of one hundred rupees for each day of the period during
which the failure to furnish such information continues.]

### 109. Power to require production of order permitting clearance of goods
imported by land.

\- Any officer of customs appointed for any area adjoining the land frontier
of India and empowered in this behalf by general or special order of the
Board, may require any person in possession of any goods which such officer
has reason to believe to have been imported into India by land, to produce the
order made under section 47 permitting clearance of the goods:Provided that
nothing in this section shall apply to any imported goods passing from a land
frontier to a land customs station by a route appointed under clause (c) of
section 7.

### 109A. [ Power to undertake controlled delivery. [Inserted by Finance Act,
2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the proper officer or any
other officer authorised by him in this behalf, may undertake controlled
delivery of any consignment of such goods and in such manner as may be
prescribed, to -(a)any destination in India; or(b)a foreign country, in
consultation with the competent authority of such country to which such
consignment is destined.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section
"controlled delivery" means the procedure of allowing consignment of such
goods to pass out of, or into, the territory of India with the knowledge and
under the supervision of proper officer for identifying the persons involved
in the commission of an offence or contravention under this Act.]

### 110. Seizure of goods, documents and things.

(1)If the proper officer has reason to believe that any goods are liable to
confiscation under this Act, he may seize such goods:Provided that where it is
not practicable to seize any such goods, the proper officer may serve on the
owner of the goods an order that he shall not remove, part with, or otherwise
deal with the goods except with the previous permission of such officer.[(1-A)
The Central Government may, having regard to the perishable or hazardous
nature of any goods, depreciation in the value of the goods with the passage
of time, constraints of storage space for the goods or any other relevant
considerations, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify the goods or
class of goods which shall, as soon as may be after its seizure under sub-
section (1), be disposed of by the proper officer in such manner as the
Central Government may, from time to time, determine after following the
procedure hereinafter specified.(1-B) Where any goods, being goods specified
under sub-section (1-A), have been seized by a proper officer under sub-
section (1), he shall prepare an inventory of such goods containing such
details relating to their description, quality, quantity, mark, numbers,
country of origin and other particulars as the proper officer may consider
relevant to the identity of the goods in any proceedings under this Act and
shall make an application to a Magistrate for the purpose of-(a)certifying the
correctness of the inventory so prepared; or(b)taking, in the presence of the
Magistrate, photographs of such goods, and certifying such photographs as
true; or(c)allowing to draw representative samples of such goods, in the
presence of the Magistrate, and certifying the correctness of any list of
samples so drawn.(1-C) Where an application is made under sub-section (1-B),
the Magistrate shall, as soon as may be, allow the application.] [ Inserted by
Act 80 of 1985, Section 8 (w.e.f. 27.12.1985).](2)Where any goods are seized
under sub-section (1) and no notice in respect thereof is given under clause
(a) of section 124 within six months of the seizure of the goods, the goods
shall be returned to the person from whose possession they were
seized:[Provided that the Principal Commissioner of Customs or Commissioner of
Customs may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend such period to a
further period not exceeding six months and inform the person from whom such
goods were seized before the expiry of the period so specified:Provided
further that where any order for provisional release of the seized goods has
been passed under section 110A, the specified period of six months shall not
apply.] [Substituted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.](3)The proper officer may seize any documents or things which, in
his opinion, will be useful for, or relevant to, any proceeding under this
Act.(4)The person from whose custody any documents are seized under sub-
section (3) shall be entitled to make copies thereof or take extracts
therefrom in the presence of an officer of customs.

### 110A. [ Provisional release of goods, documents and things seized pending
adjudication. [ Inserted by Act 29 of 2006, Section 26 (w.e.f. 13.7.2006).]

\- Any goods, documents or things seized under section 110, may, pending the
order of the adjudicating officer, be released to the owner on taking a bond
from him in the proper form with such security and conditions as the
Commissioner of Customs may require.]

## Chapter XIV  
Confiscation Of Goods And Conveyances And Imposition Of Penalties

### 111. Confiscation of improperly imported goods, etc.

\- The following goods brought from a place outside India shall be liable to
confiscation:-(a)any goods imported by sea or air which are unloaded or
attempted to be unloaded at any place other than a customs port or customs
airport appointed under clause (a) of section 7 for the unloading of such
goods;(b)any goods imported by land or inland water through any route other
than a route specified in a notification issued under clause (c) of section 7
for the import of such goods;(c)any dutiable or prohibited goods brought into
any bay, gulf, creek or tidal river for the purpose of being landed at a place
other than a customs port;(d)any goods which are imported or attempted to be
imported or are brought within the Indian customs waters for the purpose of
being imported, contrary to any prohibition imposed by or under this Act or
any other law for the time being in force;(e)any dutiable or prohibited goods
found concealed in any manner in any conveyance;(f)any dutiable or prohibited
goods required to be mentioned under the regulations in an import manifest or
import report which are not so mentioned;(g)any dutiable or prohibited goods
which are unloaded from a conveyance in contravention of the provisions of
section 32, other than goods inadvertently unloaded but included in the record
kept under sub-section (2) of section 45;(h)any dutiable or prohibited goods
unloaded or attempted to be unloaded in contravention of the provisions of
section 33 or section 34;(i)any dutiable or prohibited goods found concealed
in any manner in any package either before or after the unloading
thereof;(j)any dutiable or prohibited goods removed or attempted to be removed
from a customs area or a warehouse without the permission of the proper
officer or contrary to the terms of such permission;(k)any dutiable or
prohibited goods imported by land in respect of which the order permitting
clearance of the goods required to be produced under section 109 is not
produced or which do not correspond in any material particular with the
specification contained therein;(l)any dutiable or prohibited goods which are
not included or are in excess of those included in the entry made under this
Act, or in the case of baggage in the declaration made under section
77;(m)[any goods which do not correspond in respect of value or in any other
particular] [ Substituted by Act 36 of 1973, Section 2, for certain words
(w.e.f. 1.9.1973).] with the entry made under this Act or in the case of
baggage with the declaration made under section 77 [in respect thereof, or in
the case of goods under transhipment, with the declaration for transhipment
referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 54] [ Substituted by
Act 27 of 1999, Section 108, for " in respect thereof;" (w.e.f.
11.5.1999).];(n)any dutiable or prohibited goods transitted with or without
transhipment or attempted to be so transitted in contravention of the
provisions of Chapter VIII;(o)any goods exempted, subject to any condition,
from duty or any prohibition in respect of the import thereof under this Act
or any other law for the time being in force, in respect of which the
condition is not observed unless the non-observance of the condition was
sanctioned by the proper officer;(p)[ any notified goods in relation to which
any provisions of Chapter IV-A or of any rule made under this Act for carrying
out the purposes of that Chapter have been contravened.] [ Inserted by Act 12
of 1969, Section 4 (w.e.f. 3.1.1969).]

### 112. Penalty for improper importation of goods, etc.

\- Any person,-(a)who, in relation to any goods, does or omits to do any act
which act or omission would render such goods liable to confiscation under
section 111, or abets the doing or omission of such an act, or(b)who acquires
possession of or is in any way concerned in carrying, removing, depositing,
harbouring, keeping, concealing, selling or purchasing, or in any other manner
dealing with any goods which he knows or has reason to believe are liable to
confiscation under section 111, shall be liable,-(i)in the case of goods in
respect of which any prohibition is in force under this Act or any other law
for the time being in force, to a penalty [not exceeding the value of the
goods or five thousand rupees] [Substituted by Act 14 of 2001, Section 107,
for certain words (w.e.f. 11.5.2001). ], whichever is the greater;(ii)in the
case of dutiable goods, other than prohibited goods, to a penalty [not
exceeding the duty sought to be evaded on such goods or five thousand rupees,]
[ Substituted by Act 14 of 2001, Section 107, for certain words (w.e.f.
11.5.2001).] whichever is the greater;(iii)[ in the case of goods in respect
of which the value stated in the entry made under this Act or in the case of
baggage, in the declaration made under section 77 (in either case hereinafter
in this section referred to as the declared value) is higher than the value
thereof, to a penalty [not exceeding the difference between the declared value
and the value thereof or five thousand rupees] [Inserted by Act 36 of 1973,
Section 3 (w.e.f. 1.9.1973). ],[whichever is the greater; [Inserted by Act 36
of 1973, Section 3 (w.e.f. 1.9.1973). ](iv)in the case of goods falling both
under clauses (i) and (iii), to a penalty [not exceeding the difference
between the declared value and the value thereof or five thousand
rupees],[whichever is the highest; [Inserted by Act 36 of 1973, Section 3
(w.e.f. 1.9.1973). ](v)in the case of goods falling both under clauses (ii)
and (iii), to a penalty [not exceeding the duty sought to be evaded on such
goods or the difference between the declared value and the value thereof or
five thousand rupees], [whichever is the highest.] [Inserted by Act 36 of
1973, Section 3 (w.e.f. 1.9.1973). ]

### 113. Confiscation of goods attempted to be improperly exported, etc.

\- The following export goods shall be liable to confiscation:-(a)any goods
attempted to be exported by sea or air from any place other than a customs
port or a customs airport appointed for the loading of such goods;(b)any goods
attempted to be exported by land or inland water through any route other than
a route specified in a notification issued under clause (c) of section 7 for
the export of such goods;(c)any [* * *] [ The words " dutiable or prohibited"
omitted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 116 (w.e.f. 14.5.2003).] goods brought near
the land frontier or the coast of India or near any bay, gulf, creek or tidal
river for the purpose of being exported from a place other than a land customs
station or a customs port appointed for the loading of such goods;(d)any goods
attempted to be exported or brought within the limits of any customs area for
the purpose of being exported, contrary to any prohibition imposed by or under
this Act or any other law for the time being in force;(e)any [* * *] [ The
words " dutiable or prohibited" omitted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 116 (w.e.f.
14.5.2003).] goods found concealed in a package which is brought within the
limits of a customs area for the purpose of exportation;(f)any [* * *] [ The
words " dutiable or prohibited" omitted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 116 (w.e.f.
14.5.2003).] goods which are loaded or attempted to be loaded in contravention
of the provisions of section 33 or section 34;(g)any [* * *] [ The words "
dutiable or prohibited" omitted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 116 (w.e.f.
14.5.2003).] goods loaded or attempted to be loaded on any conveyance, or
water-borne, or attempted to be water-borne for being loaded on any vessel,
the eventual destination of which is a place outside India, without the
permission of the proper officer;(h)any [* * *] [ The words " dutiable or
prohibited" omitted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 116 (w.e.f. 14.5.2003).] goods
which are not included or are in excess of those included in the entry made
under this Act, or in the case of baggage in the declaration made under
section 77;

Substituted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 109, for Clause (i) (w.e.f. 14.5.2003).
Prior to its substitution, Clause (i) read as under:-" (i) any dutiable or
prohibited goods or goods entered for exportation under claim for drawback
which do not correspond in any material particular with the entry made under
this Act or in the case of baggage with the declaration made under Section 77
in respect thereof;"  
---  
  
(i)[ any goods entered for exportation which do not correspond in respect of
value or in any material particular with the entry made under this Act or in
the case of baggage with the declaration made under section 77;](ii)[ any
goods entered for exportation under claim for drawback which do not correspond
in any material particular with any information furnished by the exporter or
manufacturer under this Act in relation to the fixation of rate of drawback
under section 75;] [ Inserted by Act 49 of 1991, Section 120 (w.r.e.f.
1.4.1991).](j)any goods on which import duty has not been paid and which are
entered for exportation under a claim for drawback under section 74;(k)any
goods cleared for exportation [* * *] [ The words " under a claim for
drawback" omitted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 116 (w.e.f. 14.5.2003).] which
are not loaded for exportation on account of any wilful act, negligence or
default of the exporter, his agent or employee, or which after having been
loaded for exportation are unloaded without the permission of the proper
officer;(l)[ any specified goods in relation to which any provisions of
Chapter IV-B or of any rule made under this Act for carrying out the purposes
of that Chapter have been contravened.] [ Inserted by Act 12 of 1969, Section
5 (w.e.f. 3.1.1969).]

### 114. Penalty for attempt to export goods improperly, etc.

\- Any person who, in relation to any goods, does or omits to do any act which
act or omission would render such goods liable to confiscation under section
113, or abets the doing or omission of such an act, shall be liable,-(i)in the
case of goods in respect of which any prohibition is in force under this Act
or any other law for the time being in force, to a penalty [not exceeding
three times the value of the goods as declared by the exporter or the value as
determined under this Act] [ Substituted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 117, for "
not exceeding the value of the goods or five thousand rupees" (w.e.f.
14.5.2003). Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 14 of 2001, Section
108 (w.e.f. 11.5.2001).], whichever is the greater;(ii)in the case of dutiable
goods, other than prohibited goods, to a penalty [not exceeding the duty
sought to be evaded or five thousand rupees] [ Substituted by Act 14 of 2001,
Section 107, for certain words (w.e.f. 11.5.2001).], whichever is the
greater;(iii)[ in the case of any other goods, to a penalty not exceeding the
value of the goods, as declared by the exporter or the value as determined
under this Act, whichever is the greater.] [ Substituted by Act 32 of 2003,
Section 117, for Clause (iii) (w.e.f. 14.5.2003).]

### 114A. [ Penalty for short-levy or non-levy of duty in certain cases. [
Inserted by Act 33 of 1996, Section 64 (w.e.f. 28.9.1996).]

\- Where the duty has not been levied or has been short-levied or the interest
has not been charged or paid or has been part paid or the duty or interest has
been erroneously refunded by reason of collusion or any wilful mis-statement
or suppression of facts, the person who is liable to pay the duty or interest,
as the case may be, as determined under sub-section (2) of section 28 shall
also be liable to pay a penalty equal to the duty or interest so
determined:][Provided that where such duty or interest, as the case may be, as
determined under sub-section (2) of section 28, and the interest payable
thereon under section 28-AB, is paid within thirty days from the date of the
communication of the order of the proper officer determining such duty, the
amount of penalty liable to be paid by such person under this section shall be
twenty-five per cent. of the duty or interest, as the case may be, so
determined:Provided further that the benefit of reduced penalty under the
first proviso shall be available subject to the condition that the amount of
penalty so determined has also been paid within the period of thirty days
referred to in that proviso:Provided also that where the duty or interest
determined to be payable is reduced or increased by the Commissioner
(Appeals), the Appellate Tribunal or, as the case may be, the Court, then, for
the purposes of this section, the duty or interest as reduced of increased, as
the case may be, shall be taken into account:Provided also that in a case
where the duty or interest determined to be payable is increased by the
Commissioner (Appeals), the Appellate Tribunal or, as the case may be, the
Court, then, the benefit of reduced penalty under the first proviso shall be
available if the amount of the duty or the interest so increased, alongwith
the interest payable thereon under section 28-AB, and twenty-five per cent. of
the consequential increase in penalty have also been paid within thirty days
of the communication of the order by which such increase in the duty or
interest takes effect:Provided also that where any penalty has been levied
under this section, no penalty shall be levied under section 112 or section
114.Explanation.-For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that-(i)the
provisions of this section shall also apply to cases in which the order
determining the duty or interest under sub-section (2) of section 28 relates
to notices issued prior to the date on which the Finance Act, 2000 receives
the assent of the President;(ii)any amount paid to the credit of the Central
Government prior to the date of communication of the order referred to in the
first proviso or the fourth proviso shall be adjusted against the total amount
due from such person.]

### 114AA. [ Penalty for use of false and incorrect material. [ Inserted by
Act 29 of 2006, Section 27 (w.e.f. 13.7.2006).]

\- If a person knowingly or intentionally makes, signs or uses, or causes to
be made, signed or used, any declaration, statement or document which is false
or incorrect in any material particular, in the transaction of any business
for the purposes of this Act, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding five
times the value of goods.] [ Substituted by Act 10 of 2000, Section 85, for
the first and second proviso (w.e.f. 12.5.2000).]

### 115. Confiscation of conveyances.

(1)The following conveyances shall be liable to confiscation:-(a)any vessel
which is or has been within the Indian customs waters, any aircraft which is
or has been in India, or any vehicle which is or has been in a customs area,
while constructed, adapted, altered or fitted in any manner for the purpose of
concealing goods;(b)any conveyance from which the whole or any part of the
goods is thrown overboard, staved or destroyed so as to prevent seizure by an
officer of customs;(c)any conveyance which having been required to stop or
land under section 106 fails to do so, except for good and sufficient
cause;(d)any conveyance from which any warehoused goods cleared for
exportation, or any other goods cleared for exportation under a claim for
drawback, are unloaded, without the permission of the proper officer;(e)any
conveyance carrying imported goods which has entered India and is afterwards
found with the whole or substantial portion of such goods missing, unless the
master of the vessel or aircraft is able to account for the loss of, or
deficiency in, the goods.(2)Any conveyance or animal used as a means of
transport in the smuggling of any goods or in the carriage of any smuggled
goods shall be liable to confiscation, unless the owner of the conveyance or
animal proves that it was so used without the knowledge or connivance of the
owner himself, his agent, if any, and the person in charge of the conveyance
or animal [* * *] [ Certain words omitted by Act 26 of 1988, Section 79
(w.e.f. 13.5.1988).]:Provided that where any such conveyance is used for the
carriage of goods or passengers for hire, the owner of any conveyance shall be
given an option to pay in lieu of the confiscation of the conveyance a fine
not exceeding the market-price of the goods which are sought to be smuggled or
the smuggled goods, as the case may be.Explanation.-In this section, "market-
price" means market-price at the date when the goods are seized.

### 116. Penalty for not accounting for goods.

\- If any goods loaded in a conveyance for importation into India, or any
goods transhipped under the provisions of this Act or coastal goods carried in
a conveyance, are not unloaded at their place of destination in India, or if
the quantity unloaded is short of the quantity to be unloaded at that
destination, and if the failure to unload or the deficiency is not accounted
for to the satisfaction of the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for "
Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these words
were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).], the
person-in-charge of the conveyance shall be liable,-(a)in the case of goods
loaded in a conveyance for importation into India or goods transhipped under
the provisions of this Act, to a penalty not exceeding twice the amount of
duty that would have been chargeable on the goods not unloaded or the
deficient goods, as the case may be, had such goods been imported;(b)in the
case of coastal goods, to a penalty not exceeding twice the amount of export
duty that would have been chargeable on the goods not unloaded or the
deficient goods, as the case may be, had such goods been exported.

### 117. Penalties for contravention, etc., not expressly mentioned.

\- Any person who contravenes any provision of this Act or abets any such
contravention or who fails to comply with any provision of this Act with which
it was his duty to comply, where no express penalty is elsewhere provided for
such contravention or failure, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding [one
lakh rupees] [ Substituted by Act 18 of 2008, Section 70, for " ten thousand
rupees" .].

### 118. Confiscation of packages and their contents.

(a)Where any goods imported in a package are liable to confiscation, the
package and any other goods imported in that package shall also be liable to
confiscation.(b)Where any goods are brought in a package within the limits of
a customs area for the purpose of exportation and are liable to confiscation,
the package and any other goods contained therein shall also be liable to
confiscation.

### 119. Confiscation of goods used for concealing smuggled goods.

\- Any goods used for concealing smuggled goods shall also be liable to
confiscation.Explanation.-In this section, "goods" does not include a
conveyance used as a means of transport.

### 120. Confiscation of smuggled goods notwithstanding any change in form,
etc.

(1)Smuggled goods may be confiscated notwithstanding any change in their
form.(2)Where smuggled goods are mixed with other goods in such manner that
the smuggled goods cannot be separated from such other goods, the whole of the
goods shall be liable to confiscation:Provided that where the owner of such
goods proves that he had no knowledge or reason to believe that they included
any smuggled goods, only such part of the goods the value of which is equal to
the value of the smuggled goods shall be liable to confiscation.

### 121. Confiscation of sale-proceeds of smuggled goods.

\- Where any smuggled goods are sold by a person having knowledge or reason to
believe that the goods are smuggled goods, the sale-proceeds thereof shall be
liable to confiscation.

### 122. Adjudication of confiscations and penalties.

\- In every case under this Chapter in which anything is liable to
confiscation or any person is liable to a penalty, such confiscation or
penalty may be adjudged, -(a)without limit, by a [Commissioner of Customs] [
Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 51, for " Collector of Customs" (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).] or a [Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of
1999, Section 100, for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f.
11.5.1999). Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section
50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).];(b)[ up to such limit, by such officers, as the Board
may, by notification, specify.] [Substituted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13
of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.](c)where the value of the goods liable to
confiscation does not exceed [ten thousand] [Substituted by Act 32 of 2003,
Section 118, for " two thousand five hundred" (w.e.f. 14.5.2003). ] rupees, by
a Gazetted Officer of Customs lower in rank than an [Assistant Commissioner of
Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs.] [Substituted by Act 27 of 1999,
Section 100, for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999).
Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f.
26.5.1995). ]

### 122A. [ Adjudication procedure. [ Inserted by Act 23 of 2004, Section 67
(w.e.f. 10.9.2004).]

(1)The adjudicating authority shall, in any proceeding under this Chapter or
any other provision of this Act, give an opportunity of being heard to a party
in a proceeding, if the party so desires.(2)The adjudicating authority may, if
sufficient cause is shown at any stage of proceeding referred to in sub-
section (1), grant time, from time to time, to the parties or any of them and
adjourn the hearing for reasons to be recorded in writing:Provided that no
such adjournment shall be granted more than three times to a party during the
proceeding.]

### 123. Burden of proof in certain cases.

\- [(1) Where any goods to which this section applies are seized under this
Act in the reasonable belief that they are smuggled goods, the burden of
proving that they are not smuggled goods shall be-(a)in a case where such
seizure is made from the possession of any person,-(i)on the person from whose
possession the goods were seized; and(ii)if any person, other than the person
from whose possession the goods were seized, claims to be the owner thereof,
also on such other person;(b)in any other case, on the person, if any, who
claims to be the owner of the goods so seized.](2)This section shall apply to
gold, [and manufactures thereof,] [ Substituted by Act 40 of 1989, Section 2,
for " diamonds, manufacturer of gold or diamonds" .] watches, and any other
class of goods which the Central Government may by notification in the
Official Gazette specify.

### 124. Issue of show cause notice before confiscation of goods, etc.

\- No order confiscating any goods or imposing any penalty on any person shall
be made under this Chapter unless the owner of the goods or such person-(a)is
given a notice in [writing with the prior approval of the officer of Customs
not below the rank of a Deputy Commissioner of Customs, informing] [
Substituted by Act 29 of 2006, Section 28, for " writing informing" (w.e.f.
13.7.2006).] him of the grounds on which it is proposed to confiscate the
goods or to impose a penalty;(b)is given an opportunity of making a
representation in writing within such reasonable time as may be specified in
the notice against the grounds of confiscation or imposition of penalty
mentioned therein; and(c)is given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in
the matter:Provided that the notice referred to in clause (a) and the
representation referred to in clause (b) may, at the request of the person
concerned, be oral.[Provided further that notwithstanding issue of notice
under this section, the proper officer may issue a supplementary notice under
such circumstances and in such manner as may be prescribed.] [Inserted by
Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.]

### 125. Option to pay fine in lieu of confiscation.

(1)Whenever confiscation of any goods is authorised by this Act, the officer
adjudging it may, in the case of any goods, the importation or exportation
whereof is prohibited under this Act or under any other law for the time being
in force, and shall, in the case of any other goods, give to the owner of the
goods [or, where such owner is not known, the person from whose possession or
custody such goods have been seized,] [ Inserted by Act 80 of 1985, Section 9
(w.e.f. 27.12.1985).] an option to pay in lieu of confiscation such fine as
the said officer thinks fit:[Provided that where the proceedings are deemed to
be concluded under the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 28 or under
clause (i) of sub-section (6) of that section in respect of the goods which
are not prohibited or restricted, the provisions of this section shall not
apply:Provided further that] [Substituted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of
2018), dated 29.3.2018.] without prejudice to the provisions of the proviso to
sub-section (2) of section 115, such fine shall not exceed the market price of
the goods confiscated, less in the case of imported goods the duty chargeable
thereon.(2)[ Where any fine in lieu of confiscation of goods is imposed under
sub-section (1), the owner of such goods or the person referred to in sub-
section (1), shall, in addition, be liable to any duty and charges, payable in
respect of such goods.] [ Substituted by Act 80 of 1985, Section 9, for sub-
Section (2) (w.e.f. 27.12.1985).](3)[ Where the fine imposed under sub-section
(1) is not paid within a period of one hundred and twenty days from the date
of option given thereunder, such option shall become void, unless an appeal
against such order is pending.Explanation. - For removal of doubts, it is
hereby declared that in cases where an order under sub-section (1) has been
passed before the date on which the Finance Bill, 2018 receives the assent of
the President and no appeal is pending against such order as on that date, the
option under said sub-section may be exercised within a period of one hundred
and twenty days from the date on which such assent is received.] [Inserted by
Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.]

### 126. On confiscation, property to vest in Central Government.

(1)When any goods are confiscated under this Act, such goods shall thereupon
vest in the Central Government.(2)The officer adjudging confiscation shall
take and hold possession of the confiscated goods.

### 127. Award of confiscation or penalty by customs officers not to interfere
with other punishments.

\- The award of any confiscation or penalty under this Act by an officer of
customs shall not prevent the infliction of any punishment to which the person
affected thereby is liable under the provisions of Chapter XVI of this Act or
under any other law.[CHAPTER XIV-A] [Inserted by Act 21 of 1998, Section 102
(w.e.f. 1-8-1998). ] Settlement Of Cases

### 127A. Definitions.

\- In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Bench" means a
Bench of the Settlement Commission;[ Substituted by Act 36 of 1973, Section 4,
for sub-Section (1) (w.e.f. 1.9.1973).]

Substituted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 100, for Clause (b) (w.e.f. 1.6.2007).
Prior to its substitution, Clause (b) read as under:-" (b) " case" means any
proceeding under this Act or any other Act for the levy, assessment and
collection of customs duty, or any proceeding by way of appeal or revision in
connection with such levy, assessment or collection, which may be pending
before a proper officer or the Central Government on the date on which an
application under sub-Section (1) of Section 127-B is made:Provided that where
any appeal or application for revision has been preferred after the expiry of
the period specified for the filing of such appeal or application for revision
under this Act and which has not been admitted, such appeal or revision shall
not be deemed to be a proceeding pending within the meaning of this clause;" .  
---  
  
(b)"case" means any proceeding under this Act or any other Act for the levy,
assessment and collection of customs duty, pending before an adjudicating
authority on the date on which an application under sub-section (1) of section
127-B is made:Provided that when any proceeding is referred back in any appeal
or revision, as the case may be, by any Court, Appellate Tribunal or any other
authority, to the adjudicating authority for a fresh adjudication or decision,
as the case may be, then such proceeding shall not be deemed to be a
proceeding pending within the meaning of this clause;(c)"Chairman" means the
Chairman of the Settlement Commission;(d)"Commissioner (Investigation)" means
an officer of the customs or a Central Excise Officer appointed as such
Commissioner to conduct inquiry or investigation for the purpose of this
Chapter;(e)"Member" means a Member of the Settlement Commission and includes
the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman;(f)"Settlement Commission" means the
Customs and Central Excise Settlement Commission constituted under section 32
of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944); and(g)"Vice-Chairman" means a
Vice-Chairman of the Settlement Commission.

Substituted by,Act 22 of 2007, Section 101, for sub-Section (1) (w.e.f.
1-6-2007). Prior to its substitution, sub-Section (1) read as under:-" (1) Any
importer, exporter or any other person (hereafter in this Chapter referred to
as the applicant) may, at any stage of a case relating to him, make an
application in such form and in such manner as may be specified by rules, and
containing a full and true disclosure of his duty liability which has not been
disclosed before the proper officer, the manner in which such liability has
been incurred, the additional amount of customs duty accepted to be payable by
him and such other particulars as may be specified by rules including the
particulars of such dutiable goods in respect of which he admits short levy on
account of mis-classification or otherwise of goods, to the Settlement
Commission to have the case settled and such application shall be disposed of
in the manner hereinafter provided:Provided that no such application shall be
made unless(a) the applicant has filed a bill of entry, or a shipping bill, in
respect of import or export of goods, as the case may be, and in relation to
such bill of entry or shipping bill a show cause notice has been issued to him
by the proper officer;(b) the additional amount of duty accepted by the
applicant in his application exceeds two lakh rupees:Provided further that no
application shall be entertained by the Settlement Commission under this sub-
Section in cases which are pending in the Appellate Tribunal or any
Court:Provided also that no application under this sub-Section shall be made
in relation to goods to which Section 123 applies or to goods in relation to
which any offence under theNarcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act,
1985 (61 of 1985) has been committed:Provided also that no application under
this sub-Section shall be made for the interpretation of the classification of
the goods under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of1975)." .  
---  
  
### 127B. Application for settlement of cases.

(1)Any importer, exporter or any other person (hereinafter referred to as the
applicant in this Chapter) may, in respect of a case, relating to him make an
application, before adjudication to the Settlement Commission to have the case
settled, in such form and in such manner as may be specified by rules, and
containing a full and true disclosure of his duty liability which has not been
disclosed before the proper officer, the manner in which such liability has
been incurred, the additional amount of customs duty accepted to be payable by
him and such other particulars as may be specified by rules including the
particulars of such dutiable goods in respect of which he admits short levy on
account of mis-classification, under-valuation or inapplicability of exemption
notification but excluding the goods not included in the entry made under this
Act and such application shall be disposed of in the manner hereinafter
provided:Provided that no such application shall be made unless, -(a)the
applicant has filed a bill of entry, or a shipping bill, in respect of import
or export of such goods, as the case may be, and in relation to such bill of
entry or shipping bill, a show cause notice has been issued to him by the
proper officer;(b)the additional amount of duty accepted by the applicant in
his application exceeds three lakh rupees; and(c)the applicant has paid the
additional amount of customs duty accepted by him along with interest due
under section 28-AB:Provided further that no application shall be entertained
by the Settlement Commission under this sub-section in cases which are pending
in the Appellate Tribunal or any Court:Provided also that no application under
this sub-section shall be made in relation to goods to which section 123
applies or to goods in relation to which any offence under the Narcotic Drugs
and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (61 of 1985) has been committed:Provided
also that no application under this sub-section shall be made for the
interpretation of the classification of the goods under the Customs Tariff
Act, 1975 (51 of 1975).(1-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(1), where an application was made under sub-section (1) before the 1st day of
June, 2007 but an order under sub section (1) of section 127-C has not been
made before the said date, the applicant shall within a period of thirty days
from the 1st day of June, 2007 pay the accepted duty liability failing which
his application shall be liable to be rejected.(2)Where any dutiable goods,
books of account, other documents or any sale proceeds of the goods have been
seized under section 110, the applicant shall not be entitled to make an
application under sub-section (1) before the expiry of one hundred any eighty
days from the date of the seizure.(3)Every application made under sub-section
(1) shall be accompanied by such fees as may be specified by rules.(4)An
application made under sub-section (1) shall not be allowed to be withdrawn by
the applicant.(5)[ Any person, other than an applicant referred to in sub-
section (1), may also make an application to the Settlement Commission in
respect of a show cause notice issued to him in a case relating to the
applicant which has been settled or is pending before the Settlement
Commission and such notice is pending before an adjudicating authority, in
such manner and subject to such conditions, as may be specified by rules.]
[Inserted by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated 31.3.2017.]

1\. Substituted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 102, for Section 127-C (w.e.f.
1-6-2007). Prior to its substitution, Section 127-C read as under:-" 127-C.
Procedure on receipt of application under Section 127-B.-(1) On receipt of an
application under Section 127-B, the Settlement Commission shall call for a
report from the Commissioner of Customs having jurisdiction and on the basis
of the materials contained in such report and having regard to the nature and
circumstances of the case or the complexity of the investigation involved
therein, the Settlement Commission may, by order, allow the application to be
proceeded with or reject the application:Provided that an application shall
not be rejected under this sub-section, unless an opportunity has been given
to the applicant of being heard:Provided further that the Commissioner of
Customs shall furnish such report within a period of one month of the receipt
of the communication from the Settlement Commission, failing which it shall be
presumed that the Commissioner of Customs has no objection to such
application; but he may raise objections as the time of hearing fixed by the
Settlement Commission for admission of the application and the date of such
hearing shall be communicated by the Settlement Commission to the applicant
and the Commissioner of Customs within a period not exceeding two months from
the date of receipt of such application, unless the presiding officer of the
Bench extends the said period of two months, after recording the reasons in
writing.(2) A copy of every order under sub-Section (1) shall be sent to the
applicant and to the Commissioner of Customs having jurisdiction.(3) Subject
to the provisions of sub-Section (4), the applicant shall, within thirty days
of the receipt of a copy of the order under sub-Section (1) allowing the
application to be proceeded with, pay the amount of additional duty admitted
by him as payable and shall furnish proof of such payment to the Settlement
Commission.(4) If the Settlement Commission is satisfied, on an application
made under sub-Section (1) that the applicant is unable for good and
sufficient reasons to pay the amount referred to in sub-Section (3), within
the time specified in that sub-section, it may extend the time for payment of
the amount which remains unpaid or allow payment thereof by instalments, if
the applicant furnishes adequate security for the payment thereof.(5) Where
the additional amount of customs duty referred to in sub-Section (3) is not
paid by the applicant within the time specified or extended period, as the
case may be, the Settlement Commission may direct that the amount which
remains unpaid, together with simple interest at the rate of eighteen per
cent. per annum or at the rate notified by the Board from time to time on the
amount remaining unpaid, be recovered as the sum due to the Central Government
by the proper officer having jurisdiction over the applicant in accordance
with the provisions of Section 142.(6) Where an application is allowed to be
proceeded with under sub-Section (1), the Settlement Commission may call for
the relevant records from the Commissioner of Customs having jurisdiction and
after examination of such records, if the Settlement Commission is of the
opinion that any further enquiry or investigation in the matter is necessary,
it may direct the Commissioner (Investigation) to make or cause to be made
such further enquiry or investigation and furnish a report on the matters
covered by the application and any other matter relating to the case.(7) After
examination of the records and the report of the Commissioner of Customs
received under sub-Section (1), and the report, if any, of the Commissioner
(Investigation) of the Settlement Commissioner under sub-Section (6), and
after giving an opportunity to the applicant and to the Commissioner of
Customs having jurisdiction to be heard, either in person or through a
representative duly authorised in this behalf, and after examining such
further evidence as may be placed before it or obtained by it, the Settlement
Commissionmay, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, pass such order
as it thinks fit on the matters covered by the application and any other
matter relating to the case not covered by the application, but referred to in
the report of the Commissioner of Customs or the Commissioner (Investigation)
under sub-Section (1) or sub-Section (6).(8) Subject to the provisions of
Section 32-A of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), the materials
brought on record before the Settlement Commission shall be considered by the
Members of the Bench concerned before passing any order under sub-Section (7)
and, in relation to the passing of such order, the provisions of Section 32-D
of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944) shall apply.(9) Every order passed
under sub-Section (7) shall provide for the terms of settlement including any
demand by way of duty, penalty or interest, the manner in which any sum due
finder the settlement shall be paid and all other matters to make the
settlement effective and shall also provide that the settlement shall be void
if it is subsequently found by the Settlement Commission that it has been
obtained by fraud, or misrepresentation of facts.(10) Where any duty payable
in pursuance of an order under sub-Section (7) is not paid by the applicant
within thirty days of the receipt of a copy of the order by him, then, whether
or not the Settlement Commission has extended the time for payment of such
duty or has allowed payment thereof by instalments, the applicant shall be
liable to pay simple interest at the rate of eighteen per cent. per annum or
at such other rate as notified by the Board on the amount remaining unpaid
from the date of expiry of the period of thirty days aforesaid.(11) Where a
settlement becomes void as provided under sub-Section (9), the proceedings
with respect to the matters covered by the settlement shall be deemed to have
been revived from the stage at which the application was allowed to be
proceeded with by the Settlement Commission and proper officer may,
notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act,
complete such proceedings at any time before the expiry of two years from the
date of the receipt of the communication that the settlement became void." .  
---  
  
### 127C. Procedure on receipt of an application under section 127-B.

(1)On receipt of an application under section 127-B, the Settlement Commission
shall, within seven days from the date of receipt of the application, issue a
notice to the applicant to explain in writing as to why the application made
by him should be allowed to be proceeded with and after taking into
consideration the explanation provided by the applicant, the Settlement
Commission, shall, within a period of fourteen days from the date of the
notice, by an order, allow the application to be proceeded with or reject the
application, as the case may be, and the proceedings before the Settlement
Commission shall abate on the date of rejection:Provided that where no notice
has been issued or no order has been passed within the aforesaid period by the
Settlement Commission, the application shall be deemed to have been allowed to
be proceeded with.(2)A copy of every order under sub-section (1) shall be sent
to the applicant and to the Commissioner of Customs having
jurisdiction.(3)Where an application is allowed or deemed to have been allowed
to be proceeded with under sub-section (1), the Settlement Commission shall,
within seven days from the date of order under sub-section (1), call for a
report along with the relevant records from the Commissioner of Customs having
jurisdiction and the Commissioner shall furnish the report within a period of
thirty days of the receipt of communication from the Settlement
Commission:Provided that where the Commissioner does not furnish the report
within the aforesaid period of thirty days, the Settlement Commission shall
proceed further in the matter without the report of the Commissioner.(4)Where
a report of the Commissioner called for under sub-section (3) has been
furnished within the period specified in that sub-section, the Settlement
Commission may, after examination of such report, if it is of the opinion that
any further enquiry or investigation in the matter is necessary, direct, for
reasons to be recorded in writing, the Commissioner (Investigation) within
fifteen days of the receipt of the report, to make or cause to be made such
further enquiry or investigation and furnish a report within a period of
ninety days of the receipt of the communication from the Settlement
Commission, on the matters covered by the application and any other matter
relating to the case:Provided that where the Commissioner (Investigation) does
not furnish the report within the aforesaid period, the Settlement Commission
shall proceed to pass an order under sub-section (5) without such
report.(5)After examination of the records and the report of the Commissioner
of Customs received under sub-section (3), and the report, if any, of the
Commissioner (Investigation) of the Settlement Commission under sub-section
(4), and after giving an opportunity to the applicant and to the Commissioner
of Customs having jurisdiction to be heard, either in person or through a
representative duly authorised in this behalf, and after examining such
further evidence as may be placed before it or obtained by it, the Settlement
Commission may, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, pass such order
as it thinks fit on the matters covered by the application and any other
matter relating to the case not covered by the application, but referred to in
the report of the Commissioner of Customs and Commissioner (Investigation)
under sub-section (3) or sub-section (4).(5A)[ The Settlement Commission may,
at any time within three months from the date of passing of the order under
sub-section (5), amend such order to rectify any error apparent on the face of
record, either suo motu or when such error is brought to its notice by the
jurisdictional Principal Commissioner of Customs or Commissioner of Customs or
the applicant:Provided that no amendment which has the effect of enhancing the
liability of the applicant shall be made under this sub-section, unless the
Settlement Commission has given notice of such intention to the applicant and
the jurisdictional Principal Commissioner of Customs or Commissioner of
Customs as the case may be, and has given them a reasonable opportunity of
being heard.] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated
31.3.2017.](6)An order under sub-section (5) shall not be passed in respect of
an application filed on or before the 31st day of May, 2007, later than the
29th February, 2008 and in respect of an application made on or after the 1st
day of June, 2007, after nine months from the last day of the month in which
the application was made, failing which the settlement proceedings shall
abate, and the adjudicating authority before whom the proceeding at the time
of making the application was pending, shall dispose of the case in accordance
with the provisions of this Act as if no application under section 127-B had
been made.(7)Subject to the provisions of section 32-A of the Central Excise
Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), the materials brought on record before the Settlement
Commission shall be considered by the Members of the concerned Bench before
passing any order under sub-section (5) and, in relation to the passing of
such order, the provisions of section 32-D of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1
of 1944) shall apply.(8)The order passed under sub-section (5) shall provide
for the terms of settlement including any demand by way of duty, penalty or
interest, the manner in which any sums due under the settlement shall be paid
and all other matters to make the settlement effective and in case of
rejection contain the reasons therefor and it shall also provide that the
settlement shall be void if it is subsequently found by the Settlement
Commission that it has been obtained by fraud, or misrepresentation of
facts:Provided that the amount of settlement ordered by the Settlement
Commission, shall not be less than the duty liability admitted by the
applicant under section 127-B.(9)Where any duty, interest, fine and penalty
payable in pursuance of an order under sub-section (5) is not paid by the
applicant within thirty days of receipt of a copy of the order by him, the
amount which remains unpaid, shall be recovered along with interest due
thereon, as the sums due to the Central Government by the proper officer
having jurisdiction over the applicant in accordance with the provisions of
section 142.(10)Where a settlement becomes void as provided under sub-section
(8), the proceedings with respect to the matters covered by the settlement
shall be deemed to have been revived from the stage at which the application
was allowed to be proceeded with by the Settlement Commission and the proper
officer having jurisdiction may, notwithstanding anything contained in any
other provision of this Act, complete such proceedings at any time before the
expiry of two years from the date of the receipt of communication that the
settlement became void.

### 127D. Power of Settlement Commission to order provisional attachment to
protect revenue.

(1)Where, during the pendency of any proceeding before it, the Settlement
Commission is of the opinion that for the purpose of protecting the interests
of the revenue it is necessary so to do, it may, by order, attach
provisionally any property belonging to the applicant in such manner as may be
specified by rules.(2)Every provisional attachment made by the Settlement
Commission under sub-section (1) shall cease to have effect from the date the
sums due to the Central Government for which such attachment is made are
discharged by the applicant and evidence to that effect is submitted to the
Settlement Commission.

### 127E. Power of Settlement Commission to reopen completed proceedings.

\- If the Settlement Commission is of the opinion (the reasons for such
opinion to be recorded by it in writing) that, for the proper disposal of the
case pending before it, it is necessary or expedient to reopen any proceeding
connected with the case but which has been completed under this Act before
application for settlement under section 127-B was made, it may, with the
concurrence of the applicant, reopen such proceeding and pass such order
thereon as it thinks fit, as if the case in relation to which the application
for settlement had been made by the applicant under that section covered such
proceeding also:[Provided that no proceeding shall be reopened by the
Settlement Commission under this section after the expiry of five years from
the date of application under sub-section (1) of section 127-B:Provided
further that no proceeding shall be reopened by the Settlement Commission
under this section in a case where an application under section 127-B is made
on or after the 1st day of June, 2007.] [ Inserted by Act 22 of 2007, Section
103 (w.e.f. 1.6.2007).]

### 127F. Power and procedure of Settlement Commission.

(1)In addition to the powers conferred on the Settlement Commission under
Chapter V of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), it shall have all the
powers which are vested in an officer of the customs under this Act or the
rules made thereunder.(2)Where an application made under section 127-B has
been allowed to be proceeded with under section 127-C, the Settlement
Commission shall, until an order is passed under sub-section [(5)] [
Substituted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 104, for " (7)" and " (6)" ,
respectively (w.e.f. 1.6.2007).] of section 127-C, have, subject to the
provisions of sub-section [(4)] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 104,
for " (7)" and " (6)" , respectively (w.e.f. 1.6.2007).] of that section,
exclusive jurisdiction to exercise the powers and perform the functions of any
officer of customs or Central Excise Officer, as the case may be, under this
Act or in the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), as the case may be, in
relation to the case.(3)In the absence of any express direction by the
Settlement Commission to the contrary, nothing in this Chapter shall affect
the operation of the provisions of this Act insofar as they relate to any
matter other than those before the Settlement Commission.(4)The Settlement
Commission shall, subject to the provisions of Chapter V of the Central Excise
Act, 1944 (1 of 1944) and this Chapter, have power to regulate its own
procedure and the procedure of Benches thereof in all matters arising out of
the exercise of its powers, or of the discharge of its functions, including
the places at which the Benches shall hold their sittings.

### 127G. Inspection, etc., of reports.

\- No person shall be entitled to inspect, or obtain copies of, any report
made by any officer of the Customs to the Settlement Commission; but the
Settlement Commission may, in its discretion, furnish copies thereof to any
such person on an application made to it in this behalf and on payment of such
fee as may be specified by rules:Provided that, for the purpose of enabling
any person whose case is under consideration to rebut any evidence brought on
record against him in any such report, the Settlement Commission shall, on an
application made in this behalf, and on payment by such person of such fee as
may be specified by rules, furnish him with a certified copy of any such
report or part thereof relevant for the purpose.

### 127H. Power of Settlement Commission to grant immunity from prosecution
and penalty.

(1)The Settlement Commission may, if it is satisfied that any person who made
the application for settlement under section 127-B has co-operated with the
Settlement Commission in the proceedings before it and has made a full and
true disclosure of his duty liability, grant to such person, subject to such
conditions as it may think fit to impose, immunity from prosecution for any
offence under this Act [and also either wholly or in part from the imposition
of any penalty and fine] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 105, for "
or under the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or under any other Central Act for
the time being in force and also either wholly or in part from the imposition
of any penalty, fine and interest" (w.e.f. 1.6.2007).] under this Act, with
respect to the case covered by the settlement:Provided that no such immunity
shall be granted by the Settlement Commission in cases where the proceedings
for the prosecution for any such offence have been instituted before the date
of receipt of the application under section 127-B.[Explanation.-For the
removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the application filed before the
Settlement Commission on or before the 31st day of May, 2007 shall be disposed
of as if the amendment in this section had not come into force.] [ Inserted by
Act 22 of 2007, Section 105 (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).](2)An immunity granted to a
person under sub-section (1) shall stand withdrawn if such person fails to pay
any sum specified in the order of the settlement passed under [sub-section (5)
of section 127-C within the time specified in such order] [ Substituted by Act
22 of 2007, Section 105, for " sub-Section (7) of Section 127-C within the
time specified in such order or within such further time as may be allowed by
the Settlement Commission" (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).], or fails to comply with any
other condition subject to which the immunity was granted and thereupon the
provisions of this Act shall apply as if such immunity had not been
granted.(3)An immunity granted to a person under sub-section (1) may, at any
time, be withdrawn by the Settlement Commission, if it is satisfied that such
person had, in the course of the settlement proceedings, concealed any
particulars, material to the settlement or had given false evidence, and
thereupon such person may be tried for the offence with respect to which the
immunity was granted or for any other offence of which he appears to have been
guilty in connection with the settlement and shall also become liable to the
imposition of any penalty under this Act to which such person would have been
liable, had no such immunity been granted.

### 127I. Power of Settlement Commission to send a case back to the proper
officer.

(1)The Settlement Commission may, if it is of opinion that any person who made
an application for settlement under section 127-B has not co-operated with the
Settlement Commission in the proceedings before it, send the case back to the
proper officer who shall thereupon dispose of the case in accordance with the
provisions of this Act as if no application under section 127-B had been
made.(2)For the purpose of sub-section (1), the proper officer shall be
entitled to use all the materials and other information produced by the
assessee before the Settlement Commission or the results of the inquiry held
or evidence recorded by the Settlement Commission in the course of the
proceedings before it as if such materials, information, inquiry and evidence
had been produced before such proper officer or held or recorded by him in the
course of the proceedings before him.(3)For the purposes of the time limit
under section 28 and for the purposes of interest under section 28-AA, in a
case referred to in sub-section (1), the period commencing on and from the
date of the application to the Settlement Commission under section 127-B and
ending with the date of receipt by the officer of customs of the order of the
Settlement Commission sending the case back to the officer of customs shall be
excluded.

### 127J. Order of settlement to be conclusive.

\- Every order of settlement passed under sub-section [(5)] [ Substituted by
Act 22 of 2007, Section 106, for " (7)" (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).] of section 127-C
shall be conclusive as to the matters stated therein and no matter covered by
such order shall, save as otherwise provided in this Chapter, be reopened in
any proceeding under this Act or under any other law for the time being in
force.

### 127K. Recovery of sums due under order of settlement.

\- Any sum specified in an order of settlement passed under sub-section [(5)]
[ Substituted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 107, for " (7)" (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).]
of section 127-C may, subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified
therein, be recovered and any penalty for default in making payment of such
sum may be imposed and recovered as sums due to the Central Government in
accordance with the provisions of section 142, by the proper officer having
jurisdiction over the applicant.

### 127L. Bar on subsequent application for settlement in certain cases.

\- [(1)] [ Section 127-L renumbered as sub-Section (1) thereof by Act 22 of
2007, Section 108 (w.e.f. 1-6-2007). ] [Where before the 1st day of June,
2007] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 108, for " Where" (w.e.f.
1-6-2007).]-(i)an order of settlement passed under sub-section (7) of section
127-C provides for the imposition of a penalty on the applicant under section
127-B for settlement, on the ground of concealment of particulars of his duty
liability; or(ii)after the passing of an order of settlement under said sub-
section (7) in relation to a case, such person is convicted of any offence
under this Act in relation to that case; or(iii)the case of such person is
sent back to the proper officer by the Settlement Commission under section
127-I, then such person shall not be entitled to apply for settlement under
section 127-B in relation to any other matter.(2)[ Where an applicant has made
an application under sub-section (1) of section 127-B, on or after the 1st day
of June, 2007 and if such application has been allowed to be proceeded with
under sub-section (1) of section 127-C, such applicant shall not be entitled
to apply for settlement under section 127-B in relation to any other
matter:Provided that such applicant shall not be prevented from filing an
application for settlement if the issue in the subsequent application is, but
for the period of dispute and amount, identical to the issue in respect of
which the earlier application is pending before the Settlement Commission.] [
Inserted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 108 (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).]

Prior to its omission, Section 127-MA read as under:-" 127-MA. Certain persons
who have filed appeals to the Appellate Tribunal entitled to make applications
to the Settlement Commission.-(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this
Chapter, any person who has filed an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal under
this Act, on or before the 29th day of February, 2000 and which is pending,
shall, on withdrawal of such appeal from the Appellate Tribunal, be entitled
to make an application to the Settlement Commission to have his case settled
under this Chapter:Provided that no such person shall be entitled to make an
application under this section in a case where the Commissioner of Customs or
any officer on his behalf has, on or before the date on which the Finance Act,
2000 receives the assent of the President, applied to the Appellate Tribunal
for the determination of such points arising out of the decision or order
specified by the Board in its order under sub-Section (1) of Section 129-D or
filed an appeal under sub-Section (2) of Section 129-A, as the case may be.(2)
Any person referred to in sub-Section (1) may make an application to the
Appellate Tribunal for permission to withdraw the appeal.(3) On receipt of an
application under sub-Section (2), the Appellate Tribunal shall grant
permission to withdraw the appeal.(4) Upon withdrawal of the appeal, the
proceedings in appeal immediately before such withdrawal shall, for the
purposes of this Chapter, be deemed to be a proceeding pending before a proper
officer.(5) An application to the Settlement Commission under this Section
shall be made within a period of thirty days from the date on which the order
of the Appellate Tribunal permitting the withdrawal of the appeal is
communicated to the person.(6) An Application made to the Settlement
Commission under this Section shall be deemed to be an application made under
sub-Section (1) of Section 127-B and the provisions of this Chapter, except
sub-Section (11) of Section 127-C and sub-Section (1) of Section 127-I, shall
apply accordingly.(7) Where an application made to the Settlement Commission
under this Section is not entertained by the Settlement Commission, then, the
appeal shall be deemed to have been revived before the Appellate Tribunal and
the provisions contained in Section 129-A, Section 129-B and Section 129-C
shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly.(8) The Settlement Commission may,
if it is of opinion that any person who made an application under sub-Section
(5) has not co-operated with the proceedings before it, send the case back to
the Appellate Tribunal and the provisions containing in Section 129-A, Section
129-B and Section 129-C shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly." .  
---  
  
### 127M. Proceedings before Settlement Commission to be judicial proceedings.

\- Any proceedings under this Chapter before the Settlement Commission shall
be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and
228, and for the purposes of section 196, of the Indian Penal Code (45 of
1860).

### 127MA. Certain persons who have filed appeals to the Appellate Tribunal
entitled to make applications to the Settlement Commission.

\- [Omitted by the Finance Act, 2007 (22 of 2007), section 109 (w.e.f.
1-6-2007).]

### 127N. Applications of certain provisions of Central Excise Act.

\- The provisions of Chapter V of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944),
insofar as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter shall
apply in relation to proceedings before the Settlement Commission under this
Chapter.[CHAPTER XV] [ Substituted by Act 44 of 1980, Section 50 and Schedule
V (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).] Appeals And Revision

### 128. Appeals to [Commissioner (Appeals)] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995,
Section 50, for " Collector (Appeals)" and " Collector of Custom" ,
respectively (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).]

.-(1) Any person aggrieved by any decision or order passed under this Act by
an officer of customs lower in rank than a [Commissioner (Appeals)] [
Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector (Appeals)" and "
Collector of Custom" , respectively (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).] may appeal to the
[Commissioner (Appeals)] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for "
Collector (Appeals)" and " Collector of Custom" , respectively (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).] [within sixty days] [ Substituted by Act 14 of 2001, Section 109,
for " within three months" (w.e.f. 11-5-2001). ] from the date of the
communication to him of such decision or order:[Provided that the Commissioner
(Appeals) may, if he is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by
sufficient cause from presenting the appeal within the aforesaid period of
sixty days, allow it to be presented within a further period of thirty days.]
[ Substituted by Act 14 of 2001, Section 109, for the proviso (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).][(1-A) The Commissioner (Appeals) may, if sufficient cause is
shown at any stage of hearing of an appeal, grant time, from time to time, to
the parties or any of them and adjourn the hearing of the appeal for reasons
to be recorded in writing:Provided that no such adjournment shall be granted
more than three times to a party during hearing of the appeal.] [ Inserted by
Act 23 of 2004, Section 68 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).](2)Every appeal under this
section, shall be in such form and shall be verified in such manner as may be
specified by rules made in this behalf.

### 128A. Procedure in appeal.

(1)The [Commissioner (Appeals)] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50,
for " Collector (Appeals)" (w.e.f. 26-5-1995). ] shall give an opportunity to
the appellant to be heard if he so desires.(2)The [Commissioner (Appeals)] [
Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector (Appeals)" (w.e.f.
26-5-1995). ] may, at the hearing of an appeal, allow the appellant to go into
any ground of appeal not specified in the grounds of appeal, if the
[Commissioner (Appeals)] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for "
Collector (Appeals)" (w.e.f. 26-5-1995). ] is satisfied that the omission of
that ground from the grounds of appeal was not wilful or unreasonable.(3)[The
shall, after making such further inquiry as may be necessary, pass such order,
as he thinks [just and proper -] [ Substituted by Act 14 of 2001, Section 110,
for certain words (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).](a)confirming, modifying or annulling
the decision or order appealed against; or(b)referring the matter back to the
adjudicating authority with directions for fresh adjudication or decision, as
the case may be, in the following cases, namely: -(i)where an order or
decision has been passed without following the principles of natural justice;
or(ii)where no order or decision has been passed after re-assessment under
section 17; or(iii)where an order of refund under section 27 has been issued
by crediting the amount to Fund without recording any finding on the evidence
produced by the applicant.]Provided that an order enhancing any penalty or
fine in lieu of confiscation or confiscating goods of greater value or
reducing the amount of refund shall not be passed unless the appellant has
been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the proposed
order:Provided further that where the [Commissioner (Appeals)] [ Substituted
by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector (Appeals)" (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
] is of opinion that any duty has not been levied or has been short-levied or
erroneously refunded, no order requiring the appellant to pay any duty not
levied, short-levied or erroneously refunded shall be passed unless the
appellant is given notice within the time-limit specified in section 28 to
show cause against the proposed order.(4)The order of the [Commissioner
(Appeals)] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector
(Appeals)" (w.e.f. 26-5-1995). ] disposing of the appeal shall be in writing
and shall state the points for determination, the decision thereon and the
reasons for the decision.[(4-A) The [Commissioner (Appeals)] [Inserted by Act
14 of 2001, Section 110 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001). ][shall, where it is possible to
do so, hear and decide every appeal within a period of six months from the
date on which it is filed.] [Inserted by Act 14 of 2001, Section 110 (w.e.f.
11-5-2001). ](5)On the disposal of the appeal, the [Commissioner (Appeals)] [
Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector (Appeals)" (w.e.f.
26-5-1995). ] shall communicate the order passed by him to the appellant, the
adjudicating authority [, the Chief Commissioner of Customs and the
Commissioner of Customs.] [ Substituted by Act 18 of 2005, Section 69, for "
and the Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).]

### 129. Appellate Tribunal.

(1)The Central Government shall constitute an Appellate Tribunal to be called
the "Customs, Excise and [Service Tax"] [ Substituted by Act 32 of 2003,
Section 119, for " Gold (Control)" (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).] Appellate Tribunal
consisting of as many judicial and technical members as it thinks fit to
exercise the powers and discharge the functions conferred on the Appellate
Tribunal by this Act.(2)[ A judicial member shall be a person who has for at
least ten years held a judicial office in the territory of India or who has
been a member of the [Indian Legal Service] [Substituted by Act 21 of 1984,
Section 39, for sub-Section (2) (w.e.f. 11-5-1984). ][and has held a post in
Grade I of that service or any equivalent or higher post for at least three
years, or who has been an advocate for at least ten years.Explanations.-For
the purposes of this sub-section,-(i)in computing the period during which a
person has held judicial office in the territory of India, there shall be
included any period, after he has held any judicial office, during which the
person has been an advocate or has held the office of a member of a tribunal
or any post, under the Union or a State, requiring special knowledge of
law;(ii)in computing the period during which a person has been an advocate,
there shall be included any period during which the person has held a judicial
office, or the office of a member of a tribunal or any post, under the Union
or a State, requiring special knowledge of law after he became an
advocate.(2-A) A technical member shall be a person who has been a member of
the Indian Customs and Central Excise Service, Group A, and has held the post
of [Commissioner of Customs] [Substituted by Act 21 of 1984, Section 39, for
sub-Section (2) (w.e.f. 11-5-1984). ][or Central Excise or any equivalent or
higher post for at least three years.] [Substituted by Act 21 of 1984, Section
39, for sub-Section (2) (w.e.f. 11-5-1984). ](3)[ The Central Government shall
appoint-(a)a person who is or has been a Judge of a High Court; or(b)one of
the members of the Appellate Tribunal, to be the President thereof.](4)The
Central Government may appoint one or more members of the Appellate Tribunal
to be the Vice-President, or, as the case may be, Vice-Presidents, thereof.[
Substituted by Act 33 of 1996, Section 65, for sub-Section (3) (w.e.f.
28-9-1996).]

Sub-Section (4-A) omitted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 119 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
Prior to its omission, sub-Section (4-A) read as under:-" *(4-A) The Central
Government may appoint one of the Vice-Presidents of the Appellate Tribunal to
be the Senior Vice-President thereof." -  
---  
  
[* * *](5)[A Vice-President shall exercise such of the powers and perform such
of the functions of the President as may be delegated to him by the President
by a general or special order in writing.] [Substituted by Act 32 of 2003,
Section 119, for " The Senior Vice-President or a Vice-President" (w.e.f.
14-5-2003).](6)[ On ceasing to hold office, the President, Vice-President or
other Member shall not be entitled to appear, act or plead before the
Appellate Tribunal.] [ Inserted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 110 (w.e.f.
11-5-2007).]

Additional Information6  
---  
  
On and from the appointed day, the following amendments (of consequential
nature) shall be made in Section 129-A(i) for sub-Section (2) of Section
129-A, the following sub-Section shall be substituted namely:" (2) The
Collector of Customs may, if he is of opinion that an order passed by-(a) the
Appellate Collector of Customs under Section 128, as it stood immediately
before the appointed day, or(b) the Collector (Appeals) under Section 128-A,is
not legal or proper, direct the proper officer to appeal on his behalf to the
Appellate Tribunal or, as the case may be, the Customs and Excise Revenues
Appellate Tribunal established under Section 3 of the Customs and Excise
Revenues Appellate Tribunal Act, 1986 (62 of 1986), against such order;" -See
Section 34 of the Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate Tribunal Act, 1986 (62
of 1986).  
---  
  
### 129A. Appeals to the Appellate Tribunal.

(1)Any person aggrieved by any of the following orders may appeal to the
Appellate Tribunal against such order-(a)a decision or order passed by the
[Commissioner of Customs] [[ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for "
Collector of Customs" and " Collector(Appeals)" , respectively (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).]] as an adjudicating authority;(b)an order passed by the
[Commissioner (Appeals)] [[ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for "
Collector of Customs" and " Collector(Appeals)" , respectively (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).]] under section 128-A;(c)an order passed by the Board or the
Appellate [Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section
50, for " Collector of Customs" and " Collector (Appeals)" , respectively
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995).] under section 128, as it stood immediately before the
appointed day;(d)an order passed by the Board or the Commissioner of Customs,
either before or after the appointed day, under section 130, as it stood
immediately before that day:[Provided that no appeal shall lie to the
Appellate Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal shall not have jurisdiction to
decide any appeal in respect of any order referred to in clause (b) if such
order relates to,-(a)any goods imported or exported as baggage;(b)any goods
loaded in a conveyance for importation into India, but which are not unloaded
at their place of destination in India, or so much of the quantity of such
goods as has not been unloaded at any such destination if goods unloaded at
such destination are short of the quantity required to be unloaded at that
destination;(c)payment of drawback as provided in Chapter X, and the rules
made thereunder:][Provided further that the Appellate Tribunal may, in its
discretion, refuse to admit an appeal in respect of an order referred to in
clause (b) or clause (c) or clause (d) where-(i)the value of the goods
confiscated without option having been given to the owner of the goods to pay
a fine in lieu of confiscation under section 125; or(ii)in any disputed case,
other than a case where the determination of any question having a relation to
the rate of duty of customs or to the value of goods for purposes of
assessment is in issue or is one of the points in issue, the difference in
duty involved or the duty involved; or(iii)the amount of fine or penalty
determined by such order, does not exceed fifty thousand rupees.][(1-A) Every
appeal against any order of the nature referred to in the first proviso to
sub-section (1), which is pending immediately before the commencement of
section 40 of the Finance Act, 1984, before the Appellate Tribunal and any
matter arising out of or connected with such appeal and which is so pending
shall stand transferred on such commencement to the Central Government and the
Central Government shall deal with such appeal or matter under section 129-DD
as if such appeal or matter were an application or a matter arising out of an
application made to it under that section.] [ Inserted by Act 21 of 1984,
Section 40 (w.e.f. 11-5-1984). ][(1-B) (i) The Board may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, constitute such Committees as may be necessary for the
purposes of this Act.(ii)Every Committee constituted under clause (i) shall
consist of two Chief Commissioners of Customs or two Commissioners of Customs,
as the case may be.](2)[The Committee of Commissioners of Customs may, if it
is] [ Substituted by Act 18 of 2005, Section 70, for " The Commissioner of
Customs may, if he is" (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).] of opinion that an order passed by
the Appellate [Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995,
Section 50, for " Collector of Customs" and " Collector (Appeals)" ,
respectively (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).] under section 128, as it stood immediately
before the appointed day, or by the [Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by
Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector of Customs" and " Collector
(Appeals)" , respectively (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).] under section 128-A, is not
legal or proper, direct the proper officer to appeal [on its behalf] [
Substituted by Act 18 of 2005, Section 70, for " on his behalf" (w.e.f.
13-5-2005). ] to the Appellate Tribunal against such order:[Provided that
where the Committee of Commissioners of Customs differs in its opinion
regarding the appeal against the order of the Commissioner (Appeals), it shall
state the point or points on which it differs and make a reference to the
jurisdictional Chief Commissioner of Customs who shall, after considering the
facts of the order, if is of the opinion that the order passed by the
Commissioner (Appeals) is not legal or proper, direct the proper officer to
appeal to the Appellate Tribunal against such order.Explanation.-For the
purposes of this sub-section, "jurisdictional Chief Commissioner" means the
Chief Commissioner of Customs having jurisdiction over the adjudicating
authority in the matter.] [ Inserted by Act 18 of 2008, Section 71.](3)Every
appeal under this section shall be filed within three months from the date on
which the order sought to be appealed against is communicated to the
[Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for "
Collector or Customs " and " Collector (Appeals)" , respectively (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).], or as the case may be, the other party preferring the
appeal.(4)On receipt of notice that an appeal has been preferred under this
section, the party against whom the appeal has been preferred may,
notwithstanding that he may not have appealed against such order or any part
thereof, file, within forty-five days of the receipt of the notice, a
memorandum of cross-objections verified in such manner as may be specified by
rules made in this behalf against any part of the order appealed against and
such memorandum shall be disposed of by the Appellate Tribunal as if it were
an appeal presented within the time specified in sub-section (3).(5)The
Appellate Tribunal may admit an appeal or permit the filing of a memorandum of
cross-objections after the expiry of the relevant period referred to in sub-
section (3) or sub-section (4), if it is satisfied that there was sufficient
cause for not presenting it within that period.[ Inserted by Act 18 of 2005,
Section 70 (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).]

Substituted by Act 23 of 2004, Section 69, for sub-Section (6) (w.e.f.
1-11-2004). Prior to its substitution, sub-Section (6) read as under:-" (6) An
appeal to the Appellate Tribunal shall be in such form and shall be verified
in such manner as may be specified by rules made in this behalf and shall, in
the case of an appeal made on or after the 1st day of June, 1993, irrespective
of the date of demand of duty and interest or of levy of penalty in relation
to which the appeal is made, be accompanied by a fee of,(a) where the amount
of duty and interest demanded and penalty levied by any officer of customs in
the case to which the appeal relates is one lakh rupees or less, two hundred
rupees;(b) where the amount of duty and interest demanded and penalty levied
by any officer of customs in the case to which the appeal relates is more than
one lakh rupees, one thousand rupees:Provided that no such fee shall be
payable in the case of an appeal referred to in sub-Section (2) or a
memorandum of cross-objections referred to in sub-Section (4)."  
---  
  
(6)An appeal to the Appellate Tribunal shall be in such form and shall be
verified in such manner as may be specified by rules made in this behalf and
shall, irrespective of the date of demand of duty and interest or of levy of
penalty in relation to which the appeal is made, be accompanied by a fee
of,-(a)where the amount of duty and interest demanded and penalty levied by
any officer of customs in the case to which the appeal relates is five lakh
rupees or less, one thousand rupees;(b)where the amount of duty and interest
demanded and penalty levied by any officer of customs in the case to which the
appeal relates is more than five lakh rupees, but not exceeding fifty lakh
rupees, five thousand rupees;(c)where the amount of duty and interest demanded
and penalty levied by any officer of customs in the case to which the appeal
relates is more than fifty lakh rupees, ten thousand rupees:Provided that no
such fee shall be payable in the case of an appeal referred to in sub-section
(2) or a memorandum of cross-objections referred to in sub-section
(4).(7)Every application made before the Appellate Tribunal-(a)in an appeal
for grant of stay or for rectification of mistake or for any other purpose;
or(b)for restoration of an appeal or an application, shall be accompanied by a
fee of five hundred rupees:Provided that no such fee shall be payable in the
case of an application filed by or on behalf of the Commissioner of Customs
under this sub-section.

### 129B. Orders of Appellate Tribunal.

(1)The Appellate Tribunal may, after giving the parties to the appeal, an
opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit,
confirming, modifying or annulling the decision or order appealed against or
may refer the case back to the authority which passed such decision or order
with such directions as the Appellate Tribunal may think fit, for a fresh
adjudication or decision, as the case may be, after taking additional
evidence, if necessary.[(1-A) The Appellate Tribunal may, if sufficient cause
is shown, at any stage of hearing of an appeal, grant time to the parties or
any of them and adjourn the hearing of the appeal for reasons to be recorded
in writing:Provided that no such adjournment shall be granted more than three
times to a party during hearing of the appeal.] [ Inserted by Act 23 of 2004,
Section 70 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).](2)The Appellate Tribunal may, at any time
within [six months] [ Substituted by Act 20 of 2002, Section 127, for " four
years" (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).] from the date of the order, with a view to
rectifying any mistake apparent from the record, amend any order passed by it
under sub-section (1) and shall make such amendments if the mistake is brought
to its notice by the [Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of
1995, Section 50, for " Collector of Customs" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] or the
other party to the appeal:Provided that an amendment which has the effect of
enhancing the assessment or reducing a refund or otherwise increasing the
liability of the other party shall not be made under this sub-section, unless
the Appellate Tribunal has given notice to him of its intention to do so and
has allowed him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.([2-A) The Appellate
Tribunal shall, where it is possible to do so, hear and decide every appeal
within a period of three years from the date on which such appeal is
filed:Provided that where an order of stay is made in any proceeding relating
to an appeal filed under sub-section (1) of section 129-A, the Appellate
Tribunal shall dispose of the appeal within a period of one hundred and eighty
days from the date of such order:Provided further that if such appeal is not
disposed of within the period specified in the first proviso, the stay order
shall, on the expiry of that period, stand vacated.] [ Inserted by Act 20 of
2002, Section 127 (w.e.f. 11.5.2002).](3)The Appellate Tribunal shall send a
copy of every order passed under this section to the [Commissioner of Customs]
[ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector of Customs"
(w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] and the other party to the appeal.(4)Save as otherwise
provided in section 130 or section 130-E, orders passed by the Appellate
Tribunal on appeal shall be final.

### 129C. Procedure of Appellate Tribunal.

(1)The powers and functions of the Appellate Tribunal may be exercised and
discharged by Benches constituted by the President from amongst the members
thereof.(2)Subject to the provisions contained in [sub-section (4)] [
Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 65, for " sub-Section (3) and (4)"
(w.e.f. 26.5.1995).], a Bench shall consist of one judicial member and one
technical member.[* * *] [ Sub-Section (3) omitted by Act 22 of 1995, Section
65 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).](4)The President or any other member of the Appellate
Tribunal authorised in this behalf by the President may, sitting singly,
dispose of any case which has been allotted to the Bench of which he is a
member where-(a)the value of the goods confiscated without option having been
given to the owner of the goods to pay a fine in lieu of confiscation under
section 125; or(b)in any disputed case, other than a case where the
determination of any question having a relation to the rate of duty of customs
or to the value of goods for purposes of assessment is in issue or is one of
the points in issue, the difference in duty involved or the duty involved;
or(c)the amount of fine or penalty involved, does not exceed [ten lakh rupees]
[ Substituted by Act 33 of 1996, Section 66, for " one lakh rupees" (w.e.f.
28.9.1996).].(5)[ If the members of a Bench differ in opinion on any point,
the point shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority, if there
is a majority; but if the members are equally divided, they shall state the
point or points on which they differ and make a reference to the President who
shall either hear the point or points himself or refer the case for hearing on
such point or points by one or more of the other members of the Appellate
Tribunal and such point or points shall be decided according to the opinion of
the majority of these members of the Appellate Tribunal who have heard the
case, including those who first heard it.] [ Substituted by Act 12 of 1990,
Section 62, for sub-Section (5) (w.e.f. 31.5.1990).](6)Subject to the
provisions of this Act, the Appellate Tribunal shall have power to regulate
its own procedure and the procedure of the Benches thereof in all matters
arising out of the exercise of its power or of the discharge of its functions,
including the places at which the Benches shall hold their sittings.(7)The
Appellate Tribunal shall, for the purposes of discharging its functions, have
the same powers as are vested in a Court under the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908 (5 of 1908), when trying a suit in respect of the following matters,
namely:-(a)discovery and inspection;(b)enforcing the attendance of any person
and examining him on oath;(c)compelling the production of books of accounts
and other documents; and(d)issuing commissions.(8)Any proceeding before the
Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the
meaning of sections 193 and 228 and for the purpose of section 196 of the
Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), and the Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to
be a civil Court for all the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).

Additional Information6  
---  
  
[ Substituted by Act 21 of 1984, Section 40 (w.e.f. 11-5-1984).]

On and from the appointed day, the following amendments (of consequential
nature) shall be made in Section 129-D-(A) after the words " Appellate
Tribunal" , wherever they occur, the words and figures " or, as the case may
be, the Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate Tribunal Act, 1986" shall be
inserted;(B) in sub-Section (4) after the words, figures and letter " Section
120-A" , the words and figures " or, as the case may be, the provisions of the
Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate Tribunal Act, 1986" , shall be
substituted.- See Section 34 of the Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate
Tribunal Act, 1986 (62 of 1986).  
---  
  
### 129D. Powers of [Committee of Chief Commissioners of Customs] [
Substituted by Act 18 of 2005, Section 71, for " Board" (w.e.f. 13.5.2005).]
or Commissioner of Customs to pass certain orders.

(1)The [Committee of Chief Commissioners of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 18
of 2005, Section 71, for " Board" (w.e.f. 13.5.2005).] may, of its own motion,
call for and examine the record of any proceeding in which a [Commissioner of
Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector of
Customs" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] as an adjudicating authority has passed any
decision or order under this Act for the purpose of satisfying itself as to
the legality or propriety of any such decision or order and may, by order,
direct such [Commissioner] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for "
Collector" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] [or any other Commissioner] [ Inserted by Act
14 of 2001, Section 111 (w.e.f. 11.5.2001).] to apply to the Appellate
Tribunal for the determination of such points arising out of the decision or
order as may be specified by the [Committee of Chief Commissioners of Customs]
[ Substituted by Act 18 of 2005, Section 71, for " Board" (w.e.f. 13.5.2005).]
in its order:[Provided that where the Committee of Chief Commissioners of
Customs differs in its opinion as to the legality or propriety of the decision
or order of the Commissioner of Customs, it shall state the point or points on
which it differs and make a reference to the Board which, after considering
the facts of the decision or order passed by the Commissioner of Customs, if
is of the opinion that the decision or order passed by the Commissioner of
Customs is not legal or proper, may, by order, direct such Commissioner or any
other Commissioner to apply to the Appellate Tribunal for the determination of
such points arising out of the decision or order, as may be specified in its
order.] [ Inserted by Act 18 of 2008, Section 72.](2)The [Commissioner of
Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector of
Customs" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] may, of his own motion, call for and examine the
record of any proceeding in which an adjudicating authority subordinate to him
has passed any decision or order under this Act for the purpose of satisfying
himself as to the legality or propriety of any such decision or order and may,
by order, direct [such authority or any officer of Customs subordinate to him]
[ Substituted by Act 29 of 2006, Section 29, for " such authority" (w.e.f.
13.7.2006).] to apply to the [Commissioner (Appeals)] [ Substituted by Act 22
of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector (Appeals)" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] for the
determination of such points arising out of the decision or order as may be
specified by the [Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995,
Section 50, for " Collector of Customs" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] in his order.[
Substituted by Act 21 of 1984, Section 40 (w.e.f. 11-5-1984).]

Substituted by Act 18 of 2008, Section 72, for sub-Section (3) (w.e.f.
11.5.2007). Prior its substitution, sub-Section (3) read as under:-" (3) The
Committee of Chief Commissioners of Customs or the Commissioner of Customs, as
the case may be, shall make order under sub-Section (1) or sub-Section (2)
within a period of three months from the date of communication of the decision
or order of the adjudicating authority."  
---  
  
(3)Every order under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), as the case may be,
shall be made within a period of three months from the date of communication
of the decision or order of the adjudicating authority.(4)Where in pursuance
of an order under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the adjudicating
authority or any officer of customs authorised in this behalf by the
Commissioner of Customs, makes an application to the Appellate Tribunal or the
[Commissioner (Appeals)] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for "
Collector (Appeals)" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] within a period of [one month] [
Substituted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 111, for " three months" (w.e.f.
11.5.2007).] from the date of communication of the order under sub-section (1)
or sub-section (2) to the adjudicating authority, such application shall be
heard by the Appellate Tribunal or the [Commissioner (Appeals)] [ Substituted
by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector (Appeals)" (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).]), as the case may be, as if such application were an appeal made
against the decision or order of the adjudicating authority and the provisions
of this Act regarding appeals, including the provisions of sub-section (4) of
section 129-A shall, so far as may be, apply to such application.(5)[ The
provisions of this section shall not apply to any decision or order in which
the determination of any question having a relation to the rate of duty or to
the value of goods for the purposes of assessment of any duty is in issue or
is one of the points in issue.Explanation.-For the purposes of this sub-
section, the determination of a rate of duty in relation to any goods or
valuation of any goods for the purposes of assessment of duty includes the
determination of a question-(a)relating to the rate of duty for the time being
in force, whether under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975), or under
any other Central Act providing for the levy and collection of any duty of
customs, in relation to any goods on or after the 28th day of February, 1986;
or(b)relating to the value of goods for the purposes of assessment of any duty
in cases where the assessment is made on or after the 28th day of February,
1986; or(c)whether any goods fall under a particular heading or sub-heading of
the First Schedule or the Second Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51
of 1975), or that any goods are or not covered by a particular notification or
order issued by the Central Government granting total or partial exemption
from duty; or(d)whether the value of any goods for the purposes of assessment
of duty shall be enhanced or reduced by the addition or reduction of the
amounts in respect of such matters as are specifically provided in this Act.]

### 129DA. [ Powers of revision of Board or [Commissioner of Customs]
[Inserted by Act 29 of 1988, Section 5 (w.e.f. 1.7.1988). ] [in certain cases.
[Inserted by Act 29 of 1988, Section 5 (w.e.f. 1.7.1988). ]

(1)The Board may, of its own motion or on the application of any aggrieved
person or otherwise, call for and examine the record of any proceeding in
which a [Commissioner of Customs] [ Inserted by Act 29 of 1988, Section 5
(w.e.f. 1.7.1988).] has passed any decision or order [not being a decision or
order passed under sub-section (2) of this section of the nature referred to
in sub-section (5) of section 129-D for the purpose of satisfying itself as to
the correctness, legality or propriety of such decision or order and may pass
such order thereon as it thinks fit.(2)The [Commissioner of Customs] [
Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector of Customs" (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).] [may, of his own motion or on the application of any aggrieved
person or otherwise, call for and examine the record of any proceeding in
which an adjudicating authority subordinate to him has passed any decision or
order of the nature referred to in sub-section (5) of section 129-D for the
purpose of satisfying himself as to the correctness, legality or propriety of
such decision or order and may pass such order thereon as he thinks
fit.(3)(a)No decision or order under this section shall be made so as to pre-
judicially affect any person unless such person is given a reasonable
opportunity of making representation and if, he so desires, of being heard in
his defence.(b)Where the Board or, as the case may be, the [Commissioner of
Customs] [is of the opinion that any duty has not been levied or has been
short-levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded, no order requiring the
affected person to pay any duty not levied or paid, short-levied or short-paid
or erroneously refunded shall be passed under this section unless such person
is given notice within the time limit specified in section 28 to show cause
against the proposed order. [Inserted by Act 29 of 1988, Section 5 (w.e.f.
1.7.1988). ](4)No proceedings shall be initiated under sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) in respect of any decision or order after the expiry of a period
of six months from the date of communication of such decision or
order:Provided that in respect of any decision or order passed before the
commencement of the Customs and Central Excises Laws (Amendment) Act, 1988,
the provisions of this sub-section shall have effect as if for the words "six
months", the words "one year" were substituted.(5)Any person aggrieved by any
decision or order passed under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) may appeal
to the Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate Tribunal established under
section 3 of the Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate Tribunal Act, 1986 (62
of 1986), against such decision or order.] [Inserted by Act 29 of 1988,
Section 5 (w.e.f. 1.7.1988). ]

### 129DD. [ Revision by Central Government. [Substituted by Act 21 of 1984,
Section 43 (w.e.f. 11.5.1984). ]

(1)The Central Government may, on the application of any person aggrieved by
any order passed under section 128-A, where the order is of the nature
referred to in the first proviso to sub-section (1) of section 129-A, annul or
modify such order:[Provided that the Central Government may in its discretion,
refuse to admit an application in respect of an order where the amount of duty
or fine or penalty, determined by such order does not exceed five thousand
rupees.][Explanation.-For the purposes of this sub-section, "order passed
under section 128-A" includes an order passed under that section before the
commencement of section 40 of the Finance Act, 1984, against which an appeal
has not been preferred before such commencement and could have been, if the
said section had not come into force, preferred after such commencement, to
the Appellate Tribunal.[(1-A) The Commissioner of Customs may, if he is of the
opinion that an order passed by the Commissioner (Appeals) under section 128-A
is not legal or proper, direct the proper officer to make an application on
his behalf to the Central Government for revision of such order.] [Substituted
by Act 21 of 1984, Section 43 (w.e.f. 11.5.1984). ](2)[ An application under
sub-section (1) shall be made within three months from the date of the
communication to the applicant of the order against which the application is
being made:Provided that the Central Government may, if it is satisfied that
the applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from presenting the
application within the aforesaid period of three months, allow it to be
presented within a further period of three months.(3)[ An application under
sub-section (1) shall be in such form and shall be verified in such manner as
may be specified by rules made in this behalf and shall be accompanied by a
fee of,-(a)two hundred rupees, where the amount of duty and interest demanded,
fine or penalty levied by an officer of customs in the case to which the
application relates is one lakh rupees or less;(b)one thousand rupees, where
the amount of duty and interest demanded, fine or penalty levied by an officer
of customs in the case to which the application relates is more than one lakh
rupees:Provided that no such fee shall be payable in the case of an
application referred to in sub-section (1-A).] [Substituted by Act 21 of 1984,
Section 43 (w.e.f. 11.5.1984). ](4)[ The Central Government may, of its own
motion, annul or modify any order referred to in sub-section (1).(5)No order
enhancing any penalty or fine in lieu of confiscation or confiscating goods of
greater value shall be passed under this section,-(a)in any case in which an
order passed under section 128-A has enhanced any penalty or fine in lieu of
confiscation or has confiscated goods of greater value, and(b)in any other
case, unless the person affected by the proposed order has been given notice
to show cause against it within one year from the date of the order sought to
be annulled or modified.(6)Where the Central Government is of opinion that any
duty of customs has not been levied or has been short-levied, no order levying
or enhancing the duty shall be made under this section unless the person
affected by the proposed order is given notice to show cause against it within
the time limit specified in section 28.] [Substituted by Act 21 of 1984,
Section 43 (w.e.f. 11.5.1984). ]

### 129E. Deposit, pending appeal, of [duty and interest] [ Substituted by Act
55 of 1991, Section 10, for " duty" (w.e.f. 23-12-1991).] demanded or penalty
levied.

\- Where in any appeal under this Chapter, the decision or order appealed
against relates to any [duty and interest] [ Substituted by Act 55 of 1991,
Section 10, for " duty" (w.e.f. 23-12-1991).] demanded in respect of goods
which are not under the control of the customs authorities or any penalty
levied under this Act, the person desirous of appealing against such decision
or order shall, pending the appeal, deposit with the proper officer the [duty
and interest] [ Substituted by Act 55 of 1991, Section 10, for " duty" (w.e.f.
23-12-1991).] demanded or the penalty levied:Provided that where in any
particular case, the [Commissioner (Appeals)] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995,
Section 50, for " Collector (Appeals)" (w.e.f. 26-5-1995). ], or the Appellate
Tribunal is of opinion that the deposit of [duty and interest] [ Substituted
by Act 55 of 1991, Section 10, for " duty" (w.e.f. 23-12-1991).] demanded or
penalty levied would cause undue hardship to such person, the [Commissioner
(Appeals)] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector
(Appeals)" (w.e.f. 26-5-1995). ] or, as the case may be, the Appellate
Tribunal may dispense with such deposit subject to such conditions as he or it
may deem fit to impose so as to safeguard the interests of revenue:[Provided
further that where an application is filed before the Commissioner (Appeals)
for dispensing with the deposit of [duty and interest] [Inserted by Act 14 of
2001, Section 112 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001). ][ demanded or penalty levied under the
first proviso, the Commissioner (Appeals) shall, where it is possible to do so
decide such application within thirty days from the date of its filing.]
[Inserted by Act 14 of 2001, Section 112 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001). ]

### 129EE. [ Interest on delayed refund of amount deposited under the proviso
to section 129-E. [ Inserted by Act 18 of 2008, Section 73.]

\- Where an amount deposited by the appellant in pursuance of an order passed
by the Commissioner (Appeals) or the Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred
to as appellate authority), under the first proviso to section 129-E, is
required to be refunded consequent upon the order of the appellate authority
and such amount is not refunded within three months from the date of
communication of such order to the adjudicating authority, unless the
operation of the order of the appellate authority is stayed by a superior
Court or tribunal, there shall be paid to the appellant interest at the rate
specified in section 27-A after the expiry of three months from the date of
communication of the order of the appellate authority, till the date of refund
of such amount.]

Prior to its omission, Section 130 read as under:-" 130. Appeal to High
Court.-(1) An appeal shall lie to the High Court from every order passed in
appeal by the Appellate Tribunal on or after the 1st day of July, 2003 (not
being an order relating, among, other things, to the determination of any
question having a relation to the rate of by of customs or to the value of
goods for purposes of assessment), if the High Court is satisfied that the
case involves a substantial question of law.(2) The Commissioner of Customs or
the other party aggrieved by any order passed by the Appellate Tribunal may
file an appeal to the High Court and such appeal under this sub-Section shall
be-(a) filed within one hundred and eighty days from the date on which the
order appealed against is received by the Commissioner of Customs or the other
party;(b) accompanied by a fee of two hundred rupees where such appeal is
filed by the other party;(c) in the form of a memorandum of appeal precisely
stating therein the substantial question of law involved.*[(2-A) The High
Court may admit an appeal after the expiry of the period of one hundred and
eighty days referred to in clause (a) of sub-Section (2), if it is satisfied
that there was sufficient cause for not filing the same within that
period.](3) Where the High Court is satisfied that a substantial question of
law is involved in any case, it shall formulate that question.(4) The appeal
shall be heard only on the question so formulated, and the respondents shall,
at the hearing of the appeal, be allowed to argue that the case does not
involve such question:Provided that nothing in this sub-Section shall be
deemed to take away or abridge the power of the Court to hear, for reasons to
be recorded, the appeal on any other substantial question of law not
formulated by it, if it is satisfied that the case involves such question.(5)
The High Court shall decide the question of law so formulated and deliver such
judgment thereon containing the grounds on which such decision is founded and
may award such cost as it deems fit.(6) The High Court may determine any issue
which(a) has not been determined by the Appellate Tribunal; or(b) has been
wrongly determined by the Appellate Tribunal, by reason of a decision on such
question of law as is referred to in sub-Section (1).(7) When an appeal has
been filed before the High Court, it shall be heard by a bench of not less
than two Judges of the High Court, and shall be decided in accordance with the
opinion of such Judges or of the majority, if any, of such Judges.(8) Where
there is no such majority, the Judges shall state the point of law upon which
they differ and the case shall, then, be heard upon that point only by one or
more of the other Judges of the High Court and such point shall be decided
according to the opinion of the majority of the Judges who have heard the case
including those who first heard it.(9) Save as otherwise provided in this Act,
the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), relating to
appeals to the High Court shall, as far as may be, apply in the case of
appeals under this section. " -*Inserted by Act 33 of 2009, Section 87
(w.r.e.f. 1-7-2003).  
---  
  
### 130. Appeal to High Court.

\- [Omitted by the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), section 30
and Schedule, Part VI (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).]

Prior to its omission, Section 130-A read as under:-" 130-A. Application to
High Court.-(1) The Commissioner of Customs or the other party may, within one
hundred and eighty days of the date upon which he is served with notice of an
order under Section 129-B passed before the 1st day of July, 2003 (not being
an order relating, among other things, to the determination of any question
having a relation to the rate of duty of customs or to the value of goods for
purposes of assessment, by application in the prescribed form, accompanied,
where the application is made by the other party, by a fee of two hundred
rupees, apply to the High Court to direct the Appellate Tribunal to refer to
the High Court any question of law arising from such order of the Tribunal.(2)
The Commissioner of Customs or the other party applying to the High Court
under sub-Section (1) shall clearly state the question of law which he seeks
to be referred to the High Court and shall also specify the paragraph in the
order of the Appellate Tribunal relevant to the question sought to be
referred.(3) On receipt of notice that an application has been made under sub-
Section (1), the person against whom such application has been made, may,
notwithstanding that he may not have filed such application, file, within
forty-five days of the receipt o# the notice, a memorandum of cross objections
verified in the prescribed manner against any part of the order in relation to
which an application for reference has been made and such memorandum shall be
disposed of by the High Court as if it were an application presented within
the time specified in sub-Section (1).*[(3-A) The High Court may admit an
application or permit the filing of a memorandum of cross-objections after the
expiry of the relevant period referred to in sub-Section (1) or sub-Section
(3), if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing the
same within that period.]4) If, on an application made under sub-Section (1),
the High Court directs the Appellate Tribunal to refer the question of law
raised in the application, the Appellate Tribunal shall, within one hundred
and twenty days of the receipt of such direction, draw up a statement of the
case and refer it to the High Court. " -*Inserted by Act 33 of 2009, Section
88 (w.r.e.f. 1-7-1999).  
---  
  
### 130A. Application to High Court.

\- [Omitted by the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), section 30
and Schedule, Part VI (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).]

Prior to its omission, Section 130-B read as under:-" 130-B. Power of High
Court or Supreme Court to require statement to be amended.-If the High Court
or the Supreme Court is not satisfied that the statements in a case referred
to it are sufficient to enable it to determine the questions raised thereby,
the Court may refer the case back to the Appellate Tribunal for the purpose of
making such additions thereto or alterations therein as it may direct in that
behalf."  
---  
  
### 130B. Power of High Court or Supreme Court to require statement to be
amended.

\- [Omitted by the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), section 30
and Schedule, Part VI (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).]

Prior to its omission, Section 130-C read as under: " 130-C. Case before High
Court to be heard by not less than two judges.-(1) When any case has been
referred to the High Court under Section 130, or Section 130-A it shall be
heard by a Bench of not less than two judges of the High Court and shall be
decided in accordance with the opinion of such judges or of the majority, if
any, of such judges.(2) Where there is no such majority, the judges shall
state the point of law upon which they differ and the case shall then be heard
upon that point only by one or more of the other judges of the High Court, and
such point shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority of the
judges who have heard the case including those who first heard it."  
---  
  
### 130C. Case before High Court to be heard by not less than two judges.

\- [Omitted by the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), section 30
and Schedule, Part VI (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).]

Prior to its omission, Section 130-D read as under:-130-D. Decision of High
Court orSupreme Court on the case stated.-(1) The High Court or the Supreme
Court hearing any such case shall decide the questions of law raised therein,
and shall deliver its judgment thereon containing the grounds on which such
decision is founded and a copy of the judgment shall be sent under the seal of
the Court and the signature of the Registrar to the Appellate Tribunal which
shall pass such orders as are necessary to dispose of the case in conformity
with such judgment.(1-A) Where the High Court delivers a judgment in an appeal
filed before it under Section 130, effect shall be given to the order passed
on the appeal by the proper officer on the basis of a certified copy of the
judgment.(2) The costs of any reference to the High Court or an appeal to the
High Court or the Supreme Court, as the case may be, which shall not include
the fee for making the reference shall be in the discretion of the Court."  
---  
  
### 130D. Decision of High Court or Supreme Court on the case stated.

\- [Omitted by the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), section 30
and Schedule, Part VI (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).]

### 130E. Appeal to Supreme Court.

\- An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from-

Substituted by Act 32 of 2003, Section 123, for Clause (a) (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
Prior to its substitution, Clause (a) read as under:-" (a) any judgment of the
High Court delivered on a reference made under Section 130 or Section 130-A in
any case which, on its own motion or on an oral application made by or on
behalf of the party aggrieved, immediately after the passing of the judgment,
the High Court certifies to be a fit one for appeal to the Supreme Court; or"
.  
---  
  
(a)any judgment of the High Court delivered-(i)in an appeal made under section
130; or(ii)on a reference made under section 130 by the Appellate Tribunal
before the 1st day of July, 2003;(iii)on a reference made under section 130-A,
in any case which, on its own motion or on an oral application made by or on
behalf of the party aggrieved, immediately after passing of the judgment, the
High Court certifies to be a fit one for appeal to the Supreme Court; or(b)any
order passed [before the establishment of the National Tax Tribunal] [Inserted
by Act 49 of 2005, Section 30 and Sch., Part VI (w.e.f. 28-12-2005). ] by the
Appellate Tribunal relating, among other things, to the determination of any
question having a relation to the rate of duty of customs or to the value of
goods for purposes of assessment.

### 130F. Hearing before Supreme Court.

(1)The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), relating
to appeals to the Supreme Court shall, so far as may be, apply in the case of
appeals under section 130-E as they apply in the case of appeals from decrees
of a High Court:Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to
affect the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 130-D or section
131.(2)The costs of the appeal shall be in the discretion of the Supreme
Court.(3)Where the judgment of the High Court is varied or reversed in the
appeal, effect shall be given to the order of the Supreme Court in the manner
provided in section 130-D in the case of a judgment of the High Court.

### 131. Sums due to be paid notwithstanding reference, etc.

\- Notwithstanding that a reference has been made to the High Court or the
Supreme Court or an appeal has been preferred to the Supreme Court [under this
Act before the commencement of the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of
2005)] [ Inserted by Act 49 of 2005, Section 30 and Schedule, Part VI (w.e.f.
28.12.2005).], sums due to the Government as a result of an order passed under
sub-section (1) of section 129-B shall be payable in accordance with the order
so passed.

### 131A. Exclusion of time taken for copy.

\- In computing the period of limitation specified for an appeal or
application under this Chapter, the day on which the order complained of was
served, and if the party preferring the appeal or making the application was
not furnished with a copy of the order when the notice of the order was served
upon him, the time requisite for obtaining a copy of such order shall be
excluded.

### 131B. Transfer of certain pending proceedings and transitional provisions.

(1)Every appeal which is pending immediately before the appointed day before
the Board under section 128, as it stood immediately before that day, and any
matter arising out of or connected with such appeal and which is so pending
shall stand transferred on that day to the Appellate Tribunal and the
Appellate Tribunal may proceed with such appeal or matter from the stage at
which it was on that day:Provided that the appellant may demand that before
proceeding further with that appeal or matter, he may be re-heard.(2)Every
proceeding which is pending immediately before the appointed day before the
Central Government under section 131, as it stood immediately before that day,
and any matter arising out of or connected with such proceeding and which is
so pending shall stand transferred on that day to the Appellate Tribunal and
the Appellate Tribunal may proceed with such proceeding or matter from the
stage at which it was on that day as if such proceeding or matter were an
appeal filed before it:Provided that if any such proceeding or matter relates
to an order where-(a)the value of the goods confiscated without option having
been given to the owner of the goods to pay a fine in lieu of confiscation
under section 125; or(b)in any disputed case, other than a case where the
determination of any question having a relation to the rate of duty of customs
or to the value of goods for purposes of assessment is in issue or is one of
the points in issue, the difference in duty involved or the duty involved;
or(c)the amount of fine or penalty determined by such order, does not exceed
ten thousand rupees, such proceeding or matter shall continue to be dealt with
by the Central Government as if the said section 131 had not been
substituted:Provided further that the applicant or the other party may make a
demand to the Appellate Tribunal that before proceeding further with that
proceeding or matter, he may be re-heard.(3)Every proceeding which is pending
immediately before the appointed day before the Board or the [Commissioner of
Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector of
Customs" (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).] under section 130, as it stood immediately
before that day, and any matter arising out of or connected with such
proceeding and which is so pending shall continue to be dealt with by the
Board or the [Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995,
Section 50, for " Collector of Customs" (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).] , as the case may
be, as if the said section had not been substituted.(4)Any person who
immediately before the appointed day was authorised to appear in any appeal or
proceeding transferred under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in section 146-A, have the right to appear
before the Appellate Tribunal in relation to such appeal or proceeding.

### 131C. Definitions.

\- In this Chapter-(a)"appointed day" means the date of coming into force of
the amendments to this Act specified in Part I of the Fifth Schedule to the
Finance (No. 2) Act, 1980 (44 of 1980);

Clause (b) omitted by Act 49 of 2005, Section 30 and Sch., Part VI (w.e.f.
28-12-2005). Prior to its omission, Clause (b) read as under: " (b) " High
Court" means,(i) in relation to any State, the High Court for that State;(ii)
in relation to a Union territory to which the jurisdiction of the High Court
of aState has been extended by law, that High Court;(iii) in relation to the
Union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, the High Court
at Bombay;(iv) in relation to any other Union territory, the highest Court of
civil appeal for that territory other than the Supreme Court of India."  
---  
  
[* * *](c)"President" means the President of the Appellate Tribunal.

## Chapter XVI  
Offences And Prosecutions

### 132. False declaration, false documents, etc.

\- Whoever makes, signs or uses, or causes to be made, signed or used, any
declaration, statement or document in the transaction of any business relating
to the customs, knowing or having reason to believe that such declaration,
statement or document is false in any material particular, shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to [two years] [ Substituted by
Act 29 of 2006, Section 30, for " six months" (w.e.f. 13-7-2006). ], or with
fine, or with both.

### 133. Obstruction of officer of customs.

\- If any person intentionally obstructs any officer of customs in the
exercise of any powers conferred under this Act, such person shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to [two years] [
Substituted by Act 29 of 2006, Section 31, for " six months" (w.e.f.
13-7-2006).], or with fine, or with both.

### 134. Refusal to be X-rayed.

\- If any person-(a)resists or refuses to allow a radiologist to screen or to
take X-ray picture of his body in accordance with an order made by a
Magistrate under section 103, or(b)resists or refuses to allow suitable action
being taken on the advice and under the supervision of a registered medical
practitioner for bringing out goods liable to confiscation secreted inside his
body, as provided in section 103, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for
a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.

Substituted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 112, for sub-Section (1) (w.e.f.
11-5-2007). Prior to its substitution, sub-Section (1) read as under:-" (1)
Without prejudice to any action that may be taken under this Act, if any
person -(a) is in relation to any goods in any way knowingly concerned in mis-
declaration of value or in any fraudulent evasion or attempt at evasion of any
duty chargeable thereon or of any prohibition for the time being imposed under
this Act or any other law for the time being in force with respect to such
goods, or(b) acquires possession of or is in any way concerned in carrying,
removing, depositing, harbouring, keeping, concealing, selling or purchasing
or in any other manner dealing with any goods which he knows or has reason to
believe are liable to confiscation under Section 111 or Section 113, as the
case may be, or(c) attempts to export any goods which he knows or has reason
to believe are liable to confiscation under Section 113,he shall be punishable
-(i) in the case of an offence relating to any of the goods to which Section
123 applies and the market price whereof exceeds one lakh of rupees, with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and with fine:Provided
that in the absence of special and adequate reasons to the contrary to be
recorded in the judgment of the Court, such imprisonment shall not be for less
than three years;(ii) in any other case, with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both." .  
---  
  
### 135. Evasion of duty or prohibitions.

(1)Without prejudice to any action that may be taken under this Act, if any
person-(a)is in relation to any goods in any way knowingly concerned in
misdeclaration of value or in any fraudulent evasion or attempt at evasion of
any duty chargeable thereon or of any prohibition for the time being imposed
under this Act or any other law for the time being in force with respect to
such goods; or(b)acquires possession of or is in any way concerned in
carrying, removing, depositing, harbouring, keeping, concealing, selling or
purchasing or in any other manner dealing with any goods which he knows or has
reason to believe are liable to confiscation under section 111 or section 113,
as the case may be; or(c)attempts to export any goods which he knows or has
reason to believe are liable to confiscation under section 113;
or(d)fraudulently avails of or attempts to avail of drawback or any exemption
from duty provided under this Act in connection with export of goods, he shall
be punishable, -(i)in the case of an offence relating to,-(A)any goods the
market price of which exceeds one crore of rupees; or(B)the evasion or
attempted evasion of duty exceeding thirty lakh of rupees; or(C)such
categories of prohibited goods as the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, specify; or(D)fraudulently availing of or attempting
to avail of drawback or any exemption from duty referred to in clause (d), if
the amount of drawback or exemption from duty exceeds thirty lakh of rupees,
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and with
fine:Provided that in the absence of special and adequate reasons to the
contrary to be recorded in the judgment of the Court, such imprisonment shall
not be for less than one year;(ii)in any other case, with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.(2)[ If any
person convicted of an offence under this section or under sub-section (1) of
section 136 is again convicted of an offence under this section, then, he
shall be punishable for the second and for every subsequent offence with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and with fine:Provided
that in the absence of special and adequate reasons to the contrary to be
recorded in the judgment of the Court such imprisonment shall not be for less
than [one year] [ Inserted by Act 36 of 1973, Section 5 (w.e.f.
1.9.1973).].(3)[ For the purposes of sub-sections (1) and (2), the following
shall not be considered as special and adequate reasons for awarding a
sentence of imprisonment for a term of less than one year, namely:-(i)the fact
that the accused has been convicted for the first time for an offence under
this Act;(ii)the fact that in any proceeding under this Act, other than a
prosecution, the accused has been ordered to pay a penalty or the goods which
are the subject matter of such proceedings have been ordered to be confiscated
or any other action has been taken against him for the same act which
constitutes the offence;(iii)the fact that the accused was not the principal
offender and was acting merely as a carrier of goods or otherwise was a
secondary party to the commission of the offence;(iv)the age of the accused.]

### 135A. [ Preparation. [ Inserted by Act 36 of 1973, Section 6 (w.e.f.
1.9.1973).]

\- If a person makes preparation to export any goods in contravention of the
provisions of this Act, and from the circumstances of the case it may be
reasonably inferred that if not prevented by circumstances independent of his
will, he is determined to carry out his intention to commit the offence, he
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
years, or with fine, or with both.

### 135B. Power of Court to publish name, place of business, etc., of persons
convicted under the Act.

(1)Where any person is convicted under this Act for contravention of any of
the provisions thereof, it shall be competent for the Court convicting the
person to cause the name and place of business or residence of such person,
nature of the contravention, the fact that the person has been so convicted
and such other particulars as the Court may consider to be appropriate in the
circumstances of the case, to be published at the expense of such person in
such newspaper or in such manner as the Court may direct.(2)No publication
under sub-section (1) shall be made until the period for preferring an appeal
against the orders of the Court has expired without any appeal having been
preferred, or such an appeal, having been preferred, has been disposed
of.(3)The expenses of any publication under sub-section (1) shall be
recoverable from the convicted person as if it were a fine imposed by the
Court.] [ Inserted by Act 36 of 1973, Section 5 (w.e.f. 1.9.1973).]

### 136. Offences by officers of customs.

(1)If any officer of customs enters into or acquiesces in any agreement to do,
abstains from doing, permits, conceals or [connives at any act or thing,
whereby any fraudulent export is effected or] [ Substituted by Act 32 of 2003,
Section 125, for " connives at any act or thing whereby" (w.e.f. 14.5.2003).]
any duty of customs leviable on any goods, or any prohibition for the time
being in force under this Act or any other law for the time being in force
with respect to any goods is or may be evaded, he shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to [three years] [ Substituted by Act
36 of 1973, Section 7, for " two years" (w.e.f. 1.9.1973).], or with fine, or
with both.(2)If any officer of customs,-(a)requires any person to be searched
for goods liable to confiscation or any document relating thereto, without
having reason to believe that he has such goods or document secreted about his
person; or(b)arrests any person without having reason to believe that he has
been guilty of an offence punishable under section 135; or(c)searches or
authorises any other officer of customs to search any place without having
reason to believe that any goods, documents or things of the nature referred
to in section 105 are secreted in that place, he shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.(3)If any officer of customs,
except in the discharge in good faith of his duty as such officer or in
compliance with any requisition made under any law for the time being in
force, discloses any particulars learnt by him in his official capacity in
respect of any goods, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees, or with both.

### 137. Cognizance of offences.

(1)No Court shall take cognizance of any offence under section 132, section
133, section 134 or [section 135 or section 135-A] [ Substituted by Act 29 of
2006, Section 32, for " Section 135" (w.e.f. 13.7.2006).], except with the
previous sanction of the [Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of
1995, Section 51, for " Collector of Customs" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).].(2)No Court
shall take cognizance of any offence under section 136,-(a)where the offence
is alleged to have been committed by an officer of customs not lower in rank
than [Assistant Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999,
Section 100, for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999).
Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).], except with the previous sanction of the Central
Government;(b)where the offence is alleged to have been committed by an
officer of customs lower in rank than [Assistant Commissioner of Customs] [
Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for " Assistant Commissioner of
Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22
of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).], except with the previous sanction of
the [Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 51, for
" Collector of Customs" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).].(3)[ Any offence under this
Chapter may, either before or after the institution of prosecution, be
compounded by the Chief Commissioner of Customs on payment, by the person
accused of the offence to the Central Government, of [such compounding amount
and in such manner of compounding] [Inserted by Act 23 of 2004, Section 71
(w.e.f. 10.9.2004). ][as may be specified by rules:] [Inserted by Act 23 of
2004, Section 71 (w.e.f. 10.9.2004). ][Provided that nothing contained in this
sub-section shall apply to-(a)a person who has been allowed to compound once
in respect of any offence under sections 135 and 135-A;(b)a person who has
been accused of committing an offence under this Act which is also an offence
under any of the following Acts, namely:-(i)the Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (61 of 1985);(ii)the Chemical Weapons
Convention Act, 2000 (34 of 2000);(iii)the Arms Act, 1959 (54 of 1959);(iv)the
Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (53 of 1972);(c)a person involved in
smuggling of goods falling under any of the following, namely:-(i)goods
specified in the list of Special Chemicals, Organisms, Materials, Equipment
and Technology in Appendix 3 to Schedule 2 (Export Policy) of ITC (HS)
Classification of Export and Import Items of the Foreign Trade Policy, as
amended from time to time, issued under section 5 of the Foreign Trade
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1992 (22 of 1992);(ii)goods which are
specified as prohibited items for import and export in the ITC (HS)
Classification of Export and Import Items of the Foreign Trade Policy, as
amended from time to time, issued under section 5 of the Foreign Trade
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1992 (22 of 1992);(iii)any other goods or
documents, which are likely to affect friendly relations with a foreign State
or are derogatory to national honour;(d)a person who has been allowed to
compound once in respect of any offence under this Chapter for goods of value
exceeding rupees one crore;(e)a person who has been convicted under this Act
on or after the 30th day of December, 2005.] [ Inserted by Act 33 of 2009,
Section 89.]

### 138. Offences to be tried summarily.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of [Criminal Procedure, 1898
(5 of 1898)] [Now see the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974). ], an
offence under this Chapter other than an offence punishable [under clause (i)
of sub-section (1) of section 135 or under sub-section (2) of that section] [
Substituted by Act 36 of 1973, Section 8, for " under clause (i) of Section
135" (w.e.f. 1.9.1973).] may be tried summarily by a Magistrate.

### 138A. [ Presumption of culpable mental state. [ Inserted by Act 36 of
1973, Section 9 (w.e.f. 1.9.1973).]

(1)In any prosecution for an offence under this Act which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the Court shall presume the existence
of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the
fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an
offence in that prosecution.Explanation.-In this section, "culpable mental
state" includes intention, motive, knowledge of a fact and belief in, or
reason to believe, a fact.(2)For the purposes of this section, a fact is said
to be proved only when the Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt
and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of
probability.

### 138B. Relevancy of statements under certain circumstances.

(1)A statement made and signed by a person before any Gazetted Officer of
customs during the course of any inquiry or proceeding under this Act shall be
relevant, for the purpose of proving, in any prosecution for an offence under
this Act, the truth of the facts which it contains,-(a)when the person who
made the statement is dead or cannot be found, or is incapable of giving
evidence, or is kept out of the way by the adverse party, or whose presence
cannot be obtained without an amount of delay or expense which, under the
circumstances of the case, the Court considers unreasonable; or(b)when the
person who made the statement is examined as a witness in the case before the
Court and the Court is of opinion that, having regard to the circumstances of
the case, the statement should be admitted in evidence in the interests of
justice.(2)The provisions of sub-section (1) shall, so far as may be, apply in
relation to any proceeding under this Act, other than a proceeding before a
Court, as they apply in relation to a proceeding before a Court.]

### 138C. [ Admissibility of micro films, facsimile copies of documents and
computer print outs as documents and as evidence. [ Inserted by Act 29 of
1988, Section 6 (w.e.f. 1.7.1988).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force,-(a)a micro film of a document or the reproduction of the image or
images embodied in such micro film (whether enlarged or not); or(b)a facsimile
copy of a document; or(c)a statement contained in a document and included in a
printed material produced by a computer (hereinafter referred to as a
"computer print out"), if the conditions mentioned in sub-section (2) and the
other provisions contained in this section are satisfied in relation to the
statement and the computer in question, shall be deemed to be also a document
for the purposes of this Act and the rules made thereunder and shall be
admissible in any proceedings thereunder, without further proof or production
of the original, as evidence of any contents of the original or of any fact
stated therein of which direct evidence would be admissible.(2)The conditions
referred to in sub-section (1) in respect of a computer print out shall be the
following, namely:-(a)the computer print out containing the statement was
produced by the computer during the period over which the computer was used
regularly to store or process information for the purposes of any activities
regularly carried on over that period by the person having lawful control over
the use of the computer;(b)during the said period, there was regularly
supplied to the computer in the ordinary course of the said activities,
information of the kind contained in the statement or of the kind from which
the information so contained is derived;(c)throughout the material part of the
said period, the computer was operating properly or, if not, then any respect
in which it was not operating properly or was out of operation during that
part of that period was not such as to affect the production of the document
or the accuracy of the contents; and(d)the information contained in the
statement reproduces or is derived from information supplied to the computer
in the ordinary course of the said activities.(3)Where over any period, the
function of storing or processing information for the purposes of any
activities regularly carried on over that period as mentioned in clause (a) of
sub-section (2) was regularly performed by computers, whether-(a)by a
combination of computers operating over that period; or(b)by different
computers operating in succession over that period; or(c)by different
combinations of computers operating in succession over that period; or(d)in
any other manner involving the successive operation over that period, in
whatever order, of one or more computers and one or more combinations of
computers, all the computers used for that purpose during that period shall be
treated for the purposes of this section as constituting a single computer;
and references in this section to a computer shall be construed
accordingly.(4)In any proceedings under this Act and the rules made thereunder
where it is desired to give a statement in evidence by virtue of this section,
a certificate doing any of the following things, that is to
say,-(a)identifying the document containing the statement and describing the
manner in which it was produced;(b)giving such particulars of any device
involved in the production of that document as may be appropriate for the
purpose of showing that the document was produced by a computer;(c)dealing
with any of the matters to which the conditions mentioned in sub-section (2)
relate, and purporting to be signed by a person occupying a responsible
official position in relation to the operation of the relevant device or the
management of the relevant activities (whichever is appropriate) shall be
evidence of any matter stated in the certificate; and for the purposes of this
sub-section it shall be sufficient for a matter to be stated to the best of
the knowledge and belief of the person stating it.(5)For the purposes of this
section,-(a)information shall be taken to be supplied to a computer if it is
supplied thereto in any appropriate form and whether it is so supplied
directly or (with or without human intervention) by means of any appropriate
equipment;(b)whether in the course of activities carried on by any official,
information is supplied with a view to its being stored or processed for the
purposes of those activities by a computer operated otherwise than in the
course of those activities, that information, if duly supplied to that
computer, shall be taken to be supplied to it in the course of those
activities;(c)a document shall be taken to have been produced by a computer
whether it was produced by it directly or (with or without human intervention)
by means of any appropriate equipment.Explanation.-For the purposes of this
section,-(a)"computer" means any device that receives, stores, and processes
data, applying stipulated processes to the information and supplying results
of these processes; and(b)any reference to information being derived from
other information shall be a reference to its being derived therefrom by
calculation, comparison or any other process.]

### 139. [ Presumption as to documents in certain cases. [ Substituted by Act
36 of 1973, Section 10, for Section 139 (w.e.f. 1.9.1973).]

\- Where any document-(i)is produced by any person or has been seized from the
custody or control of any person, in either case, under this Act or under any
other law, or(ii)has been received from any place outside India in the course
of investigation of any offence alleged to have been committed by any person
under this Act, and such document is tendered by the prosecution in evidence
against him or against him and any other person who is tried jointly with him,
the Court shall-(a)presume, unless the contrary is proved, that the signature
and every other part of such document which purports to be in the handwriting
of any particular person or which the Court may reasonably assume to have been
signed by, or to be in the handwriting of, any particular person, is in that
person's handwriting, and in the case of a document executed or attested, that
it was executed or attested by the person by whom it purports to have been so
executed or attested;(b)admit the document in evidence, notwithstanding that
it is not duly stamped, if such document is otherwise admissible in
evidence;(c)in a case falling under clause (i) also presume, unless the
contrary is proved, the truth of the contents of such
document.][Explanation.-For the purposes of this section, "document" includes
inventories, photographs and lists certified by a Magistrate under sub-section
(1-C) of section 110.] [ Inserted by Act 80 of 1985, Section 11 (w.e.f.
27.12.1985).]

### 140. Offences by companies.

(1)If the person committing an offence under this Chapter is a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to such
punishment provided in this Chapter if he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Chapter has been committed by
a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the
consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any negligence on the part of,
any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such
director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be
guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.Explanation.-For the purposes of this
section,-(a)"company" means a body corporate and includes a firm or other
association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a firm, means a
partner in the firm.

### 140A. [ Application of section 562 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898, and of the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 [ Inserted by Act 36 of
1973, Section 11 (w.e.f. 1.9.1973).]

.-(1) Nothing contained in section 562 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898
(5 of 1898), or in the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 (20 of 1958), shall
apply to a person convicted of an offence under this Act unless that person is
under eighteen years of age.(2)The provisions of sub-section (1) shall have
effect notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3) of section 135.]

## Chapter XVII  
Miscellaneous

### 141. Conveyances and goods in a customs area subject to control of
officers of customs.

\- [(1)] [ Section 141 renumbered as sub-Section (1) thereof and sub-Section
(2) inserted by Act 18 of 2008, Section 74.] All conveyances and goods in a
customs area shall, for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Act,
be subject to the control of officers of customs.(2)[ The imported or export
goods may be received, stored, delivered, despatched or otherwise handled in a
customs area in such manner as may be prescribed and the responsibilities of
persons engaged in the aforesaid activities shall be such as may be
prescribed.] [Section 141 renumbered as sub-Section (1) thereof and sub-
Section (2) inserted by Act 18 of 2008, Section 74. ]

### 142. Recovery of sums due to Government.

(1)[Where any sum payable by any person ] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995,
Section 66, for certain words (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).]under this Act [including
the amount required to be paid to the credit of the Central Government under
section 28-B] [ Inserted by Act 10 of 2000, Section 88 (w.e.f. 12.5.2000).] is
not paid,-(a)the proper officer may deduct or may require any other officer of
customs to deduct the amount so payable from any money owing to such person
which may be under the control of the proper officer or such other officer of
customs; or(b)the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of
Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for " Assistant
Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999).] may recover or may require any
other officer of customs to recover the amount so payable by detaining and
selling any goods belonging to such person which are under the control of the
[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [
Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for " Assistant Commissioner of
Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999).] or such other officer of customs; or(c)[ if the
amount cannot be recovered from such person in the manner provided in clause
(a) or clause (b)- [Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 66, for Clause (c)
(w.e.f. 26.5.1995). ](i)the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs][may prepare a certificate signed by him specifying
the amount due from such person and send it to the Collector of the district
in which such person owns any property or resides or carries on his business
and the said Collector on receipt of such certificate shall proceed to recover
from such person the amount specified thereunder as if it were an arrear of
land revenue; or [Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 66, for Clause (c)
(w.e.f. 26.5.1995). ](ii)the proper officer may, on an authorisation by
[Commissioner of Customs ][and in accordance with the rules made in this
behalf, distrain any movable or immovable property belonging to or under the
control of such person, and detain the same until the amount payable is paid;
and in case, any part of the said amount payable or of the cost of the
distress or keeping of the property, remains unpaid for a period of thirty
days next after any such distress, may cause the said property to be sold and
with the proceeds of such sale, may satisfy the amount payable and the costs
including cost of sale remaining unpaid and shall render the surplus, if any,
to such person:] [Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 66, for Clause (c)
(w.e.f. 26.5.1995). ][Provided that where the person (hereinafter referred to
as predecessor), by whom any sum payable under this Act including the amount
required to be paid to the credit of the Central Government under section 28-B
is not paid, transfers or otherwise disposes of his business or trade in whole
or in part, or effects any change in the ownership thereof, in consequence of
which he is succeeded in such business or trade by any other person, all
goods, materials, preparations, plants, machineries, vessels, utensils,
implements and articles in the custody or possession of the person so
succeeding may also be attached and sold by the proper officer, after
obtaining written approval from the Commissioner of Customs, for the purposes
of recovering the amount so payable by such predecessor at the time of such
transfer, or otherwise disposal or change.] [ Inserted by Act 23 of 2004,
Section 72 (w.e.f. 10.9.2004).](2)Where the terms of any bond or other
instrument executed under this Act or any rules or regulations made thereunder
provide that any amount due under such instrument may be recovered in the
manner laid down in sub-section (1), the amount may, without prejudice to any
other mode of recovery, be recovered in accordance with the provisions of that
sub-section.

### 142A. [ Liability under Act to be first charge. [Inserted by Act 8 of
2011, sec. 51 (w.e.f. 8.4.2011).]

\- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Central Act or
State Act, any amount of duty, penalty, interest or any other sum payable by
an assessee or any other person under this Act, shall, save as otherwise
provided in section 529A of the Companies Act, 1956, the Recovery of Debts Due
to Banks and the Financial Institutions Act, 1993 [the Securitisation and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and the Enforcement of Security Interest
Act, 2002 and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016] be the first charge on
the property of the assessee or the person, as the case may be.]

### 143. Power to allow import or export on execution of bonds in certain
cases.

(1)Where this Act or any other law requires anything to be done before a
person can import or export any goods or clear any goods from the control of
officers of customs and the Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs is satisfied that having regard to the circumstances
of the case, such thing cannot be done before such import, export or clearance
without detriment to that person, the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or
Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100,
for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these
words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] may,
notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or such other law, grant leave
for such import, export or clearance on the person executing a bond in such
amount, with such surety or security and subject to such conditions as the
[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [
Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for " Assistant Commissioner of
Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22
of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] approves, for the doing of that thing
within such time after the import, export or clearance as may be specified in
the bond.(2)If the thing is done within the time specified in the bond, the
[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [
Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for " Assistant Commissioner of
Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22
of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] shall cancel the bond as discharged
in full and shall, on demand, deliver it, so cancelled, to the person who has
executed or who is entitled to receive it; and in such a case that person
shall not be liable to any penalty provided in this Act or, as the case may
be, in such other law for the contravention of the provisions thereof relating
to the doing of that thing.(3)If the thing is not done within the time
specified in the bond, the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for "
Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these words
were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] shall,
without prejudice to any other action that may be taken under this Act or any
other law for the time being in force, be entitled to proceed upon the bond in
accordance with law.

### 143A. [ Duty deferment. [Inserted by Act 25 of 1978, Section 17 (w.e.f.
1.7.1978). ]

(1)When any material is imported under an import licence belonging to the
category of Advance Licence granted under the [Imports and Exports (Control)
Act, 1947] [(18 of 1947), subject to an obligation to export the goods as are
specified in the said Licence within the period specified therein, the
[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs]
[Inserted by Act 25 of 1978, Section 17 (w.e.f. 1.7.1978). ][may,
notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, permit clearance of such
material without payment of duty leviable thereon.(2)The permission for
clearance without payment of duty under sub-section (1) shall be subject to
the following conditions, that is to say-(a)the duty payable on the material
imported shall be adjusted against the drawback of duty payable under this Act
or under any other law for the time being in force on the export of goods
specified in the said Advance Licence; and(b)where the duty is not so adjusted
either for the reason that the goods are not exported within the period
specified in the said Advance Licence, or within such extended period not
exceeding six months as the [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] [may, on sufficient cause being shown, allow, or for
any other sufficient reason, the importer shall, notwithstanding anything
contained in section 28, be liable to pay the amount of duty not so adjusted
together with simple interest thereon at the rate of twelve per cent. per
annum from the date the said permission for clearance is given to the date of
payment. [Inserted by Act 25 of 1978, Section 17 (w.e.f. 1.7.1978). ](3)While
permitting clearance under sub-section (1), the [Assistant Commissioner of
Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [Inserted by Act 25 of 1978,
Section 17 (w.e.f. 1.7.1978). ] may require the importer to execute a bond
with such surety or security as he thinks fit for complying with the
conditions specified in sub-section (2).]

### 143AA. [ Power to simplify or provide different procedure, etc., to
facilitate trade. [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act, the
Board may, for the purposes of facilitation of trade, take such measures or
prescribe separate procedure or documentation for a class of importers or
exporters or for categories of goods or on the basis of the modes of transport
of goods, in order to, -(a)maintain transparency in the import and export
documentation; or(b)expedite clearance or release of goods entered for import
or export; or(c)reduce the transaction cost of clearance of importing or
exporting goods; or(d)maintain balance between customs control and
facilitation of legitimate trade.]

### 144. Power to take samples.

(1)The proper officer may, on the entry or clearance of any goods or at any
time while such goods are being passed through the customs area, take samples
of such goods in the presence of the owner thereof, for examination or
testing, or for ascertaining the value thereof, or for any other purposes of
this Act.(2)After the purpose for which a sample was taken is carried out,
such sample shall, if practicable, be restored to the owner, but if the owner
fails to take delivery of the sample within three months of the date on which
the sample was taken, it may be disposed of in such manner as the
[Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 51, for "
Collector of Customs" (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] may direct.(3)No duty shall be
chargeable on any sample of goods taken under this section which is consumed
or destroyed during the course of any test or examination thereof, if such
duty amounts to five rupees or more.

### 145. Owner, etc., to perform operations incidental to compliance with
customs law.

\- All operations necessary for making any goods available for examination by
the proper officer or for facilitating such examination shall be performed by,
or at the expense of, the owner, importer or exporter of the goods, as the
case may be.

### 146. Custom house agents to be licensed.

(1)No person shall carry on business as an agent relating to the entry or
departure of a conveyance or the import or export of goods at any customs-
station unless such person holds a licence granted in this behalf in
accordance with the regulations.(2)The Board may make regulations for the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section and, in particular,
such regulations may provide for-(a)the authority by which a licence may be
granted under this section and the period of validity of any such
licence;(b)the form of the licence and the fees payable therefor;(c)the
qualifications of persons who may apply for a licence and the qualifications
of persons to be employed by a licensee to assist him in his work as an
agent;(d)the restrictions and conditions (including the furnishing of security
by the licensee) subject to which a licence may be granted;(e)the
circumstances in which a licence may be suspended or revoked; and(f)the
appeals, if any, against an order of suspension or revocation of a licence,
and the period within which such appeals shall be filed.

### 146A. [ Appearance by authorised representative. [Inserted by Act 44 of
1980, Section 50 and Schedule V (w.e.f. 11.10.1982). ]

(1)Any person who is entitled or required to appear before an officer of
customs or the Appellate Tribunal in connection with any proceedings under
this Act, otherwise than when required under section 108 to attend personally
for examination on oath or affirmation, may, subject to the other provisions
of this section, appear by an authorised representative.(2)For the purposes of
this section, "authorised representative" means a person authorised by the
person referred to in sub-section (1) to appear on his behalf, being-(a)his
relative or regular employee; or(b)a custom house agent licensed under section
146; or(c)any legal practitioner who is entitled to practise in any Civil
Court in India; or(d)any person who has acquired such qualifications as the
Central Government may specify by rules made in this behalf.(3)Notwithstanding
anything contained in this section, no person who was a member of the Indian
Customs and Central Excise Service-Group A and has retired or resigned from
such Service after having served for not less than three years in any capacity
in that Service shall be entitled to appear as an authorised representative in
any proceedings before an officer of customs for a period of two years from
the date of his retirement or resignation, as the case may be.(4)No
person,-(a)who has been dismissed or removed from Government service; or(b)who
is convicted of an offence connected with any proceeding under this Act, the
[Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944)], or the [Gold (Control) Act,
1968 (45 of 1968)] [ This Act has been repealed by Act 18 of 1990, Section 2
(w.e.f. 6.6.1990).][; or [Inserted by Act 44 of 1980, Section 50 and Schedule
V (w.e.f. 11.10.1982). ](c)who has become an insolvent, shall be qualified to
represent any person under sub-section (1), for all times in the case of a
person referred to in clause (a), and for such time as the [Commissioner of
Customs][or the competent authority under the [Central Excises and Salt Act,
1944 (1 of 1944)] [Inserted by Act 44 of 1980, Section 50 and Schedule V
(w.e.f. 11.10.1982). ], or the [Gold (Control) Act, 1968 (45 of 1968)] [ This
Act has been repealed by Act 18 of 1990, Section 2 (w.e.f. 6.6.1990).],[as the
case may be, may, by order, determine in the case of a person referred to in
clause (b), and for the period during which the insolvency continues in the
case of a person referred to in clause (c). [Inserted by Act 44 of 1980,
Section 50 and Schedule V (w.e.f. 11.10.1982). ](5)If any person,-(a)who is a
legal practitioner, is found guilty of misconduct in his professional capacity
by any authority entitled to institute proceedings against him, an order
passed by that authority shall have effect in relation to his right to appear
before an officer of customs or the Appellate Tribunal as it has in relation
to his right to practise as a legal practitioner;(b)who is not a legal
practitioner, is found guilty of misconduct in connection with any proceedings
under this Act by such authority as may be specified by rules made in this
behalf, that authority may direct that he shall thenceforth be disqualified to
represent any person under sub-section (1).(6)Any order or direction under
clause (b) of sub-section (4) or clause (b) of sub-section (5) shall be
subject to the following conditions, namely:-(a)no such order or direction
shall be made in respect of any person unless he has been given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard;(b)any person against whom any such order or
direction is made may, within one month of the making of the order or
direction, appeal to the Board to have the order or direction cancelled;
and(c)no such order or direction shall take effect until the expiration of one
month from the making thereof, or, where an appeal has been preferred, until
the disposal of the appeal.]

### 147. Liability of principal and agent.

(1)Where this Act requires anything to be done by the owner, importer or
exporter of any goods, it may be done on his behalf by his agent.(2)Any such
thing done by an agent of the owner, importer or exporter of any goods shall,
unless the contrary is proved, be deemed to have been done with the knowledge
and consent of such owner, importer or exporter, so that in any proceedings
under this Act, the owner, importer or exporter of the goods shall also be
liable as if the thing had been done by himself.(3)When any person is
expressly or impliedly authorised by the owner, importer or exporter of any
goods to be his agent in respect of such goods for all or any of the purposes
of this Act, such person shall, without prejudice to the liability of the
owner, importer or exporter, be deemed to be the owner, importer or exporter
of such goods for such purposes:Provided that where any duty is not levied or
is short-levied or erroneously refunded on account of any reason other than
any wilful act, negligence or default of the agent, such duty shall not be
recovered from the agent unless in the opinion of [Assistant Commissioner of
Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999,
Section 100, for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999).
Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).] the same cannot be recovered from the owner, importer or
exporter.

### 148. Liability of agent appointed by the person in charge of a conveyance.

(1)Where this Act requires anything to be done by the person in charge of a
conveyance, it may be done on his behalf by his agent.(2)An agent appointed by
the person in charge of a conveyance and any person who represents himself to
any officer of customs as an agent of any such person in charge, and is
accepted as such by that officer, shall be liable for the fulfilment in
respect of the matter in question of all obligations imposed on such person in
charge by or under this Act or any law for the time being in force, and to
penalties and confiscations which may be incurred in respect of that matter.

### 149. Amendment of documents.

\- Save as otherwise provided in sections 30 and 41, the proper officer may,
in his discretion, authorise any document, after it has been presented in the
custom house to be amended:Provided that no amendment of a bill of entry or a
shipping bill or bill of export shall be so authorised to be amended after the
imported goods have been cleared for home consumption or deposited in a
warehouse, or the export goods have been exported, except on the basis of
documentary evidence which was in existence at the time the goods were
cleared, deposited or exported, as the case may be.

### 150. Procedure for sale of goods and application of sale proceeds.

(1)Where any goods not being confiscated goods are to be sold under any
provisions of this Act, they shall, after notice to the owner thereof, be sold
by public auction or by tender or with the consent of the owner in any other
manner.(2)The proceeds of any such sale shall be applied-(a)firstly to the
payment of the expenses of the sale,(b)next to the payment of the freight and
other charges, if any, payable in respect of the goods sold, to the carrier,
if notice of such charges has been given to the person having custody of the
goods,(c)next to the payment of the duty, if any, on the goods sold,(d)next to
the payment of the charges in respect of the goods sold due to the person
having the custody of the goods,(e)next to the payment of any amount due from
the owner of the goods to the Central Government under the provisions of this
Act or any other law relating to customs, and the balance, if any, shall be
paid to the owner of the goods.

### 151. Certain officers required to assist officers of customs.

\- The following officers are hereby empowered and required to assist officers
of customs in the execution of this Act, namely:-(a)officers of the Central
Excise Department;(b)officers of the Navy;(c)officers of Police;(d)officers of
the Central or State Governments employed at any port or airport;(e)such other
officers of the Central or State Governments or a local authority as are
specified by the Central Government in this behalf by notification in the
Official Gazette.

### 151A. [ Instructions to officers of customs. [ Substituted by Act 80 of
1985, Section 12 (w.e.f. 27.12.1985).]

\- The Board may, if it considers it necessary or expedient so to do for the
purpose of uniformity in the classification of goods or with respect to the
levy of duty thereon, issue such orders, instructions and directions to
officers of customs as it may deem fit and such officers of customs and all
other persons employed in the execution of this Act shall observe and follow
such orders, instructions and directions of the Board:Provided that no such
orders, instructions or directions shall be issued-(a)so as to require any
such officer of customs to make a particular assessment or to dispose of a
particular case in a particular manner; or(b)so as to interfere with the
discretion of the [Commissioner of Customs] (Appeals) in the exercise of his
appellate functions.]

### 151B. [ Reciprocal arrangement for exchange of information facilitating
trade. [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.]

(1)The Central Government may enter into an agreement or any other arrangement
with the Government of any country outside India or with such competent
authorities of that country, as it deems fit, for facilitation of trade,
enforcing the provisions of this Act and exchange of information for trade
facilitation, effective risk analysis, verification of compliance and
prevention, combating and investigation of offences under the provisions of
this Act or under the corresponding laws in force in that country.(2)The
Central Government may, by notification, direct that the provisions of this
section shall apply to the contracting State with which reciprocal agreement
or arrangements have been made, subject to such conditions, exceptions or
qualifications as may be specified in that notification.(3)Subject to the
provisions of sub-section (2), the information received under sub-section (1)
may also be used as evidence in investigations and proceedings under this
Act.(4)Where the Central Government has entered into a multilateral agreement
for exchange of information or documents for the purpose of verification of
compliance in identified cases, the Board shall specify the procedure for such
exchange, the conditions subject to which such exchange shall be made and
designation of the person through whom such information shall be
exchanged.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) or sub-section (3), anything done or any action taken or purported
to have been done or taken, in pursuance to any agreement entered into or any
other arrangement made by the Central Government prior to the date on which
the Finance Bill, 2018 receives the assent of the President, shall be deemed
to have been done or taken under the provisions of this section.Explanation. -
For the purposes of this section, the expressions, -(i)"contracting State"
means any country outside India in respect of which agreement or arrangements
have been made by the Central Government with the Government or authority of
such country through an agreement or otherwise;(ii)"corresponding law" means
any law in force in the contracting State corresponding to any of the
provisions of this Act or dealing with offences in that country corresponding
to any of the offences under this Act.]

### 152. Delegation of powers.

\- The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct
that subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the
notification -(a)any power exercisable by the Board under this Act shall be
exercisable also by [a [Chief Commissioner of Customs] [Inserted by Act 29 of
1988, Section 7 (w.e.f. 1.7.1988). ] or a [Commissioner of Customs] [
Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50, for " Collector of Customs" (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).] empowered in this behalf by the Central Government;(b)any power
exercisable by a [Commissioner of Customs] [<SPAN class=amd2><A TITLE =] under
this Act may be exercisable also by a [Joint Commissioner of Customs] [
Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for " Deputy Commissioner of
Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22
of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).] or an [Assistant Commissioner of
Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999,
Section 100, for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999).
Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).] empowered in this behalf by the Central Government;(c)any power
exercisable by a [Joint Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by Act 27 of
1999, Section 100, for " Deputy Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999).
Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f.
26.5.1995).] under this Act may be exercisable also by an [Assistant
Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [ Substituted by
Act 27 of 1999, Section 100, for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f.
11.5.1999). Earlier, these words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section
50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).]empowered in this behalf by the Central
Government;(d)any power exercisable by an [Assistant Commissioner of Customs
or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] [Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, Section
100, for " Assistant Commissioner of Customs" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999). Earlier,
these words were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 50 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).
] under this Act may be exercisable also by a Gazetted Officer of Customs
empowered in this behalf by the Board.

### 153. [ Modes for service of notice, order, etc. [Substituted by Finance
Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated 29.3.2018.]

(1)An order, decision, summons, notice or any other communication under this
Act or the rules made thereunder may be served in any of the following modes,
namely: -(a)by giving or tendering it directly to the addressee or importer or
exporter or his customs broker or his authorised representative including
employee, advocate or any other person or to any adult member of his family
residing with him;(b)by a registered post or speed post or courier with
acknowledgement due, delivered to the person for whom it is issued or to his
authorised representative, if any, at his last known place of business or
residence;(c)by sending it to the e-mail address as provided by the person to
whom it is issued, or to the e-mail address available in any official
correspondence of such person;(d)by publishing it in a newspaper widely
circulated in the locality in which the person to whom it is issued is last
known to have resided or carried on business; or(e)by affixing it in some
conspicuous place at the last known place of business or residence of the
person to whom it is issued and if such mode is not practicable for any
reason, then, by affixing a copy thereof on the notice board of the office or
uploading on the official website, if any.(2)Every order, decision, summons,
notice or any communication shall be deemed to have been served on the date on
which it is tendered or published or a copy thereof is affixed or uploaded in
the manner provided in sub-section (1).(3)When such order, decision, summons,
notice or any communication is sent by registered post or speed post, it shall
be deemed to have been received by the addressee at the expiry of the period
normally taken by such post in transit unless the contrary is proved.]

### 154. Correction of clerical errors, etc.

\- Clerical or arithmetical mistakes in any decision or order passed by the
Central Government, the Board or any officer of customs under this Act, or
errors arising therein from any accidental slip or omission may, at any time,
be corrected by the Central Government, the Board or such officer of customs
or the successor in office of such officer, as the case may be.

### 154A. [ Rounding off of duty, etc. [ Inserted by Act 12 of 1990, Section
62 (w.e.f. 31.5.1990).]

\- The amount of duty, interest, penalty, fine or any other sum payable, and
the amount of refund, drawback or any other sum due, under the provisions of
this Act shall be rounded off to the nearest rupee and, for this purpose,
where such amount contains a part of a rupee consisting of paise then, if such
part is fifty paise or more, it shall be increased to one rupee and if such
part is less than fifty paise it shall be ignored.]

### 154B. [ Publication of information respecting persons in certain cases. [
Inserted by Act 29 of 2006, Section 33 (w.e.f. 13.7.2006).]

(1)If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient
in the public interest to publish the names of any person and any other
particulars relating to any proceedings or prosecutions under this Act in
respect of such person, it may cause to be published such names and
particulars in such manner as it thinks fit.(2)No publication under this
section shall be made in relation to any penalty imposed under this Act until
the time for presenting an appeal to the Commissioner (Appeals) under section
128 or the Appellate Tribunal under section 129-A, as the case may be, has
expired without an appeal having been presented or the appeal, if presented,
has been disposed of.Explanation.-In the case of a firm, company or other
association of persons, the names of the partners of the firm, directors,
managing agents, secretaries and treasurers or managers of the company, or the
members of the association, as the case may be, may also be published if, in
the opinion of the Central Government, circumstances of the case justify it.]

### 155. Protection of action taken under the Act.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Central Government or any officer of the Government or a local authority for
anything which is done, or intended to be done in good faith, in pursuance of
this Act or the rules or regulations.(2)No proceeding other than a suit shall
be commenced against the Central Government or any officer of the Government
or a local authority for anything purporting to be done in pursuance of this
Act without giving the Central Government or such officer a month's previous
notice in writing of the intended proceeding and of the cause thereof, or
after the expiration of three months from the accrual of such cause.

### 156. General power to make rules.

(1)Without prejudice to any power to make rules contained elsewhere in this
Act, the Central Government may make rules consistent with this Act generally
to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice
to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or
any of the following matters, namely:-(a)[ the manner of determining the
transaction value of the imported goods and export goods under sub-section (1)
of section 14;] [ Substituted by Act 22 of 2007, Section 113, for Clause (a)
(w.e.f. 10.10.2007). Prior to its substitution, Clause (a) read as under:-"
(a) the manner of determining the price of imported goods under sub-Section
(1-A) of Section 14;" .](b)the conditions subject to which accessories of, and
spare parts and maintenance and repairing implements for, any article shall be
chargeable at the same rate of duty as that article;[* * *] [ Clause (c)
omitted by Act 26 of 1988, Section 80 (w.e.f. 13.5.1988).](d)the detention and
confiscation of goods the importation of which is prohibited and the
conditions, if any, to be fulfilled before such detention and confiscation and
the information, notices and security to be given and the evidence requisite
for the purposes of such detention or confiscation and the mode of
verification of such evidence;(e)the reimbursement by an informant to any
public officer of all expenses and damages incurred in respect of any
detention of any goods made on his information and of any proceedings
consequent on such detention;(f)the information required in respect of any
goods mentioned in a shipping bill or bill of export which are not exported or
which are exported and are afterwards re-landed;(g)[ the publication, subject
to such conditions as may be specified therein, of names and other particulars
of persons who have been found guilty of contravention of any of the
provisions of this Act or the rules;] [ Added by Act 36 of 1973, Section 12
(w.e.f. 1.9.1973).](h)[ the amount to be paid [for compounding and the manner
of compounding] [ Inserted by Act 23 of 2004, Section 73 (w.e.f. 10.9.2004).]
[under sub-section (3) of section 137.] [ Inserted by Act 23 of 2004, Section
73 (w.e.f. 10.9.2004).]

### 157. General power to make regulations.

(1)Without prejudice to any power to make regulations contained elsewhere in
this Act, the Board may make regulations consistent with this Act and the
rules, generally to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular and
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such regulations
may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely: -(a)the form [and
manner to deliver or present] [Inserted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of
2018), dated 29.3.2018.] of a bill of entry, shipping bill, bill of export,
import manifest, import report, export manifest, export report, [bill of
transhipment, declaration for transhipment] [ Substituted by Act 27 of 1999,
Section 115, for " bill of transhipment" (w.e.f. 11.5.1999).], boat note and
bill of coastal goods;(ai)[ the manner of export of goods, relinquishment of
title to the goods and abandoning them to customs and destruction or rendering
of goods commercially valueless in the presence of the proper officer under
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 26-A; [ Inserted by Act 33 of 2009,
Section 91.](aii)the form and manner of making application for refund of duty
under sub-section (2) of section 26-A;](aa)[ the [form and manner] [Inserted
by Act 40 of 1991, Section 14 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ] [in which an application
for refund shall be made under section 27;] [Inserted by Act 40 of 1991,
Section 14 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991). ](ab)[ the form, the particulars, the manner
and the time of delivering the passenger and crew manifest for arrival and
departure and passenger name record information and the penalty for delay in
delivering such information under sections 30A and 41A;] [Inserted by Finance
Act, 2017 (Act No. 7 of 2017), dated 31.3.2017.](b)the conditions subject to
which the transhipment of all or any goods under sub-section (3) of section
54, the transportation of all or any goods under section 56 and the removal of
warehoused goods from one warehouse to another under section 67, may be
allowed without payment of duty;(c)the conditions subject to which any
manufacturing process or other operations may be carried on in a warehouse
under section 65.(d)[ the time and manner of finalisation of provisional
assessment; [Substituted by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018), dated
29.3.2018.](e)the manner of conducting pre-notice consultation;(f)the
circumstances under which, and the manner in which, supplementary notice may
be issued;(g)the form and manner in which an application for advance ruling or
appeal shall be made, and the procedure for the Authority, under Chapter
VB;(h)the manner of clearance or removal of imported or export goods;(i)the
documents to be furnished in relation to imported goods;(j)the conditions,
restrictions and the manner of making deposits in electronic cash ledger, the
utilisation and refund therefrom and the manner of maintaining such
ledger;(k)the manner of conducting audit;(l)the goods for controlled delivery
and the manner thereof;(m)the measures and separate procedure or documentation
for a class of importers or exporters or categories of goods or on the basis
of the modes of transport of goods.]

### 158. Provisions with respect to rules and regulations.

(1)All rules and regulations made under this Act shall be published in the
Official Gazette.(2)Any rule or regulation which the Central Government or the
Board is empowered to make under this Act may provide-(i)for the levy of fees
in respect of applications, amendment of documents, furnishing of duplicates
of documents, issue of certificates, and supply of statistics, and for
rendering of any services by officers of customs under this Act;

Substituted by Act 18 of 2008, Section 75, for Clause (ii). Prior to its
substitution, Clause (ii) read as under:-" (ii) that any person who
contravenes any provision of a rule or regulation or abets such contravention
or any person who fails to comply with any provision of a rule or regulation
with which it was his duty to comply, shall be liable,-(a) in the case of
contravention or failure to comply with a rule, to a penalty which may extend
to five hundred rupees;(b) in the case of contravention or failure to comply
with a regulation, to a penalty which may extend to two hundred rupees."  
---  
  
(ii)that any person who contravenes any provision of a rule or regulation or
abets such contravention or who fails to comply with any provision of a rule
or regulation with which it was his duty to comply, shall be liable to a
penalty which may extend to fifty thousand rupees.

### 159. [ Rules, certain notifications and orders to be laid before
Parliament. [ Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 68 (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).]

\- Every rule or regulation made under this Act, every notification issued
under sections 11, 11-B, 11-H, 11-I, 11-K, 11-N, 14, 25, 28-A, 43, 66, 69, 70,
74, 75, 76, 98, 98-A, 101 and 123 and every order made under sub-section (2)
of section 25, other than an order relating to goods of strategic, secret,
individual or personal nature, shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is
made or issued, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a
total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session, or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session,
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or regulation or
notification or order or both Houses agree that the rule or regulation should
not be made or notification or order should not be issued or made, the rule or
regulation or notification or order shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or regulation or notification or
order.]

### 159A. [ Effect of amendments, etc., of rules, regulations, notifications
or orders. [ Inserted by Act 14 of 2001, Section 113 (w.e.f. 11.5.2001).]

\- Where any rule, regulation, notification or order made or issued under this
Act or any notification or order issued under such rule or regulation, is
amended, repealed, superseded or rescinded, then, unless a different intention
appears, such amendment, repeal, supersession or rescinding shall
not-(a)revive anything not in force or existing at the time at which the
amendment, repeal, supersession or rescinding takes effect; or(b)affect the
previous operation of any rule, regulation, notification or order so amended,
repealed, superseded or rescinded or anything duly done or suffered
thereunder; or(c)affect any right, privilege, obligation or liability
acquired, accrued or incurred under any rule, regulation, notification or
order so amended, repealed, superseded or rescinded; or(d)affect any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed under or
in violation of any rule, regulation, notification or order so amended,
repealed, superseded or rescinded; or(e)affect any investigation, legal
proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation,
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid, and any such
investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or
enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if
the rule, regulation, notification or order, as the case may be, had not been
amended, repealed, superseded or rescinded.]

### 160. Repeal and savings.

(1)The enactments specified in the Schedule are hereby repealed to the extent
mentioned in the fourth column thereof.(2)In the Indian Tariff Act, 1934 (32
of 1934)-(a)for section 2, the following section shall be substituted,
namely:-"2. Duties specified in the Schedules to be levied.-The rates at which
duties of customs shall be levied under the Customs Act, 1962, are specified
in the First and Second Schedules.";(b)sections 5 and 6 shall stand
repealed.(3)Notwithstanding the repeal of any enactment by this
section,-(a)any notification, rule, regulation, order or notice issued or any
appointment or declaration made or any licence, permission or exemption
granted for any assessment made, confiscation adjudged or any duty levied or
any penalty or fine imposed or any forfeiture, cancellation or discharge of
any bond ordered or any other thing done or any other action taken under any
repealed enactment shall, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding
provision of this Act;(b)any document referring to any enactment hereby
repealed shall be construed as referring to this Act or to the corresponding
provision of this Act.(4)This Act shall apply to all goods which are subject
to the control of customs at the commencement of this Act notwithstanding that
the goods were imported before such commencement.(5)Where the period
prescribed for any application, appeal, revision or other proceeding under any
repealed enactment had expired on or before the commencement of this Act,
nothing in this Act shall be construed as enabling any such application,
appeal or revision to be made or a proceeding to be instituted under this Act
by reason only of the fact that a longer period therefor is prescribed or
provision is made for extension of time in suitable cases by the appropriate
authority.(6)The provisions of section 65 shall apply to goods warehoused
before the commencement of this Act if the operations permissible under that
section were carried on after such commencement.(7)Any duty or penalty payable
under any repealed enactment may be recovered in a manner provided under this
Act but without prejudice to any action already taken for the recovery of such
duty or penalty under the repealed enactment.(8)The mention of particular
matters in sub-sections (4), (5), (6) and (7) shall not be held to prejudice
or affect the general application of section 6 of the General Clauses Act,
1897 (10 of 1897), with regard to the effect of repeals.(9)Nothing in this Act
shall affect any law for the time being in force relating to the constitution
and powers of any Port authority in a major port as defined in the Indian
Ports Act, 1908 (15 of 1908).

### 161. Removal of difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
particularly in relation to the transition from the enactments repealed by
this Act to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, by general
or special order, do anything not inconsistent with such provisions which
appears to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the
difficulty.THE SCHEDULE(See section 160)REPEALS

Year | No. | Short title | Extent of repeal  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
1878 | 8 | The Sea Customs Act | The whole  
1896 | 8 | The Inland Bonded Warehouses Act | The whole  
1924 | 19 | The Land Customs Act | The whole  
1934 | 22 | The Aircraft Act | Section 16

