## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (THIRD AMENDMENT) ACT, 1954

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (THIRD AMENDMENT) ACT, 1954

## MINISTRYOFLAWANDJUSTICE 03 of 1954

  * Published in Gazette of India on 19 May 1952 
  * Commenced on 22 February 1955 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 May 1952.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to THE CONSTITUTION (Second
Amendment) Bill, 1952 which was enacted as the the Constitution (Second
Amendment) Act, 1952_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** Article 81(1)(a)
prescribes an absolute limit of 500 elected members in the House of the
People. Article 81(1)(b) provides that the States shall be divided, grouped or
formed into territorial constituencies and the number of members to be
allotted to each such constituency shall be so determined as to ensure that
there shall be not less than one member for every 750,000 of the population
and not more than one member for every 500,000 of the population.The present
delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly constituencies is based on the
estimates of population which have been given legal validity by an order of
the President under article 387 of the Constitution. Article 81(3) of the
Constitution, however, requires that upon the completion of each census, the
representation of the several territorial constituencies in the House of the
People and the Legislative Assemblies of each State shall be re-adjusted by
such authority, in such manner and with effect from such date as Parliament
may by law determine. A Bill providing for the matters referred to in that
article is being introduced in Parliament. Provision has been made in that
Bill for the setting up of a Delimitation Commission for the purpose of
effecting re-adjustment of the representation in the House of the People and
in the State Legislative Assemblies on the basis of the population as
ascertained at the census of 1951.There is a considerable difference between
the population of the several States as estimated in the President's order and
in the population as ascertained at the census of 1951. At present, seats have
been allotted in the House of the People to Part A and Part B States on the
basis of one member for every 7.2 lakhs of the estimated population giving a
total of 470 members to these States. The census figures are higher in all
cases, and in view of the overall limit of 500 members prescribed in article
81(1) (a), it is not possible to increase appreciably the total number of
seats allotted to these States. It is accordingly necessary to reduce the
representation from one member for every 7.2 lakhs of population to one member
for every 7.5 lakhs of population as per 1951 census. As pointed out above,
this figure 7.5 lakhs is the maximum permissible under article 81(1)(b) as it
now stands; but even so, if the average population of a Parliamentary
constituency in any State is to be 750,000 it is obvious that the population
of a certain number of constituencies will exceed that figure. It is
necessary, therefore, that article 81(1)(b) should be amended relaxing the
limits prescribed in that article so as to avoid a constitutional irregularity
in delimiting the constitutencies for the purpose of re-adjustment of
representation in the House of the People as required under article 81(3) of
the Constitution. This Bill accordingly seeks to amend article 81(1)(b) of the
Constitution so as to replace the figures mentioned in that article by the
figures 850,000 and 650,000 respectively.An Act further to amend the
Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Fifth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Constitution (Third Amendment) Act 1954.

### 2. Amendment of the Seventh Schedule.-

In the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, for entry 33 of List III, the
following entry shall be substituted, namely:-"33. Trade and commerce in, and
the production, supply and distribution of,-(a)the products of any industry
where the control of such industry by the Union is declared by Parliament by
law to be expedient in the public interest, and imported goods of the same
kind as such products;(b)foodstuffs, including edible oil seeds and
oils;(c)cattle fodder, including oilcakes and other concentrates;(d)raw cotton
whether ginned or unginned, and cotton seeds; and(e)raw jute.".[The
Constitution (Third Amendment) Act, 1954, was a significant milestone in the
country’s economic development and political evolution. On September 6, 1954,
the bill of the 3rd amendment of the Indian Constitution was presented in the
Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha passed the bill on 28 September 1954. The
amendment made changes to the Seventh Schedule and widened the scope of Entry
33, List III, which lists the distribution of powers between the central
government and the state governments. Thus, empowering Parliament to control
the production, supply and distribution of all kinds of commodities. The 3rd
Amendment of the Indian constitution was introduced by Article 368, and it was
ratified by several state legislatures like West Bengal, Punjab, Rajasthan,
Saurashtra, Patiala and East Punjab States Union, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, and
Madras. Also refer.]

