## Union of India - Act

## The Citizenship Rules, 2009

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Citizenship Rules, 2009

## Rule THE-CITIZENSHIP-RULES-2009 of 2009

  * Published on 25 February 2009 
  * Commenced on 25 February 2009 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 February 2009.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Citizenship Rules, 2009Published vide Notification G.S.R. 124(E), dated
25.2.2009, published in the Gazette of India, Extra Part, 2, Section 3(i),
dated 25.2.2009Last Updated 7th December, 2018In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 18 of the Citizenship Act, 1955 (57 of 1955), the Central
Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:--

## Part I – Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement

.-(1) These rules may be called the Citizenship Rules, 2009.(2)They shall come
into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions

.-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,--(a)"Collector" means
the officer-in-charge of the revenue administration of a district and includes
a Deputy Commissioner or District Magistrate, wherever so
functioning;(b)"Form" means a Form appended to Schedule I to these
rules;(c)"Schedule" means a Schedule annexed to these rules;(d)"section" means
a section of the Citizenship Act, 1955 (57 of 1955).

## Part II – Application For Citizenship

### 3. Application for registration of birth under section 4

.-A person may submit an application for registration of birth of his minor
child born outside India in terms of sub-section (1) of section 4 in Form I to
the Indian consulate in the country, where such child was born, together with
a declaration that the child does not hold the passport of any other country.

### 4. Application for registration under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of
section 5

.-An application from a person of Indian origin for registration as a citizen
of India under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 5 shall not be
entertained unless--(a)the application is made in Form II;(b)he gives an
undertaking in writing that he shall renounce the citizenship of his country
in the event of his application being sanctioned;(c)he is ordinarily resident
in India for a period of at least seven years on the date of making
application; and(d)he makes the oath of allegiance as specified in the Second
Schedule to the Citizenship Act, 1955.

### 5. Application for registration under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of
section 5

.-(1) An application from a person, who is married to a citizen of India, for
registra-tion as a citizen of India under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of
section 5 shall not be entertained unless--(a)the application is made in Form
III;(b)he gives an undertaking in writing that he shall renounce the
citizenship of his country in the event of his application being
sanctioned;(c)on the date of making the application he,--(i)has been
ordinarily a resident of India; or(ii)has been in the service of the
Government of India, at least for a period of seven years; and(d)he makes the
oath of allegiance as specified in the Second Schedule to the Citizenship Act,
1955.Explanation .-In computing the period of seven years, any broken period
of residence and service under sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (c) shall be
included in the period specified therein.(2)The Central Government may, in
consideration of the special circumstances, exempt, any foreign national
married to such an Indian citizen who is in the service of the Government in
India, from the operation of clause (c) of sub-rule (1).(3)The Central
Government may, in consideration of the special circumstances, exempt, any
foreign national who has been married to an Indian citizen for not less than
seven years and who has visited India at least once in a year during any seven
years out of nine years, from the operation of clause (c) of sub-rule (1).

### 6. Application for registration under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of
section 5

.-An application for registration as a citizen of India under clause (d) of
sub-section (1) of section 5, for a minor child of a person who is a citizen
of India, shall not be entertained unless--(a)the application is made in Form
IV; and(b)the parent of such minor child declares that he is the legal
guardian of the child.

### 7. Application for registration under clause (e) of sub-section (1) of
section 5

.-An application from a person for registration as citizen of India under
clause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 5 shall not be entertained
unless--(a)the application is made in Form V;(b)he gives an undertaking in
writing that he shall renounce the citizenship of his country in the event of
his application being sanctioned; and(c)he makes the oath of allegiance as
specified in the Second Schedule to the Citizenship Act, 1955.

### 8. Application for registration under clause (f) of sub-section (1) of
section 5

.-An application from a person for registration as a citizen of India under
clause (f) of sub-section (1) of section 5 shall not be entertained
unless--(a)the application is made in Form VI;(b)he gives an undertaking that
he shall renounce the citizenship of his country in the event of his
application being sanctioned;(c)[ he is ordinarily resident in India for a
period of at least twelve months on the date of making application; and]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f.
25.2.2009)](d)he makes the oath of allegiance as specified in the Second
Schedule to the Citizenship Act, 1955.[Provided that the period of twelve
months referred to in clause (c) may, under special circumstances, be relaxed
by the Central Government under sub-section (1A) of section 5 of the
Citizenship Act, 1955.] [Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated
16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]

### 9. Application for registration under clause (g) of sub-section (1) of
section 5

.-An application from a person registered as an [Overseas Citizen of India
cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen of India" by Notification No.
G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)], for registration as a
citizen of India under clause (g) of sub-section (1) of section 5, shall not
be entertained unless--(a)the application is made in Form VII;(b)he gives an
undertaking in writing that he shall renounce the citizenship of his country
in the event of his application being sanctioned;(c)[ he has been an Overseas
Citizen of India cardholder for a period of at least five years and is
ordinarily resident in India for a period of twelve months on the date of
making application; and] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated
16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)](d)he makes the oath of allegiance as specified
in the Second Schedule to the Citizenship Act, 1955.[Provided that the period
of twelve months referred to in clause (c) may, under special circumstances,
be relaxed by the Central Government under sub-section (1A) of section 5 of
the Citizenship Act, 1955.] [Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated
16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]

### 10. Application for grant of citizenship by naturalisation under sub-
section (1) of section 6

.-An application from a person for naturalisation as a citizen of India under
sub-section (1) of section 6 shall not be entertained unless--(a)the
application is made in Form VIII;(b)he gives an undertaking in writing that he
shall renounce the citizenship of his country in the event of his application
being sanctioned; and(c)the application is accompanied with--(i)a duly stamped
affidavit verifying the correctness of the statements made in the application
alongwith two affidavits from Indian citizens testifying the character of the
applicant; and(ii)a certificate depicting that the applicant has adequate
knowledge of one of the languages specified in the Eighth Schedule to the
Constitu-tion of India.Explanation 1.-The applicant shall be considered to
have adequate knowledge of the concerned language if he can speak or read or
write that language.Explanation 2.-The certificate may either be issued by a
recognised educational institution or a recognised public organisation or from
two persons of the locality or district of the applicant who are citizens of
India.

### 11. Authority to which application may be made

.-(1) An application for registration under section 5 or naturalisation under
section 6 shall be made to the Collector within whose jurisdiction the
applicant is ordinarily resident.(2)On the receipt of the application, the
Collector shall issue an acknowledgement in Form IX.(3)On being satisfied
about the correctness of the particulars of application and before forwarding
the application to the State Government or the Union territory Administration,
as the case may be, the Collector shall administer to the applicant, who has
applied for grant of citizenship by registration, the oath of allegiance as
specified in the Second Schedule to the Citizenship Act, 1955.[Provided that
in respect of an application submitted by any person belonging to minority
community in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan (namely, Hindus, Sikhs,
Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians), in the absence of the Collector, an
officer not below the rank of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate authorised in
writing by the Collector, may administer to the applicant the oath of
allegiance.] [Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1168 (E), dated 23.12.2016
(w.e.f. 25.2.2009).]

## Part III – Issue Of Certificate Of Citizenship And Maintenance Of Registers

### 12. Forwarding of applications to Central Government

.-(1) The Collector shall forward every application received by him under
clauses (a) , (c) , (d) , (e) , (f) and (g) of sub-section (1) of section 5 or
sub-section (1) of section 6 to the State Government or the Union territory
Administration, as the case may be, within a period of sixty days from the
date of its receipt, along with a report as to whether the
applicant--(a)satisfies all the conditions laid down in the relevant clauses
of section 5 or section 6;(b)has an intention to make India his permanent
home;(c)has signed the oath of allegiance as specified in the Second Schedule
to the Citizenship Act, 1955; and(d)is of good character and is a fit and
proper person to be registered or naturalised, as the case may be, as a
citizen of India.(2)The State Government or the Union territory
Administration, as the case may be, shall forward the application along with
its recommendation and the report of the Collector, to the Central Government
within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of the report of the
Collector under sub-rule (1):Provided that if for sufficient reasons, the
Collector or the State Government or the Union territory Administration, as
the case may be, is unable to forward the application within the period
specified in sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2), the same may be forwarded to the
State Government or the Union territory Administration or the Central
Government, as the case may be, after the expiry of the period so specified
but not exceeding ninety days along with the reasons for delay.(3)All the
applications pending with the Collector or the State Government or the Union
territory Administration, as the case may be, on the date of commencement of
these rules shall be dealt with in the manner specified in sub-rules (1) and
(2).(4)If the application is not forwarded by the Collector or the State
Government or the Union territory Administration, as the case may be, to the
Central Government within a period of ninety days from the date of receipt of
the application, the applicant may represent to the Central Government in the
Ministry of Home Affairs by enclosing a copy of the acknowledgement issued by
the Collector.(5)The Central Government on receipt of the representation under
sub-rule (4), may take up the matter with the State Government or the Union
territory Administra-tion, as the case may be, to expedite its recommendation
on the application for grant of citizenship.

### 13. Scrutiny of applications by Central Government

.-The Central Government may,--(a)on receipt of the applications from the
State Government or the Union territory Administration, as the case may be,
complete in all respects; and(b)on being satisfied after making such inquiry
as it considers necessary for ascertaining the suitability of the applicant,
that he is a fit and proper person to be registered or naturalised, as the
case may be, grant him the citizenship of India.

### 14. Grant of certificate of registration

.-(1) Every person who is registered as a citizen of India under clause (a) ,
(c) , (d) , (e) or (f) of sub-section (1) of section 5 shall be issued a
certificate of registration in Form X signed by an officer not below the rank
of Under Secretary to the Government of India.(2)Every person who is
registered as a citizen of India under clause (g) of sub-section (1) of
section 5 shall be issued a certificate of registration in Form XI signed by
an officer not below the rank of Under Secretary to the Government of
India.(3)A copy of the certificate of registration issued under this rule,
shall be preserved for the purposes of record by the issuing authority.

### 15. Grant of certificate of naturalisation

.-(1) Every person who by naturalisation is made a citizen of India under sub-
section (1) of section 6, shall be issued a certificate of naturalisation in
Form XII signed by an officer not below the rank of Under Secretary to the
Government of India.(2)A copy of the certificate of naturalisation issued
under this rule, shall be preserved for the purposes of record by the issuing
authority.

### 16. Oath of allegiance for naturalisation

.-(1) The oath of allegiance, under sub-section (2) of section 6 by a person
to whom the certificate of naturalisation is granted, shall be subscribed in
Form XII and the oath of allegiance so subscribed shall be endorsed on the
certificate of naturalisation to which it relates.(2)The oath of allegiance
under sub-rule (1) shall be subscribed within a period of three months from
the date of grant of certificate of naturalisation to which it relates, or
within such extended period as the authority granting the certificate may
permit, and in case the oath is not taken within the said period, the
certificate shall be of no effect:Provided that no permission shall be given
under this sub-rule unless a state-ment to that effect is endorsed on the
certificate and signed by the officer authorised under rule 15 to sign the
certificate of naturalisation.(3)The oath of allegiance required under sub-
rule (1) shall be registered by such person and in such place as the authority
granting the certificate may direct.(4)When the oath of allegiance is
registered in accordance with any direction given under sub-rule (3), the
authority, which registers it shall cause a copy of the oath and the
certificate of naturalisation to which it relates to be sent to the Secretary
to the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs.

### 17. Register of citizens

.-The Central Government shall maintain a register containing the names and
other details of the persons registered or naturalised as citizen of
India--(a)under clauses (a) , (e) and (f) of sub-section (1) of section 5, in
Form XIII;(b)under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 5, in Form
XIV;(c)under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 5, in Form XV;(d)under
clause (g) of sub-section (1) of section 5 in Form XVI; and(e)under sub-
section (1) of section 6 in Form XVII.

### 18. Maintenance of registers and connected papers

.-(1) Every entry made in the register maintained under rule 17 shall be
numbered consecutively and each entry shall relate to one person only.(2)Every
entry made in the register maintained under rule 17 shall be authenticated by
the officer authorised to issue the certificate after a person is registered
or as the case may be, naturalised as a citizen of India.(3)The register, all
applications and papers connected therewith shall be preserved as permanent
record.

## Part IV – Provisions As To Citizenship Or India For Persons Covered By
Assam Accord

### 19. Registering authority for the purpose of sub-section (3) of section
6-A and form for registration

.-(1) The Central Government may, for the purposes of sub-section (3) of
section 6-A, appoint an officer not below the rank of Additional District
Magistrate as the registering authority for every district of the State of
Assam.(2)[ An application for registration under sub-section (3) of section 6A
shall be made in Form XVIII, by the person to the registering authority for
the district in which such person is ordinarily a resident within a period of
thirty days from the date of receipt of order of the Foreigners Tribunal
declaring such person as a foreigner;Provided that the registering authority
may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the said period to such
further period as may be justified in each case but not exceeding sixty
days].(2A)[ A person who has been declared as a foreigner by the Foreigners
Tribunal prior to 16th July, 2013 and has not been registered under sub-
section (3) of Section 6A for the reason of non-receipt of order of the
Foreigners Tribunal or refusal by the registering authority to register such
person as a foreigner on account of delay may, within a period of thirty days
from the date of receipt of the order passed by the Foreigners Tribunal, or,
from the date of publication of this notification, make an application for
registration in Form XVIII to the registering authority of the district in
which such person is ordinarily a resident: [Inserted by Notification No.
G.S.R. 488 (E) dated 16.7.2013 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]Provided that the
registering authority may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the
said period to such further period as may be justified in each case but not
exceeding one hundred eighty days].(3)The registering authority shall, after
entering the particulars of the application in a register in Form XIX, return
a copy of the application under his seal to the applicant.(4)One copy of every
application received during a quarter shall be sent by the registering
authority to the Central Government and the State Government of Assam along
with a quarterly return in Form XX.(5)[***] [Omitted by Notification No.
G.S.R. 488 (E) dated 16.7.2013 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]

### 20. Reference to Tribunals

.-Where, in case of a person seeking registration under sub-section (3) of
section 6-A,--(a)any question arises as to whether such person fulfils any
requirement contained in the said sub-section; or(b)the opinion of the
Tribunal constituted under the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964 in relation
to such person does not contain a finding with respect to any requirement
contained in the said sub-section other than the question that he is a
foreigner, then, the registering authority shall, within a period of fifteen
days of the receipt of the application under sub-rule (2) of rule 19, make a
fresh reference to the Tribunal in this regard.

### 21. Jurisdiction of Tribunal

.-The Tribunal constituted under the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964 having
jurisdiction over a district or part thereof in the State of Assam shall have
jurisdiction to decide references, received from the registering authority of
that district or part thereof in relation to all references made under sub-
section (3) of section 6-A.

### 22. Declaration under sub-section (6) of section 6-A

.-The declaration under sub-section (6) of section 6-A shall be made in Form
XXI to the District Magistrate of the area within whose jurisdiction such
person is ordinarily resident.

## Part V – Renunciation And Deprivation Of Citizenship Of India

### 23. [ Declaration of renunciation of citizenship. [Substituted by
Notification No. G.S.R. 1049(E), dated 18.10.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).]

(1)A declaration of renunciation of citizenship of India under sub-section (1)
of section 8 shall be made by a citizen of India in Form XXII.(2)On receipt of
the declaration of renunciation of citizenship of India under sub-rule (1), an
acknowledgement in Form XXIII shall be issued by the concerned Authority
referred to in rule 38, to the declarant.(3)On being satisfied about the
correctness of the particulars of the declaration made under sub-rule (1), the
declaration shall be registered by the concerned Authority referred to in sub-
rule (2) and a Certificate of Renunciation of Indian citizenship in Form XXIV
shall be issued by him to the declarant.(4)The concerned Authority referred to
in sub-rule (2) shall maintain a register in Form XXIV-A containing the
details of declarants whose declaration of renunciation of citizenship are
registered under this rule.] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 488 (E)
dated 16.7.2013 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]

### 24. Declaration of intention to resume Indian citizenship

.-(1) A declaration of intention to resume citizenship under the proviso to
sub-section (2) of section 8 shall be made in Form XXV, within a period of one
year of attaining the full age and the oath of allegiance as specified in the
Second Schedule to the Citizenship Act shall be subscribed and duly
attested.(2)Every such declaration shall be registered in the Ministry of Home
Affairs, Government of India.(3)No such declaration shall be registered unless
the declarant has taken the oath of allegiance given at the end of the
Form.(4)Every person who makes such declaration shall be issued a certificate
of resumption of citizenship of India in Form XXVI, signed by an officer not
below the rank of Under Secretary to the Government of India, and where such a
certificate is issued, a copy thereof shall be preserved for the purpose of
record by the issuing authority.(5)The Central Government in the Ministry of
Home Affairs shall maintain a register in Form XXVII containing the names of
persons whose declaration of resump-tion of citizenship of India are
registered under this rule.

### 25. Notice to be given before deprivation of citizenship

.-(1) When it is decided to make an order under section 10 depriving a person
of his citizenship of India, a notice under sub-section (4) of that section
shall be given--(a)in a case where the person's whereabouts is known, by
causing the notice to be delivered to him personally or by sending it to him
by post; or(b)in a case where the person's whereabouts is not known, by
sending it to his last known address.(2)On receipt of the notice under sub-
rule (1), the effected person may make an application for referring his case
to a Committee of Inquiry under sub-section (5) of section 10,--(a)if that
person is in India at the time when the notice is given to him, within a
period of three months from the date of the notice; or(b)in any other case,
within such time being not less than three months from the date of the notice,
as the Central Government may specify in the notice:Provided that the Central
Government may, in special circumstances and for reasons to be recorded in
writing, extend the period within which the application under this rule may be
made.(3)On receipt of the application under sub-rule (2), the Central
Government shall refer the case to the Committee of Inquiry for its decision.

### 26. Committee to follow procedure specified in Schedule II in holding
inquiry

.-A Committee of Inquiry appointed under section 10 shall, while holding the
inquiry under sub-section (6) of that section, follow the procedure laid down
in Schedule II.

### 27. Order depriving a person of citizenship of India to be published

.-Every order made under section 10, depriving a person of the citizenship of
India, shall be published in the Official Gazette.

### 28. Surrender and cancellation of certificate in case of deprivation of
citizenship

.-(1) Where an order has been made depriving a person registered or
naturalised in India of his citizenship of India, the person so deprived or
any other person in possession of the certificate of registration or
naturalisation shall, when required by notice in writing given by the Central
Government, deliver the said certificate to such person and within such period
as may be specified in the notice.(2)On the certificate being delivered, it
shall be cancelled and in case the certificate is not delivered, then, the
Central Government may direct that it shall, without prejudice to any action
which may be taken under sub-rule (3), be treated as cancelled.(3)If any
person fails to comply with any notice given under sub-rule (1), he shall be
liable to a fine, which may extend to one thousand rupees.

## Part VI – [Overseas Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas
citizenship of India" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015
(w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] \- registration, Renunciation And Cancellation

### 29. Application for registration under section 7-A

.-(1) An application for registration as an [Overseas Citizen of India
cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen of India" by Notification No.
G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] under section 7-A shall be
made in Form XXVIII.(2)[ Every person, including a minor, eligible to be
registered as Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder under section 7A may submit
separate application under sub-rule(1).] [Substituted by Notification No.
G.S.R. 1049(E), dated 18.10.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).](3)[ In case of a minor,
the application form may be signed by either of the parents or by the person
to whom the legal custody of the minor has been granted or by the legal
guardian of such minor, as the case may be.(4)In case of a person referred to
in clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 7A, who is a spouse of foreign
origin of a citizen of India or a spouse of foreign origin of an Overseas
Citizen of India Cardholder, only one such living spouse fulfilling the
conditions laid down under that clause shall be eligible to apply for
registration as Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder.] [Inserted by
Notification No. G.S.R. 1049(E), dated 18.10.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).]

### 31. Authority to which applications are to be made

.-An application under rule 29 [* * *] [Omitted "or as the case may be, rule
30" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]
shall be made in duplicate--(a)[ in India--(i)to the Foreigners Regional
Registration Officer (FRRO) as may be specified by the Central Government;
or(ii)to the Foreigners Division, Ministry of Home Affairs;](b)outside
India--(i)to the Indian Mission or Post having jurisdiction over the country
of which an applicant is a citizen; or(ii)where he is not in the country of
his citizenship, to the Indian Mission or Post having jurisdiction over the
country of which the applicant is ordinarily resident.

### 32. Scrutiny of applications

.-(1) The Central Government may, after a preliminary inquiry and on being
apparently satisfied that there is no adverse information available against
the applicant, register the person as an [Overseas Citizen of India
cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen of India" by Notification No.
G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] as soon as possible but not
later than a period of thirty days and the case shall be placed for post
verification of the antecedents.[(1-A) In the case of a person referred to in
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 7A of the Citizenship Act, 1955, who
is a spouse of foreign origin of a citizen of India or a spouse of foreign
origin of an Overseas Citizen of India cardholder, the registration as an
Overseas Citizen of India cardholder of such person shall be subject to prior
security clearance from a competent authority in India as provided under the
said clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 7A of the Citizenship Act, 1955
[and only one living spouse duly fulfilling the conditions laid down in said
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 7A shall be registered as an Overseas
Citizen of India Cardholder.] [Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E),
dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R.
35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)](2)The Central Government may, in
case of any adverse information against the applicant, and after making such
inquiry as it considers necessary, approve or reject the grant of registration
within a period of four months from the date of receipt of the application.

### 33. Certificate of registration and maintenance of register or persons
under section 7-A

.-(1) Every person, who is registered as an [Overseas Citizen of India
cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen of India" by Notification No.
G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] under section 7-A shall be
issued a certificate of registration in Form XXIX, signed by an officer not
below the rank of Under Secretary to the Government of India.(2)A copy of the
certificate of [Overseas Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas
citizen of India" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f.
25.2.2009)] issued under this rule, shall be preserved for the purposes of
record by the issuing authority.(3)The issuing authority shall maintain, a
register containing names and other details of the persons registered as
[Overseas Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen of
India" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]
under section 7-A in Form XXX and a copy thereof shall be forwarded to the
Ministry of Home Affairs in the first week of every month.[34. Declaration of
renunciation of Overseas Citizen of India card . - (1) A declaration of
renunciation of the card registering a person as an Overseas Citizen of India
cardholder under section 7C shall be made in Form XXXI, accompanied with the
original certificate of registration of Overseas Citizen of India cardholder,
to the [concerned Indian Mission or Post or the concerned Foreigners Regional
Registration Officer] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated
16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)], who in turn, shall forward the same to the
authority which issued the said certificate of registration.(2)On receipt of
the declaration of renunciation of the card registering as an Overseas Citizen
of India cardholder, the issuing authority shall issue an acknowledgement in
Form XXXII and remove the name of the declarant from the register of Overseas
Citizen of India cardholder.]

### 35. Cancellation of registration as [Overseas Citizen of India cardholder]
[Substituted "overseas citizen" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated
16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]

.-(1) Where an order has been made cancelling the registration as an [Overseas
Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen" by Notification
No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] of India, the person
whose registration has been cancelled or any other person in possession of the
certificate of registration shall, when required by notice in writing by the
Central Government, deliver the said certificate to such person and within
such period as may be specified in the notice.(2)On the certificate being
delivered, it shall be cancelled and in case the certificate is not delivered,
then the Central Government may direct that it shall be treated as
cancelled.(3)The issuing authority shall make an appropriate entry in the
register maintained under sub-rule (3) of rule 33 stating the cancellation of
registration as [Overseas Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas
citizen" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]
and a copy thereof shall be submitted to the Ministry of Home Affairs in the
first week of every month.

## Part VII – Miscellaneous

### 36. Variation in Form of application or declaration

.-Where a person wishes to make an application or declaration under any of
these rules and the form referred to in the rule is, in the opinion of the
Central Government or other authority to whom the application is to be sent
for registration, unsuitable to the particular case, the Central Government or
that other authority, as the case may be, may authorise the application or
declaration being made in some other form.

### 37. Certificate of citizenship in case of doubt

.-A certificate of citizenship in case of doubt under section 13 may be issued
in Form XXXIII and shall be signed by an officer not below the rank of Under
Secretary to the Government of India.

### 38. Authority before whom application or declaration may be made or by
whom the oath of allegiance may be administered

.-(1) An application or declaration made in accordance with these rules shall
not be accepted or registered and the oath of allegiance required by sub-
section (2) of section 5 or sub-section (2) of section 6 shall be of no
effect, unless it is signed in the presence of, or administered by,--(i)the
Collector, Deputy Commissioner, or the District Magistrate in India;(ii)any
Consular officer as defined in clause (d) of rule 2 of the Citizens
(Registration at Indian Consulates) Rules, 1956 outside India:Provided that if
the applicant or declarant is serving in India in the naval, military or air
forces of the Union, the application or declaration may be signed in the
presence of, or the oath administered by, any officer holding a Commission in
any of these forces.[Provided further that in respect of an application
submitted by any person belonging to minority community in Afghanistan,
Bangladesh and Pakistan (namely, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and
Christians), in the absence of the Collector, Deputy Commissioner or the
District Magistrate, the application or declaration may be signed in the
presence of, or the oath administered by, an officer not below the rank of the
Sub-Divisional Magistrate authorised in writing by the Collector, or Deputy
Commissioner or the District Magistrate, as the case may be.] [Inserted by
Notification No. G.S.R. 1168 (E), dated 23.12.2016 (w.e.f.
25.2.2009).](2)Notwithstanding anything contained in rules 11 and 12, an
application under sub-rule (3) of rule 5 for registration under clause (c) of
sub-section (1) of section 5 as an Indian citizen from a foreign national
married to an Indian citizen may be made to the Indian Consulate or Embassy or
Mission where he is a resident, who in turn shall forward it to the Central
Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs for consideration.

### 39. Certificate of documents

.-A document may be certified to be a true copy of a document by means of a
statement in writing to that effect signed by any of the persons before whom
the application or declaration may be made or whom the oath of allegiance may
be administered or by any officer now below the rank of an Under Secretary to
the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs.

### 40. Authority to determine acquisition of citizenship of another country

.-(1) For the purpose of sub-section (2) of section 9, the Central Government
may determine the issues as to whether, when or how any citizen of India had
acquired the citizenship of another country.(2)The Central Government while
determining any such issues shall have due regard to the rules of procedure
specified in Schedule III.

### 41. Fees

.-The fees specified under column (3) or, as the case may be, under column (4)
of the Schedule IV shall be levied and collected in respect of the matters
referred to under column (2) of that Schedule.

### 42. Authority for revision of an order made under the Act by prescribed
authority

.-If an application is made by a person aggrieved by an order made under the
provisions of the Act, the application shall be disposed off after giving a
reasonable opportunity to the person affected to present his case, by an
authority one rank higher than the authority specified for disposal of
application against the order of which revision is sought.

### 43. Repeal and saving

.-The Citizenship Rules, 1956 is hereby repealed:Provided that such repeal
shall not affect--(a)the previous operation of the said rules or anything duly
done or suffered thereunder; or(b)any right, privilege, obligation or
liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the said rules; or(c)any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed
against the said rules; or(d)any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in
respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty,
forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid, and any such investigation, legal
proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced any such
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment, may be imposed as if the said rules had
not been repealed.

## I

[Refer rule 2(c)]FORM I(Refer rule 3)THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009Application
for registration of birth of a minor child at an Indian consulate under
section 4 (1) of the Citizenship Act, 1955Note: Please write/print in Block
Letters

## Part I

| Photograph  
---|---  
|  
1\. Full name of the minor child: | ................................................  
2\. Sex: | ................................................  
3.Place & Country Birth : | ................................................  
4\. Date of birth: | ................................................  
5\. Mark of identification: | ................................................  
6\. Present address: | ................................................  
7\. (i) Father's full name: | ................................................  
(ii) Citizen ofIndiaby birth/descent/registration*/naturalization *: | ................................................  
(iii) Occupation: | ................................................  
(iv) Passport particulars: | ................................................  
(a) Country | ................................................  
(b)Number | ................................................  
8\. (i) Mother's full name: | ................................................  
(ii) Citizen ofIndiaby birth/descent/registration*/naturalization *: | ................................................  
(iii) Occupation:................................................... | ................................................  
(iv) Passport particulars: | ................................................  
(a) Country | ................................................  
(b) Number | ................................................  
  
## Part II – 9. I,................... a citizen of India and a parent
of....................to whom the foregoing particulars relate, hereby apply
on behalf of my child for the registration of his birth.

Date.............Signature of parent................

### 10\. I,..................................being the parent of
.................. do solemnly and sincerely declare that my child to whom the
foregoing particulars relate does not hold the passport of any other country.

### 11\. I, .....................do solemnly and sincerely declare that the
foregoing particulars stated in the application are true and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true.

Date................Signature of parent.............Made and subscribed
this.............day of.............20............before me.Signature [If a
citizen of India by registration or naturalization, please mention to the
number and date of the certificate of registration or naturalization, as the
case may be.]................Designation [ Signature and designation of the
officer authorised under rule 38 of the Citizenship Rules, 2009, before whom
the declaration is made or oath of allegiance is taken (i.e. any consular
officer as defined in rule 2 (d) of the Citizens(Registration at Indian
Consulates) Rules, 1956.].............(This form complete in all respect shall
be submitted in duplicate to the Indian Mission/Post in the country in which
the applicant is ordinarily resident.)Documents to be attached with the
application by the applicant

### 1\. A copy of the birth certificate of the child.

### 2\. A copy of the passport of both the parents.

### 3\. A copy of the certificate of Indian citizenship if acquired by
registration/naturalisation.

### 4\. A copy of the marriage certificate of the parents.

FORM II[Refer rule 4(1)(a)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009Application for
registration as a citizen of India under section 5 (1) (a) of the Citizenship
Act, 1955 made by a person of Indian originNote: Please write/print in Block
Letters

## Part I

| Photograph  
---|---  
  
1\. I, ...................(mention full name) resident of (complete postal
address).............. of full age and capacity and was born at (with Tehsil,
District, State and Country)................. on............and is a citizen
of ...................  
---  
2\. My father's full name is...................and he was born at (with
Tehsil, District, State and Country)
..............on........................and is a citizen
of......................  
3\. My mother's full name is.......... and she was born at with Tehsil,
District, State and Country)............on...................and is a citizen
of............  
4\. My wife's/husband's full name is............ and he/she was born at (with
Tehsil, District, State and Country)...........on...................and is a
citizen of.................  
5\. Details of residence inIndia:  
(a) Date of entry inIndia | ..........................  
(b) I have resided inIndiacontinuously for a period of 12 months immediately preceding the date of application. | Yes/No  
(c) During the eight years immediately preceding the said period of twelve months, I have resided inIndiafor period amounting in the aggregate to not less than six years. | Yes/No  
S. No. | Detailswith address of residence inIndiafor the last nine years | From | To | YearsMonths  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
6\. (a) Sex: | .....................................  
(b) Occupation: | .....................................  
(c) If in service, address of employer: | .....................................  
(d) Mark of identification: | .....................................  
6A. [ Do you belong to one of the minority communities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, namely, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians? Yes/ No [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1158(E), dated 3.12.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).] | If, yes, please specify ..........................]  
7\. Passport particulars: |   
(a) Country: | .....................................  
(b) Number: | .....................................  
8\. Visa valid up to: | .....................................  
8A. [ [Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1049(E), dated 18.10.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).] | Religion .................................]  
9\. Details of family members who are staying inIndiawith the applicant: |   
S. No. | Name | Present Address | Relationship | Age  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
10\. Details of criminal proceedings, if any:  
S. No. | Natureof the criminal proceedings | Date and place of registering the case | Present status of the case | Judgment of the court  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
## Part II – 11. I have/have not previously renounced or been deprived of the
citizenship of India.

(If the applicant has renounced his Indian citizenship, here state the date on
which the declaration of renunciation was made; or if he has been deprived of
his citizenship, state the date on which and the authority by whom, the order
of deprivation was made.)

### 12\. I have/have not previously applied for registration as a citizen of
India and the application has/has not been rejected.

### 13\. I hereby declare that my intention is to make India my permanent home
and undertake that I shall renounce the citizenship of my country in the event
of my application being sanctioned.

### 14\. I,..................do solemnly and sincerely declare that the
foregoing particulars, stated in this application are true and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true.

Date:................Signature...............Made and subscribed
this..........day of...........20.........before me.Signature............ [
Signature and designation of the officer authorized under rule 38 of the
Citizenship Rules, 2009, before whom the registration, declaration or oath of
allegiance is made or taken (i.e. the Collector, Deputy Commissioner, District
Magistrate)]Designation.......... [ Signature and designation of the officer
authorized under rule 38 of the Citizenship Rules, 2009, before whom the
registration, declaration or oath of allegiance is made or taken (i.e. the
Collector, Deputy Commissioner, District Magistrate)]

### 15\. I, the undersigned, hereby state that I am an Indian citizen
otherwise than by naturalisation, that I am a householder, and that I am not
the solicitor or agent of..................I vouch for the correctness of the
statement made by..............in his application for Indian citizenship.

Signature......................Name...........................Full postal
address...........................................Oath of AllegianceI,
......................do solemnly affirm and swear in the name of God that I
will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law
established and that I will faithfully observe the laws of India and fulfill
my duties as a citizen of India.Signature...............Affirmed/Sworn and
subscribed this...........day of...........20...........before
me.Signature............... [ Signature and designation of the officer
authorized under rule 38 of the Citizenship Rules, 2009, before whom the
registration, declaration or oath of allegiance is made or taken(i.e. the
Collector, Deputy Commissioner, District Magistrate)]Designation.............
[ Signature and designation of the officer authorized under rule 38 of the
Citizenship Rules, 2009, before whom the registration, declaration or oath of
allegiance is made or taken (i.e. the Collector, Deputy Commissioner, District
Magistrate) ](This Form complete in all respects shall be submitted in
triplicate to the Collector/Deputy Commissioner/District Magistrate within
whose jurisdiction the applicant is ordinarily resident for transmission to
the Central Government through the State Government or the Union territory
Administration, as the case may be)Documents to be attached with the
application by the applicant

### 1\. A copy of the valid Foreign Passport.

### 2\. A copy of the valid Residential Permit.

### 3\. Evidence of the date of birth of the parents viz. a copy of the
passport or birth certificate.

### 4\. A copy of Bank challan in original amounting to Rs.500/- payable
towards declaration and oath of allegiance deposited in the State Bank of
India under Head No."0070-Other Administrative Services-Other Services-
receipts under the Citizenship Act".

FORM III[Refer rule 5(1)(a)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009Application for
registration as a citizen of India under section 5(1)(c) of the Citizenship
Act, 1955 made by a person who is/has been married to a citizen of IndiaNote:
Please write/print in Block Letters

## Part I

| Photograph  
---|---  
  
1\. I, ...................(mention full name) resident of(complete postal
address).............. of full age and capacity and was born at (with Tehsil,
District, State and Country)................. on............and is a citizen
of ...................  
---  
2\. My father's full name is...................and he was born at (with
Tehsil, District, State and Country)
..............on........................and is a citizen
of......................  
3\. My mother's full name is.......... and she was born at (with Tehsil,
District, State and Country)............on...................and is a citizen
of............  
4\. I was married at (with Tehsil, District, State and
Country)..........................on..................to
Shri/Smt................(full name of husband/wife).  
5\. My husband/wife was born at (with Tehsil, District, State and
country)...............on.................and he/she is a citizen ofIndiaby
birth/descent/registration/naturalisation.....................  
6\. My marriage subsists | Yes/No  
7\. Details of residence inIndia: |   
(a) Date of entry inIndia | ..........................  
(b) I have resided inIndiacontinuously for a period of 12 months immediately preceding the date of application. | Yes/No  
(c) During the eight years immediately preceding the said period of twelve months, I have resided inIndiafor period amounting in the aggregate to not less than six years. | Yes/No  
Sl. No. | Details with address of residence inIndiafor the last nine years | From | To | YearsMonths  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
8\. (a) Sex: | .....................................  
(b) Occupation: | .....................................  
(c) If in service, address of employer: | .....................................  
(d) Mark of identification: | .....................................  
8A. [ Do you belong to one of the minority communities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, namely, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians?Yes/ No [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1158(E), dated 3.12.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).] | If, yes, please specify .........................]  
9\. Passport particulars: |   
(a) Country: | .....................................  
(b) Number: | .....................................  
10\. Visa valid up to: | .....................................  
11\. Details of family members who are staying inIndiawith the applicant:  
S. No. | Name | Present Address | Relationship | Age  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
12\. Details of criminal proceedings, if any:  
S. No. | Nature of the criminal proceedings | Date and place of registering the case | Present status of the case | Judgment of the court  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
## Part II – 13. I have/have not previously renounced or been deprived of the
citizenship of India.

(If the applicant has renounced his Indian citizenship, here state the date on
which the declaration of renunciation was made; or if he has been deprived of
his citizenship state the date on which and the authority by whom, the order
of deprivation was made)

### 14\. I have/have not previously applied for registration as a citizen of
India and the application has/has not been rejected.

### 15\. I hereby declare that my intention is to make India my permanent home
and undertake that I shall renounce the citizenship of my country in the event
of my application being sanction.

### 16\. I,..............do solemnly and sincerely declare that the foregoing
particulars stated in this application are true and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true.

Date...............Signature.............Made and subscribed this............
Day.............of 20..........before
me.Signature...............................Designation...........................

### 17\. I, the undersigned hereby state that I am an Indian citizen otherwise
than by naturalisation that I am householder, and that I am not the solicitor
or agent of .............I vouch for the correctness of the statements made by
him in his application for Indian Citizenship.

Signature....................Name.........................Full postal
address.......................................Oath of AllegianceI,
..................do solemnly affirm and swear in the name of God that I will
bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law
established and that I will faithfully observe the laws of India and fulfill
my duties as a citizen of
India.Signature............................................Affirmed/Sworn and
subscribed this.............day of.............20............before
me.Signature...................................Designation.................................(This
Form complete in all respects shall be submitted in triplicate to the
Collector/Deputy Commissioner/District Magistrate within whose jurisdiction
the applicant is ordinarily resident for transmission to the Central
Government through the State Government or the Union territory administration,
as the case may be.)Documents to be attached with the application by the
applicant

### 1\. A copy of the Valid Foreign passport.

### 2\. A copy of the Valid Residential Permit.

### 3\. Evidence of his/her husband's/wife's Indian nationality viz. copy of
Indian passport or birth certificate.

### 4\. A copy of marriage certificate issued by the Registrar of Marriage.

### 5\. A copy of Bank challan in original amounting to Rs.500/-towards
declaration and oath of allegiance deposited in the State Bank of India under
Head No."0070-Other Administrative Services-Other Services-receipts under the
Citizenship Act".

FORM IV[Refer rule 6(1)(a)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009Application for
registration of a minor child under section 5(1) (d) of the Citizenship Act,
1955

## Part I

| Photograph  
---|---  
|  
1\. Full name of the minor child: | ................................................  
2\. Sex: | ................................................  
3.Place& Country Birth : | ................................................  
4\. Date of birth: | ................................................  
5\. Mark of identification: | ................................................  
6\. Present address: | ................................................  
7\. (i) Father's full name: | ................................................  
(ii) Citizen ofIndiaby birth/descent/registration*/naturalization *: | ................................................  
(iii) Occupation: | ................................................  
(iv) Passport particulars: | ................................................  
(a) Country | ................................................  
(b) Number | ................................................  
8\. (i) Mother's full name: | ................................................  
(ii) Citizen ofIndiaby birth/descent/registration*/naturalization *: | ................................................  
(iii) Occupation: ................................................... | ................................................  
(iv) Passport particulars: | ................................................  
(a) Country | ................................................  
(b) Number | ................................................  
8A. [ Do you belong to one of the minority communities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, namely, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians? Yes/ No [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1158(E), dated 3.12.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).] | If, yes, please specify .......................]  
8B. [ [Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1049(E), dated 18.10.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).] | Date of entry into India .............................................]  
  
### 9\. Details of criminal proceedings, if any :

S. No. | Nature of the criminal proceedings | Date and place of registering the case | Present status of the case | Judgment of the court  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
## Part II – 10. I,.......................,a citizen of India and a
parent/guardian of......................to whom the foregoing particulars
relate, hereby apply on behalf of my child for registration as a citizen of
India.

### 11\. I hereby declare that my intention is to make India as permanent home
in respect of my child and undertake that I shall renounce the citizenship of
his country on behalf of my child in the event of the application for grant of
citizenship of India to my child being sanctioned.

Date..............Signature of parent/guardian...........

### 12\. I,.................................do solemnly and sincerely declare
that the foregoing particulars stated in the application are true and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true.

Date.................Signature of parent/guardian...........Made and
subscribed this.........day......20.......before me.Signature.............. [
If a citizen of India by registration or naturalisation, please refer to the
number and date of the certificate of registration or naturalisation as the
case may be.]Designation............ [Signature and designation of the officer
authorised under rule 38 of the Citizenship Rules, 2009 before whom the
registration, declaration or oath of allegiance is made or taken (i.e. the
Collector, Deputy Commissioner, District Magistrate)]

### 13\. I, the undersigned, hereby state that I am an Indian citizen
otherwise than by naturalisation, that I am a householder, and that I am not
the solicitor or agent of..................., I vouch for the correctness of
the statements made by ................in his application for Indian
citizenship.

Date.............Signature.......................Name............................Full
post address...............................................(This Form complete
in all respects shall be submitted in triplicate to the Collector/Deputy
Commissioner/District Magistrate within whose jurisdiction the applicant is
ordinarily resident for transmission to the Central Government through the
State Government or the Union territory administration, as the case may
be.)Documents to be attached with the application by the applicant

### 1\. A copy of the valid Foreign passport.

### 2\. A copy of the valid Residential Permit.

### 3\. Proof of Indian citizenship of both the parents viz. copy of Indian
passport/birth certificate.

### 4\. A copy of Bank challan in original amounting to Rs.250/-towards
declaration deposited in the State Bank of India under Head No."0070-Other
Administrative Services-Other Services-receipts under the Citizenship Act".

### 5\. In case of guardian, enclose proof of guardianship.

FORM V[Refer rule 7(1)(a)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009Application for
registration as a citizen of India under section 5(1)(e) of the Citizenship
Act, 1955 Made by a person whose parents are registered as citizens of India
under section 5(1)(a) or section 6 (1)Note: Please write/print in Block
Letters

## Part I

| Photograph  
---|---  
1\. I,................................................. (mention full name)
resident of (complete postal address)................................of full
age and capacity and was born at (with Tehsil, District, State and
Country).............on........and is a citizen of...........  
2\. My father's full name is ..................and he was born at (with
Tehsil, District, State and Country)...............on ............, and he was
registered as a citizen ofIndiaunder section 5(1)(a)/section 6(1)vide
certificate No........... dated..............  
3\. My mother's full name is....................and she was born at (with
Tehsil, District, State and Country)..................on............... and
she was registered as a citizen ofIndiaunder section 5(1)(a)/section 6(1)vide
certificate No.......... dated..............  
4\. My wife's/husband's full name is ............... and he/she was born at
(with Tehsil, District, State and Country) ...............on
...................and is a citizen of.................  
5\. (a) Sex: | ....................................  
(b) Occupation: | ....................................  
(c) If in service, address of employer: | ....................................  
(d) Mark of identification: | ....................................  
[[5A. Do you belong to one of the minority communities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, namely, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians? Yes/ No [Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1049(E), dated 18.10.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).] | If, yes, please specify ..................]  
5B. | Date of entry into India.......................]  
6\. Passport particulars: | ....................................  
(a) Country: | ....................................  
(b) Number: | ....................................  
7\. Visa valid up to: | ....................................  
8\. Details of family members who are staying inIndiawith the applicant:  
S. No. | Name | Present Address | Relationship | Age  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
9\. Details of criminal proceedings, if any:  
S. No. | Nature of the criminal proceedings | Date and place of registering the case | Present status of the case | Judgment of the court  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
## Part II – 10. I have/have not previously renounced or been deprived of the
citizenship of India.

(If the applicant has renounced his or her Indian citizenship, here state the
date on which the declaration of renunciation was made; or if he has been
deprived of his citizenship, state the date on which and the authority by
whom, the order of deprivation was made.)

### 11\. I have/have not previously applied for registration as a citizen of
India and the applicant has/has not been rejected.

### 12\. I hereby declare that my intention is to make India my permanent home
and I undertake that I shall renounce the citizenship of my country in the
event of my application being sanctioned.

### 13\. I,.................do solemnly and sincerely declare that the
foregoing particulars, stated in this application are true and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true.

Date:.............Signature:..........Made and subscribed this ..........day
of ..........20...........before me.Signature.................. [ *Signature
and designation of the officer authorized under rule 38 of the Citizenship
Rules, 2009 before whom the declaration is made or oath of allegiance is taken
(i.e. the Collector, Deputy Commissioner, District
Magistrate)]Designation................

### 14\. I, the undersigned, hereby state that I am an Indian citizen
otherwise than by naturalisation, that I am a householder, and that I am not
the solicitor or agent of.............. I vouch for the correctness of the
statement made by ...........in his application for Indian citizenship.

Signature....................Name.........................Full Postal
Address.......................................Oath of AllegianceI,
..............(here mention the name of the applicant) do solemnly affirm and
swear in the name of God that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the
Constitution of India as by law established and that I will faithfully observe
the laws of India and fulfill my duties as a citizen of
India.Signature...............Affirmed/Sworn and subscribed this ........day
of............20...........before
me.Signature...................Designation.................(This form complete
in all respects shall be submitted in triplicate to the Collector/Deputy
Commissioner/District Magistrate within whose jurisdiction the applicant is
ordinarily resident for transmission to the Central Government through the
State Government or Union territory administration, as the case may
be).Documents to be attached with the application by the applicant

### 1\. A copy of the valid Foreign passport.

### 2\. A copy of valid Residential permit.

### 3\. Copies of Indian Citizenship Certificates issued under Section 5(1)(a)
or 6(1) of the Citizenship Act, 1955 of both the parents.

### 4\. A copy of Bank challan in original amounting to Rs.500/- towards
declaration and oath of allegiance deposited in the State Bank of India under
Head No."0070-Other Administrative Services-Other Services-receipts under the
Citizenship Act".

FORM VI[Refer rule 5(1)(a)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009Application for
registration as citizen of India under section 5 (1) (f) of the Citizenship
Act, 1955 made by a person who or either of the parents was a citizen of
Independent IndiaNote: Please write/print in Block Letters

## Part I

| Photograph  
---|---  
1\. I,...................(mention full name) resident of (complete postal
address)....................of full age and capacity and was born at(with
Tehsil, District, State and Country)..............on................and is a
citizen of............  
2\. My father's full name is....................and he was born at (with
Tehsil, District, State and
Country)......................on...................and is a citizen
of....................  
3\. My mother's full name is...............and she was born at (with Tehsil,
District, State and Country)................on.............. and is a citizen
of................................  
4\. My wife's/husband's full name is.................and he/she was born at
(with Tehsil, District, State and Country)..............on..............and is
a citizen of.................  
5\. I or either of my parents ceased to be an Indian citizen by virtue of
section 9(1) consequent to my or their acquiring the citizenship of
................(name of country) on...............  
6\. [ Details of residence in India : [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] |   
(a) Date of entry in India [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | ....................................  
(b) I have resided in continuously for a period of 12 months immediately preceding the date of application [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | Yes/No [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]  
Details of residence in India for the last five years : [Substituted by
Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]{|  
S.No. | Details with address of residence in India | From | To | Years/ Months  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
|-| 7. (a) Sex:| ....................................|-| (b) Occupation:|
....................................|-| (c) If in service, address of
employer:| ....................................|-| (d) Mark of
identification:| ....................................|-| 7A. [ Do you belong
to one of the minority communities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan,
namely, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians? Yes/ No
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1158(E), dated 3.12.2018 (w.e.f.
25.2.2009).]| If, yes, please specify ........................]|-| 8. Passport
particulars:| ....................................|-| (a)Country:|
....................................|-| (b)Number:|
....................................|-| 9. Visa valid up to:|
....................................|-| 10. Details of family members who are
staying inIndiawith the applicant:|-| Sl. No.| Name| Present Address|
Relationship| Age|-| 1| 2| 3| 4| 5|-||||||-| 11. Details of criminal
proceedings, if any:|-| Sl. No.| Nature of the criminal proceedings| Date and
place of registering the case| Present status of the case| Judgment of the
court|-| 1| 2| 3| 4| 5|-||||||}

## Part II – 12. I have/have not previously renounced or been deprived of the
citizenship of India.

(If the applicant has renounced his Indian citizenship, here state the date on
which the declaration of renunciation was made; or if he has been deprived of
his citizenship state the date on which and the authority by whom, the order
of deprivation was made.)

### 13\. I have/have not previously applied for registration as a citizen of
India and the application has/has not been rejected.

### 14\. I hereby declare that my intention is to make India my permanent home
and I undertake that I shall renounce the citizenship of my country in the
event of my application being sanctioned.

### 15\. I,.....................................................do solemnly
and sincerely declare that the foregoing particulars, stated in this
application are true, and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true.

Date:.............Signature..................Made and subscribed this
...........day ...............of ..............20.............before
me.Signature................................Designation...............................

### 16\. I, the undersigned, hereby state that I am an Indian citizen
otherwise than by naturalisation, that I am a householder, and that I am not
the solicitor or agent of.....................I vouch for the correctness of
the statement made by..................in his application for Indian
citizenship.

Signature......................Name...........................Full Postal
Address...........................................Oath of AllegianceI,
.................do solemnly affirm and swear in the name of God that I will
bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law
established and that I will faithfully observe the laws of India and fulfill
my duties as a citizen of
India.Signature............................Affirmed/Sworn and subscribed
this............day of .......................20......................before
me.Signature............... [ Signature and designation of the officer
authorized under rule 38 of the Citizenship Rules, 2009 before whom the
declaration is made or oath of allegiance is taken (i.e. the Collector, Deputy
Commissioner, District Magistrate)]Designation............. [ Signature and
designation of the officer authorized under rule 38 of the Citizenship Rules,
2009 before whom the declaration is made or oath of allegiance is taken (i.e.
the Collector, Deputy Commissioner, District Magistrate)](This form complete
in all respects shall be submitted in triplicate to the Collector/Deputy
Commissioner/District Magistrate within whose jurisdiction the applicant is
ordinarily resident for transmission to the Central Government through the
State Government or Union territory administration, as the case may
be).Documents to be attached with the application by the applicant

### 1\. A copy of valid Foreign Passport.

### 2\. A copy of valid Residential Permit.

### 3\. Evidence that the applicant or either of his parents was a citizen of
Independent India viz. copy of passport or birth certificate.

### 4\. A copy of Bank challan in original amounting to Rs.500/-towards
declaration and oath of allegiance deposited in the State bank of India under
Head No."0070-Other Administrative Services-Other Services-receipts under the
Citizenship Act".

FORM VII[Refer rule 9(1)(a)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009Application for
registration as a citizen of India under section 5(1)(g) of the Citizenship
Act, 1955 made by a person who is registered as an [Overseas Citizen of India
cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E),
dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] under section 7-ANote: Please write/print
in Block Letters

## Part I

| Photograph  
---|---  
1\. I,......................(mention full name) resident of (complete postal
address)....................of full age and capacity and was born at (with
Tehsil, District, State and Country)...................on...........and is a
citizen of..........  
2\. My father's full name is...............and he was born at (with Tehsil,
District, State and Country)...........on........... and is a citizen
of................  
3\. My mother's full name is .............. and she was born at (with Tehsil,
District, State and Country)............on........... and is a citizen of
..................  
4\. My wife's/husband's full name is................. and he/she was born at
(with Tehsil, District, State and Country)..............on...........and is a
citizen of ...................  
5\. I was registered as an[Overseas Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted
"overseas citizen" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f.
25.2.2009)]under section 7A vide certificate of registration
No...........dated.............  
6\. Details of residence in India : [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R.
35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]  
(a) Date of entry in India [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | ....................................  
(b) I have resided in Indiacontinuously for a period of 12 months immediately preceding the date of application [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | Yes/No [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]  
Details of residence in India for the last five years after registration as Overseas Citizen of India cardholder: [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] |   
Sl [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]. No. | Details with address of residence inIndiafor the last nine years [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | From [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | To [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | YearsMonths [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]  
1 [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | 2 [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | 3 [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | 4 [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | 5 [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]  
|  |  |  |   
7\. (a) Sex: | ....................................  
(b) Occupation: | ....................................  
(c) If in service, address of employer: | ....................................  
(d) Mark of identification: | ....................................  
7A. [ Do you belong to one of the minority communities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, namely, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians? Yes/ No [Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1158(E), dated 3.12.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).] | If, yes, please specify .............................]  
8\. Passport particulars: | ....................................  
(a)Country: | ....................................  
(b)Number: | ....................................  
9\. Visa valid up to: | ....................................  
10\. Details of family members who are staying inIndiawith the applicant:  
Sl. No. | Name | Present Address | Relationship | Age  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
11\. Details of criminal proceedings, if any:  
Sl. No. | Nature of the criminal proceedings | Date and place of registering the case | Present status of the case | Judgment of the court  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
## Part II

### 12\. I have/have not previously renounced for been deprived of the
citizenship of India.

(If the applicant has been deprived of his Indian Citizenship, here State the
date on which the declaration of renunciation was made; or if he has been
deprived of his citizenship state the date on which and the authority by whom,
the order of deprivation was made).

### 13\. I have/have not previously applied for registration as a citizen of
India and the application has/has not been rejected.

### 14\. I hereby declare that my intention is to make India my permanent home
and I undertake that I shall renounce the citizenship of my country in the
event of my application being sanctioned.

### 15\. I,..........................do solemnly and sincerely declare that
the foregoing particulars, stated in this application are true, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true.

Date:.................Signature.....................................Made and
subscribed this............day.........of ...........20.........before
me.Signature..................................Designation.................................

### 16\. I, the undersigned, hereby state that I am an Indian citizen
otherwise than by naturalisation, that I am a householder, and that I am not
the solicitor or agent of........................ I vouch for the correctness
of the statement made by.................in his application for Indian
citizenship.

Signature...................Name........................Full Postal
Address.....................................Oath of
AllegianceI,...............................do solemnly affirm and swear in the
name of God that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of
India as by law established and that I will faithfully observe the laws of
India and fulfill my duties as a citizen of
India.Signature..............Affirmed/Sworn and subscribed this
.......................day of...........
20..............................before me.Signature....................
[Signature and designation of the officer authorized under rule 38 of the
Citizenship Rules, 2009 before whom the declaration is made or oath of
allegiance is taken (i.e. the Collector, Deputy Commissioner, District
Magistrate)]Designation.................. [ Signature and designation of the
officer authorized under rule 38 of the Citizenship Rules, 2009 before whom
the declaration is made or oath of allegiance is taken (i.e. the Collector,
Deputy Commissioner, District Magistrate)](This form complete in all respects
shall be e submitted in triplicate to the Collector/Deputy
Commissioner/District Magistrate within whose jurisdiction the applicant is
ordinarily resident for transmission to the Central Government through the
State Government or the Union territory administration, as the case may
be)Documents to be attached with the application by the applicant

### 1\. A copy of the valid Foreign Passport.

### 2\. A copy of the certificate of registration as [Overseas Citizen of
India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen" by Notification No. G.S.R.
35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] under section 7A.

### 3\. A copy of Bank challan in original amounting to Rs.500/- towards
declaration and oath of allegiance deposited in the State Bank of India under
Head No."0070-Other Administrative Services-Other Services-receipts under the
Citizenship Act".

FORM VIII[Refer rule 10(1)(a)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009Application for
naturalisation as a citizen of India under section 6(1) of the Citizenship
Act, 1955Note: Please write/print in Block Letters

## Part I

| Photograph  
---|---  
1\. Full name of the applicant: | ....................................  
If commonly known by another name, enter such name here: | ....................................  
2\. Present address : | ....................................  
| ....................................  
| ....................................  
3\. (a) Sex: | ....................................  
(b) Occupation: | ....................................  
(c) If in service, address of employer: | ....................................  
(d) Mark of identification: | ....................................  
3A. [ Do you belong to one of the minority communities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, namely, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians? Yes/ No [Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1158(E), dated 3.12.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).] | If, yes, please specify .........................]  
4\. Place and date of birth: | ....................................  
5\. Nationality by birth: | ....................................  
6\. Present nationality, if different: | ....................................  
7\. (a) Marital Status: | ....................................  
(b) If married, give date and place of marriage and nationality of the spouse : | ....................................  
(c) Husband's or wife's name: | ....................................  
8\. Father's full name
is................................................resident
of...........................................and he was born at (with Tehsil,
District, State and Country).......................on......................and
is a citizen of................................................  
9\. Mother's full name is........................resident
of..............................................and he was born at (with
Tehsil, District, State and Country)
.......................on......................and is a citizen
of..............................on...............  
10\. Whether the applicant is a subject or citizen of any country where an Indian citizen is prevented by law or practice of that country from becoming a subject or citizen of that country by naturalization. : | ....................................  
11\. Principal languages ofIndiaknown and extent of knowledge thereof with evidence | ....................................  
12\. Details of residence inIndia: | ....................................  
(a) Date of entry inIndia:....................................... | ....................................  
(b) I have resided inIndiacontinuously for a period of twelve months immediately preceding the date of application. | Yes/No  
(c) During the fourteen years immediately preceding the said period of twelve months, I have resided inIndiafor a period amounting in the aggregate to not less than eleven years. | Yes/No  
Sl. No. | Details with address of residence inIndiafor the last fourteen years | From | To | YearsMonths  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
13\. Reasons for which applicant wishes to acquire Indian citizenship: | ....................................  
| ....................................  
14\. Passport particulars: |   
(a)Country: | ....................................  
(b)Number: | ....................................  
15.Visa valid up to: | ....................................  
16\. Details of family members who are staying inIndiawith the applicant:  
Sl. No. | Name | Present Address | Relationship | Age  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
17\. Details of criminal proceedings, if any:  
Sl. No. | Nature of the criminal proceedings | Date and place of registering the case | Present status of the case | Judgment of the court  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
### 18\. Names and addresses of at least two persons whose affidavits
testifying to the character of the applicant and the correctness of the
statements made in this application are attached
herewith:...................................
.........................................................

## Part II – 19. I have/have not previously renounced or been deprived of the
citizenship of India.

(If the applicant has renounced his Indian citizenship, here state the date on
which the declaration of renunciation was made; or if he has been deprived of
his citizenship, state the date on which and the authority by whom, the order
of deprivation was made.)

### 20\. I have/have not previously applied for naturalisation as a citizen of
India and the application has/has not been rejected.

### 21\. I declare that my intention is to make India as permanent home and I
undertake that I shall renounce the citizenship of my country in the event of
my application being sanctioned.

### 22\. I,...............do solemnly and sincerely declare that the foregoing
particulars, stated in this application are true, and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true.

Date:.............Signature...............Affidavit to accompany the
application for a certificate of naturalisation under the Citizenship Act,
1955. [ Affidavits to be attested by Notary/Oath Commissioner I Magistrate.
]In the matter of the application for a certificate of naturalisation under
the Citizenship Act, 1955, I..................son of .....................
residing at ......................make oath and do solemnly and sincerely
affirm that the statements contained in my application here unto annexed are
true to the best of my knowledge and belief.If, at any time before a
certificate is issued to me, the accuracy of any of the foregoing particulars
is affected by an alteration in circumstances, I undertake to inform the
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs in
writing
forthwith.Station.............................Date...................................Signature............................Affidavits
testifying the character of the applicant and the correctness of the
statements made in the application.(vide item 18)In the matter of an
application for a certificate of naturalisation under the Citizenship Act,
1955, made by ............. I........... aged........years, by
occupation............son of .............residing at ...............make oath
and do solemnly and sincerely affirm that I am an Indian citizen otherwise
than by naturalisation; that I am a householder; that I am not a solicitor or
agent of ............that I have personal knowledge of, and intimate
acquaintance with, the said .............for............years; that the
statements contained in his application for naturalisation are true to the
best of my knowledge and belief.I support ................'s application for
naturalisation and I can vouch for his good character and
loyalty.Date...............................Signature..........................Name...............................Full
postal address...................................................Copies of two
issues (in triplicate) of a newspaper or newspapers circulating in the
district in which the applicant resides each containing (clearly marked) an
advertisement in the following form should accompany the application."Notice
is hereby given that...........son/daughter/wife of..................is
applying to the Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Home
Affairs for naturalisation and that any person who knows any reason why
naturalisation should not be granted should send a written signed statement of
the facts to the said Secretary."(This form complete in all respects shall be
e submitted in triplicate to the Collector/Deputy Commissioner/District
Magistrate within whose jurisdiction the applicant is ordinarily resident for
transmission to the Central Government through the State Government or the
Union territory administration, as the case may be)Documents to be attached
with the application by the applicant

### 1\. A copy of valid Foreign Passport.

### 2\. A copy of valid Residential Permit.

### 3\. A copy of Bank challan in original amounting to Rs.1500/- deposited in
the State Bank of India under Head No."0070-Other Administrative Services-
Other Services-Receipts under the Citizenship Act."

### 4\. One affidavit from self (applicant) and two affidavits from two
Indians testifying to the character of the applicant in the prescribed
language available in the application form.

### 5\. Two language Certificates certifying the applicant's knowledge in any
one of the Indian languages specified in the Eighth Schedule of the
Constitution. (A language certificate from a recognised educational
institutions or from a recognised organisation or from two Indian citizens of
the district of the applicant).

### 6\. Two newspaper (circulating in the district in which the applicant
resides) cuttings of different dates or of different newspapers notifying his
intention to apply for citizenship in the prescribed language in the
application form.

FORM IX[Refer rules 11(2]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009Acknowledgement for the
application for grant of citizenship under sections 5(1)(a), (c), (d), (e),
(f) and (g) of the Citizenship Act, 1955Received application from Miss/Ms./Mr.
.............. d/o, w/o. s/o .................. resident of ............. for
registration under clause (a) or (c) or (d) or (e) or (f) or (g) of sub-
section (1) of section 5 of the Citizenship Act, 1955.Note: - Strike out
whichever is not
applicable.Dated........................................................................................Signature
with seal of the receiving officerFORM X[Refer rule 14(1)]THE CITIZENSHIP
RULES, 2009Government of India Ministry of Home Affairs certificate of
registrationNo.............This is to certify that the person whose
particulars are given below has been registered as a citizen of India under
the provisions of section 5(1)(a)/(c)/(d)/(e)/(f)) of the Citizenship Act,
1955.

1\. Name | :  
---|---  
2\. Name of father | :  
3\. Name of mother | :  
4\. Name of the husband/wife | :  
5\. Date of birth | :  
6\. Place of birth | :  
7\. Previous nationality | :  
8\. Occupation | :  
9\. Marks of identification | :  
10\. Address | :  
| ..............................................  
| ..............................................  
| ..............................................  
|  
PHOTOGRAPH |  |   
|  
|  
|  
|  
|  
  
Signature of Registered PersonPlace of Issue.............................Date
of
Issue...........................................................................................Signature
and Seal of Issuing AuthorityFORM XI[Refer rule 14(2)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES,
2009Government of India Ministry of Home Affairs certificate of
registrationNo..........This is to certify that the person whose particulars
are given below has been registered as a citizen of India under the provisions
of section 5(1)(g) of the Citizenship Act, 1955

1\. Name | :  
---|---  
2\. Name of father | :  
3\. Name of mother | :  
4\. Name of the husband/wife | :  
5\. Date of birth | :  
6\. Place of birth | :  
7\. Previous nationality | :  
8\. Occupation | :  
9\. Certificate of Registration number, date and place of issue of[Overseas Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | :  
10\. Marks of identification | :  
11\. Address | :  
| ..............................................  
| ..............................................  
| ..............................................  
|  
PHOTOGRAPH |  |   
|  
|  
|  
|  
|  
  
...........................................................Signature and Seal
of Issuing AuthoritySignature of Registered PersonPlace of
issue................Date of issue.................FORM XII[Refer rules 15(1)
and 16(1)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009Government of India Ministry of Home
Affairs certificate of
NaturalisationNo...............................Whereas..........has applied
for a certificate of naturalisation, alleging with respect to himself
(herself) the particulars set out below, and has satisfied the Government that
the conditions laid down in the above mentioned Act for the grant of
naturalisation are fulfilled in the case of the said .....................Now,
therefore, in pursuance of the powers conferred by the said Act, the
Government hereby grants to the said................this certificate of
naturalisation, and declares that, upon taking the oath of allegiance within
the time and in the manner required by the rules made in that behalf he/she
shall, subject to the provisions of the said Act, be entitled to all political
and other rights, powers and privileges and be subject to all obligations,
duties and liabilities to which an Indian citizen is entitled or subject to,
and have to all intents and purposes the status of an Indian citizen.In
witness whereof I have hereto subscribed my name this day of ...........

|  
---|---  
PHOTOGRAPH |  |   
|  
|  
|  
|  
|  
  
.......................................Signature and Seal of Issuing
AuthorityPARTICULARS

### 1\. Name:...........................................

### 2\. Address.........................................

### 3\. Occupation......................................

### 4\. Place and date of birth.........................

### 5\. Previous nationality............................

### 6\. Marital Status:.................................

### 7\. Mark of identification:.........................

### 8\. Name and nationality of wife/husband:...........

### 9\. Name and nationality of father:.................

### 10\. Name and nationality of mother:................

Oath of allegianceI, A-B, do solemnly affirm (or swear) that I will bear true
faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established and
that I will faithfully observe the laws of India and fulfil my duties as a
citizen of India.Signature.................. [ Signature and designation of
the officer authorised under rule 38 of the Citizenship Rules, 2009, before
whom the registration, declaration or oath of allegiance is made or taken
]Designation................ [ Signature and designation of the officer
authorised under rule 38 of the Citizenship Rules, 2009, before whom the
registration, declaration or oath of allegiance is made or taken.
]Affirmed/Sworn and subscribed this..........day of ............. 20........
before me.Signature ............... [ Signature and designation of the officer
authorised under rule 38 of the Citizenship Rules, 2009, before whom the
registration, declaration or oath of allegiance is made or taken. ]Designation
............. [ Signature and designation of the officer authorised under rule
38 of the Citizenship Rules, 2009, before whom the registration, declaration
or oath of allegiance is made or taken. ]FORM XIII[Refer rule 17(a)]THE
CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009Register of the persons registered as Indian citizen
under sections 5(1)(a),(e) & (f) of the Citizenship Act, 1955

S.No. | Name | Father's name | Date of Birth | Last permanent address outside India | Date from which resident in India | Present Address | Date of Registration | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Note. - Serial No. in this register should correspond with the number in the
registration certificate.FORM XIV[Refer rule 17(b)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES,
2009Register of persons registered as Indian citizens under section 5(1)(c) of
the Citizenship Act, 1955

S.No | Full Name of Applicant and Address | Occupation | Place and Date of Birth | Nationality | Marital Status | Full Name and Address of husband/wife | Whether applicant has formally renounced or lost his/her former nationality or given an undertaking in writing to renounce it, if application is sanctioned Reference to documentary evidence furnished to be given | Particulars as to date and place of taking of oath of allegiance and actual issue of certificate | Reference letter from State Government for warding details of application | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Note. - Serial No. in this register should correspond with the number in the
registration certificate.FORM XV[Refer rule 17(c)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES,
2009Register of minor children registered as Indian citizens under section
5(1)(d) of the Citizenship Act, 1955

S. No. | Name | Father's Name | Date of Birth | Present Address | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Note. - Serial No. in this register should correspond with the number in the
registration certificate.FORM XVI[Refer rule 17 (d)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES,
2009Register of persons registered as Indian citizens under section 5 (1) (g)
registered as Indian citizens under section 5 (1) (g) of the Citizenship Act,
1955

Sl.No. | Name | Father's name | Date of birth | Last Permanent Address outsideIndia | Date from which resident in India | Present Address | Date of Registration | [Overseas Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Certificate No. | Place & Date of issue  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Note. - Serial No. in this register should correspond with the number in the
registration certificate.FORM XVII[Refer rule 17 (e)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES,
2009Register of certificate of naturalisation and oaths of allegiance under
section 6 (1) of the Citizenship Act, 1955

S.No. | Full name and address | Profession of occupation | Place and date of birth | Previous nationality | Married, single, widower widow, divorced | Full name of wife/husband | Full name of parent | Date of certificate assigned and sent to the State Govt. | Attestation by Secretary/Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary/Under Secretary Ministry of Home Affairs | Particulars as to date and place of taking of oath of allegiance and actual issue of certificate | Reference to letter from State Govt. forwarding details of application | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Note. - Serial No. in this register should correspond with the number in the
registration certificate.FORM XVIII[Refer rule 19 (2)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES,
2009(To be filed in quadruplicate)Application for registration under section
6-A of the Citizenship Act, 1955

Photograph |   
---|---  
1\. Name in full of applicant | ...............................................  
(Block Capitals, surname first) | ...............................................  
2\. Father's/Husband's name | ...............................................  
3\. Date and Place of birth | ...............................................  
4\. Sex, Height, Colour of eyes | ...............................................  
5\. Whether of Indian origin-If so, how | ...............................................  
6\. Present Nationality | ...............................................  
7\. Occupation or profession | ...............................................  
8\. Date and place of arrival inAssamfromBangladesh | ...............................................  
9\. First address inAssamafter arrival | ...............................................  
10\. Present address inAssam | ...............................................  
11\. Date from which ordinarily resident inAssam | ...............................................  
12\. Date and place of detection as a foreigner | ...............................................  
13\. Name and address of the Tribunal declaring him as a foreigner; case number and date of order | ...............................................  
14\. Name of husband/wife and children | ...............................................  
15\. Physical identification marks of applicant | ...............................................  
(1) |   
(2) |   
16\. Signature or thumb impression of applicant | ...............................................  
  
To be filled in by the officer of the Registering Authority

### 1\. Registered
at.................................on................................20....................................................

### 2\. Registration
No..........................................................................................................................

### 3\. Finger prints of the registered person.

Date...................................Place...................................SEAL.........................................................Name
and signature of Registering AuthorityNote. - A certified copy of the Tribunal
Order should be attached with the Ist, 3rd and 4th copy of this
application.FORM XIX[Refer rule 19 (3)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009The names of
the persons registered alongwith other particulars under section 6-A of the
Citizenship Act, 1955 by the registering authority.............District, Assam

Serial No. | Name | Father's/Husband's Name | Date and Place of birth | Present Address | Number and date of the order declaring him, as a foreigner issued by Tribunal | Date since he has been ordinarily residing in Assam | Date of expiry of registration i.e. he/she completes 10 years from the date of declaration or registration whichever is later | Remarks if any  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
FORM XX[Refer rule 19(4)]The Citizenship Rules, 2009List of persons who have
been registered under section 6-A of the Citizenship Act, 1955 during the
quarter ending in March/June/September/December, 20..........

S. No. | Name | Father's/Husband's name | Date and place of Birth | Present Address | Date of detection as foreigner by the Tribunal with case number and address of the Tribunal | Date of expiry of the registration | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Place.................................Date..................................SEAL..................................................Signature
of Registering AuthorityDistt.FORM XXI[Refer rule 22]The Citizenship Rules,
2009(To be filled in triplicate)Declaration as required under section 6-A(6)
of the Citizenship Act, 1955 to be filled in by the person who does not wish
to become a citizen of IndiaDeclarationI,.................,son/daughter/wife
of............ resident of ............... (Full name and address) hereby
solemnly declare that I do not wish to become a citizen of India nor to be
governed by sub-sections (4) and (5) of section 6A of the Citizenship Act,
1955.Date..............Place......................................................Signature
or thumb impression of the applicant.To be filled in the office of Registering
AuthorityRegistration No...........(Registration number is to be given after
registering the foreigner under the Foreigners Act,
1946).Date......................................Place.....................................SEAL.........................................................Signature
of the Registering Authority.[FORM XXII] [Substituted by Notification No.
G.S.R. 1049(E), dated 18.10.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).][Refer rule 23 (1)]The
Citizenship Rules, 2009Declaration of renunciation of citizenship under
section 8 of the Act made by citizen of India who is also a citizen or
national of another country

### 1\. I, ............(here insert name and address of declaration) am of
full age and capacity and was born at (with Tehsil, District, State and
Country).................. on...........

### 2\. I have/have not been married.

### 3\. I hereby renounce my citizenship of India.

### 4\. I hereby renounce my citizenship of India and surrender my Indian
Passport No.............. with date of issue........

### 5\. Name and full particulars of minor children who are Citizens of India,
if any.......................

### 6\. I am/was Indian citizen by (Birth/Descent/Registration/Naturalisation)
.....................................

### 7\. The circumstances in which/reasons due to which applicant intends to
acquire foreign citizenship and renounce Indian
citizenship.............................................................................

I,......................do solemnly and sincerely declare that the foregoing
particulars stated in this declaration are true and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true.Signature.....................................Made and subscribed this
....................... day of .......................
20.....................before
me.*Signature....................................*Designation.....................................Particulars

### 1\. Full name.............................................

### 2\. Address...............................................

### 3\. Profession or occupation..............................

### 4\. Place and date of birth...............................

### 5\. (Second) Nationality..................................

### 6\. Single, married, etc..................................

### 7\. Name of wife or husband...............................

### 8\. Names and nationalities of parents....................

### 9\. Names and full particulars of children, if any........

I, the undersigned, hereby state that I am an Indian citizen otherwise than by
naturalisation that I am householder, and that I am not the solicitor or agent
of ....... I vouch for the correctness of the statements made by .......... in
his application for
.............Date............Signature.........................Name (in BLOCK
LETTERS)...............................................................................Full
Postal address.................................................* Signature and
designation of the officer authorised under rule 38 of the Citizenship Rules,
2009, before whom the registration, declaration or oath of allegiance is made
or taken.Form XXIII[Refer rule 23(2)]The Citizenship Rules,
2009Acknowledgement for the declaration of renunciation of citizenship of
India under section 8 of the Citizenship Act, 1955Received declaration of
renunciation of Indian citizenship under section 8 of the Citizenship Act,
1955 from Miss/Ms./Mr ..................d/o, w/o,
s/o........................resident of.............. along with his/her Indian
Passport No.............with date of
issue.................Date..........................................................................................................Signature
with seal of the receiving officer[FORM XXIV] [Substituted by Notification No.
G.S.R. 1049(E), dated 18.10.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).][See rule 23(3)]The
Citizenship Rules, 2009Certificate of Renunciation of Indian Citizenship Under
Rule 23 of The CitizenshipRules, 2009This is to certify that the person whose
details are given below has voluntarily renounced the Indian citizenship and
pursuant to section 8 of the Citizenship Act, 1955, he/ she shall cease to be
a citizen of India with effect from the date of issue of this certificate:

### 1\. Name: ................................................

### 2\. Father's name:................................................

### 3\. Mother's name:................................................

### 4\. Date of Birth:................................................

### 5\. Place of Birth:................................................

### 6\. Indian Passport No.:................................................

### 7\. Address ::................................................

### 8\. He/ she has acquired the citizenship of India by Birth/ Descent/
Registration/ Naturalization

...................................Signature and seal of the Issuing
AuthorityName :Designation:Place of Issue:............................Date of
Issue : ............................[Form XXIV-A] [Substituted by Notification
No. G.S.R. 1049(E), dated 18.10.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).][See rule 23(4)]The
Citizenship Rules, 2009Register of Declarations of Renunciation of Indian
Citizenship

S. No. | Full name of declarant and address | Profession or occupation | Place and date of birth | Nationality of declarant’s parents | Full names of parents | Married, single, widower, widow or divorced | Place where and date when declaration made |  Mode of acquisition of Indian citizenship bythe applicant by Birth/ Descent/ Registration / Naturalization |  The circumstances in which/ reasons due towhich applicant intends to acquire foreign citizenship andrenounce Indian citizenship | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10) | (11)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
This Form when completed should be forwarded in triplicate to the Chief
Secretary to the Government of the State in which applicant is resident.Form
XXV[Refer rule 24 (1)]The Citizenship Rules, 2009Declaration of intention to
resume Indian citizenship under Section 8 (2) of the Act made by a person who
has ceased to be Indian citizen on the loss of Indian citizenship by his
parents in accord with the provisions of section 8 (1) of the Citizenship Act,
1955

### 1\. I,........................................... (here insert name and
address of declarant) was born at ................ on ..........

### 2\. My Father's full name is............................................

### 3\. My Mother's full name is.............................................

### 4\. I ceased to be an Indian citizen by virtue of sub-section (1) of
section 8 of the Citizenship Act, 1955, on ...................... by reason of
the fact that.

[Here state the cause whereby the declarant's father/mother and the declarant
ceased to be Indian citizens, the year and date in which they ceased to be
Indian citizens and all other relevant information].

### 5\. If I had not so ceased to be an Indian citizen, I would now be an
Indian citizen by reason of the fact that

[Here state the grounds on which the declarant claims that he or she would
have been such a citizen.]

### 6\. I hereby declare my intention to resume Indian citizenship and apply
to the Central Government to register this declaration.

I, A-B, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the foregoing particulars state
in this declaration are true and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true.Signature................I, the
undersigned, hereby state that I am an Indian citizen otherwise than by
naturalisation that I am a house-holder and that I am not the solicitor or
agent of ......... I vouch for the correctness of the statements made by
............. in his application for
..............Date.............Signature..............................Name (in
BLOCK LETTERS)................Full postal
address...........................................................Oath of
allegianceI, A-B, do solemnly affirm (or swear) that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established, and that I
will faithfully observe the laws of India and fulfil my duties as a citizen of
India.Signature.................Designation......................Affirmed/Sworn
and subscribed this.................. day of..................... 20
.....................before
me.Signature.................................Designation...............................PARTICULARS

### 1\. Full
name..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 2\.
Address.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 3\. Profession or
occupation................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 4\. Place and date of
birth...................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 5\.
Nationality........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 6\. Single, married,
etc...........................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 7\. Name of wife or
husband.................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 8\. Name and nationalities of
parents.......................................................................................................................................................................................

FORM XXVI[Refer rule 24(4)]The Citizenship Rules, 2009Government of India
Ministry of Home Affairs certificate of resumption of Indian
citizenshipNo...................................This is to certify that the
person whose particulars are given below has with immediate effect, resumed
being citizen of India, under the provisions of the proviso to section 8(2) of
the Citizenship Act, 1955.

### 1\.
Name.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 2\. Name of
father..................................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 3\. Name of
mother..............................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 4\. Name of
husband/wife.....................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 5\. Date of
birth...................................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 6\. Place of
birth....................................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 7\.
Occupation.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 8\. Marks of
Identification....................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 9\.
Address...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

| ..............................................  
---|---  
|  
PHOTOGRAPH |  |   
|  
|  
|  
|  
|  
  
......................................................Signature of registered
personPlace of Issue........................................Date of
Issue..........................................................................................................Signature
and Seal of Issuing AuthorityFORM XXVII[Refer rule 24(5)]The Citizenship
Rules, 2009Register of declarations of resumption of Indian citizenship

Sl. No. | Fullname of declarant and address | Profession or occupation | Place and date of birth | Nationality of declarant's parents | Full name of parents | Married, single, widower, widow or divorced | Place where and date when declaration made | Reference to orders etc. from Ministry of Home Affairs | Attestation by Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary/Under Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs | Reference to letter alongwith which declaration of resumption received | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
This form when completed should be forwarded in triplicate to the Chief
Secretary to the Government of the State in which the applicant is
resident.[Form XXVIII] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1049(E), dated
18.10.2018 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009).][See rule 29(1)]The Citizenship Rules,
2009Application For Registration As An Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder
Under Section 7a of The Citizenship Act, 1955Note: Please see Instructions
before filling up the form.

|  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | Indian Origin Applicant  
|  |  |   
|  | Part A | Affix yourphoto of size51 x 51 mm  
|  | Personal Particulars (as in Passport)  
|  |  |  |  |   
Signature /Left thumbimpression [in case of thosewho cannotsign] |   
|  |   
  
1 | Surname |   
---|---|---  
2 | Middle Name |   
3 | Given Name |   
4 |  Other names [If you are known by any othername(s)] |   
5 |  Gender[Male/Female/Transgender] |   
6 | Date of birth |   
7 |  Place of birth (inIndia/abroad)[Mention District, City, State, Country] |   
8 |  Marital Status[Unmarried/ Married/ Separated / Divorced/Widowed / Widower] |   
9 | Visible Distinguishing Marks on the body |   
10 |  Present nationality [along with NationalIdentification Number, if available] |   
11 |  Whether holding dualnationality? if yes, mention country and passport details(a) Country Passportnumber:(b) Country Passport number: |   
12 |  Previous nationality held (if any) [MentionPassport Number and Date of renunciation (if any)] |   
  
Family Details

13 | Father's Name |   
---|---|---  
14 | Father' Nationality |   
15 | Father's profession |   
16 | Mother's Name |   
17 | Mother's Nationality |   
18 | Mother's profession |   
19 | Spouse Name |   
20 | Spouse Nationality |   
21 | Spouse profession |   
22 | Date of Birth of spouse |   
23 | Date of Marriage |   
24 | Spouse Passport Number |   
25 |  Spouse passport issue place and validity ofpassport |   
26 |  Name of Root Indian Citizen or Root Indianperson eligible to be Indian Citizen and his/her Relationshipwith the applicant |   
  
Passport details of applicant

27 | Passport number |   
---|---|---  
28 | Place of issue |   
29 | Date of issue and expiry date |   
30 | Previous passport number if any. |   
  
Occupation details

31 | Occupation [Specific field of work] |   
---|---|---  
32 | Employer's address |   
33 | Employer's contact number |   
34 |  If retired, from which Department/ Office/Organization |   
  
Applicant's contact details

35 | Present complete address (India and abroad) |   
---|---|---  
36 | Phone number |   
37 | Email address |   
38 | Mobile number |   
  
|  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | Spouse Based Applicant  
|  |  |   
|  | Part A: | Affix yourphoto of size51 x 51 mm  
|  | Personal Particulars (as in Passport)  
|  |  |  |  |   
Signature /Left thumbimpression [in case of thosewho cannotsign] |   
|  |   
  
1 | Surname |   
---|---|---  
2 | Middle Name |   
3 | Given Name |   
4 |  Other names [If you are known by any othername(s)] |   
5 |  Gender[Male/Female/Transgender] |   
6 | Date of birth |   
7 |  Place of birth (inIndia/abroad)[Mention District, City, State, Country] |   
8 |  Marital Status[Married/ Separated / Divorced/Widowed / Widower] |   
9 | Visible Distinguishing Marks on the body |   
10 |  Present nationality [along with NationalIdentification Number, if available] |   
11 |  Whether holding dualnationality? if yes, mention country and passport details(a) Country Passportnumber(b) Country Passport number |   
12 |  Previous nationality held (if any) [MentionPassport Number and Date of renunciation (if any)] |   
  
Family Details

13 | Father's Name |   
---|---|---  
14 | Father' Nationality |   
15 | Father's profession |   
16 | Mother's Name |   
17 | Mother's Nationality |   
18 | Mother's profession |   
19 | Spouse Name |   
20 | Spouse Nationality |   
21 | Spouse profession |   
22 | Date of Birth of spouse |   
23 | Date of Marriage |   
24 | Whether married in India or abroad? |   
25 |  If marriage is solemnised in India, whethermarriage registered with the Registrar of Marriages ? |   
26 |  If marriage is solemnised abroad, whether themarriage certificate is Apostled / certified by the IndianMission/Post concerned? |   
27 | Whether marriage still subsisting? | Yes / No  
28 | Spouse passport number |   
29 | Spouse local address abroad |   
30 |  Spouse passport issue place and validity ofpassport |   
31 |  Is your Spouse anOverseas Citizen of India cardholder?If yes, please mention spouse card registrationno., date of issue and place of issue | Yes / No  
32 |  Whether you have morethan one living spouse?If Yes, give details | Yes / No  
33 |  Whether your spousehas any other living spouse?If Yes, give details | Yes / No  
  
Passport details

34 | Passport Number |   
---|---|---  
35 | Place of issue |   
36 | Date of issue and expiry date |   
37 | Previous passport number (if any). |   
  
Occupation details

38 | Occupation |   
---|---|---  
39 | Employer's address |   
40 | Employer's contact number |   
41 |  If retired, from which Department/ Office/Organisation |   
  
Applicant's contact details

42 | Present complete address (India and abroad) |   
---|---|---  
43 | Phone number |   
44 | Email address |   
45 | Mobile number |   
  
|  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | Minor child  
|  |  |   
|  | Part - A: | Affix yourphoto of size51 x 51 mm  
|  | Personal Particulars (as in Passport)  
|  |  |  |  |   
Signature /Left thumbimpression [in case of thosewho cannotsign] |   
|  |   
  
1 | Surname |   
---|---|---  
2 | Given Name |   
3 |  Other names [If you are known by any othername(s)] |   
4 |  Gender[Male/Female/Transgender] |   
5 | Date of birth |   
6 |  Place of birth (inIndia/abroad)[Mention District, City, State, Country] |   
7 | Visible Distinguishing Marks on the body |   
8 | Present nationality [along with National Identification Number, if available] |   
9 |  Whether holding dual nationality? if yes, mention country and passport details(a) Country Passport number(b) Country Passport number |   
10 | Previous nationality held[Mention Passport/Renounced ( if any)] |   
  
Family Details

11 | Father's Name |   
---|---|---  
12 | Father' Nationality |   
13 | Father's profession |   
14 | Mother's Name |   
15 | Mother's Nationality |   
16 | Mother's profession |   
17 |  Name of Root Indian Citizen or Root Indianperson eligible to be Indian Citizen and his/her Relationshipwith applicant |   
  
Passport Details

18 | Passport number |   
---|---|---  
19 | Place of issue |   
20 | Date of issue and expiry date |   
21 | Previous passport if any. |   
  
Applicant's contact details

22 | Present complete address (India and abroad) |   
---|---|---  
23 | Phone number |   
24 | Email address |   
25 | Mobile number |   
  
## Part B – Other details of Applicant(s) [Applicable to all categories]

1 |  Have you/any memberof your family applied for Overseas Citizen of India registrationearlier?If yes, give details: | Yes/No  
---|---|---  
{|  
Name and Relationship | Reference No. | Date when applied | Place where applied | Status [Granted/ Not yet]  
|  |  |  |   
  
|-| 2| Have yousurrendered/got your previous Overseas Citizen of India
cardcancelled?Please mention number and date of issue ofprevious Overseas
Citizen of India card| Yes/ No|-| 3| Whether the applicanthad ever been a
citizen of Pakistan or Bangladesh at any time?If yes, give specific details:|
Yes/No|-| 4| Whether either ofparents or grandparents or great-grandparents of
the applicanthad ever been a citizen of Pakistan orBangladesh at any time?If
yes, give specific details:| Yes/ No|-| 5| (a) Whether theapplicant (other
than the minor child / children) has worked / isworking in Armed
Forces/Paramilitary/Police/Security/Intelligence organizations?If yes, give
specific details:| Yes/ No|-|| (b) Have youundergone compulsory
military/police/home conscription/trainingin your native country?If yes,
period of compulsory training:| Yes/ No|-|| (c) Are you still serving in armed
/ policeforces beyond compulsory training period prescribed by rule inthat
country(Not applicable to a minor child)?| Yes/ No|-| 6| Date and method of
acquisition of presentnationality (By Birth / Descent / Registration
/Naturalisation)||-| {||-| Applicant's Name| Method of Acquisitionof present
nationality| Date of Acquisition|-||||}|-||-| 7| Details of Family
members/relatives who arestaying in India, if any (for Indian reference
only)||-| {||-| Sl. No.| Name| Present address| Relationship|
Age|-||||||}|-||||-| 8| Have you soughtasylum (political or otherwise) in any
country before applyingfor citizenship?If Yes, please give full
particulars/details:| Yes/No|-| 9| Have you ever beenconvicted by Court of Law
of any country?If Yes, please give full particulars/details:| Yes/ No|-| 10|
Have you ever beenrefused entry/deported by any country including India?If
Yes, please give full particulars/details:| Yes/ No|-| 11| Have you
beenassociated with any organisation (Government or non-Government)/Political
Party/ Group accused of or guilty of any rightsviolation?If Yes, please give
full particulars/details:| Yes/ No|-| 12| Have you ever beenengaged in human
trafficking/ drug trafficking/ child abuse/crime against women/ Economic
offense/ Financial Fraud ?If Yes, please give full particulars/details:| Yes/
No|-| 13| Have you ever beenengaged in cyber crime/ terrorist activities/
sabotage/espionage/ genocide/ political killing/ other acts of violence?If
Yes, please give full particulars/details:| Yes/No|-| 14| Have you ever, by
anymeans or medium, expressed views that justify or glorifyterrorist violence
or that may encourage others to terrorist actsor other serious criminal acts
?If Yes, please give full particulars/details:| Yes / No|-| 15| Details of
Criminal Proceedings against theapplicant, if any, anywhere||-|

Sl. No. | Applicant's Name | Date of Incidence | Place of Incidence | Nature of Incidence | Outcome of criminal proceedings, if any  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
|-| 16| Whether applicant is -||-|| (a) Currently under any investigation|
Yes/No|-|| (b) Wanted for questioning| Yes/No|-|| (c) Facing charges for any
offence in anycountry| Yes/No|-|| If Yes, please give details:||}Declaration

### 1\. (Name of the applicant) solemnly and sincerely declare that foregoing
particulars stated on this application are true and I make this solemn
declaration consciously believing the same to be true. In case the information
is found to be false at any stage, I am liable for legal action/cancellation
of registration as Overseas Citizen of India cardholder/deportation/
blacklisting or any other action as deemed fit by the Government of India. I
have no objection to share the requested personal particulars for processing
of Overseas Citizen of India card by the security agencies.

### 2\. I shall not use the Overseas Citizen of India card for undertaking any
TABLIGH activities in India.

### 3\. I shall not use the Overseas Citizen of India card for undertaking any
missionary or mountaineering activities or Research in India without prior
permission from the competent authority designated by the Government of India.

### 4\. In the event of dissolution of marriage or marriage to another
foreigner or death of Indian spouse, I shall surrender my card to the issuing
authority or mission [ applicable to spouse based applications].

Signature of the ApplicantDate:Place:*Application for Minor childI am a
parent/ legal guardian**/ legal adoptee parent of .................... to whom
the foregoing particulars relate. I hereby apply on behalf of my/ the child
for his/ her registration as an Overseas Citizen of India
Cardholder.Date:Place:Signature of the Applicant* To be filled only for minor
applicant** In the case of legal guardian, enclose proof of guardianship*** In
the case of legal adoptee parent, enclose legal adoption documents.FORM
XXIX[Refer rule 33 (1)]The Citizenship Rules, 2009Certificate of
registration([Overseas Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas
citizen of India" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f.
25.2.2009)])No...............................This is to certify that the
person whose particulars are given in this certificate has been registered as
an [Overseas Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen of
India" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]
under the provisions of Section 7A of the Citizenship Act, 1955.

| Photograph  
---|---  
  
### 1\.
Surname..........................................................................

### 2\. Given
Name(s)....................................................................

### 3\.
Nationality......................................................................

### 4\.
Sex..............................................................................

### 5\. Date of
Birth....................................................................

### 6\. Place of
Birth...................................................................

### 7\.
Occupation.......................................................................

### 8\. Name of Father/Legal
Guardian....................................................

### 9\. Name of
Mother...................................................................

### 10\.
Address.........................................................................

### 11\. Passport No..................Date of
issue...........................Place of Issue..............................

### 12\. Visible Distinguishing Mark of OCI Certificate Holder
..........................

### 13\. File No...............................................

Photograph |  |   
---|---|---  
|  
|  
|  
|  
|  
  
Place of issue..............................Date of
issue.................................................................................Signature
and Seal of issuing authorityFORM XXX[Refer rule 33 (3) and 35(3)]The
Citizenship Rules, 2009Register of persons registered as [Overseas Citizen of
India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen of India" by Notification No.
G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] under section 7-A and is
cancelled under section 7-D of the Citizenship Act, 1955

S. No. | Fullname and address of the applicant | Father's name | Place & date of birth | Nationality | Last permanent address outside India | Date from which resident in India | Date & place of registration | Date and place in case of renunciation | Date and place in case of cancellation and U-visa No. | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Note. - Serial No. in this register should correspond with the number in the
registration certificate.[Form XXXI] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R.
1049(E), dated 18.10.2018.][See rule 34 (1)]The Citizenship Rules,
2009Declaration of The Renunciation of The Card Registering As An Overseas
Citizen of India Cardholder Under Section 7c(1) of The Citizenship Act, 1955
Made By An Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder

### 1\. I, ........................(here insert full name and address of
declarant) am of full age and capacity and was born at
........................ on ........................

### 2\. I am registered as an Overseas Citizen of India cardholder.

### 3\. I hereby renounce my Overseas Citizen of India cardholder and
surrender* the Certificate of registration
No........................dated........................issued
at........................

### 4\. I,......................... do solemnly and sincerely declare that the
foregoing particulars stated in this declaration are true, and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true.

Date.............................Signature.....................................Made
and subscribed this............................................day
of.....................................20..............................................before
me.**Signature............................................**Designation......................................Particulars

### 1\. Full
Name................................................................................................................................................................................

### 2\.
Address..................................................................................................................................................................................

### 3\.
Occupation...............................................................................................................................................................................

### 4\. Place and date of
birth..................................................................................................................................................................

### 5\.
Nationality..............................................................................................................................................................................

### 6\. Name of wife or
husband..................................................................................................................................................................

### 7\. Number and date of certificate of registration as an Overseas Citizen
of India cardholder............................................

### 8\. Name and full particulars of minor children who are registered as
Overseas Citizen of India cardholder, if
any.....................................................................

*Please attach original certificate of registration with the declaration.**Signature and designation of the officer of the designated authority specified under rule 34 of the Citizenship Rules, 2009.FORM XXXII[Refer rule 34 (2)]The Citizenship Rules, 2009AcknowledgementReceived declaration of renunciation of [Overseas Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizenship of India" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] under section 7C(1) of the Citizenship Act, 1955 from Miss/Ms./Mr. ..................................... D/o, W/o, S/o,......................................... resident of ................. alongwith Certificate of Registration No.......................................... dated................................... issued at...........His U-visa No............................ issued at................................. on....................................is cancelled.Date....................................................................Signature with seal of the Receiving OfficerFORM XXXIII[Refer rule 37)]The Citizenship Rules, 2009Certified that ........................................... whose particulars and photograph are furnished below, has satisfied the conditions laid down in the Constitution of India/Citizenship Act, 1955 and is accordingly recognised as a citizen of India.PARTICULARS

### 1\.
Age.........................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 2\.
Height......................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 3\.
Hair........................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 4\.
Eyes........................................................................................................................................................................................................

### 5\. Special peculiarities and identification
marks..............................................................................................................................................................

### 6\. Name and
Surname............................................................................................................................................................................................

(in BLOCK LETTERS)

### 7\. Date of
birth...............................................................................................................................................................................................

### 8\. Nationality of
origin.......................................................................................................................................................................................

### 9\. Surname and forenames of
father.............................................................................................................................................................................

(in BLOCK LETTERS)

### 10\. Occupation or
profession...............................................................................................................................................................................

### 11\. Present
address............................................................................................................................................................................................

Photograph |  |   
---|---|---  
|  
|  
|  
|  
|  
  
Signature of the grantee...............................Place of
Issue......................................Date of
Issue.......................................................................................Signature
of the Issuing Authority

## II

[Refer rule 26]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009

### 1\.

(1)When the Central Government refers the case of a citizen of India to a
Committee of Inquiry under sub-section (3) of section 10 (which relates to
deprivation of citizenship of India), the Committee of Inquiry (in this
Schedule referred to as "the Committee") shall before holding the inquiry,
cause notice to be given to the person to whom the inquiry relates, stating
the time and the place where it will be held and the nature thereof and
informing him that he will be entitled to be present and/or to be represented
by counsel or solicitor, or if the Committee think fit, by some other person
approved by them.(2)A notice under this rule may be given, -(a)in a case where
the address of the person concerned is known, by causing the notice to be
delivered to him personally or by sending it to him to the address by
post;(b)in a case where that person's address is not known, by sending it to
his last known address and in such manner, if any, as the Chairman of the
Committee shall consider fit.(3)A notice as aforesaid shall be given such time
(not being less that 30 days) before the holding of the inquiry, as the
Chairman of the Committee shall consider reasonably necessary.

### 2\. A notice under paragraph 1 may require the person concerned to answer
it in writing and to furnish in writing to the Committee any information,
which they consider material, to be verified in such manner, as they may be
required.

### 3\. The Committee shall, while inquiring into any matter under sub-section
(6) of section 10 of the Act have all the powers of a Civil Court trying a
suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) and, in particular,
in respect of the following matters, namely:-

(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on
oath;(b)discovery and production of any document;(c)receiving evidences on
affidavit;(d)issuing commission for the examination of witnesses or documents.

### 4\. The Committee may act upon any information, which is available whether
or not such information is given on oath or would be admissible as evidence in
a court.

### 5\. The Committee may invite any Government department or Ministry of the
Government of India, which appears to them to be interested to appoint a
person to represent the department or Ministry at the inquiry.

### 6\.

(1)The committee may act notwithstanding any vacancy in their number, and the
quorum of the Committee shall be two.(2)The Committee may delegate one or more
of their members to inquire into any particular matter relating to the
inquiry, and the member or members so delegated shall, for this purpose, have
all the powers of the Committee under sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 3.

### 7\. The committee may postpone or adjourn the inquiry from to time.

### 8\. The Committee may allow or refuse to allow the public or any portion
thereof to be present during the whole or any part of the inquiry.

### 9\. Subject to the foregoing paragraphs, the procedure at the inquiry
shall be such as the Committee may determine.

## III

[Refer rule 40(2)]THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009

### 1\. Where it appears to the Central Government that a citizen of India has
voluntarily acquired the citizenship of any other country, it may require him
to prove within such period as may be fixed by it in this behalf, that he has
not voluntarily acquired the citizenship of that country; and the burden of
proving that he has not so acquired such citizenship shall be on him.

### 2\. For the purpose of determining any question relating to the
acquisition by an Indian citizen of the citizenship of any other country, the
Central Government may make such reference as it thinks fit in respect of that
question or of any matter relating thereto, to its Embassy in that country or
to the Government of that country and act on any report or information
received in pursuance of such reference.

### 3\. The fact that a citizen of India has obtained on any date a passport
from the Government of any other country shall be conclusive proof of his
having voluntarily acquired the citizenship of that country before that date.

### 4\. Where a person, who has become an Indian citizen by virtue of the Goa,
Daman and Diu (Citizenship) Order, 1962, or the Dadra and Nagar Haveli
(Citizenship) Order, 1962, issued under section 7 of the Citizenship Act, 1955
(57 of 1955) holds a passport issued by the Government of any other country,
the fact that he has not surrendered the said passport on or before the 19th
January, 1963 shall be conclusive proof of his having voluntarily acquired the
citizenship of that country before that date.

### 5\. In determining whether a citizen of India has or has not voluntarily
acquired the citizenship of any other country, the Central Government may take
the following circumstances into consideration, namely: -

(a)whether the person has migrated to that country with the intention of
making it his permanent home;(b)whether he has in fact taken up permanent
residence in that country; and(c)any other circumstances relevant to the
purpose.

### 6\. Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph 4, a citizen of India
who leaves or has left India without a travel document issued by the Central
Government and resides outside India for a period exceeding three years, shall
be deemed to have voluntarily acquired the citizenship of the country of his
residence.

### 7\. Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph 4, a citizen of India
shall be deemed to have voluntarily acquired the citizenship of Pakistan -

(a)if he has migrated to Pakistan with the intention of making it his
permanent home; or(b)if he has obtained any certificate of domicile in
Pakistan or declared himself to be a citizen of Pakistan or of Pakistan
domicile; or(c)if he has applied for and obtained, a right, title or interest
in evacuee property in Pakistan; or(d)if he has obtained a temporary permit
for entry into India from Pakistan.Explanation.- For the purpose of clause (a)
of this paragraph, a person shall not be deemed to have migrated to Pakistan
with a view to making that country him permanent home -(i)if he has left for a
place in West Pakistan with a "no objection certificate" and has returned to
India under such permit for permanent return or resettlement as may have been
issued by or under the authority of any law in force in India or of the
Government of India, or(ii)if having left India at any time between the Ist
February, 1950 and the 15th October, 1952, for a place in West Pakistan, he
has returned to India with a repatriation certificate issued by or under the
authority of any law in force in India or of the government of India.

## IV

(Refer rule 41)THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 2009TABLES OF FEES

Sl. No. | Matter in which fee is to be taken | Amount of fee  
---|---|---  
InIndia(Rs.) |  Elsewhere(Rs.)  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
1. | Registration as a citizen ofIndiaunder section 5 of the Act. |  |   
| (i) Under sections 5(1)(a) and 5(1)(b) | 5,000 |   
| (ii) Under section 5(1)(c) | 10,000 | 15,000  
| (iii) Under sections 5(1)(d) and 5(4) | 3,000 | 4,000  
| (iv) Under sections 5(1)(e),5(1)(f) and 5(1)(g) | 5,000 |   
2. | Naturalization as a citizen ofIndiaunder section 6(1) of the Act. |  |   
| (i) with application | 1,500 |   
| (ii) grant of certificate of naturalization | 13,500 |   
3. | Grant of a certificate of naturalization in case of doubt. | 5,000 |   
4. | Witnessing the signing of an application or declaration mentioned in rule 38 of these Rules, administering the oath of allegiance | 500 | 1,000  
5. | Registration of a declaration of intention to resume Indian citizenship or renunciation of citizenship | 5,000 | 7,000  
6. | Supplying a certified true copy of any notice, certificate, order, declaration or entry given, granted or made by or under the Act. | 500 |   
7. | Supplying a certified copy of a certificate of naturalization. | 2,000 |   
8. | Registration as an[Overseas Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen of India" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]under Section 7-A of the Act.* | US $ 275 or an amount equivalent in local currency | US $ 275 or an amount equivalent in local currency  
9. | Renuciationof[Overseas Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen of India" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]. | US $ 275 or an amount equivalent in local currency | US $ 25 or an amount equivalent in local currency  
10. | Re-issuance of certificate to[Overseas Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen of India" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]. | US $ 275 or an amount equivalent in local currency | US $ 25 or an amount equivalent in local currency  
11. | Issuance of duplicate certificate to[Overseas Citizen of India cardholder] [Substituted "overseas citizen of India" by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]* | US $ 275 or an amount equivalent in local currency | US $ 100 or an amount equivalent in local currency  
[* * *] [Omitted No. 12 by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | [* * *] [Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | [* * *] [Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | [* * *] [Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]  
[* * *] [Omitted No. 13 by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | [* * *] [Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | [* * *] [Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)] | [* * *] [Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 35(E), dated 16.1.2015 (w.e.f. 25.2.2009)]  
  
Note. - Out of the fee charged , a sum of US $ 25 or an equivalent amount in
local currency shall be non-refundable. The balance amount shall be refunded
in case the application is not accepted.

