## Constitution and Amendments

## THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-NINTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1991

India

# THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-NINTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1991

## Act 069 of 1991

  * Published in Gazette of India on 12 December 1991 
  * Commenced on 21 December 1991 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 December 1991.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**_Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Seventy-
fourth Amendment) Bill, 1991 which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Sixty-
ninth Amendment) Act, 1991_****STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS** The question
of re-organisation of the Administrative set-up in the Union territory of
Delhi has been under the consideration of the Government for some time. The
Government of India appointed on 24-12-1987 a Committee to go into the various
issues connected with the administration of Delhi and to recommend measures
inter alia for the streamlining of the administrative set-up. The Committee
went into the matter in great detail and considered the issues after holding
discussions with various individuals, associations, political parties and
other experts and taking into account the arrangements in the national
Capitals of other countries with a federal set-up and also the debates in the
Constituent Assembly as also the reports by earlier Committees and
Commissions. After such detailed inquiry and examination, it recommended that
Delhi should continue to be a Union territory and provided with a Legislative
Assembly and a Council of Ministers responsible to such Assembly with
appropriate powers to deal with matters of concern to the common man. The
Committee also recommended that with a view to ensure stability and permanence
the arrangements should be incorporated in the Constitution to give the
National Capital a special status among the Union territories.

### 2. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above proposals.

An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Forty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.- (1) This Act may be called the
Constitution (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991.

(2)It shall come into force on such date_678 as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2\. Insertion of new articles 239AA and 239AB.- After article 239A of the
Constitution, the following articles shall be inserted, namely:-

`239AA. Special provisions with respect to Delhi.-(1) As from the date of
commencement of THE CONSTITUTION (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991, the Union
territory of Delhi shall be called the National Capital Territory of Delhi
(hereafter in this Part referred to as the National Capital Territory) and the
administrator thereof appointed under article 239 shall be designated as the
Lieutenant Governor.(2)(a)There shall be a Legislative Assembly for the
National Capital Territory and the seats in such Assembly shall be filled by
members chosen by direct election from territorial constituencies in the
National Capital Territory.(b)The total number of seats in the Legislative
Assembly, the number of seats reserved for Sceduled Castes, the division of
the National Capital Territory into territorial constituencies (including the
basis for such division) and all other matters relating to the functioning of
the Legislative Assembly shall be regulated by law made by Parliament.(c)The
provisions of articles 324 to 327 and 329 shall apply in relation to the
National Capital Territory, the Leislative Assembly of the National Capital
Territory and the members thereof as they apply, in relation to a State, the
Legislative Assembly of a State and the members thereof respectively; and any
reference in articles 326 and 329 to "appropriate Legislature" shall be deemed
to be a reference to Parliament.(3)(a)Subject to the provisions of this
Constitution, the Legislative Assembly shall have power to make laws for the
whole or any part of the National Capital Territory with respect to any of the
matters enumerated in the State List or in the Concurrent List in so far as
any such matter is applicable to Union territories except matters with respect
to Entries 1, 2 and 18 of the State List and Entries 64, 65 and 66 of that
List in so far as they relate to the said Entries 1, 2 and 18.(b)Nothing in
sub-clause (a) shall derogate from the powers of Parliament under this
Constitution to make laws with respect to any matter for a Union territory or
any part thereof.(c)If any provision of a law made by the Legislative Assembly
with respect to any matter is repugnant to any provision of a law made by
Parliament with respect to that matter, whether passed before or after the law
made by the Legislative Assembly, or of an earlier law, other than a law made
by the Legislative Assembly, then, in either case, the law made by Parliament,
or, as the case may be, such earlier law, shall prevail and the law made by
the Legislative Assembly shall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be
void:Provided that if any such law made by the Legislative Assembly has been
reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent,
such law shall prevail in the National Capital Territory:Provided further that
nothing in this sub-clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting at any time
any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding to, amending,
varying or repealing the law so made by the Legislative Assembly.(4)There
shall be a Council of Ministers consisting of not more than ten per cent. of
the total number of members in the Legislative Assembly, with the Chief
Minister at the head to aid and advise the Lieutenant Governor in the exercise
of his functions in relation to matters with respect to which the Legislative
Assembly has power to make laws, except in so far as he is, by or under any
law, required to act in his discretion:Provided that in the case of difference
of opinion between the Lieutenant Governor and his Ministers on any matter,
the Lieutenant Governor shall refer it to the President for decision and act
according to the decision given thereon by the President and pending such
decision it shall be competent for the Lieutenant Governor in any case where
the matter, in his opinion, is so urgent that it is necessary for him to take
immediate action, to take such action or to give such direction in the matter
as he deems necessary.(5)The Chief Minister shall be appointed by the
President and the other Ministers shall be appointed by the President on the
advice of the Chief Minister and the Ministers shall hold office during the
pleasure of the President.(6)The Council of Ministers shall be collectively
responsible to the Legislative Assembly.(7)Parliament may, by law, make
provisions for giving effect to, or supplementing the provisions contained in
the foregoing clauses and for all matters incidental or consequential
thereto.(8)The Provisions of article 239B shall, so far as may be, apply in
relation to the National Capital Territory, the Lieutenant Governor and the
Legislative Assembly, as they apply in relation to the Union territory of
Pondicerry, the administrator and its Legislature, respectively; and any
reference in that article to "clause (1) of article 239A" shall be deemed to
be a reference to this article or article 239AB, as the case may be.

### 239AB. Provision in case of failure of constitutional machinery.-If the
President, on receipt of a report from the Lieutenant Governor or otherwise,
is satisfied-

(a)that a Situation has arisen in which the administration of the National
Capital Territory cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of
article 239AA or of any law made in pursuance of that article; or(b)that for
the proper administration of the National Capital Territory it is necessary or
expedient so to do, the President may by order suspend the operation of any
provision of article 239AA or of all or any of the provisions of any law made
in pursuance of that article for such period and subject to such conditions as
may be specified in such law and make such incidental and consequential
provisions as may appear to him to be necessary or expedient for administering
the National Capital Territory in accordance with the provisions of article
239 and article 239AA.'.[The Constitution (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991,
conferred special status to Delhi, making it a separate state above other
Union Territories and below States. It also established a legislature with a
70-member assembly and seven members of the council of ministers. The
Constitution has many provisions relating to Delhi, including the role of the
Lt. Governor. These provisions will allow the citizens of Delhi to shape the
laws, policies, and procedures affecting their city.Also Refer]

