## Union of India - Act

## The Debts Recovery Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 1993

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Debts Recovery Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 1993

## Rule THE-DEBTS-RECOVERY-TRIBUNAL-PROCEDURE-RULES-1993 of 1993

  * Published on 5 August 1993 
  * Commenced on 5 August 1993 
  * [This is the version of this document from 5 August 1993.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Debts Recovery Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 1993Published vide G.S.R.
564(E), dated 5.8.1993, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part
II, Section 3(i), dated 20.8.1993.

### 21.

/939In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section
36 of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Ordinance,
1993 (25 of 1993), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules,
namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement. - These rules may be called The Debts
Recovery Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 1993.

(2)They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official
Gazette.

### 2. Definitions. - In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)[ "Act" means the Recovery of Debts due to Banks and Financial Institutions
Act, 1993 (51 of 1993);(aa)"agent" means a person duly authorized by a party
to present application or to give reply on its behalf before the
Tribunal;](b)[ "applicant" means a person making an application under section
19 or under section 31-A and also includes an "applicant" who files an appeal
under section 30(1) of the Act; [ Substituted by G.S.R. 44(E), dated
21-1-2003, for sub-Rules (b) and (c) (w.e.f. 21-1-2003).](c)"application"
means an application filed under section 19 or under section 31-A and includes
an "appeal" filed under section 30(1) of the Act;](d)"legal practitioner"
shall have the same meaning as if assigned to it in the Advocates Act, 1961
(25 of 1961);(e)"Ordinance" means the Recovery of Debt Due to Banks and
Financial Institutions Ordinance, 1993 (25 of 1993);(f)[ "Presiding Officer"
means the Presiding Officer of the Tribunal and includes the Presiding Officer
of any other Tribunal, authorised by the Central Government to discharge the
function;] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1047(E), dated 3.11.2016
(w.e.f. 20.8.1993).](g)[ "Registrar" means the Registrar of the Tribunal and
includes the Assistant Registrar to whom the powers and duties of the
Registrar may be delegated;] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 44(E), dated 21-1-2003,
for sub-Rule (g) (w.e.f. 21-1-2003).](h)"Registry" means the Registry of the
Tribunal.

### 3. Language of the Tribunal. - (1) The proceedings of the Tribunal shall
be conducted in English or Hindi.

(2)No reference, application, representations, documents or other matters
contained in any language other than English or Hindi shall be accepted by the
Tribunal, unless the same is accompanied by a true translation thereof in
English or Hindi.

### 4. Procedure for filing application. - (1) [The application under section
19 or section 31-A, or under section 30(1) of the Act may be presented as
nearly as possible in Form I, Form II and Form III respectively] annexed to
these rules by the applicant in person or by his agent or by a duly authorized
legal practitioner to the Registrar of the Bench within whose jurisdiction his
case falls or shall be sent by registered post addressed to the Registrar.

(2)An application sent by post under sub-rule (1) shall be deemed to have been
presented to the Registrar the day on which it is received in the office of
the Registrar.(3)The application under sub-rule (1) shall be presented in [two
sets] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 328(E), dated 19-6-1997, for " four sets"
(w.e.f. 19-6-1997).], in a paper book alongwith an empty file size envelop
bearing full address of the [defendant] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 328(E), dated
19-6-1997, for " respondents" and " respondent" , respectively (w.e.f.
19-6-1997).] and where the number of [defendant] [ Substituted by G.S.R.
328(E), dated 19-6-1997, for " respondents" and " respondent" , respectively
(w.e.f. 19-6-1997).] is more than one, then sufficient number of extra paper
books together with empty file size envelops bearing full addresses of each
[defendant] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 328(E), dated 19-6-1997, for "
respondents" and " respondent" , respectively (w.e.f. 19-6-1997).] shall be
furnished by the applicant.

### 5. Presentation and scrutiny of applications. - [(1) The Registrar or, as
the case may be, the officer authorized by him, shall endorse on every
application the date on which it is presented or deemed to have been presented
under rule 4 and shall sign endorsement.]

(2)If, on scrutiny, the application is found to be in order, it shall be duly
registered and given a serial number.(2A)[ After registration of the
application under sub-rule (2), the Tribunal shall issue summons to the
defendants in Form IV.] [Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1047(E), dated
3.11.2016 (w.e.f. 20.8.1993).](3)If the application, on scrutiny, is found to
be defective and the defect noticed is formal in nature, the Registrar may
allow the party to rectify the same in his presence and if the said defect is
not formal in nature, the Registrar may allow the applicant such time to
rectify the defect as he may deem fit.(4)If the concerned applicant fails to
rectify the defect within the time allowed in sub-rule (3), the Registrar may,
by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, decline to register the
application.(5)An appeal against the order of the Registrar under sub-rule (4)
shall be made within 15 days of the making of such order to the Presiding
Officer concerned in chamber whose decision thereon shall be final.[5-A.
Review.(1)Any party considering itself aggrieved by an order made by the
Tribunal on account of some mistake of error apparent on the face of the
record desires to obtain a review of the order made against him, may apply for
a review of the order to the Tribunal which had made the order.(2)No
application for review shall be made after the expiry of a period of [thirty
days] from the date of the order and no such application shall be entertained
unless it is accompanied by an affidavit verifying the application.(3)Where it
appears to the Tribunal that there is no sufficient ground for a review, it
shall reject the application but ] [where the Tribunal is of opinion that the
application] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 405(E), dated 25-7-1997.][for review
shall be granted, it shall grant the same:Provided that no such application
shall be granted without previous notice to the opposite party to enable him
to appear and to be heard in support of the order, a review of which is
applied for.] [Inserted by G.S.R. 328(E), dated 19-6-1997 (w.e.f. 19-6-1997).
]

### 6. [ Place of filing application.

\- The application shall be filed by the applicant with the Registrar within
whose jurisdiction,-(a)[ the branch or any other office of the applicant is
functioning as a bank or financial institution and maintaining an account in
which debt claimed is outstanding for the time being:Provided that a Debenture
Trustee having a claim against any company for redemption of secured debt
securities, shall file an application at the place within whose jurisdiction
the Debenture Trustee has its principal place of business or at the place
where secured asset is located.](b)the defendant, or each of the defendants
where there are more than one, at the time of making application, actually or
voluntarily resides, or carries on business, or personally works for gain;
or(c)any of the defendants where there are more than one, at the time of
making the application, actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on
business, or personally works for gain; or(d)the cause of action, wholly or in
part, arises.

### 7. Application fee. - (1) Every application under section 19(1), or
section 19(2), or section 19(8), or section 30(1) of the Act, or interlocutory
application or application for review of decision of the Tribunal shall be
accompanied by a fee provided in the sub-rule (2) and such fee may be remitted
through a crossed Bank Demand Draft drawn on a bank or Indian Postal Order in
favour of the Registrar of the Tribunal and payable at the place where the
Tribunal is situated.

(2)The amount of fee payable shall be as follows:-

Sl. No. | Nature of application | Amount of fee payable  
---|---|---  
1. |  Application for recovery ofdebts due under section 19(1) or section 19(2) of the Act,- |   
(a) Where amount of debtdue is Rs. 10 lakhs | Rs. 12,000  
(b) Where the amount ofdebt is above Rs. 10 lakhs |  Rs. 12, 000 plus Rs. 1,000for every one lakh rupees of debt due or part thereof in excess of Rs. 10lakhs, subject to a maximum of Rs. 1,50,000  
2. |  Application tocounter-claim under section 19(8) of the Act,- |   
(a) Where the amount ofclaim made is upto Rs. 10 lakhs | 12,000  
(b) Where the amount ofclaim made is above Rs. 10 lakhs |  Rs. 12,000 plus Rs. 1,000for every one lakh rupees or part thereof in excess of Rs. 10 lakhs, subjectto a maximum of Rs. 1,50,000  
3. |  Application for reviewincluding review application in respect of the counter-claim- |   
(a) Against an interimorder | Rs. 125  
(b) Against a final orderexcluding review for correction of clerical or arithmetical mistakes |  50% of fee payable at ratesas applicable on the applications under section 19(1) or 19(8) of the Act, subject to a maximum of Rs. 15,000  
4. |  Application forinterlocutory order | Rs. 250  
5. |  Appeals against orders ofthe Recovery OfficerIf the amount appealedagainst is,- |   
(i) less than Rs. 10 lakhs | Rs. 12, 000  
(ii) Rs. 10 lakhs or morebut less than Rs. 30 lakhs | Rs. 20,000  
(iii) Rs. 30 lakhs or more | Rs. 30, 000  
6. | Vakalatnama | Rs. 5.]  
  
### 8. Contents of application. - (1) Every application filed under rule 4
shall set forth concisely under distinct heads, the grounds for such
application and such grounds shall be numbered consecutively and shall be
typed in double space on one side of the paper.

(2)It shall not be necessary to present separate application to seek interim
order of direction if in the original application the same is prayed for.

### 9. [Documents to accompany the application under section 19 or section
31-A of the Act.

(1)][An application under section 19 or section 31-A] [ Substituted by G.S.R.
44(E), dated 21-1-2003, for " Every application" (w.e.f. 21-1-2003).][shall be
accompanied by a paper book containing:-] [Substituted by G.S.R. 44(E), dated
21-1-2003, for " Documents to accompany the application" (w.e.f. 21-1-2003).
](i)[ a statement showing details of the debt due from a defendant and
circumstances under which such debt has become due; and shall also disclose
details of the case and decision in that case which is sought to be reviewed;]
[ Substituted by G.S.R. 44(E), dated 21-1-2003, for Clause (i) (w.e.f.
21-1-2003).](ii)[ all documents relied upon by the applicant and those
mentioned in the application; [Substituted by G.S.R. 44(E), dated 21-1-2003,
for " Documents to accompany the application" (w.e.f. 21-1-2003).
](iii)details of the crossed demand draft or crossed Indian Postal Order
representing the application fee;(iv)Index of Documents.(2)The documents
referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be neatly typed in double space on one side
of the paper, duly attested by a senior officer of the Bank, or Financial
Institution, as the case may be, and numbered accordingly.(3)Where the parties
to the suit or proceedings are being represented by an agent, document's
authorising him to act as such agent shall be appended to the
application:Provided that where an application is filed by a legal
practitioner, it shall be accompanied by a duly executed vakalatnama.]

### 10. [* * *]

### 11. Endorsing copy of application to the [defendant].

\- A copy of the application and paper-book shall be served on each of the
defendants as soon as they are filed, by the Registrar by registered post.

### 12. [ Filing of written statement and other documents by the defendant and
by the applicant as a reply to the written statement. [Substituted by
Notification No. G.S.R. 1047(E), dated 3.11.2016 (w.e.f. 20.8.1993).]

(1)The defendant may, within a period of thirty days from the date of service
of summons, file two complete sets of written statement including claim for
set-off or counter claim, if any, along with documents in a paper book
form.(2)A copy of the written statement filed under sub-rule (1) shall be
served to the applicant.(3)If the defendant fails to file the written
statement of his defence, including claim for set off or counter claim under
sub-rule (1), if any, within the period of thirty days, the Presiding Officer
may in exceptional cases and special circumstances to be recorded in writing,
extend the period, by such further period not exceeding fifteen days.(4)If the
defendant have filed their claim for set off or counter claim, the applicant
shall file reply statement in answer to the claim for set off or counter claim
within a period of thirty days of filing of such claims.(5)If the applicant
fails to file his reply within the period of thirty days, the Presiding
Officer may, in exceptional cases and special circumstances, to be recorded in
writing, extend the period, by such further period not exceeding fifteen
days.(6)The written statement of the defendant including claim for set off or
counter claim or any other pleading whatsoever by the defendant or the
applicant, as the case may be, shall be supported by an affidavit sworn in by
the defendant or the applicant or the witnesses, verifying all the facts and
pleadings and other documents annexed and the affidavits of witnesses, to be
led by defendant or the applicant shall be filed simultaneously with the
written statement of the defendant or the reply of the applicant.(7)If the
defendant or the applicant as the case may be, fails to file the reply as
specified above, the Tribunal may proceed forthwith to pass an order on the
application as it thinks fit.(8)Where a defendant makes an admission of the
full or part of the amount of debt due to a bank or financial institution, the
Tribunal shall order such defendant, to pay such amount, to the extent of the
admission, by the applicant within a period of thirty days from the date of
such order, failing which the Tribunal may issue a certificate in accordance
with section 19 of the Act, to the extent of amount of debt due admitted by
the defendant.(9)The Tribunal may at any time for sufficient reason order that
any particular fact or facts shall be proved by affidavit, or that the
affidavit of any witness shall be read at the hearing, on such conditions as
the Tribunal thinks reasonable:Provided that after filing of the affidavits by
the respective parties where it appears to the Tribunal that either the
applicant or the defendant desires the production of a witness for cross
examination and that such witness can be produced and it is necessary to do
so, the Tribunal shall for sufficient reasons to be recorded, order the
witness to be present for cross examination, and in the event of the witness
not appearing for cross examination, then, the affidavit shall not be taken
into evidence and further that no oral evidence other than that given in this
proviso will be permitted.(10)If the defendant denies his liability to pay the
claim made by the applicant, the Tribunal may act upon the affidavit of the
applicant who is acquainted with the facts of the case or who has on
verification of the record sworn the affidavit in respect of the contents of
application and the documents as evidence.(11)The provisions contained in
section 4 of the Banker's Books Evidence Act, 1891 (18 of 1891) shall apply to
a certified copy of an entry in a banker's book furnished along with the
application filed under sub-section (1) of section 19 by the applicant.]

12\. Filing of reply and other documents by the[defendant] [ Substituted by
G.S.R. 328(E), dated 19-6-1997, for " respondent" and " respondents" ,
respectively (w.e.f. 19-6-1997).].- (1) The[defendant] [ Substituted by G.S.R.
328(E), dated 19-6-1997, for " respondent" and " respondents" , respectively
(w.e.f. 19-6-1997).]may file[two complete sets] [ Substituted by G.S.R.
328(E), dated 19-6-1997, for " four complete sets" (w.e.f.
19-6-1997).]containing the reply to the application alongwith documents in a
paper book form with the registry within one month of the service of the
notice of the filing of the application on him.(2) The[defendant] [
Substituted by G.S.R. 328(E), dated 19-6-1997, for " respondent" and "
respondents" , respectively (w.e.f. 19-6-1997).]shall also endorse one copy of
the reply alongwith documents as mentioned in sub-rule (1) to the[applicant] [
Substituted by G.S.R. 328(E), dated 19-6-1997, for " application" (w.e.f.
19-6-1997).].(3) The Tribunal may, in its discretion on application by
the[defendant] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 328(E), dated 19-6-1997, for "
respondent" (w.e.f. 19-6-1997).], allow the filing of reply referred to in
sub-rule (1), after the expiry of the period referred to therein.(4) [ If the
defendant fails to file the reply under sub-rule (1) or on the date fixed for
hearing of the application, the Tribunal may proceed forthwith to pass an
order on the application as it thinks fit.(5) Where a defendant makes an
admission of the full or part of the amount of debt due to a bank or financial
institution, the Tribunal shall order such defendant to pay the amount, to the
extent of the admission, by the applicant within a period of one month from
the date of such order failing which the Tribunal may issue a certificate in
accordance with section 19 of the Act to the extent of the amount of debt due
admitted by the defendant.] [Inserted by G.S.R. 328(E), dated 19-6-1997
(w.e.f. 19-6-1997). ](6) [ The Tribunal may at any time for sufficient reason
order that any particular fact or facts shall be proved by affidavit, or that
the affidavit of any witness shall be read at the hearing, on such conditions
as the Tribunal thinks reasonable:Provided that after filing of the affidavits
by the respective parties where it appears to the Tribunal that either the
applicant or the defendant desires the production of a witness for cross-
examination and that such witness can be produced and it is necessary to do
so, the Tribunal shall for sufficient reasons to be recorded, order the
witness to be present for cross-examination, and in the event of the witness
not appearing for cross-examination, then, the affidavit shall not be taken
into evidence and further that no oral evidence other than that given in this
proviso will be permitted.] [Substituted by G.S.R. 44(E), dated 21-1-2003, for
sub-Rule (6) (w.e.f. 21-1-2003). ](7) [ If the defendant denies his liability
to pay the claim made by the applicant, the Tribunal may act upon the
affidavit of the applicant who is acquainted with the facts of the case or who
has on verification of the record sworn the affidavit in respect of the
contents of application and the documents as evidence.(8) The Provisions
contained in section 4 of the Bankers' Books Evidence Act, 1891 (18 of 1891)
shall apply to a certified copy of an entry in a banker's book furnished
alongwith the application filed under sub-section (1) of section 19 by the
applicant.] [Inserted by G.S.R. 328(E), dated 19-6-1997 (w.e.f. 19-6-1997). ]  
---  
  
### 13. Date and place of hearing to be notified. - The Tribunal shall notify
the parties the date and place of hearing of the application in such a manner
as the Presiding Officer may by general or special order direct.

### 14. Order to be signed and dated. - (1) Every order of the Tribunal shall
be in writing and shall be signed and dated by the Presiding Officer of the
Tribunal.

(2)The order shall be pronounced in open Court.

### 15. Publication of orders. - Any orders of the Tribunal as are deemed fit
for publication in any authoritative report or the press may be released for
such publication on such terms and conditions as the Tribunal may lay down.

[15-A. Publication of names of the defaulters.\- The Tribunal may cause to
notify the names of the defaulters in the newspaper or otherwise after the
final order/recovery certificate has been passed by the Tribunal as it deem
fit and proper.]

### 16. [ Communication of orders to parties. - Every final order passed and
recovery certificate issued shall be communicated to the applicant and to the
defendant either in person or by registered post free of cost and may also be
uploaded in the website of the Tribunal:

Provided that the applicant and defendant may obtain copy of any other order
passed by the Tribunal during the hearing from the Registrar on payment of
fees of rupees five per page, subject to a minimum of rupees one hundred, for
every order and the same may also be uploaded in the website of the Tribunal.]
[Substituted 'Every order passed on an application shall be communicated to
the applicant and to the defendant either in person or by registered post free
of cost.' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1047(E), dated 3.11.2016 (w.e.f.
20.8.1993).]

### 17. Fee for inspection of records and obtaining copies thereof. - (1) A
fee of rupees twenty for every hour or part thereof of inspection subject to a
minimum of rupees one hundred shall be charged for inspecting the records of a
[each pending application] by a party thereto.

(2)A fee of rupees five for a folio or part thereof not involving typing and a
fee of rupees ten for a folio or part thereof involving typing of statement
and figures shall be charged.

### 18. Orders and directions in certain cases. - The Tribunal may make such
orders to give such directions as may be necessary or expedient to give effect
to its orders or to prevent abuse of its process or to secure the ends of
justice.

### 19. Working hours of the Tribunal. - Except on [second Saturday of a
month], Sundays and other public holidays, the offices of the Tribunal shall,
subject to any order made by the Presiding Officer, remain open daily from 10
a.m. to 6.00 p.m. but no work, unless, of an urgent nature, shall be admitted
after 4.30 p.m. on any working day.

### 20. Sitting hours of the Tribunal. - The sitting hours of the Tribunal
(including a vacation bench) shall ordinarily be from 10.30 a.m. to 1.00 p.m.
and 2.00 p.m. to 5.00 p.m. subject to any order made by the Presiding Officer.

### 21\. Holiday. - Where the last day for doing any act falls on a day on
which the office of the Tribunal is closed and by reason thereof the act
cannot be done on that day, it may be done on the next day on which that
office opens.

### 22. Powers and functions of the Registrar. - (1) The Registrar shall have
the custody of the records of the Tribunal and shall exercise such other
functions as are assigned to him under these rules or by the Presiding Officer
by a separate order in writing.

(2)The official seal shall be kept in the custody of the Registrar.(3)Subject
to any general or special direction by the Presiding Officer, the seal of the
Tribunal shall not be affixed to any order, summons or other process save
under the authority in writing from the Registrar.(4)The seal of the Tribunal
shall not be affixed to any certified copy issued by the Tribunal save under
the authority in writing of the Registrar.

### 23. Additional powers and duties of Registrar. - In addition to the powers
conferred elsewhere in these rules, the Registrar shall have the following
powers and duties subject to any general or special order of the Presiding
Officer, namely:-

(i)to receive all applications and other documents including transferred
applications;(ii)to decide all questions arising out of the scrutiny of the
applications before they are registered;(iii)to require any application
presented to the Tribunal to be amended in accordance with the
rules;(iv)subject to the directions of the Presiding Officer to fix date of
hearing of the applications or other proceedings and issue notices
thereof;(v)direct any formal amendment of records;(vi)to order grant of copies
of documents to parties of proceedings;(vii)to grant leave to inspect the
record of Tribunal;(viii)dispose of all matters relating to the service of
notices or other processes, applications for the issue of fresh notices or for
extending the time for or ordering a particular method of service on a
[defendant] including a substituted service by publication of the notice by
way of advertisements in the newspapers;(ix)to requisition records from the
custody of any Court or other authority.[23-A. Functions of Assistant
Registrar.\- The Assistant Registrar of the Tribunal shall assist the
Registrar in the work relating to the Registry and Administration of the
Tribunal and perform such other functions assigned/delegated to him by the
Presiding Officer.]

### 24. Seal and emblem. - The official seal and emblem of the Tribunal shall
be such as the Central Government may specify.

[FORM I(See rule 4)]Application Under Section 19 Of The Recovery Of Debts Due
To Banks And Financial Institutions [Act] [Substituted By G.S.R. 352(E), Dated
31-3-1994, For &Quot;ordinance&Quot; (W.E.F. 31-3-1994)], 1993For use in
Tribunal's office _________________Date of filing _________________Date of
receipt by post _________________orRegistration No
_________________SignatureRegistrarIN THE DEBTS RECOVERY
TRIBUNAL.........(Name of the place)BetweenA B ........ApplicantandC D
........[Defendant] [Substituted by G.S.R. 328(E), dated 19-6-1997, for
"respondent" (w.e.f. 19-6-1997)]DETAILS OF APPLICATION:

### 1\. Particulars of the applicant

(i)Name of the applicant:(ii)Address of registered office:(iii)Address for
service of all notices

### 2\. Particulars of the [defendant] [Substituted by G.S.R. 328(E), dated
19-6-1997, for "respondent" (w.e.f. 19-6-1997)]

(i)Name of the [defendant] [Substituted by G.S.R. 328(E), dated 19-6-1997, for
"respondent" (w.e.f. 19-6-1997)] :-(ii)Office address of the [defendant]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 328(E), dated 19-6-1997, for "respondent" (w.e.f.
19-6-1997)](iii)Address for service of all notices

### 3\. Jurisdiction of the Tribunal :-

The applicant declares that the subject matter of the recovery of debt due
falls within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal.

### 3A. [ Details of debt and assets:

(i) Total amount of debt claimed as on the date to bespecified. | amount of debt, in rupees |  |   
---|---|---|---  
(ii) Amount of debt, as on specified date, secured by securityinterest over properties or assets of the defendant withparticulars of secured properties and assets. | amount of secured debt, in rupees |  description of property or asset with its location securingthe debt. |   
(iii) Estimated value of properties or assets over whichsecurity interest is created. |  description of property or asset with its location securingthe debt. | value, in rupees |   
(iv) If estimated value is not adequate to cover the totaldebt claimed with future interest particulars of any otherproperties or assets known to the applicant with estimated valueof such other properties or assets. | description of property or asset with its location. | estimated value, in rupees |   
(v) Amount of unsecured debt or portion of debt not covered byestimated value of secured properties and other properties. | amount of unsecured debt, in rupees | portion of debt not covered by securities, in rupees.] |   
  
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1047(E), dated 3.11.2016 (w.e.f.
20.8.1993).]

### 4\. Limitation :

The applicant further declares that the application is within the limitation
prescribed in Section 24 of the Recovery of Debts to Banks and Financial
Institutions [Act] [Substituted by G.S.R. 352(E), dated 31-3-1994, for
"Ordinance" (w.e.f. 31-3-1994)], 1993.

### 5\. Facts of the case :-

The facts of the case are given below :-(Give here a concise statement of
facts in a chronological order, each paragraph containing as nearly as
possible a separate issue, fact or otherwise)

### 6\. Relief(s) sought :

In view of the facts mentioned in para 5 above, the applicant prays for the
following relief(s)-(Specify below the relief(s) sought explaining the ground
for relief (s) and the legal provisions (if any) relied upon).

### 7\. [ Interim order, if prayed for:

(i)pending final decisions on the application, the applicant seeks issue of
the following interim order:-(Give here the nature of the interim order prayed
for with reasons)(ii)whether the applicant is seeking an order directing the
defendant to disclose to the Tribunal particulars of other properties or
assets owned by the defendant and if so, grounds justifying such order.(iii)if
the applicant proposes to rely on evidence of any witness in support of his
claim, he shall annex affidavits of the witnesses, to the application.]

### 8\. Matter not pending with any other court, etc. :

The applicant. further declares that the matter regarding which the
application has been made is not pending before any court of law or any other
authority or any other Bench of the Tribunal.

### 9\. Particulars of bank draft/ postal order in respect of the application
fee :

(1)Name of the bank on which drawn :(2)Demand draft no :or(1)Number of Indian
Postal Order(s):(2)Name of the issuing post office:(3)Date of issue of postal
order (s);(4)Post office at which payable:

### 10\. [ Details of documents :

True copies of all documents and evidence of witnesses along with an index of
such documents in duplicate, relied upon in support of the claim.]

### 11\. List of enclosures :

VERIFICATIONI son/ daughter/ wife of Shri ____________ being the ____________
(Name in full and block letters) (designation) of _____________ (name of the
company ____________ ) holding a valid power of attorney from ____________
(name of the company ) do hereby verify that the contents of paras 1 to 11 are
true to my personal knowledge and belief and that I have not suppressed any
material facts.Signature of the applicant.Place: ____________Date:
____________ToThe Registrar,____________________________________[FORM II]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 44(E), dated 21-1-2003 (w.e.f. 21-1-2003)](See rule
4)Application Under Section 31-A Of The Recovery Of Debts Due To Banks And
Financial Institutions Act, 1993Four use of Tribunal's office
......................Date of filing .......................Date of receipt by
post .......................OrRegistration No.
.....................SignatureRegistrarIN THE DEBTS RECOVERY
TRIBUNAL..............................(name of place)Between................
Application(s)/Judgment-Creditor(s)and.................Defendant(s)/Judgment-
Debtor(s)I. Particulars of the Applicant(s) :-(i)Name of the
applicant:(ii)Address of the Registered Office:(iii)Address for service of all
notices:II. Particulars of the defendant(s) :-(i)Name of the
defendant:(ii)Office address of the defendant:(iii)Address for service of all
notices:III. Jurisdiction of the Tribunal :-The applicant declares that the
subject matter of the application falls within the jurisdiction of the
Tribunal.(IV)Limitation :The applicant further declares that the application
is within the limitation prescribed in section 24 of the Recovery of Debts Due
to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993.(V)Facts of the case :-The facts
of the case are given below. :-(give here a concise statement of facts in a
chronological order, each paragraph containing as nearly as possible a
separate issue, facts or otherwise).(VI)Relief prayed for :-(I)Issue of
Recovery Certificate for the recovery of a sum of Rs. ......... (Rupees
............. only) inclusive a sum of Rs. ............... (Rupees ..........
only) as per the decree in O.S. No. ......... dated .......... passed by
............. with interest at the rate of .........% from ......... the date
of realization with costs.(II)Any other relief.(VII)Matter not pending with
any other Court, etc.:-The applicant further declares that the matter
regarding which this appeal has been made is not pending before any Court of
law or any other authority or any other Tribunal(s).(VIII)List of enclosures
:-(a)Copy of the decree passed by the Court on the basis of which the present
application is filed.(b)List of hypothecated movables indicating the place in
which they are kept.(c)List of mortgaged immovables.(d)Calculations Sheet
showing the amount for which the Recovery Certificate is sought to be
issued.VERIFICATIONI ........................... (name in full block letters)
son/daughter/wife of ................... being the ...........................
(designation) of ..................... (Name of Bank/Financial Institution),
do hereby verify that the contents of para I to VIII are true to my personal
knowledge and belief and that I have not suppressed any material
fact(s).Signature of the applicantPlace :Date :ToRegistrar,Debts Recovery
Tribunal.......................FORM III(See rule 4)Appeal Under Section 30(1)
Of The Recovery Of Debts Due To Banks And Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51
Of 1993)For use of Tribunal's office ......................Date of filing
......................Date of Receipt by post
.....................OrRegistration No.
......................SignatureRegistrarIN THE DEBTS RECOVERY
TRIBUNAL...........................(Name of place)Between...................
Appellant(s)/Judgment-Creditor(s)and...................
Respondent(s)/Judgment-Debtor(s)Details of appeal :-(I)Particulars of the
Appellant(s) :-(i)Name of the appellant :(ii)Address of the Registered office
of the appellant:(iii)Address for service of all notices:(II)Particulars of
the respondent(s) :(i)Name(s) of respondent :(ii)Office address of the
respondent:(iii)Address for service of all notices:(III)Jurisdiction of the
Tribunal :-The appellant declares that the subject matter of the appeal falls
within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal.(IV)Limitation :The appellant declares
that the appeal is within the limitation as prescribed in section 30(1) of the
Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of
1993).(V)Facts of the case :-(give here a concise statement of facts and
grounds of appeal against the specific order of Recovery Officer, in a
chronological order)(VI)Relief(s) sought :-In view of the facts mentioned in
paragraph V above, the appellant prays for the following relief(s).(Specify
below the relief(s) sought explaining the grounds of relief(s) and the legal
provisions (if any) relied upon).VII. Interim order, if prayed for--Pending
final decision on the appeal the appellant seeks issue of the following
interim order :(Give here the nature of the interim order prayed for with
reasons)(VIII)Matter not pening with any other Court, etc.:-The appellant
further declares that the matter regarding which this appeal has been made is
not pending before any Court of law or any other authority or any other
Tribunal(s).(IX)Details of index :-An index in duplicate containing the
details of the documents to be relied upon is enclosed.(X)List of enclosures
:-VerificationI ................... (name in full block letters)
son/daughter/wife of .................. holding a valid power of attorney from
..................... (Name of the company) do hereby verify that the contents
of para I to IX are true to my personal knowledge and belief and that I have
not suppressed any material fact(s).Signature of the applicantPlace :Date
:ToRegistrar,Debts Recovery Tribunal...............................][FORM IV]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1047(E), dated 3.11.2016 (w.e.f.
20.8.1993).](See sub-rule (2A) of rule 5)Summons under sub-section (4) of
section 19 of the Act, read with sub-rule (2A) of rule 5 of the Debt Recovery
Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 1993.Before Debts Recovery
Tribunal_____________address_________________________OA No. _____

(i) Total amount of debt claimed as on the date to bespecified. | amount of debt, in rupees |  |   
---|---|---|---  
(ii) Amount of debt, as on specified date, secured by securityinterest over properties or assets of the defendant withparticulars of secured properties and assets. | amount of secured debt, in rupees |  description of property or asset with its location securingthe debt. |   
(iii) Estimated value of properties or assets over whichsecurity interest is created. |  description of property or asset with its location securingthe debt. | value, in rupees |   
(iv) If estimated value is not adequate to cover the totaldebt claimed with future interest particulars of any otherproperties or assets known to the applicant with estimated valueof such other properties or assets. | description of property or asset with its location. | estimated value, in rupees |   
(v) Amount of unsecured debt or portion of debt not covered byestimated value of secured properties and other properties. | amount of unsecured debt, in rupees | portion of debt not covered by securities, in rupees.] |   
  
Whereas, OA No.______ was listed before Hon'ble Presiding Officer on
.................Whereas, this Hon'ble Tribunal is pleased to issue summons/
notice on the said Application under section 19(4) of the Act, (OA) filed
against you for recovery of debts of .______/- (application along with copies
of documents etc. annexed).In accordance with sub-section (4) of section 19 of
the Act, you, the defendants are directed as under:-(i)to show cause within
thirty days of the service of summons as to why relief prayed for should not
be granted;(ii)to disclose particulars of properties or assets other than
properties and assets specified by the applicant under serial number 3A of the
original application;(iii)you are restrained from dealing with or disposing of
secured assets or such other assets and properties disclosed under serial
number 3A of the original application, pending hearing and disposal of the
application for attachment of properties;(iv)you shall not transfer by way of
sale, lease or otherwise, except in the ordinary course of his business any of
the assets over which security interest is created and/ or other assets and
properties specified or disclosed under serial number 3A of the original
application without the prior approval of the Tribunal;(v)you shall be liable
to account for the sale proceeds realised by sale of secured assets or other
assets and properties in the ordinary course of business and deposit such sale
proceeds in the account maintained with the bank or financial institutions
holding security interest over such assets.You are also directed to file the
written statement with a copy thereof furnished to the applicant and to appear
before _________ on____________at ______A.M. failing which the application
shall be heard and decided in your absence.Given under my hand and seal of the
Tribunal on this the ...........day of..................20........By Order of
the TribunalRegistrarDebts Recovery Tribunal, ...........ToDefendants

### 1\.

### 2\.

### 3\.

[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1047(E), dated 3.11.2016 (w.e.f.
20.8.1993).][Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1047(E), dated 3.11.2016
(w.e.f. 20.8.1993).]

