## Union of India - Act

## The Dock Workers (Regulation Of Employment) (Inapplicability To Major
Ports) Act, 1997

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Dock Workers (Regulation Of Employment) (Inapplicability To Major Ports)
Act, 1997

## Act 31 of 1997

  * Published on 18 August 1997 
  * Commenced on 18 August 1997 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 August 1997.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Dock Workers (Regulation Of Employment) (Inapplicability To Major Ports)
Act, 1997(31 OF 1997)

### 8.

/450[18th August, 1997]Received the assent of the President on 18.8.1997,
published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 1, dated
19.8.1997.An Act to provide for inapplicability of the Dock Workers
(Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 to dock workers of major port trusts and
for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by
Parliament in the Forty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

Brought into force on 5.1.1998 vide S.O. 22(E), dated 5.1.1998.  
---  
  
### 1. Short title and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The Dock
Workers (Regulation of Employment) (Inapplicability to Major Ports) Act, 1997.

(2)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"appointed day", in relation to a major port, means the date specified
under section 3 for that major port;(b)"Board" has the same meaning as in the
Major Port Trusts Act, 1963 (38 of 1963);(c)"Dock Labour Board" means a Dock
Labour Board established under section 5-A of the Dock Workers (Regulation of
Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948);(d)"major port" has the same meaning as in
the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15 of 1908).

### 3. Inapplicability of the provisions of the Dock Workers (Regulation of
Employment) Act, 1948 to major ports .-The Central Government may, after
settlement is arrived at between the Dock Labour Board of any major port, its
workmen and the management of that major port in accordance with the
provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), direct, by
notification in the Official Gazette that the provisions of the Dock Workers
(Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948) shall cease to have effect in
relation to that major port with effect from the date specified in that
notification.

### 4. Transfer of assets and liabilities of the Dock Labour Board, etc., to
the Board .-On the appointed day in relation to a major port,-

(a)all property, assets and funds vested in the Dock Labour Board immediately
before such day, shall vest in the Board;(b)all debts, obligations and
liabilities incurred, all contracts entered into and all matters and things
engaged to be done by, with or for the Dock Labour Board immediately before
such day, for or in connection with the purposes of the Dock Labour Board,
shall be deemed to have been incurred, entered into and engaged to be done by,
with or for the Board;(c)all sums of money due to the Dock Labour Board
immediately before such day shall be deemed to be due to the Board;(d)all
suits and other legal proceedings instituted by or against the Dock Labour
Board immediately before such day for any matter in relation to the Dock
Labour Board may be continued by or against the Board;(e)every employee and
worker serving under the Dock Labour Board shall hold office or service under
the Board on the terms and conditions which are not in any way less favourable
than those which would have been admissible to him if there had not been
transfer of his services to the Board and shall continue to do so unless and
until his employment in the Board is duly terminated or until his tenure,
remuneration or terms and conditions of service are duly altered by the
Board.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial Disputes Act,
1947 (14 of 1947), or in any other law for the time being in force, the
transfer of the services of any employee under this section to the Board shall
not entitle such employee to any compensation under that Act or any other law,
and no such claim shall be entertained by any Court, tribunal or other
authority.

