## Union of India - Act

## The Disaster Management Act, 2005

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Disaster Management Act, 2005

## Act 53 of 2005

  * Published on 23 December 2005 
  * Commenced on 23 December 2005 
  * [This is the version of this document from 23 December 2005.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Disaster Management Act, 2005(53 OF 2005)

### 7.

/432Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Government have decided to enact a
law on disaster management to provide for requisite institutional mechanisms
for drawing up and monitoring the implementation of the disaster management
plans, ensuring measures by various wings of Government for prevention and
mitigating effects of disasters and for undertaking a holistic, coordinated
and prompt response to any disaster situation.2\. The Disaster Management
Bill, 2005 provides for setting up of a National Disaster Management Authority
under the Chairmanship of the Prime Minister, State Disaster Management
Authorities under the Chairmanship of the Chief Ministers and District
Disaster Management Authorities under the Chairmanship of District
Magistrates. The Bill also provides for concerned Ministries or Departments to
draw up department-wise plans in accordance with the National Disaster
Management Plan. It provides for constitution of a National Disaster Response
Force and setting up the National Institute of Disaster Management. The Bill
provides for the constitution of the National Fund for Disaster Response and
the National Fund for Disaster Mitigation and similar Funds at the State and
District levels. The Bill provides for specific role for Local Bodies in
disaster management including Panchayati Raj Institutions as well as Urban
Local Bodies like Municipalities.3\. The proposed enactment will facilitate
effective steps for the mitigation of disasters, prepare for and coordinate
effective response to disasters, as also matters connected therewith or
incidental thereto.4\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.[23rd
December, 2005]An Act to provide for the effective management of disasters and
for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by
Parliament in the Fifty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

Sections 2 to 6, 8, 10, 75 and 79 brought into force on 28.7.2006 vide S.O.
1216(E), dated 28.7.2006; Sections 7, 9, 11 to 13, 35 to 37, 42, 43, 49 and
50, sub-Section (1) of Section 70 brought into force on 30.10.2006, vide S.O.
1861(E), dated 30.10.2006; Sections 14 to 41, 48, 51 to 69, sub-Section (2) of
Section 70, Sections 71 to 74, 78 and 79 brought into force on 1.8.2007 vide
S.O. 722(E), dated 7.5.2007; Sections 44 and 45 brought into force on
17.3.2008 vide S.O. 517(E), dated 17.3.2008.  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The
Disaster Management Act, 2005.

(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date
as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette
appoint; and different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this
Act and for different States, and any reference to commencement in any
provision of this Act in relation to any State shall be construed as a
reference to the commencement of that provision in that State.

### 2. Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"affected area" means an area or part of the country affected by a
disaster;(b)"capacity-building" includes-(i)identification of existing
resources and resources to be acquired or created;(ii)acquiring or creating
resources identified under sub-clause (i);(iii)organisation and training of
personnel and coordination of such training for effective management of
disasters;(c)"Central Government" means the Ministry or Department of the
Government of India having administrative control of disaster
management;(d)"disaster" means a catastrophe, mishap, calamity or grave
occurrence in any area, arising from natural or man made causes, or by
accident or negligence which results in substantial loss of life or human
suffering or damage to, and destruction of, property, or damage to, or
degradation of, environment, and is of such a nature or magnitude as to be
beyond the coping capacity of the community of the affected area;(e)"disaster
management" means a continuous and integrated process of planning, organising,
coordinating and implementing measures which are necessary or expedient
for-(i)prevention of danger or threat of any disaster;(ii)mitigation or
reduction of risk of any disaster or its severity or
consequences;(iii)capacity-building;(iv)preparedness to deal with any
disaster;(v)prompt response to any threatening disaster situation or
disaster;(vi)assessing the severity or magnitude of effects of any
disaster;(vii)evacuation, rescue and relief;(viii)rehabilitation and
reconstruction;(f)"District Authority" means the District Disaster Management
Authority constituted under sub-section (1) of section 25;(g)"District Plan"
means the plan for disaster management for the district prepared under section
31;(h)"local authority" includes panchayati raj institutions, municipalities,
a district board, cantonment board, town planning authority or Zila Parishad
or any other body or authority, by whatever name called, for the time being
invested by law, for rendering essential services or, with the control and
management of civic services, within a specified local area;(i)"mitigation"
means measures aimed at reducing the risk, impact or effect of a disaster or
threatening disaster situation;(j)"National Authority" means the National
Disaster Management Authority established under sub-section (1) of section
3;(k)"National Executive Committee" means the Executive Committee of the
National Authority constituted under sub-section (1) of section 8;(l)"National
Plan" means the plan for disaster management for the whole of the country
prepared under section 11;(m)"preparedness" means the state of readiness to
deal with a threatening disaster situation or disaster and the effects
thereof;(n)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(o)"reconstruction" means construction or restoration of any property
after a disaster;(p)"resources" includes manpower, services, materials and
provisions;(q)"State Authority" means the State Disaster Management Authority
established under sub-section (1) of section 14 and includes the Disaster
Management Authority for the Union territory constituted under that
section;(r)"State Executive Committee" means the Executive Committee of a
State Authority constituted under sub-section (1) of section 20;(s)"State
Government" means the Department of Government of the State having
administrative control of disaster management and includes Administrator of
the Union territory appointed by the President under article 239 of the
Constitution;(t)"State Plan" means the plan for disaster management for the
whole of the State prepared under section 23.

## Chapter II  
The National Disaster Management Authority

### 3. Establishment of National Disaster Management Authority .-(1) With
effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette appoint in this behalf, there shall be established for the
purposes of this Act, an authority to be known as the National Disaster
Management Authority.

(2)The National Authority shall consists of the Chairperson and such number of
other members, not exceeding nine, as may be prescribed by the Central
Government and, unless the rules otherwise provide, the National Authority
shall consist of the following:-(a)the Prime Minister of India, who shall be
the Chairperson of the National Authority, ex officio ;(b)other members, not
exceeding nine, to be nominated by the Chairperson of the National
Authority.(3)The Chairperson of the National Authority may designate one of
the members nominated under clause (b) of sub-section (2) to be the Vice-
Chairperson of the National Authority.(4)The term of office and conditions of
service of members of the National Authority shall be such as may be
prescribed.

### 4. Meetings of National Authority .-(1) The National Authority shall meet
as and when necessary and at such time and place as the Chairperson of the
National Authority may think fit.

(2)The Chairperson of the National Authority shall preside over the meetings
of the National Authority.(3)If for any reason the Chairperson of the National
Authority is unable to attend any meeting of the National Authority, the Vice-
Chairperson of the National Authority shall preside over the meeting.

### 5. Appointment of officers and other employees of the National Authority
.-The Central Government shall provide the National Authority with such
officers, consultants and employees, as it considers necessary for carrying
out the functions of the National Authority.

### 6. Powers and functions of National Authority .-(1) Subject to the
provisions of this Act, the National Authority shall have the responsibility
for laying down the policies, plans and guidelines for disaster management for
ensuring timely and effective response to disaster.

(2)Without prejudice to generality of the provisions contained in sub-section
(1), the National Authority may-(a)lay down policies on disaster
management;(b)approve the National Plan;(c)approve plans prepared by the
Ministries or Departments of the Government of India in accordance with the
National Plan;(d)lay down guidelines to be followed by the State Authorities
in drawing up the State Plan;(e)lay down guidelines to be followed by the
different Ministries or Departments of the Government of India for the purpose
of integrating the measures for prevention of disaster or the mitigation of
its effects in their development plans and projects;(f)coordinate the
enforcement and implementation of the policy and plan for disaster
management;(g)recommend provision of funds for the purpose of
mitigation;(h)provide such support to other countries affected by major
disasters as may be determined by the Central Government;(i)take such other
measures for the prevention of disaster, or the mitigation, or preparedness
and capacity building for dealing with the threatening disaster situation or
disaster as it may consider necessary;(j)lay down broad policies and
guidelines for the functioning of the National Institute of Disaster
Management.(3)The Chairperson of the National Authority shall, in the case of
emergency, have power to exercise all or any of the powers of the National
Authority but exercise of such powers shall be subject to ex post facto
ratification by the National Authority.

### 7\. Constitution of advisory committee by National Authority .-(1) The
National Authority may constitute an advisory committee consisting of experts
in the field of disaster management and having practical experience of
disaster management at the national, State or district level to make
recommendation on different aspects of disaster management.

(2)The members of the advisory committee shall be paid such allowances as may
be prescribed by the Central Government in consultation with the National
Authority.

### 8. Constitution of National Executive Committee .-(1) The Central
Government shall, immediately after issue of notification under sub-section
(1) of section 3, constitute a National Executive Committee to assist the
National Authority in the performance of its functions under this Act.

(2)The National Executive Committee shall consist of the following members,
namely:-(a)the Secretary to the Government of India in charge of the Ministry
or Department of the Central Government having administrative control of the
disaster management, who shall be Chairperson, ex officio ;(b)the Secretaries
to the Government of India in the Ministries or Departments having
administrative control of the agriculture, atomic energy, defence, drinking
water supply, environment and forests, finance (expenditure), health, power,
rural development, science and technology, space, telecommunication, urban
development, water resources and the Chief of the Integrated Defence Staff of
the Chiefs of Staff Committee, ex officio ;(3)The Chairperson of the National
Executive Committee may invite any other officer of the Central Government or
a State Government for taking part in any meeting of the National Executive
Committee and shall exercise such powers and perform such functions as may be
prescribed by the Central Government in consultation with the National
Authority.(4)The procedure to be followed by the National Executive Committee
in exercise of its powers and discharge of its functions shall be such as may
be prescribed by the Central Government.

### 9. Constitution of sub-committees .-(1) The National Executive Committee
may, as and when it considers necessary, constitute one or more sub-
committees, for the efficient discharge of its functions.

(2)The National Executive Committee shall, from amongst its members, appoint
the Chairperson of the sub-committee referred to in sub-section (1).(3)Any
person associated as an expert with any sub-committee may be paid such
allowances as may be prescribed by the Central Government.

### 10. Powers and functions of National Executive Committee .-(1) The
National Executive Committee shall assist the National Authority in the
discharge of its functions and have the responsibility for implementing the
policies and plans of the National Authority and ensure the compliance of
directions issued by the Central Government for the purpose of disaster
management in the country.

(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions contained in sub-
section (1), the National Executive Committee may-(a)act as the coordinating
and monitoring body for disaster management;(b)prepare the National Plan to be
approved by the National Authority;(c)coordinate and monitor the
implementation of the National Policy;(d)lay down guidelines for preparing
disaster management plans by different Ministries or Departments of the
Government of India and the State Authorities;(e)provide necessary technical
assistance to the State Governments and the State Authorities for preparing
their disaster management plans in accordance with the guidelines laid down by
the National Authority;(f)monitor the implementation of the National Plan and
the plans prepared by the Ministries or Departments of the Government of
India;(g)monitor the implementation of the guidelines laid down by the
National Authority for integrating of measures for prevention of disasters and
mitigation by the Ministries or Departments in their development plans and
projects;(h)monitor, coordinate and give directions regarding the mitigation
and preparedness measures to be taken by different Ministries or Departments
and agencies of the Government;(i)evaluate the preparedness at all
governmental levels for the purpose of responding to any threatening disaster
situation or disaster and give directions, where necessary, for enhancing such
preparedness;(j)plan and coordinate specialised training programme for
disaster management for different levels of officers, employees and voluntary
rescue workers;(k)coordinate response in the event of any threatening disaster
situation or disaster;(l)lay down guidelines for, or give directions to, the
concerned Ministries or Departments of the Government of India, the State
Governments and the State Authorities regarding measures to be taken by them
in response to any threatening disaster situation or disaster;(m)require any
department or agency of the Government to make available to the National
Authority or State Authorities such men or material resources as are available
with it for the purposes of emergency response, rescue and relief;(n)advise,
assist and coordinate the activities of the Ministries or Departments of the
Government of India, State Authorities, statutory bodies, other governmental
or non-governmental organisations and others engaged in disaster
management;(o)provide necessary technical assistance or give advice to the
State Authorities and District Authorities for carrying out their functions
under this Act;(p)promote general education and awareness in relation to
disaster management; and(q)perform such other functions as the National
Authority may require it to perform.

### 11. National Plan .-(1) There shall be drawn up a plan for disaster
management for the whole of the country to be called the National Plan.

(2)The National Plan shall be prepared by the National Executive Committee
having regard to the National Policy and in consultation with the State
Governments and expert bodies or organisations in the field of disaster
management to be approved by the National Authority.(3)The National Plan shall
include-(a)measures to be taken for the prevention of disasters, or the
mitigation of their effects;(b)measures to be taken for the integration of
mitigation measures in the development plans;(c)measures to be taken for
preparedness and capacity building to effectively respond to any threatening
disaster situations or disaster;(d)roles and responsibilities of different
Ministries or Departments of the Government of India in respect of measures
specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c).(4)The National Plan shall be reviewed
and updated annually.(5)Appropriate provisions shall be made by the Central
Government for financing the measures to be carried out under the National
Plan.(6)Copies of the National Plan referred to in sub-sections (2) and (4)
shall be made available to the Ministries or Departments of the Government of
India and such Ministries or Departments shall draw up their own plans in
accordance with the National Plan.

### 12. Guidelines for minimum standards of relief .-The National Authority
shall recommend guidelines for the minimum standards of relief to be provided
to persons affected by disaster, which shall include,-

(i)the minimum requirements to be provided in the relief camps in relation to
shelter, food, drinking water, medical cover and sanitation;(ii)the special
provisions to be made for widows and orphans;(iii)ex gratia assistance an
account of loss of life as also assistance on account of damage to houses and
for restoration of means of livelihood;(iv)such other relief as may be
necessary.

### 13. Relief in loan repayment, etc .-The National Authority may, in cases
of disasters of severe magnitude, recommend relief in repayment of loans or
for grant of fresh loans to the persons affected by disaster on such
concessional terms as may be appropriate.

## Chapter III  
State Disaster Management Authorities

### 14. Establishment of State Disaster Management Authority .-(1) Every State
Government shall, as soon as may be after the issue of the notification under
sub-section (1) of section 3, by notification in the Official Gazette,
establish a State Disaster Management Authority for the State with such name
as may be specified in the notification of the State Government.

(2)A State Authority shall consist of the Chairperson and such number of other
members, not exceeding nine, as may be prescribed by the State Government and,
unless the rules otherwise provide, the State Authority shall consist of the
following members, namely:-(a)the Chief Minister of the State, who shall be
Chairperson, ex officio ;(b)other members, not exceeding eight, to be
nominated by the Chairperson of the State Authority;(c)the Chairperson of the
State Executive Committee, ex officio .(3)The Chairperson of the State
Authority may designate one of the members nominated under clause (b) of sub-
section (2) to be the Vice-Chairperson of the State Authority.(4)The
Chairperson of the State Executive Committee shall be the Chief Executive
Officer of the State Authority, ex officio :Provided that in the case of a
Union territory having Legislative Assembly, except the Union territory of
Delhi, the Chief Minister shall be the Chairperson of the Authority
established under this section and in case of other Union territories, the
Lieutenant Governor or the Administrator shall be the Chairperson of that
Authority:Provided further that the Lieutenant Governor of the Union territory
of Delhi shall be the Chairperson and the Chief Minister thereof shall be the
Vice-Chairperson of the State Authority.(5)The term of office and conditions
of service of members of the State Authority shall be such as may be
prescribed.

### 15. Meetings of the State Authority .-(1) The State Authority shall meet
as and when necessary and at such time and place as the Chairperson of the
State Authority may think fit.

(2)The Chairperson of the State Authority shall preside over the meetings of
the State Authority.(3)If for any reason, the Chairperson of the State
Authority is unable to attend the meeting of the State Authority, the Vice-
Chairperson of the State Authority shall preside at the meeting.

### 16. Appointment of officers and other employees of State Authority .-The
State Government shall provide the State Authority with such officers,
consultants and employees, as it considers necessary, for carrying out the
functions of the State Authority.

### 17. Constitution of advisory committee by the State Authority .-(1) A
State Authority may, as and when it considers necessary, constitute an
advisory committee, consisting of experts in the field of disaster management
and having practical experience of disaster management to make recommendations
on different aspects of disaster management.

(2)The members of the advisory committee shall be paid such allowance as may
be prescribed by the State Government.

### 18. Powers and functions of State Authority .-(1) Subject to the
provisions of this Act, a State Authority shall have the responsibility for
laying down policies and plans for disaster management in the State.

(2)Without prejudice to the generality of provisions contained in sub-section
(1), the State Authority may-(a)lay down the State Disaster Management
Policy;(b)approve the State Plan in accordance with the guidelines laid down
by the National Authority;(c)approve the disaster management plans prepared by
the departments of the Government of the State;(d)lay down guidelines to be
followed by the departments of the Government of the State for the purposes of
integration of measures for prevention of disasters and mitigation in their
development plans and projects and provide necessary technical assistance
therefore;(e)coordinate the implementation of the State Plan;(f)recommend
provision of funds for mitigation and preparedness measures;(g)review the
development plans of the different departments of the State and ensure that
prevention and mitigation measures are integrated therein;(h)review the
measures being taken for mitigation, capacity building and preparedness by the
departments of the Government of the State and issue such guidelines as may be
necessary.(3)The Chairperson of the State Authority shall, in the case of
emergency, have power to exercise all or any of the powers of the State
Authority but the exercise of such powers shall be subject to ex post facto
ratification of the State Authority.

### 19. Guidelines for minimum standard of relief by State Authority .-The
State Authority shall lay down detailed guidelines for providing standards of
relief to persons affected by disaster in the State:

Provided that such standards shall in no case be less than the minimum
standards in the guidelines laid down by the National Authority in this
regard.

### 20. Constitution of State Executive Committee .-(1) The State Government
shall, immediately after issue of notification under sub-section (1) of
section 14, constituting a State Executive Committee to assist the State
Authority in the performance of its functions and to coordinate action in
accordance with the guidelines laid down by the State Authority and ensure the
compliance of directions issued by the State Government under this Act.

(2)The State Executive Committee shall consist of the following members,
namely:-(a)The Chief Secretary to the State Government, who shall be
Chairperson, ex officio ;(b)four Secretaries to the Government of the State of
such departments as the State Government may think fit, ex officio .(3)The
Chairperson of the State Executive Committee shall exercise such powers and
perform such functions as may be prescribed by the State Government and such
other powers and functions as may be delegated to him by the State
Authority.(4)The procedure to be followed by the State Executive Committee in
exercise of its powers and discharge of its functions shall be such as may be
prescribed by the State Government.

### 21. Constitution of sub-committees by State Executive Committee .-(1) The
State Executive Committee may, as and when it considers necessary, constitute
one or more sub-committees, for efficient discharge of its functions.

(2)The State Executive Committee shall, from amongst its members, appoint the
Chairperson of the sub-committee referred to in sub-section (1).(3)Any person
associated as an expert with any sub-committee may be paid such allowances as
may be prescribed by the State Government.

### 22. Functions of the State Executive Committee .-(1) The State Executive
Committee shall have the responsibility for implementing the National Plan and
State Plan and act as the coordinating and monitoring body for management of
disaster in the State.

(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-section (1),
the State Executive Committee may-(a)coordinate and monitor the implementation
of the National Policy, the National Plan and the State Plan;(b)examine the
vulnerability of different parts of the State to different forms of disasters
and specify measures to be taken for their prevention or mitigation;(c)lay
down guidelines for preparation of disaster management plans by the
departments of the Government of the State and the District
Authorities;(d)monitor the implementation of disaster management plans
prepared by the departments of the Government of the State and District
Authorities;(e)monitor the implementation of the guidelines laid down by the
State Authority for integrating of measures for prevention of disasters and
mitigation by the departments in their development plans and
projects;(f)evaluate preparedness at all governmental or non-governmental
levels to respond to any threatening disaster situation or disaster and give
directions, where necessary, for enhancing such preparedness;(g)coordinate
response in the event of any threatening disaster situation or
disaster;(h)give directions to any Department of the Government of the State
or any other authority or body in the State regarding actions to be taken in
response to any threatening disaster situation or disaster;(i)promote general
education, awareness and community training in regard to the forms of
disasters to which different parts of the State are vulnerable and the
measures that may be taken by such community to prevent the disaster, mitigate
and respond to such disaster;(j)advise, assist and coordinate the activities
of the Departments of the Government of the State, District Authorities,
statutory bodies and other governmental and non-governmental organisations
engaged in disaster management;(k)provide necessary technical assistance or
give advice to District Authorities and local authorities for carrying out
their functions effectively;(l)advise the State Government regarding all
financial matters in relation to disaster management;(m)examine the
construction, in any local area in the State and, if it is of the opinion that
the standards laid for such construction for the prevention of disaster is not
being or has not been followed, may direct the District Authority or the local
authority, as the case may be, to take such action as may be necessary to
secure compliance of such standards;(n)provide information to the National
Authority relating to different aspects of disaster management;(o)lay down,
review and update State level response plans and guidelines and ensure that
the district level plans are prepared, reviewed and updated;(p)ensure that
communication systems are in order and the disaster management drills are
carried out periodically;(q)perform such other functions as may be assigned to
it by the State Authority or as it may consider necessary.

### 23. State Plan .-(1) There shall be a plan for disaster management for
every State to be called the State Disaster Management Plan.

(2)The State Plan shall be prepared by the State Executive Committee having
regard to the guidelines laid down by the National Authority and after such
consultation with local authorities, district authorities and the people's
representatives as the State Executive Committee may deem fit.(3)The State
Plan shall be prepared by the State Executive Committee under sub-section (2)
shall be approved by the State Authority.(4)The State Plan shall
include,-(a)the vulnerability of different parts of the State to different
forms of disasters;(b)the measures to be adopted for prevention and mitigation
of disasters;(c)the manner in which the mitigation measures shall be
integrated with the development plans and projects;(d)the capacity-building
and preparedness measures to be taken;(e)the roles and responsibilities of
each Department of the Government of the State in relation to the measures
specified in clauses (b), (c) and (d) above;(f)the roles and responsibilities
of different Departments of the Government of the State in responding to any
threatening disaster situation or disaster;(5)The State Plan shall be reviewed
and updated annually.(6)Appropriate provisions shall be made by the State
Government for financing for the measures to be carried out under the State
Plan.(7)Copies of the State Plan referred to in sub-sections (2) and (5) shall
be made available to the Departments of the Government of the State and such
Departments shall draw up their own plans in accordance with the State Plan.

### 24. Powers and functions of State Executive Committee in the event of
threatening disaster situation .-For the purpose of, assisting and protecting
the community affected by disaster or providing relief to such community or,
preventing or combating disruption or dealing with the effects of any
threatening disaster situation, the State Executive Committee may-

(a)control and restrict, vehicular traffic to, from or within, the vulnerable
or affected area;(b)control and restrict the entry of any person into, his
movement within and departure from, a vulnerable or affected area;(c)remove
debris, conduct search and carry out rescue operations;(d)provide shelter,
food, drinking water, essential provisions, health-care and services in
accordance with the standards laid down by the National Authority and State
Authority;(e)give direction to the concerned Department of the Government of
the State, any District Authority or other authority, within the local limits
of the State to take such measure or steps for rescue, evacuation or providing
immediate relief saving lives or property, as may be necessary in its
opinion;(f)require any department of the Government of the State or any other
body or authority or person in charge of any relevant resources to make
available the resources for the purposes of emergency response, rescue and
relief;(g)require experts and consultants in the field of disasters to provide
advise and assistance for rescue and relief;(h)procure exclusive or
preferential use of amenities from any authority or person as when
required;(i)construct temporary bridges or other necessary structures and
demolish unsafe structures which may be hazardous to public;(j)ensure that
non-governmental organisations carry out their activities in an equitable and
non-discriminatory manner;(k)disseminate information to public to deal with
any threatening disaster situation or disaster;(l)take such steps as the
Central Government or the State Government may direct in this regard or take
such other steps as are required or warranted by the form of any threatening
disaster situation or disaster.

## Chapter IV  
District Disaster Management Authority

### 25. Constitution of District Disaster Management Authority .-(1) Every
State Government shall, as soon as may be after issue of notification under
sub-section (1) of section 14, by notification in the Official Gazette,
establish a District Disaster Management Authority for every district in the
State with such name as may be specified in that notification.

(2)The District Authority shall consist of the Chairperson and such number of
other members, not exceeding seven, as may be prescribed by the State
Government, and unless the rules otherwise provide, it shall consist of the
following, namely:-(a)the Collector or District Magistrate or Deputy
Commissioner, as the case may be, of the district who shall be Chairperson, ex
officio ;(b)the elected representative of the local authority who shall be the
co-Chairperson, ex officio :Provided that in the Tribal Areas, as referred to
in the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution, the Chief Executive Member of the
district council of autonomous district, shall be the co-Chairperson, ex
officio ;(c)the Chief Executive Officer of the District Authority, ex officio
;(d)the Superintendent of Police, ex officio ;(e)the Chief Medical Officer of
the district, ex officio ;(f)not exceeding two other district level officers,
to be appointed by the State Government.(3)In any district where zila parishad
exists, the Chairperson thereof shall be the co-Chairperson of the District
Authority.(4)The State Government shall appoint an officer not below the rank
of Additional Collector or Additional District Magistrate or Additional Deputy
Commissioner, as the case may be, of the district to be the Chief Executive
Officer of the District Authority to exercise such powers and perform such
functions as may be prescribed by the State Government and such other powers
and functions as may be delegated to him by the District Authority.

### 26. Powers of Chairperson of District Authority .-(1) The Chairperson of
the District Authority shall, in addition to presiding over the meetings of
the District Authority, exercise and discharge such powers and functions of
the District Authority as the District Authority may delegate to him.

(2)The Chairperson of the District Authority shall, in the case of an
emergency, have power to exercise all or any of the powers of the District
Authority but the exercise of such powers shall be subject to ex post facto
ratification of the District Authority.(3)The District Authority or the
Chairperson of the District Authority may, by general or special order, in
writing, delegate such of its or his powers and functions, under sub-section
(1) or (2), as the case may be, to the Chief Executive Officer of the District
Authority, subject to such conditions and limitations, if any, as it or he
deems fit.

### 27. Meetings .-The District Authority shall meet as and when necessary and
at such time and place as the Chairperson may think fit.

### 28. Constitution of advisory committees and other committees .-(1) The
District Authority may, as and when it considers necessary, constitutes one or
more advisory committees and other committees for the efficient discharge of
its functions.

(2)The District Authority shall, from amongst its members, appoints the
Chairperson of the Committee referred to in sub-section (1).(3)Any person
associated as an expert with any committee or sub-committee constituted under
sub-section (1) may be paid such allowances as may be prescribed by the State
Government.

### 29. Appointment of officers and other employees of District Authority
.-The State Government shall provide the District Authority with such
officers, consultants and other employees as it considers necessary for
carrying out the functions of District Authority.

### 30. Powers and functions of District Authority .-(1) The District
Authority shall act as the district planning, coordinating and implementing
body for disaster management and take all measures for the purposes of
disaster management in the district in accordance with the guidelines laid
down by the National Authority and the State Authority.

(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-section (1),
the District Authority may-(i)prepare a disaster management plan including
district response plan for the district;(ii)coordinate and monitor the
implementation of the National Policy, State Policy, National Plan, State Plan
and District Plan;(iii)ensure that the areas in the district vulnerable to
disasters are identified and measures for the prevention of disasters and the
mitigation of its effects are undertaken by the departments of the Government
at the district level as well as by the local authorities;(iv)ensure that the
guidelines for prevention of disasters, mitigation of its effects,
preparedness and response measures as laid down by the National Authority and
the State Authority are followed by all departments of the Government at the
district level and the local authorities in the district;(v)give directions to
different authorities at the district level and local authorities to take such
other measures for the prevention or mitigation of disasters as may be
necessary;(vi)lay down guidelines for prevention of disaster management plans
by the department of the Government at the districts level and local
authorities in the district;(vii)monitor the implementation of disaster
management plans prepared by the Departments of the Government at the district
level;(viii)lay down guidelines to be followed by the Departments of the
Government at the district level for purposes of integration of measures for
prevention of disasters and mitigation in their development plans and projects
and provide necessary technical assistance therefor;(ix)monitor the
implementation of measures referred to in clause (viii);(x)review the state of
capabilities for responding to any disaster or threatening disaster situation
in the district and give directions to the relevant department or authorities
at the district level for their up-gradation as may be necessary;(xi)review
the preparedness measures and give directions to the concerned departments at
the district level or other concerned authorities where necessary for bringing
the preparedness measures to the levels required for responding effectively to
any disaster or threatening disaster situation;(xii)organise and coordinate
specialised training programmes for different levels of officers, employees
and voluntary rescue workers in the district;(xiii)facilitate community
training and awareness programmes for prevention of disaster or mitigation
with the support of local authorities, governmental and non-governmental
organisations;(xiv)set up, maintain, review and upgrade the mechanism for
early warnings and dissemination of proper information to public;(xv)prepare,
review and update district level response plan and guidelines;(xvi)coordinate
response to any threatening disaster situation or disaster;(xvii)ensure that
the Departments of the Government at the district level and the local
authorities prepare their response plans in accordance with the district
response plan;(xviii)lay down guidelines for, or give direction to, the
concerned Department of the Government at the district level or any other
authorities within the local limits of the district to take measures to
respond effectively to any threatening disaster situation or
disaster;(xix)advise, assist and coordinate the activities of the Departments
of the Government at the district level, statutory bodies and other
governmental and non-governmental organisations in the district engaged in the
disaster management;(xx)coordinate with, and give guidelines to, local
authorities in the district to ensure that measures for the prevention or
mitigation of threatening disaster situation or disaster in the district are
carried out promptly and effectively;(xxi)provide necessary technical
assistance or give advise to the local authorities in the district for
carrying out their functions;(xxii)review development plans prepared by the
Departments of the Government at the district level, statutory authorities or
local authorities with a view to make necessary provisions therein for
prevention of disaster or mitigation;(xxiii)examine the construction in any
area in the district and, if it is of the opinion that the standards for the
prevention of disaster or mitigation laid down for such construction is not
being or has not been followed, may direct the concerned authority to take
such action as may be necessary to secure compliance of such
standards;(xxiv)identify buildings and places which could, in the event of any
threatening disaster situation or disaster, be used as relief centers or camps
and make arrangements for water supply and sanitation in such buildings or
places;(xxv)establish stockpiles of relief and rescue materials or ensure
preparedness to make such materials available at a short notice;(xxvi)provide
information to the State Authority relating to different aspects of disaster
management;(xxvii)encourage the involvement of non-governmental organisations
and voluntary social-welfare institutions working at the grassroots level in
the district for disaster management;(xxviii)ensure communication systems are
in order, and disaster management drills are carried out
periodically;(xxix)perform such other functions as the State Government or
State Authority may assign to it or as it deems necessary for disaster
management in the District.

### 31. District Plan .-(1) There shall be a plan for disaster management for
every district of the State.

(2)The District Plan shall be prepared by the District Authority, after
consultation with the local authorities and having regard to the National Plan
and the State Plan, to be approved by the State Authority.(3)The District Plan
shall include-(a)the areas in the district vulnerable to different forms of
disasters;(b)the measures to be taken, for prevention and mitigation of
disaster, by the Departments of the Government at the district level and local
authorities in the district;(c)the capacity-building and preparedness measures
required to be taken by the Departments of the Government at the district
level and the local authorities in the district to respond to any threatening
disaster situation or disaster;(d)the response plans and procedures, in the
event of a disaster, providing for-(i)allocation of responsibilities to the
Departments of the Government at the district level and the local authorities
in the district;(ii)prompt response to disaster and relief
thereof;(iii)procurement of essential resources;(iv)establishment of
communication links; and(v)the dissemination of information to the
public;(e)such other matters as may be required by the State Authority.(4)The
District Plan shall be reviewed and updated annually.(5)The copies of the
District Plan referred to in sub-sections (2) and (4) shall be made available
to the Departments of the Government in the district.(6)The District Authority
shall send a copy of the District Plan to the State Authority which shall
forward it to the State Government.(7)The District Authority shall, review
from time to time, the implementation of the Plan and issue such instructions
to different departments of the Government in the district as it may deem
necessary for the implementation thereof.

### 32. Plans by different authorities at district level and their
implementation .-Every office of the Government of India and of the State
Government at the district level and the local authorities shall, subject to
the supervision of the District Authority,-

(a)prepare a disaster management plan setting out the following,
namely:-(i)provisions for prevention and mitigation measures as provided for
in the District Plan and as is assigned to the department or agency
concerned;(ii)provisions for taking measures relating to capacity-building and
preparedness as laid down in the District Plan;(iii)the response plans and
procedures, in the event of, any threatening disaster situation or
disaster;(b)coordinate the preparation and the implementation of its plan with
those of the other organisations at the district level including local
authority, communities and other stakeholders;(c)regularly review and update
the plan; and(d)submit a copy of its disaster management plan, and of any
amendment thereto, to the District Authority.

### 33. Requisition by the District Authority .-The District Authority may by
order require any officer or any Department at the district level or any local
authority to take such measures for the prevention or mitigation of disaster,
or to effectively respond to it, as may be necessary, and such officer or
department shall be bound to carry out such order.

### 34. Powers and functions of District Authority in the event of any
threatening disaster situation or disaster .-For the purpose of assisting,
protecting or providing relief to the community, in response to any
threatening disaster situation or disaster, the District Authority may-

(a)give directions for the release and use of resources available with any
Department of the Government and the local authority in the
district;(b)control and restrict vehicular traffic to, from and within, the
vulnerable or affected area;(c)control and restrict the entry of any person
into, his movement within and departure from, a vulnerable or affected
area;(d)remove debris, conduct search and carry out rescue
operations;(e)provide shelter, food, drinking water and essential provisions,
health-care and services;(f)establish emergency communication systems in the
affected area;(g)make arrangements for the disposal of the unclaimed dead
bodies;(h)recommend to any Department of the Government of the State or any
authority or body under that Government at the district level to take such
measures as are necessary in its opinion;(i)require experts and consultants in
the relevant fields to advise and assist as it may deem necessary;(j)procure
exclusive or preferential use of amenities from any authority or
person;(k)construct temporary bridges or other necessary structures and
demolish structures which may be hazardous to public or aggravate the effects
of the disaster;(l)ensure that the non-governmental organisations carry out
their activities in an equitable and non-discriminatory manner;(m)take such
other steps as may be required or warranted to be taken in such a situation.

## Chapter V  
Measures By The Government For Disaster Management

### 35. Central Government to take measures .-(1) Subject to the provisions of
this Act, the Central Government shall take all such measures as it deems
necessary or expedient for the purpose of disaster management.

(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of
sub-section (1), the measures with respect to all or any of the following
matters, namely:-(a)coordination of actions of the Ministries or Departments
of the Government of India, State Governments, National Authority, State
Authorities, governmental and non-governmental organisations in relation to
disaster management;(b)ensure the integration of measures for prevention of
disasters and mitigation by Ministries or Departments of the Government of
India into their development plans and projects;(c)ensure appropriate
allocation of funds for prevention of disaster, mitigation, capacity-building
and preparedness by the Ministries or Departments of the Government of
India;(d)ensure that the Ministries or Departments of the Government of India
take necessary measures for preparedness to promptly and effectively respond
to any threatening disaster situation or disaster;(e)cooperation and
assistance to State Governments, as requested by them or otherwise deemed
appropriate by it;(f)deployment of naval, military and air forces, other armed
forces of the Union or any other civilian personnel as may be required for the
purposes of this Act;(g)coordination with the United Nations agencies,
international organisations and governments of foreign countries for the
purposes of this Act;(h)establish institutions for research, training, and
developmental programmes in the field of disaster management;(i)such other
matters as it deems necessary or expedient for the purpose of securing
effective implementation of the provisions of this Act.(3)The Central
Government may extend such support to other countries affected by major
disaster as it may deem appropriate.

### 36. Responsibilities of Ministries or Departments of Government of India
.-It shall be the responsibility of every Ministry or Department of the
Government of India to-

(a)take measures necessary for prevention of disasters, mitigation,
preparedness and capacity-building in accordance with the guidelines laid down
by the National Authority;(b)integrate into its development plans and
projects, the measures for prevention or mitigation of disasters in accordance
with the guidelines laid down by the National Authority;(c)respond effectively
and promptly to any threatening disaster situation or disaster in accordance
with the guidelines of the National Authority or the directions of the
National Executive Committee in this behalf;(d)review the enactments
administered by it, its policies, rules and regulations, with a view to
incorporate therein the provisions necessary for prevention of disasters,
mitigation or preparedness;(e)allocate funds for measures for prevention of
disaster, mitigation, capacity-building and preparedness;(f)provide assistance
to the National Authority and State Governments for-(i)drawing up mitigation,
preparedness and response plans, capacity-building, data collection and
identification and training of personnel in relation to disaster
management;(ii)carrying out rescue and relief operations in the affected
area;(iii)assessing the damage from any disaster;(iv)carrying out
rehabilitation and reconstruction;(g)make available its resources to the
National Executive Committee or a State Executive Committee for the purpose of
responding promptly and effectively to any threatening disaster situation or
disaster, including measures for-(i)providing emergency communication in a
vulnerable or affected area;(ii)transporting personnel and relief goods to and
from the affected area;(iii)providing evacuation, rescue, temporary shelter or
other immediate relief;(iv)setting up temporary bridges, jetties and landing
places;(v)providing, drinking water, essential provisions, health-care and
services in an affected area;(h)take such other actions as it may consider
necessary for disaster management.

### 37. Disaster management plans of Ministries or Departments of Government
of India .-(1) Every Ministry or Department of Government of India shall-

(a)prepare a disaster management plan specifying the following particulars,
namely:-(i)the measures to be taken by it for prevention and mitigation of
disasters in accordance with the National Plan;(ii)the specifications
regarding integration of mitigation measures in its development plans in
accordance with the guidelines of the National Authority and the National
Executive Committee;(iii)its roles and responsibilities in relation to
preparedness and capacity-building to deal with any threatening disaster
situation or disaster;(iv)its roles and responsibilities in regard to promptly
and effectively responding to any threatening disaster situation or
disaster;(v)the present status of its preparedness to perform the roles and
responsibilities specified in sub-clauses (iii) and (iv);(vi)the measures
required to be taken in order to enable it to perform its responsibilities
specified in sub-clauses (iii) and (iv);(b)review and update annually the plan
referred to in clause (a);(c)forward a copy of the plan referred to in clause
(a) or clause (b), as the case may be, to the Central Government which
Government shall forward a copy thereof to the National Authority for its
approval.(2)Every Ministry or Department of the Government of India
shall-(a)make, while preparing disaster management plan under clause (a) of
sub-section (1), provisions for financing the activities specified
therein;(b)furnish a status report regarding the implementation of the plan
referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1) to the National Authority, as and
when required by it.

### 38. State Government to take measures .-(1) Subject to the provisions of
this Act, each State Government shall take all measures specified in the
guidelines laid down by the National Authority and such further measures as it
deems necessary or expedient, for the purpose of disaster management.

(2)The measures which the State Government may take under sub-section (1)
include measures with respect to all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)coordination of actions of different departments of the Government
of the State, the State Authority, District Authorities, local authority and
other non-governmental organisations;(b)cooperation and assistance in the
disaster management to the National Authority and National Executive
Committee, the State Authority and the State Executive Committee and the
District Authorities;(c)cooperation with, and assistance to, the Ministries or
Departments of the Government of India in disaster management, as requested by
them or otherwise deemed appropriate by it;(d)allocation of funds for measures
for prevention of disaster, mitigation, capacity-building and preparedness by
the departments of the Government of the State in accordance with the
provisions of the State Plan and the District Plans;(e)ensure that the
integration of measures for prevention of disaster or mitigation by the
departments of the Government of the State in their development plans and
projects;(f)integrate in the State development plan, measures to reduce or
mitigate the vulnerability of different parts of the State to different
disasters;(g)ensure the preparation of disaster management plans by different
departments of the State in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the
National Authority and the State Authority;(h)establishment of adequate
warning systems up to the level of vulnerable communities;(i)ensure that
different departments of the Government of the State and the District
Authorities take appropriate preparedness measures;(j)ensure that in a
threatening disaster situation or disaster, the resources of different
departments of the Government of the State are made available to the National
Executive Committee or the State Executive Committee or the District
Authorities, as the case may be, for the purposes of effective response,
rescue and relief in any threatening disaster situation or disaster;(k)provide
rehabilitation and reconstruction assistance to the victims of any disaster;
and(l)such other matters as it deems necessary or expedient for the purpose of
securing effective implementation of provisions of this Act.

### 39. Responsibilities of departments of the State Government .-It shall be
the responsibility of every department of the Government of a State to-

(a)take measures necessary for prevention of disasters, mitigation,
preparedness and capacity-building in accordance with the guidelines laid down
by the National Authority and the State Authority;(b)integrate into its
development plans and projects, the measures for prevention of disaster and
mitigation;(c)allocate funds for prevention of disaster, mitigation, capacity-
building and preparedness;(d)respond effectively and promptly to any
threatening disaster situation or disaster in accordance with the State Plan,
and in accordance with the guidelines or directions of the National Executive
Committee and the State Executive Committee;(e)review the enactments
administered by it, its policies, rules and regulations with a view to
incorporate therein the provisions necessary for prevention of disasters,
mitigation or preparedness;(f)provide assistance, as required, by the National
Executive Committee, the State Executive Committee and District Authorities,
for-(i)drawing up mitigation, preparedness and response plans, capacity-
building, data collection and identification and training of personnel in
relation to disaster management;(ii)assessing the damage from any
disaster;(iii)carrying out rehabilitation and reconstruction;(g)make provision
for resources in consultation with the State Authority for the implementation
of the District Plan by its authorities at the district level;(h)make
available its resources to the National Executive Committee or the State
Executive Committee or the District Authorities for the purposes of responding
promptly and effectively to any disaster in the State, including measures
for-(i)providing emergency communication with a vulnerable or affected
area;(ii)transporting personnel and relief goods to and from the affected
area;(iii)providing evacuation, rescue, temporary shelter or other immediate
relief;(iv)carrying out evacuation of persons or live-stock from an area of
any threatening disaster situation or disaster;(v)setting up temporary
bridges, jetties and landing places;(vi)providing drinking water, essential
provisions, health-care and services in an affected area;(i)such other actions
as may be necessary for disaster management.

### 40. Disaster management plan of departments of State .-(1) Every
department of the State Government, in conformity with the guidelines laid
down by the State Authority, shall-

(a)prepare a disaster management plan which shall lay down the
following:-(i)the types of disasters to which different parts of the State are
vulnerable;(ii)integration of strategies for the prevention of disaster or the
mitigation of its effects or both with the development plans and programmes by
the department;(iii)the roles and responsibilities of the department of the
State in the event of any threatening disaster situation or disaster and
emergency support function it is required to perform;(iv)present status of its
preparedness to perform such roles or responsibilities or emergency support
function under sub-clause (iii);(v)the capacity-building and preparedness
measures proposed to be put into effect in order to enable the Ministries or
Departments of the Government of India to discharge their responsibilities
under section 37;(b)annually review and update the plan referred to in clause
(a); and(c)furnish a copy of the plan referred to in clause (a) or clause (b),
as the case may be, to the State Authority.(2)Every department of the State
Government, while preparing the plan under sub-section (1), shall make
provisions for financing the activities specified therein.(3)Every department
of the State Government shall furnish an implementation status report to the
State Executive Committee regarding the implementation of the disaster
management plan referred to in sub-section (1).

## Chapter VI  
Local Authorities

### 41. Functions of the local authority .-(1) Subject to the directions of
the District Authority, a local authority shall-

(a)ensure that its officers and employees are trained for disaster
management;(b)ensure that resources relating to disaster management are so
maintained as to be readily available for use in the event of any threatening
disaster situation or disaster;(c)ensure all construction projects under it or
within its jurisdiction conform to the standards and specifications laid down
for prevention of disasters and mitigation by the National Authority, State
Authority and the District Authority;(d)carry out relief, rehabilitation and
reconstruction activities in the affected area in accordance with the State
Plan and the District Plan.(2)The local authority may take such other measures
as may be necessary for the disaster management.

## Chapter VII  
National Institute Of Disaster Management

### 42. National Institute of Disaster Management .-(1) With effect from such
date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette
appoint in this behalf, there shall be constituted an institute to be called
the National Institute of Disaster Management.

(2)The National Institute of Disaster Management shall consist of such number
of members as may be prescribed by the Central Government.(3)The term of
office of, and vacancies among, members of the National Institute of Disaster
Management and manner of filling such vacancies shall be such as may be
prescribed.(4)There shall be a governing body of the National Institute of
Disaster Management which shall be constituted by the Central Government from
amongst the members of the National Institute of Disaster Management in such
manner as may be prescribed.(5)The governing body of the National Institute of
Disaster Management shall exercise such powers and discharge such functions as
may be prescribed by regulations.(6)The procedure to be followed in exercise
of its powers and discharge of its functions by the governing body, and the
term of office of, and the manner of filling vacancies among, the members of
the governing body, shall be such as may be prescribed by regulations.(7)Until
the regulations are made under this section, the Central Government may make
such regulations; and any regulations so made may be altered or rescinded by
the National Institute of Disaster Management in exercise of its
powers.(8)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the National Institute of
Disaster Management shall function within the broad policies and guidelines
laid down by the National Authority and be responsible for planning and
promoting training and research in the area of disaster management,
documentation and development of national level information base relating to
disaster management policies, prevention mechanisms and mitigation
measures.(9)Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions contained in
sub-section (8), the National Institute, for the discharge of its functions,
may-(a)develop training modules, undertake research and documentation in
disaster management and organise training programmes;(b)formulate and
implement a comprehensive human resource development plan covering all aspects
of disaster management;(c)provide assistance in national level policy
formulation;(d)provide required assistance to the training and research
institutes for development of training and research programmes for
stakeholders including Government functionaries and undertake training of
faculty members of the State level training institutes;(e)provide assistance
to the State Governments and State training institutes in the formulation of
State level policies, strategies, disaster management framework and any other
assistance as may be required by the State Governments or State training
institutes for capacity-building of stakeholders, Government including its
functionaries, civil society members, corporate sector and people's elected
representative;(f)develop educational materials for disaster management
including academic and professional courses;(g)promote awareness among
stakeholders including college or school teachers and students, technical
personnel and others associated with multi-hazard mitigation, preparedness and
response measures;(h)undertake, organise and facilitate study courses,
conferences, lectures, seminars within and outside the country to promote the
aforesaid objects;(i)undertake and provide for publication of journals,
research papers and books and establish and maintain libraries in furtherance
of the aforesaid objects;(j)do all such other lawful things as are conducive
or incidental to the attainment of the above objects; and(k)undertake any
other function as may be assigned to it by the Central Government.

### 43. Officers and other employees of the National Institute .-The Central
Government shall provide the National Institute of Disaster Management with
such officers, consultants and other employees, as it considers necessary, for
carrying out its functions.

## Chapter VIII  
National Disaster Response Force

### 44. National Disaster Response Force .-(1) There shall be constituted a
National Disaster Response Force for the purpose of specialist response to a
threatening disaster situation or disaster.

(2)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Force shall be constituted in
such manner and, the conditions of service of the members of the Force,
including disciplinary provisions therefor, be such as may be prescribed.

### 45. Control, direction, etc .-The general superintendence, direction and
control of the Force shall be vested and exercised by the National Authority
and the command and supervision of the Force shall vest in an officer to be
appointed by the Central Government as the Director General of the National
Disaster Response Force.

## Chapter IX  
Finance, Accounts And Audit

### 46. National Disaster Response Fund .-(1) The Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, constitute a fund to be called the
National Disaster Response Fund for meeting any threatening disaster situation
or disaster and there shall be credited thereto-

(a)an amount which the Central Government may, after due appropriation made by
Parliament by law in this behalf provide;(b)any grants that may be made by any
person or institution for the purpose of disaster management.(2)The National
Disaster Response Fund shall be made available to the National Executive
Committee to be applied towards meeting the expense for emergency response,
relief and rehabilitation in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the
Central Government in consultation with the National Authority.

### 47. National Disaster Mitigation Fund .-(1) The Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, constitute a Fund to be called the
National Disaster Mitigation Fund for projects exclusively for the purpose of
mitigation and there shall be credited thereto such amount which the Central
Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in this
behalf, provide.

(2)The National Disaster Mitigation Fund shall be applied by the National
Authority.

### 48. Establishment of funds by State Government .-(1) The State Government
shall, immediately after notifications issued for constituting the State
Authority and the District Authorities, establish for the purposes of this Act
the following funds, namely:-

(a)the fund to be called the State Disaster Response Fund;(b)the fund to be
called the District Disaster Response Fund;(c)the fund to be called the State
Disaster Mitigation Fund;(d)the fund to be called the District Disaster
Mitigation Fund.(2)The State Government shall ensure that the funds
established-(i)under clause (a) of sub-section (1) is available to the State
Executive Committee;(ii)under sub-clause (c) of sub-section (1) is available
to the State Authority;(iii)under clauses (b) and (d) of sub-section (1) are
available to the District Authority.

### 49. Allocation of funds by Ministries and Departments .-(1) Every Ministry
or Department of the Government of India shall make provisions, in its annual
budget, for funds for the purposes of carrying out the activities and
programmes set out in its disaster management plan.

(2)The provisions of sub-section (1) shall, mutatis mutandis , apply to the
departments of the Government of the State.

### 50. Emergency procurement and accounting .-Where by reason of any
threatening disaster situation or disaster, the National Authority or the
State Authority or the District Authority is satisfied that immediate
procurement of provisions or materials or the immediate application of
resources are necessary for rescue or relief,-

(a)it may authorise the concerned department or authority to make the
emergency procurement and in such case, the standard procedure requiring
inviting of tenders shall be deemed to be waived;(b)a certificate about
utilisation of provisions or materials by the controlling officer authorised
by the National Authority, State Authority or District Authority, as the case
may be, shall be deemed to be a valid document or voucher for the purpose of
accounting of emergency, procurement of such provisions or materials.

## Chapter X  
Offences And Penalties

### 51. Punishment for obstruction, etc .-(1) Whoever, without reasonable
cause-

(a)obstructs any officer or employee of the Central Government or the State
Government, or a person authorised by the National Authority or State
Authority or District Authority in the discharge of his functions under this
Act; or(b)refuses to comply with any direction given by or on behalf of the
Central Government or the State Government or the National Executive Committee
or the State Executive Committee or the District Authority under this Act,
shall on conviction be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one year or with fine, or with both, and if such obstruction or
refusal to comply with directions results in loss of lives or imminent danger
thereof, shall on conviction be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to two years.

### 52. Punishment for false claim .-Whoever knowingly makes a claim which he
knows or has reason to believe to be false for obtaining any relief,
assistance, repair, reconstruction or other benefits consequent to disaster
from any officer of the Central Government, the State Government, the National
Authority, the State Authority or the District Authority, shall, on conviction
be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend of two years, and
also with fine.

### 53. Punishment for misappropriation of money or material, etc .-Whoever,
being entrusted with any money or materials, or otherwise being, in custody
of, or dominion over, any money or goods, meant for providing relief in any
threatening disaster situation or disaster, misappropriates or appropriates
for his own use or disposes of such money or materials or any part thereof or
wilfully compels any other person so to do, shall on conviction be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, and also with
fine.

### 54. Punishment for false warning .-Whoever makes or circulates a false
alarm or warning as to disaster or its severity or magnitude, leading to
panic, shall on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment which may extend
to one year or with fine.

### 55. Offences by Departments of the Government .-(1) Where an offence under
this Act has been committed by any Department of the Government, the head of
the Department shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly unless he proves that the
offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due
diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence
under this Act has been committed by a Department of the Government and it is
proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of,
or is attributable to any neglect on the part of, any officer, other than the
head of the Department, such officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

### 56. Failure of officer in duty or his connivance at the contravention of
the provisions of this Act .-Any officer, on whom any duty has been imposed by
or under this Act and who ceases or refuses to perform or withdraws himself
from the duties of his office shall, unless he has obtained the express
written permission of his official superior or has other lawful excuse for so
doing, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year
or with fine.

### 57. Penalty for contravention of any order regarding requisitioning .-If
any person contravenes any order made under section 65, he shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine or with
both.

### 58. Offence by companies .-(1) Where an offence under this Act has been
committed by a company or body corporate, every person who at the time the
offence was committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company,
for the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall
be deemed to be guilty of the contravention and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly:

Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall render any such person liable
to any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he exercised due diligence to prevent
the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company,
and it is proved that the offence was committed with the consent or connivance
of or is attributable to any neglect on the part of any director, manager,
secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary
or other officer shall also, be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall
be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation .-For
the purpose of this section-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes
a firm or other association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a
firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 59. Previous sanction for prosecution .-No prosecution for offences
punishable under sections 55 and 56 shall be instituted except with the
previous sanction of the Central Government or the State Government, as the
case may be, or of any officer authorised in this behalf, by general or
special order, by such Government.

### 60. Cognizance of offences .-No Court shall take cognizance of an offence
under this Act except on a complaint made by-

(a)the National Authority, the State Authority, the Central Government, the
State Government, the District Authority or any other authority or officer
authorised in this behalf by that Authority or Government, as the case may be;
or(b)any person who has given notice of not less than thirty days in the
manner prescribed, of the alleged offence and his intention to make a
complaint to the National Authority, the State Authority, the Central
Government, the State Government, the District Authority or any other
authority or officer authorised as aforesaid.

## Chapter XI  
Miscellaneous

### 61. Prohibition against discrimination .-While providing compensation and
relief to the victims of disaster, there shall be no discrimination on the
ground of sex, caste, community, descent or religion.

### 62. Power to issue direction by Central Government .-Notwithstanding
anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, it shall be
lawful for the Central Government to issue direction in writing to the
Ministries or Departments of the Government of India, or the National
Executive Committee or the State Government, State Authority, State Executive
Committee, statutory bodies or any of its officers or employees, as the case
may be, to facilitate or assist in the disaster management and such Ministry
or Department or Government or Authority, Executive Committee, statutory body,
officer or employee shall be bound to comply with such direction.

### 63. Powers to be made available for rescue operations .-Any officer or
authority of the Union or a State, when requested by the National Executive
Committee, any State Executive Committee or District Authority or any person
authorised by such Committee or Authority in this behalf, shall make available
to that Committee or authority or person, such officers and employees as
requested for, to perform any of the functions in connection with the
prevention of disaster or mitigation or rescue or relief work.

### 64. Making or amending rules, etc., in certain circumstances .-Subject to
the provisions of this Act, if it appears to the National Executive Committee,
State Executive Committee or the District Authority, as the case may be, that
provisions of any rule, regulation, notification, guideline, instruction,
order, scheme or bye-laws, as the case may be, are required to be made or
amended for the purposes of prevention of disasters or the mitigation thereof,
it may require the amendment of such rule, regulation, notification,
guidelines, instruction, order, scheme or bye-laws, as the case may be, for
that purpose, and the appropriate department or authority shall take necessary
action to comply with the requirements.

### 65. Power of requisition of resources, provisions, vehicles, etc., for
rescue operations, etc .-(1) If it appears to the National Executive
Committee, State Executive Committee or District Authority or any officer as
may be authorised by it in this behalf that-

(a)any resources with any authority or person are needed for the purpose of
prompt response;(b)any premises are needed or likely to be needed for the
purpose of rescue operations; or(c)any vehicle is needed or is likely to be
needed for the purposes of transport of resources from disaster affected areas
or transport of resources to the affected area or transport in connection with
rescue, rehabilitation or reconstruction, such authority may, by order in
writing, requisition such resources or premises or such vehicle, as the case
may be, and may make such further orders as may appear to it to be necessary
or expedient in connection with the requisitioning.(2)Whenever any resource,
premises or vehicle is requisitioned under sub-section (1), the period of such
requisition shall not extend beyond the period for which such resource,
premises or vehicle is required for any of the purposes mentioned in that sub-
section.(3)In this section,-(a)"resource" includes men and material
resources;(b)"service" includes facilities;(c)"premises" means any land,
building or part of a building and includes a hut, shed or other structure or
any part thereof;(d)"vehicle" means any vehicle used or capable of being used
for the purpose of transport, whether propelled by mechanical power or
otherwise.

### 66. Payment of compensation .-(1) Whenever any Committee, Authority or
officer referred to in sub-section (1) of section 65, in pursuance of that
section requisitions any premises, there shall be paid to the persons
interested compensation the amount of which shall be determined by taking into
consideration the following, namely:-

(i)the rent payable in respect of the premises, or if no rent is so payable,
the rent payable for similar premises in the locality;(ii)if as consequence of
the requisition of the premises the person interested is compelled to change
his residence or place of business, the reasonable expenses (if any)
incidental to such change:Provided that where any person interested being
aggrieved by the amount of compensation so determined makes an application
within the thirty days to the Central Government or the State Government, as
the case may be, for referring the matter to an arbitrator, the amount of
compensation to be paid shall be such as the arbitrator appointed in this
behalf by the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be,
may determine:Provided further that where there is any dispute as to the title
to receive the compensation or as to the apportionment of the amount of
compensation, it shall be referred by the Central Government or the State
Government, as the case may be, to an arbitrator appointed in this behalf by
the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, for
determination, and shall be determined in accordance with the decision of such
arbitrator.Explanation .-In this sub-section, the expression "person
interested" means the person who was in actual possession of the premises
requisitioned under section 65 immediately before the requisition, or where no
person was in such actual possession, the owner of such premises.(2)Whenever
any Committee, Authority or officer, referred to in sub-section (1) of section
65 in pursuance of that section requisitions any vehicle, there shall be paid
to the owner thereof compensation the amount of which shall be determined by
the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, on the
basis of the fares or rates prevailing in the locality for the hire of such
vehicle:Provided that where the owner of such vehicle being aggrieved by the
amount of compensation so determined makes an application within the
prescribed time to the Central Government or the State Government, as the case
may be, for referring the matter to an arbitrator, the amount of compensation
to be paid shall be such as the arbitrator appointed in this behalf by the
Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, may
determine:Provided further that where immediately before the requisitioning
the vehicle or vessel was by virtue of a hire purchase agreement in the
possession of a person other than the owner, the amount determined under this
sub-section as the total compensation payable in respect of the requisition
shall be apportioned between that person and the owner in such manner as they
may agree upon, and in default of agreement, in such manner as an arbitrator
appointed by the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may
be, in this behalf may decide.

### 67. Direction to media for communication of warnings, etc .-The National
Authority, the State Authority, or a District Authority may recommend to the
Government to give direction to any authority or person in control of any
audio or audio-visual media or such other means of communication as may be
available to carry any warning or advisers regarding any threatening disaster
situation or disaster, and the said means of communication and media as
designated shall comply with such direction.

### 68. Authentication of orders or decisions .-Every order or decision of the
National Authority or the National Executive Committee, the State Authority,
or the State Executive Committee or the District Authority, shall be
authenticated by such officers of the National Authority or the National
Executive Committee or, the State Executive Committee, or the District
Authority, as may be authorised by it in this behalf.

### 69. Delegation of powers .-The National Executive Committee, State
Executive Committee, as the case may be, by general or special order in
writing, may delegate to the Chairperson or any other member or to any
officer, subject to such conditions and limitations, if any, as may be
specified in the order, such of its powers and functions under this Act as it
may deem necessary.

### 70. Annual report .-(1) The National Authority shall prepare once every
year, in such form and at such time as may be prescribed, an annual report
giving a true and full account of its activities during the previous year and
copies thereof shall be forwarded to the Central Government and that
Government shall cause the same to be laid before both Houses of Parliament
within one month of its receipt.

(2)The State Authority shall prepare once in every year, in such form and at
such time as may be prescribed, an annual report giving a true and full
account of its activities during the previous year and copies thereof shall be
forwarded to the State Government and that Government shall cause the same to
be laid before each House of the State Legislature where it consists of two
Houses, or where such Legislature consists of one House, before that House.

### 71. Bar of jurisdiction of Court .-No Court (except the Supreme Court or a
High Court) shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in
respect of anything done, action taken, orders made, direction, instruction or
guidelines issued by the Central Government, National Authority, State
Government, State Authority or District Authority in pursuance of any power
conferred by, or in relation to its functions, by this Act.

### 72. Act to have overriding effect .-The provisions of this Act, shall have
effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other
law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue
of any law other than this Act.

### 73. Action taken in good faith .-No suit or prosecution or other
proceeding shall lie in any Court against the Central Government or the
National Authority or the State Government or the State Authority or the
District Authority or local authority or any officer or employee of the
Central Government or the National Authority or the State Government or the
State Authority or the District Authority or local authority or any person
working for on behalf of such Government or authority in respect of any work
done or purported to have been done or intended to be done in good faith by
such authority or Government or such officer or employee or such person under
the provisions of this Act or the rules or regulations made thereunder.

### 74. Immunity from legal process .-Officers and employees of the Central
Government, National Authority, National Executive Committee, State
Government, State Authority, State Executive Committee or District Authority
shall be immune from legal process in regard to any warning in respect of any
impending disaster communicated or disseminated by them in their official
capacity or any action taken or direction issued by them in pursuance of such
communication or dissemination.

### 75. Power of Central Government to make rules .-(1) The Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the
purposes of this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the composition and number of the members of the National Authority
under sub-section (2), and the term of office and conditions of service of
members of the National Authority under sub-section (4) of section 3;(b)the
allowances to be paid to the members of the advisory committee under sub-
section (2) of section 7;(c)the powers and functions of the Chairperson of the
National Executive Committee under sub-section (3) of section 8 and the
procedure to be followed by the National Executive Committee in exercise of
its powers and discharge of its functions under sub-section (4) of section
8;(d)allowances to be paid to the persons associated with the sub-committee
constituted by the National Executive Committee under sub-section (3) of
section 9;(e)the number of members of the National Institute of Disaster
Management under sub-section (2), the term of the office and vacancies among
members and the manner of filling such vacancies under sub-section (3) and the
manner of constituting the Governing Body of the National Institute of
Disaster Management under sub-section (4) of section 42;(f)the manner of
constitution of the Force, the conditions of service of the members of the
Force, including disciplinary provisions under sub-section (2) of section
44;(g)the manner in which notice of the offence and of the intention to make a
complaint to the National Authority, the State Authority, the Central
Government, the State Government or the other authority or officer under
clause (b) of section 60;(h)the form in which and the time within which annual
report is to be prepared under section 70.(i)any other matter which is to be,
or may be, prescribed, or in respect of which provision is to be made by
rules.

### 76. Power to make regulations .-(1) The National Institute of Disaster
Management, with the previous approval of the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make regulations consistent with this
Act and the rules made thereunder to carry out the purposes of this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)powers and functions to be exercised and discharged by the
governing body;(b)procedure to be followed by the governing body in exercise
of the powers and discharge of its functions;(c)any other matter for which
under this Act provision may be made by the regulations.

### 77. Rules and regulations to be laid before Parliament .-Every rule made
by the Central Government and every regulation made by the National Institute
of Disaster Management under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after
it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a
total period of thirty days which may be comprised of one session or in two or
more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree
in making any modification in the rule or regulation or both Houses agree that
the rule or regulation should not be made, the rule or regulation shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule
or regulation.

### 78. Power of State Government to make rules .-(1) The State Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the
provisions of this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the composition and number of the members of the State Authority
under sub-section (2), and the term of office and conditions of service of the
members of the State Authority under sub-section (5) of section 14;(b)the
allowances to be paid to the members of the advisory committee under sub-
section (2) of section 17;(c)the powers and functions of the Chairperson of
the State Executive Committee under sub-section (3), and the procedure to be
followed by the State Executive Committee in exercise of its powers and
discharge of its functions under sub-section (4) of section 20;(d)allowances
to be paid to the persons associated with the sub-committee constituted by the
State Executive Committee under sub-section (3) of section 21;(e)the
composition and the number of members of the District Authority under sub-
section (2), and the powers and functions to be exercised and discharged by
the Chief Executive Officer of the District Authority under sub-section (3) of
section 25;(f)allowances payable to the persons associated with any committee
constituted by the District Authority as experts under sub-section (3) of
section 28;(g)any other matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed, or in
respect of which provision is to be made by rules.(3)Every rule made by the
State Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is
made, before each House of the State Legislature where it consists of two
Houses, or where such Legislature consists of one House before that House.

### 79. Power to remove difficulties .-(1) If any difficulty arises in giving
effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government or the State
Government, as the case may be, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
order not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as may appear to it to
be necessary or expedient for the removal of the difficulty:

Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiration of two years
from the commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this section shall
be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament
or the Legislature, as the case may be.

