## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Distribution of Electricity Licence (Additional Requirements of Capital
Adequacy, Creditworthiness and Code of Conduct) Rules, 2005

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Distribution of Electricity Licence (Additional Requirements of Capital
Adequacy, Creditworthiness and Code of Conduct) Rules, 2005

## Rule THE-DISTRIBUTION-OF-ELECTRICITY-LICENCE-ADDITIONAL-REQUIREMENTS-OF-
CAPITAL-ADEQUACY-CREDITWORTHINESS-AND-CODE-OF-CONDUCT-RULES-2005 of 2005

  * Published on 23 March 2005 
  * Commenced on 23 March 2005 
  * [This is the version of this document from 23 March 2005.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Distribution of Electricity Licence (Additional Requirements of Capital
Adequacy, Creditworthiness and Code of Conduct) Rules, 2005Published vide
Notification No. G.S.R. 188(E), dated 23.3.2005In exercise of the powers
conferred by Sub-section (I) of, and clause (b) of Subsection (2) of, Section
176 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (Act 36 of 2003), the Central Government
hereby makes the following rules, namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Distribution of Electricity Licence
(Additional Requirements of Capital Adequacy, Creditworthiness and Code of
Conduct) Rules, 2005(2)They shall [come into force on the date] [Published in
Government Gazette dated 23.3.2005.] of their publication in the official
gazette.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)'Act' means the
Electricity Act, 2003;(b)Words and expression used and not defined in these
rules but defined in the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003), shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.

### 3. Requirements of Capital Adequacy and Creditworthiness.

(1)The Appropriate Commission shall, upon receipt of an application for grant
of licence for distribution of electricity under Sub-section (1) of Section 15
of the Electricity Act, 2003, decide the requirement of capital investment for
distribution network after hearing the applicant and keeping in view the size
of the area of supply and the service obligation within that area in terms of
Section 43.(2)The applicant for grant of licence shall be required to satisfy
the Appropriate Commission that on a norm of 30% equity on cost of investment
as determined under sub-rule (1), he including the promoters, in case the
applicant is a company, would be in a position to make available resources for
such equity of the project on the basis of networth and generation of internal
resources of his business including of promoters in the preceding three years
after excluding his other committed investments.Explanation. - For the grant
of a licence for distribution of electricity within the same area in terms of
sixth proviso to Section 14 of the Act, the area falling within a Municipal
Council or a Municipal Corporation as defined in the article 243(Q) of the
Constitution of India or a revenue district shall be the minimum area of
supply.

### 4. Requirement of Code of Conduct.

\- The applicant for grant of licence shall satisfy the Appropriate Commission
that he has not been found guilty or has not been disqualified under any of
the following provisions within the last three years from the date of the
application for the grant of licence:(a)Section 203, Section 274, Section 388B
or Section 397 of the Companies Act, 1956;(b)Section 276, Section 276B,
Section 276BB, Section 276C, Section 277 or Section 278 of the Income-tax Act,
1961;(c)Section 15C, Section 15G, Section 15H or Section 15HA of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992;(d)clause (b), (bb), (bbb),
(bbbb), (c) or (d) of Sub-section (1) of Section 9 the Excise Act,
1944;(e)Section 132 or Section 135 of the Customs Act, 1962,and that the
applicant is not a person in whose case licence was suspended under Section 24
or revoked under Section 19 of the Act, within the last three years from the
date of application:Provided that where the applicant is a company, it shall
satisfy the Appropriate Commission in addition to provisions of this rule that
no petition for winding up of the company or any other company of the same
promoter has been admitted under Section 443 (e) of the Companies Act, 1956 on
the ground of its being unable to pay its debts.

