## Union of India - Act

## The Dock Workers (Safety, Health And Welfare) Regulations, 1990

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Dock Workers (Safety, Health And Welfare) Regulations, 1990

## Rule THE-DOCK-WORKERS-SAFETY-HEALTH-AND-WELFARE-REGULATIONS-1990 of 1990

  * Published on 16 February 1990 
  * Commenced on 16 February 1990 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 February 1990.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Dock Workers (Safety, Health And Welfare) Regulations, 1990Published vide
G.S.R. 80(E), dated 16.2.1990.

### 8.

/449In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 of the said Act the
Central Government hereby makes the following regulations, namely:--

## Part I – General

### 1. Short title, application and commencement .-(1) These regulations may
be called the Dock Workers (Safely, Health and Welfare) Regulations, 1990.

(2)They shall apply to all major ports in India as defined in the Major Ports
Act, 1963 (38 of 1963).(3)They shall come into force after the expiry of 30
days of their publication in the Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions .-In these regulations, unless the context otherwise
requires,--

(a)"Act" means the Dock Workers (Safety, Health and Welfare) Act, 1986 (54 of
1986);(b)"access" includes egress;(c)"authorised person" means a person
authorised by the employer, the master of the ship or a responsible person to
undertake a specific task or tasks and possessing necessary technical
knowledge and experience for undertaking the task or tasks;(d)"competent
person" means--(i)a person belonging to a testing establishment in India who
is approved by the Chief Inspector for the purpose of testing, examination or
annealing and certification of lifting appliances, loose gears or wire
ropes;(ii)any other person who is recognised under the relevant regulations in
force in other countries as competent for issuing certificates for any of the
purposes mentioned in sub-clause (i) for the implementation of the Protection
Against Accidents (Dockers) Convention (Revised), 1932 (No. 32) and the
Convention concerning Occupational Safety and Health in Dock Work (No. 152),
1979, adopted by the International Labour Conference;(e)"container" means an
article of transport equipment of a permanent character and accordingly strong
enough to be suitable for repeated use and as specified under national or
international standards;(f)"container terminal" means the area where the
operations of receiving, storage, despatch and interchange of containers,
between transport made is carried out primarily with the help of lifting
appliances and transport equipment, and includes associated road vehicles,
waiting places, control inter-change grid, stacking areas and associated road
vehicle, departure, but shall not include-(i)terminals which handle
significant volumes of containerised cargo and break-bulk cargo together using
the same operational areas;(ii)all railway terminals and all in-land
depots;(iii)the stuffing and stripping of the contents of containers;
and(iv)ship-board and ship-side operations LO/LO and RO/RO
vessels;(g)"conveyor" means a mechanical device used in dock work for the
transport of single packages or solid bulk cargo from one point to another
point;(h)"dangerous goods" means any cargo which due to its explosiveness,
inflammability, radioactivity, toxic or corrosive properties, or other similar
characteristics, may cause injury, adversely affect the human system, loss of
life or property while handling, transporting, shipping or storing and which
is classified as such by any international or national standards;(i)"dock"
means any dock, wharf, quay or shore and shall include any warehouse or store
place belonging to owners, trustees or conservators of, and situated in or in
the vicinity of the dock, wharf, quay or shore and any railway line or siding
on or used in connection with the dock, wharf, quay or shore but not forming
part of Indian railways;(j)"Form" means a form appended to these
regulations;(k)"hatch" means on opening in a dock used for purposes of dock
work or for trimming or for ventilation or for cleaning;(l)"hatchway" means
the whole space within the square of the hatches from the top dock to the
bottom of the hold;(m)"Inspector" means a person appointed by the Central
Government under section 3 of the Act and includes the Chief
Inspector;(n)"lifting appliance" means all stationary or mobile cargo handling
appliances including their permanent attachments, such as cranes, derricks
shore based power operated ramps used on shore or on board ship for
suspending, raising or lowering, cargo or moving them from one position to
another while suspended or supported, in connection with the dock work and
includes lifting machinery;(o)"loose gear" means hook, shackle, swivel, chain,
sling, lifting beam, container speader, tray and any other such gear, by means
of which, the load can be attached to a lifting appliance and includes lifting
device;(p)"port" means a port as defined under the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15
of 1908);(q)"port authority" means the person having the general management
and control of dock:Provided that if any other person has, by exclusive right
to occupation of any part of the dock, acquired the general management and
control of such part, he shall be deemed to be the "Port Authority" in respect
of that part;(r)"premises" means any dock, wharf, quay, warehouse, store place
or landing place where the dock work is carried on;(s)"prescribed" means
prescribed by the Central Government;(t)"pulley block" means pulley block, gin
and similar gear, other than a crane block specially constructed for use with
a crane to which it is permanently attached;(u)"responsible person" means a
person appointed by the employer, the master of the ship, the owner of the
gear or port authorities, as the case may be, to be responsible for the
performance of a specific duty or duties and who has sufficient knowledge and
experience and the requisite authority for the proper performance of the duty
or duties;(v)"safe working load" in relation to an article of loose gear or
lifting appliance means the load which is the maximum load that may be imposed
with safety in the normal working conditions and as assessed and certified by
the competent person;(w)"schedule" means a schedule appended to these
regulations;(x)"ship" means any kind of ship, vessel barge, lighter or hover-
craft excluding ships of war and country craft;(y)"testing establishment"
means an establishment with testing and examination facilities, as approved by
the Chief Inspector, for carrying out testing, examination, annealing or
certification, etc., of lifting appliance or loose gear or wire rope as
required under the regulations;(z)"transport equipment" means all powered and
hand truck, for lift truck, tractor, trailer, locomotive, prime mover and any
other such equipment used in dock work;(zz)words and expressions not defined
in these regulations but defined or used in the Act shall have the same
meaning as assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Powers of Inspectors .-(a) An Inspector may, at any port for which he
is appointed,--

(i)enter, with such assistance, (if any), as he thinks fit, any ship, dock,
warehouse or other premises, where any dock work is being carried on, or where
he has reason to believe that any dock work is being carried on;(ii)make
examination of the ship, dock, lifting appliance, loose gear, lifting device,
staging, transport equipment, warehouse or other premises, used or to be used,
for any dock work;(iii)require the production of any register, muster roll or
other document relating to the employment of dock workers and examine such
document;(iv)take on the spot or otherwise such evidence of any person which
he may deem necessary:Provided that no person shall be compelled under
regulation 3(a)(iv) to answer any question, or give any evidence tending to
incriminate himself;(v)take copies of registers, records or other documents or
portions thereof as he may consider relevant in respect of any offence which
he has reason to believe has been committed or for the purpose of any
inquiry;(vi)take photograph, sketch, sample, weight, measure or record as he
may consider necessary for the purpose of any examination or inquiry;(vii)hold
an inquiry into the cause of any accident or dangerous occurrence which he has
reason to believe was the result of the collapse or failure of any lifting
appliance, loose gear, transport equipment, staging non-compliance with any of
the provisions of the Act or the regulation;(viii)issue show-cause notice
relating to the safety, health and welfare provisions arising under the Act or
the regulations;(ix)prosecute, conduct or defend before any Court any
complaint or other proceedings, arising under the Act or the
regulations;(x)direct the port authority, dock labour board and other
employers of dock workers for getting the dock workers medically examined if
considered necessary.(b)A person having general management and control of the
premises or the owner, master, officer-in-charge or agents of the ship, as the
case may be, shall provide such means as may be required by the Inspector for
entry, inspection, examination, inquiry, otherwise for the exercise of his
powers under the Act and the regulations in relation to that ship or premises
which shall also include the provision of launch or other means of transport.

### 4. Notice of Inspection .-(1) An Inspector may notify any defects or
deficiencies which may come to his notice during his inspection and
examination which he wishes to point out together with any orders passed by
him under the Act or the regulations in Form IX to--

(i)the owner, master, officer-in-charge or agents of the ship; or(ii)the port
authority; or(iii)the owner of lifting appliances, loose gears, lifting
devices and transport equipment; or(iv)the employer of dock workers.(2)When an
Inspector serves notice, under sub-regulation (1) above, in relation to any
dock, lifting appliance, loose gear, lifting device, transport equipment,
ladder or staging, he may, in the notice prohibit the dock work where
conditions are dangerous to life, safety or health of dock workers and the use
of the same in connection with the dock work and such dock, lifting
appliances, loose gears, lifting devices transport equipment, ladders or
stagings shall not be used until the defect or defects specified in the notice
have been remedied and the Inspector has withdrawn the prohibitory order.

### 5. Appeal .-Any person aggrieved by an order of the Chief Inspector passed
under section 5 of the Act may, within 15 days from the date on which the
order is communicated to him prefer an appeal to the Secretary in Government
of India, Ministry of Labour, New Delhi and the provisions of section 8 of the
Act shall apply accordingly.

### 6. Penalties .-Save as is otherwise expressly provided in these
regulations, whoever being a person responsible to comply with any of the
regulations commits a breach of such regulations shall be guilty of an offence
and punishable with imprisonment; for a term which may extend to six months,
or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees; or with both, and, if
the breach is continued after conviction, with a further fine which may extend
to one hundred rupees for each day on which the breach is so continued.

## Part II – RESPONSIBILITIES

### 7. Responsibilities .-(1) It shall be the duty of the port authority to
comply with regulations 9 to 12, 15 to 23, 61 (1) & (8), 80 (2) and (3) 81, 85
(12), 89, 91 (2) to (6), 92(2), 93 ((1), (3) & (4) and 94 to 115.

(2)It shall be the duty of the owner or master, or officer-in-charge and the
agents of a ship to comply with regulations 12, 16 (1) to (3), 17 (1) (a), 24
to 37, 76, 80 (1), 99 (1) and 101 (1) & (3).(3)(a)It shall be the duty of the
owner of the lifting appliance, loose gear, and transport equipment or any
other equipment used in dock work on shore or on board the ship to comply with
the regulations 17 (4), 27, 40 to 49, 51, 52 (1) to (4), 54, 57 (1) to (4),
(6) & (7), 59 (1) to (3), 60, 62, 63, 64, 84 (1), 85 (5), 87 and 88.(b)In case
lifting appliance, loose gear, or any other equipment used in dock work on
board a ship not registered in India, it shall be the duty of the master or
Chief Officer of such ship and agent of such ship to comply with the
regulations 27, 40 to 49, 51, 52 (1) to (4), 54, 87 and 88.(4)(a)It shall be
the duty of every employer and of all agents, employees and dock workers
employed by him to comply with regulations 11 (1) & (2), 17 (5), 77 (5), 85
(8) and 86 (8).(b)It shall be the duty of every employer to comply with
regulations 13, 14, 16 (4), 17 (4) & (5), 18, 20 (2), 24 (7) & (8), 25, 28, 29
(2), 31, 32 (3), (6), (8) & (9), 33 to 39, 45 (1), (2) & (3), 52 (5), 53 to
56, 57 (4) (e), (5), (6) & (8), 58, 59 (4), 61 (9) and (10), 62 (13), (17), 64
to 75, 77 to 82, 84 (2), 85 except 85 (12), 86, 87 (2), 88 (4) to (8), 89 to
93, 95, 98, 107, 109 (2), 110, 114 (4), 116 and 117:Provided that where the
dock work is carried on by a stevedore or other person other than the owner of
a ship, it shall be the duty of the owner, master or officer-in-charge of the
ship, to comply with regulation 33 (1) so far as it concerns:--(i)Any hatch
not taken over by the said stevedore or other person for the purpose of the
dock work; and(ii)any hatch which, after having been taken over by the said
stevedore or other person for the purpose of the dock work--(a)has been
reported by written notice in Form I to the owner, master or officer-in-charge
of ship, or by or on behalf of the said person, as being hatch at which the
dock work has been completed for the time being,(b)either has been left by the
persons fenced or covered as required by regulation 33 (1) or has been taken
into use by or on behalf of the owner of the ship, and in either case has been
so reported by such written notice as aforesaid. It shall be the duty of the
owner, master or officer-in-charge of the ship to give immediately written
acknowledgment of such written notice as aforesaid.(5)It shall be the duty of
every dock worker to comply with the requirement of such of these regulations
as relate to the performance of, or refraining from, an act by him and to co-
operate in carrying out requirements of these regulations and if he discovers
any defects in the lifting appliance, loose gear, lifting device, conveying
any transport equipment or other equipment, to report such defects without un-
reasonable delay to his employer or foreman or other person in authority
.(6)No person shall, unless duly authorised or in case of necessity remove or
interfere with any fencing, gangway, gear, ladder, hatch covering, life saving
appliance, lighting, or other thing whatsoever required by the Act and these
regulations to be provided. If removed, such things shall be restored at the
end of the period during which their removal was necessary, by the person last
engaged in that work necessitated such removal.(7)(a)No employer shall allow
lifting appliance, loose gear, lifting device, or conveying and transport
equipment to be used by dock workers which does not comply with regulations 17
(4), 27, 40 to 49, 51, 52 (1) to (4), 54, 57 (1) to (4) & (6) to (7), 59 (1)
to (3), 60, 62, 87 and 88.(b)If the person whose duty, it is to comply with
the regulations mentioned in sub-regulation (2) above fail to do so, then it
shall also be the duty of the employer of the dock workers to comply with such
regulations within the shortest time reasonably practicable after such
failure.(8)It shall be the duty of the person for the time being in charge of
any ship to produce for inspection and examination certificates required under
regulation 51.(9)Every dock worker shall use the means of access provided in
accordance with these regulations and no person shall authorise or order
another to use means of access other than those provided in accordance
therewith.(10)No person shall go upon any hatch beam for the purpose of
adjusting the gear for lifting them on or off nor shall any person authorise
or order another to do so .(11)It shall be the duty of the Dock Labour Board
and every other employer of dock workers to comply with regulations 74, 89, 91
(3), 92, 93 (1), (3) & (4), 103, 107, 108 to 111.(12)It shall be the duty of
the competent person to comply with the regulations 41, 47, 48 and 50.

### 8\. Exemption .-The Chief Inspector may, subject to such conditions, if
any, as may be specified therein, by order in writing (which may in its
discretion be revoked at any time), exempt from all or any of the requirements
of these regulations,--

(a)any dock or part of a dock, if he is satisfied that dock work is only
occasionally carried on or traffic is small and confined to small ships and
fishing vessels at such dock;(b)any appliance, gear, equipment, or device or
any class or description of appliances, gear, equipment or device, if he is
satisfied that the requirement in respect of which the exemption is granted
are not necessary or equally effective measures are taken:Provided that he
shall not grant exemption under this regulation unless he is satisfied that
such exemption will not adversely affect the health, safety and welfare of
dock workers.

## Part III – SAFETY

A.-WORKING PLACES

### 9. Surfaces .-(1) Every regular approach over a dock which the working
place and every such working place inside the dock workers have to use for
going to or from a dock shall be,-

(a)kept clean and free from objects that can cause slipping, stumbling or
falling,(b)maintained in good repair with due regard to the safety of the dock
workers.(2)All areas of a dock shall be kept properly drained and graded in
order to facilitate safe access to sheds, warehouses and store places and safe
handling of cargo and equipment.(3)Drain pools and catch basins shall be
properly covered or enclosed.(4)All areas of a dock and all approaches on
which lifting appliances and transport equipment are used shall be soundly
constructed, surfaced with good wearing material and sufficiently even and
free from holes and cracks to afford safe transport of cargo and shall be
properly maintained.(5)Any working area in a dock which is damaged or under
repair shall be effectively blocked off from other areas and, when necessary,
warning lights shall be provided at night.(6)All landing places used by dock
workers for embarking or disembarking from crafts meant for transport by water
shall be maintained in good repair with due regard to the safety of the
persons using them.

### 10. Fencing of dangerous places .-(1) The following parts of a dock and
approaches shall, as far as practicable, having regard to the traffic and
working, be securely fenced so that the height of the fence shall be in no
place less than one meter and the fencing shall be maintained in good
condition:--

(a)all breaks, dangerous comers, and other dangerous parts or edges of a
dock;(b)both sides of such foot-ways, overbridges, caissons, and dock gates as
are in general use by dock workers and each side of the entrance at each end
of such foot-way for sufficient distance not exceeding, 4.5 metres:Provided
that in case of fences which were constructed before the date of commencement
of this regulation, it shall be sufficient if the height of the fence is in no
place less than 75 cm.(2)The ditches, pits, trenches for pipes and cables and
other hazardous openings and excavations shall be securely covered or
adequately fenced.(3)Where wharves or quays slope steeply towards the water,
the outer-edge shall be protected as far as practicable.

### 11. Passages to be kept clear.-(l) Cargo shall not be so stored or
transport equipment or lifting appliances so placed on any areas of a dock
where dock workers are employed so as to obstruct access to ships, cranes,
life saving appliances, fire fighting equipment and welfare facilities
provided under these regulations.

(2)Where any place is left along the edge of any wharf or quay, it shall be at
least 90 cms, wide and shall be kept clear of all obstructions other than
fixed structures, plant and appliances in use.(3)Where working areas of a dock
are enclosed and the traffic warrants, a separate gate or passage shall be
provided for pedestrians.

### 12. Railings and fencings .-(1) All railings for the fencing of hatch
ways, accommodation ladders, grangways, stairway for embarking, disembarking,
and any other dangerous place shall be of sound material, good construction
and possess adequate strength and unless specified in these regulations:--

(a)be at least one metre in height; and(b)consist of two rails or two taut
ropes or chains supporting stanchions and toe boards.(2)Intermediate rails,
ropes or chains shall be 50 centimetres high.(3)Stanchions shall not be more
than two metres apart and shall be secured against inadvertent lifting
out.(4)The toe board shall be at least 15 centimetres high.(5)Railings shall
be free from sharp edges.(6)Temporary fencing of hatchways elevated platforms,
etc., shall, as far as reasonably practical, extend to a height of one metre
and consist of either:(a)two taut ropes or chains with stanchions; or(b)a
properly rigged and securely fastened safety net.(7)Stairs giving access to
transport vessels shall be equipped with wooden or rubber fenders so that the
gap of more than 30 centimetres is maintained between the side of the steps
and side of the vessel.

### 13. Staging construction and maintenance .-(1) Sufficient supply of sound
and substantial material shall be available at a convenient place or places
for the construction of staging.

(2)All staging shall be:--(a)securely constructed of sound and substantial
material and shall be maintained in such condition so as to ensure the safety
of all dock workers; and(b)inspected at regular and frequent intervals by a
responsible person.(3)All planks and ropes intended to be used for a staging
shall be:-(a)carefully examined before being taken into use; and(b)re-examined
by a responsible person before they are used again after the stages have been
dismantled.(4)All planks forming stages shall be securely fastened to prevent
slipping.(5)All stages shall be of sufficient width to secure the safety of
the dock workers working therein. In particular, on stage at a height of two
metres or more above the ground level deck bottom, deck or tank top, shall be
less than 30 centimetres wide.(6)Planks supported by the rungs of ladders
shall not be used to support stages.(7)(a)Stage suspended by ropes or chains
shall be secured as far as possible so as to prevent their swinging; and(b)no
rope or chain shall be used in suspending stages unless it is of suitable
quality, adequate strength and free from patent defects. Fibre rope shall not
pass over sharp edges.(8)Safe means of access shall be provided for the use of
dock workers to and from stages and ropes used for suspending stages shall not
be used as means of access.

### 14. Work on staging .-(1) More than two men shall not be allowed to work
at anyone time on a staging plank.

(2)When dock workers are employed on staging more than 2.5 metres high, they
shall be protected by safety belts equipped with lifelines which shall be
secured with a minimum of flask to a fixed structures.(3)Prior to each use,
belts and lifelines shall be inspected for dry rot, chemical damage or other
defects which may affect their strength. Defective belts shall not be
used.(4)Work on a staging shall not be carried on when loaded slings have to
pass over the stagings and there is danger from falling objects.

### 15. Life-saving appliances .-Provision for the rescue from drowning of
dock workers shall be made and maintained, and shall include--

(a)a supply of life-saving appliances, kept in readiness on the wharf or quay,
which shall be reasonably adequate having regard to all the circumstances;
and(b)means at or near the surface of the water at reasonable intervals for
enabling a person in water to support himself or escape from the water which
shall be reasonably adequate having regard to all the circumstances.

### 16. Illumination .-(1) All areas in a dock and on a ship where the dock
work is carried on, all approaches to such areas and to places to which dock
workers may be required to go in the course of their employment, shall be
safely and efficiently lighted in an appropriate way.

(2)The general illumination, in areas on the dock where dock workers have to
pass, shall be at least 10 lux and at places where dock workers are employed
the illumination shall be at least 25 lux without prejudice to the provision
of any additional illumination needed at particularly dangerous places.(3)The
means of artificial lighting shall, so far as is practicable, be such and so
placed as to prevent glare or formation of shadows to such an extent as to
cause risk of accident to any dock worker.(4)The portable lights shall be
maintained in good condition and shall--(a)be equipped with substantial
reflectors and guards; and(b)be equipped with heavy duty electric cords with
connection and insulation maintained in safe condition.

### 17. Fire protection .-(1) Place where dock workers are employed shall, be
provided with--

(a)sufficient and suitable fire-extinguishing equipment; and(b)an adequate
water supply at ample pressure as per national standards.(2)Persons trained to
use the fire-extinguishing equipment shall be readily available during all
working hours.(3)Fire-extinguishing equipment shall be properly maintained and
inspected at regular intervals and a record maintained to that effect.(4)A
portable fire-extinguishing equipment of suitable type shall be provided in
every launch or boat or other craft used for transport of dock workers and
also in the crane cabins including mobile cranes.(5)Smoking shall not be
allowed in the hold of a ship, on wharf, in warehouses and transit sheds and
"No Smoking" or other cautionary notices shall be displayed at such places.

### 18. Excessive noise, etc .-Adequate precautions shall be taken to protect
dock workers against the harmful effects of excessive noise, vibrations and
air pollution at the work place. In no case the noise levels shall exceed the
limits laid down in Schedule VII.

B.-WAREHOUSES AND STORE PLACES

### 19. Construction .-(1) All floors, walls, steps, stairs, passages chutes
and gangways of warehouses and storeplaces shall be of sound construction and
properly maintained.

(2)The slope of ramps shall be such that the stability of transport equipment
or vehicles using them is not endangered.

### 20. Floor loading .-(1) The maximum load per square metre to be carried by
any floor of a warehouse or store place and maximum load of any lifting
appliance and transport equipment used on such floor shall be displayed at
conspicuous places.

(2)The maximum loads referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall not be exceeded.

### 21. Stairs .-(1) For every staircase in a warehouse or store place, a
substantial handrail of a height of at least one metre shall be provided and
maintained, which if the staircase has an open side shall be on that side,
and, in the case of a staircase having two open sides, such a handrail shall
be provided and maintained on both sides.

(2)Any open side of staircase shall also be guarded by the provision and
maintenance of lower rail or other effective means.

### 22. Openings .-All openings in floors and walls shall in so far as they
prevent danger, be effectively protected.

### 23. Means of escape in case of fire .-(1) All warehouses and store places
shall be provided with sufficient means of escape in case of fire for the dock
workers employed therein and all the means of escape, other than the main exit
in ordinary use, shall be distinctively marked in a language understood by the
majority of the dock workers.

(2)A free passageway giving access of each means of escape in case of fire
shall be maintained for the use of all dock workers.(3)In every dock there
shall be provided effective and clearly audible means of giving warning in
case of fire to every dock worker employed therein.C.-MEANS OF ACCESS

### 24. Access between shore and ship .-(1) When a ship is lying at a wharf or
quay for the purpose of dock work, adequate and safe means of access to the
ship, properly installed and secured, shall be provided.

(2)Safe means, required by sub-regulation (1) shall be as follows:--Where
practicable, the ship, accommodation ladder or a gangway or a similar
construction, shall be--(i)not less than 55 cms, wide at the steps and of
adequate depth with steps having permanent non-skid surface;(ii)properly
secured and securely fenced throughout its length on each side to a dear
height of one metre by means of upper and lower rails, taut ropes or chains or
by other equally safe means except that in the case of ship's accommodation
ladder such fencing shall be necessary on one side only provided that the
other side is properly protected by the ship's side;(iii)constructed of
suitable material and maintained in good condition and suitable for the
purpose;(iv)maintained in a condition as to prevent slipping;(v)fitted with a
platform at either end of the ladder and the lower platform or the treads
resting on the dock;(vi)an angle maintained not exceeding 40 degrees to the
horizontal irrespective of resting on the dock.(3)When a fixed tread ladder is
used and the angle is low enough to require dock workers to walk on the edge
of the treads, cleated duck boards shall be laid over and secured to the
ladder.(4)Whenever there is danger of dock workers falling between the ship
and the shore, a safety net or other suitable protection shall be rigged below
the accommodation ladder in such a manner as to prevent dock workers from
falling.(5)If it is not possible to rest the accommodation ladder or gangway
and the foot of the same is more than 30 cms. away from the edge of the wharf
or quay, the space between them shall be bridged by a firm walkway equipped
with railing on both the sides with a minimum height of one metre with the
mid-rails.(6)Access to the ship shall not be within the swinging radius of the
load.(7)When the upper end of the means of access rests on or is in flush with
the top of the bulwark substantial steps properly secured and equipped with at
least one substantial handrail one metre in height shall be provided between
the top of the bulwark and the deck and the steps provided shall be, as far as
practicable, in line with the gangway.(8)The use of swinging derricks or rope
ladders for the access shall be prohibited.

### 25. Access between ship and another vessel .-(1) When a ship is alongside
another ship, and dock workers have to pass from one to the other, adequate
and safe means of access shall be provided for their use, unless the
conditions are such that it is possible to pass from one to the other without
undue risk and without the aid of any special appliance.

(2)If the other ship is sailing barge, flat, keel, lighter or other similar
vessel of relatively low free board, the means of access shall be provided by
the ship which has the higher free board.(3)Rope ladders used as a means of
access between ship and another vessel shall,--(a)be of good construction,
made up of suitable and sound material with adequate strength and properly
maintained for the purpose for which it is used;(b)be adequately secured at
its upper and in such a manner that it is firmly and safely held in order to
prevent any possible slipdown of its spare rolled up portion when the ladder
is used;(c)have treads which are flat and of a width and depth of not less
than 30 centimetres and 15 centimetres respectively and so constructed as to
prevent slipping;(d)have suitable provisions as far as practicable, for
preventing the ladder from twisting; and(e)have bottom tread within the safe
distance of the lower landing place.

### 26. Access between deck and hold .-(1) If the depth from the level of the
deck to the bottom of the hold exceed 1.5 metres there shall be maintained
safe means of access from the deck to the hold in which work is being carried
on.

(2)Where practicable, access to the hold shall be by separate man-hatches 60
centimetre by 60 centimetres clear in size, with a sloping ladder and hand
rail through each deck to the lower hold and hinged cover for a man-hatch
shall, while in the open position, be effectively secured.(3)When the length
of the hatchway exceeds 7 metres, a fixed hold ladder shall be fitted both on
or near the fore and aft side of the hatchway.(4)Fixed hold ladders shall be
maintained in good repair and shall comply with the following
provisions:--(a)the ladders shall be at least 30 centimetres between their up-
rights and leave free footroom of at least 12 centimetres behind the
ladder:(b)the rungs shall be so fastened that they cannot till, and the
intervals between rungs shall not exceed 30 centimetres;(c)the rungs shall
afford an adequate handhold;(d)the ladders shall be sufficiently long; and(e)a
suitable landing platform shall be provided for every six metres length or
fraction thereof.(5)Fixed hold ladders connecting decks shall lie in the same
straight line, unless measures are taken at each tween deck for safe ascent
and descent from the ladders.(6)(a)If the fixed holds ladders cannot extend
upwards on to the coamings, strong cleats shall be fitted to the coamings in
the same line as the ladders at intervals not exceeding 30 centimetres having
a clear internal width of at least 30 centimetres while affording free
footroom of at least 12 centimeters and so constructed as to prevent the foot
from slipping sideways:(b)Coamings which are higher than 90 centimeters above
the deck shall also be provided with the necessary cleats referred to in this
sub-regulation on the outside.(7)Shaft tunnels shall be provided with adequate
hand-hold and foot-hold on each side.(8)The approaches to hold ladders and
stairs shall be at least 40 centimetres wide and shall not be obstructed, and
if on one or both sides there are dangerous moving parts it shall be at least
50 centimetres wide.(9)Cargo shall be stacked sufficiently far from the ladder
to leave at each rung of the ladder foothold of a depth including any space
behind the ladder of not less than 12 centimetres for a width of 25
centimetres.

### 27. Fencing of and means of access to lifting appliances .-(1) Safe means
of access to every part of a lifting appliance shall be provided.

(2)The operator's platform on every crane or tip driven by mechanical power
shall be securely fenced and shall be provided with safe means of access.In
particular, where access is by a ladder,--(a)the sides of the ladder shall
extend to a reasonable distance beyond the platform or some other suitable
hand-hold shall be provided;(b)the landing place on the platform shall be
maintained free from obstruction and slipping; and(c)in case where the ladder
is vertical and exceeds six metres in height, a resting place shall be
provided, after every six metres and part, thereof.

### 28. Ladders .-(1) All metal, wooden, rope or other ladders, that are used
by dock workers shall be of sound material, good construction and adequate
strength for the purpose for which they are intended and shall be properly
maintained and kept free from oil or other slippery material.

(2)Wooden ladders shall not be painted, but covered with clear varnish or
other transparent preservative.(3)No ladder shall be used which has- -(a)a
missing or defective rung; or(b)any rung which depends for its support on
nails, spikes or other similar fixings.(4)Every ladder shall be inspected at
suitable intervals by a responsible person, and if any defects are found in
any ladder, the ladder shall be immediately taken out of service.D.-DECKS,
HATCHWAYS, ETC.

### 29. Bulwarks or rails .-(1) All upper decks to which dock workers may have
access for the purpose of carrying on dock work shall be provided on the outer
edge upto a height of one metre above the deck with a bulwark or guard rails
so designed, constructed and placed, as to prevent any dock worker from
accidentally falling overboard.

(2)The bulwarks or guard rails shall be continuous except where sections have
to be removed for the purpose of dock work and such sections shall not extend
beyond the minimum distance necessary.

### 30. Deck ladders .-Ladders leading from upper deck or bridge deck or which
deck to main deck shall be so situated as to reduce, as far as practicable,
the risk of dock workers,--

(a)being struck by cargo during loading or unloading; and(b)falling direct
into an open hold if they fall from the ladder.

### 31. Skeleton decks .-(1) When dock work is proceeding at any skeleton
deck, adequate staging with suitable railings shall be provided to ensure a
safe working surface unless the space beneath the deck is filled with cargo to
within a distance of 60 centimetres of such deck.

(2)When skeleton decks are not accessible from hold ladders, safe means of
access such as portable ladders shall be provided.

### 32. Working spaces .-(1) Dock cargoes shall be stowed, or effective
measures taken so that,--

(a)safe access is provided to the winches, hold ladders and to the signaller's
stand; and(b)winches and cranes used during loading or unloading can be safely
operated.(2)Safe access to the deck cargo, hold ladders and winches shall be
ensured by securely installed steps or ladders.(3)When a signaller has to move
from the square of the hatch to the ship's side, a space at least 90
centimetres wide shall be kept clear.(4)If the surface of the deck cargo is
uneven, suitable measures shall be provided for the safe movement of dock
workers.(5)When deck cargo is stoved against ship's bulwark or hatch coamings
and at such a height that there is a danger to the dock worker of falling
overboard or into the open hold, suitable fencing shall be provided to prevent
such fall.(6)When there is a cargo on dock, it shall be ensured that the
visibility between the signaller and crane or winch operator is not obstructed
by making suitable arrangements.(7)All places, such as decks, stages, etc.,
shall be properly cleaned and kept free from objects which can cause slipping,
stumbling and falling.(8)When the coaming is so high that signaller cannot see
properly in the hold, a suitable step or platform shall be provided in such a
manner that the distance between the top of the platform and the upper edge of
the coaming is not less than one metre.(9)A clear and unobstructed space at
least 90 centimetres wide and where this is not practicable as wide as is
reasonably practicable shall be provided around every hatch.(10)Any part of
the ship used in connection with the dock work shall be free from patent
defect and maintained in good working order.

### 33. Fencing around hatchways .-(1) Every hatchway of a hold exceeding 1.5
metres in depth, which is not protected by coaming to a clear height of 75
centimetres shall, when not in use either be effectively fenced to a height of
one metre or be securely covered to prevent dock workers from falling into the
hold.

(2)If in any hatch dock work is carried on simultaneously at two decks, the
open end of the hatch in the higher deck shall be protected to a height of one
metre by means of planks or nets or in some other suitable manner to prevent
fall of dock workers or cargo and the safety nets when rigged shall not be
secured to the hatch covers.(3)When an edge of a hatch section or of stowed
cargo more than 2.5 metres high is so exposed that it presents a danger to
dock workers falling the edge shall be guarded by a taut rope, safety net or
railing to a height of one metre.(4)Dock workers employed in a hold on a
partly covered hatch or on a stack shall be protected by spreading a net or in
some other suitable way against the danger of falling down.

### 34. Hatch coverings, hatch beams, etc .-(1) All fore and aft beams and
thwartship beams used for hatch covering shall have suitable gear for lifting
them on and off without it being necessary for any dock worker to go upon them
to adjust such gear.

(2)All hatch coverings and beams shall be kept plainly marked to indicate the
deck and hatch to which they belong and their position therein.(3)All hatch
coverings and beams shall be replaced according to their markings:Provided
that this regulation shall not apply in cases where all the hatch coverings
and beams of a ship are interchangeable or, in respect of marking of position,
where all hatch coverings of a hatch are interchangeable.(4)All fore and aft
beams and thwartship beams including sliding beams and the tracks used for
hatch coverings and all hatch coverings shall be maintained in good
condition.(5)Adequate handgrips shall be provided on all hatch coverings,
having regard to their size and weight, unless construction of the hatch or
the hatch covering is of a character rendering the provision of handgrips
unnecessary.(6)Hatch coverings shall not be used in the construction of stages
or for any other purpose which may expose them to damage.(7)Hatch covers and
beams shall not be removed and replaced while dock work is in progress in the
hold under the hatchway. Before loading or unloading takes place, any hatch
cover or beam that is not adequately secured against displacement shall be
removed.(8)Only an authorised person shall be permitted to open or close power
operated hatch covers.(9)Folding hatch covers shall be fitted with locking
devices to prevent covers from folding back.(10)Hatch covers shall not be
opened or closed in such manner as is likely to cause injury to any dock
worker.

### 35. Opening and closing of hatches .-(1) Hatchways shall be opened
sufficiently to allow loads to be safely hoisted or lowered.

(2)No hatch cover or hatch beam shall be removed from or replaced on any hatch
unless there is around the hatch coaming an unobstructed working space at
least 60 centimeters wide or where this is not reasonably practicable, as wide
as is reasonably practicable.(3)Before covering hatch with tarpaulin, it shall
be ensured that there is no opening left uncovered by hatch covers and that
all the hatch covers are resting securely.

### 36. Handling of hatch coverings and beams .-(1) All hatch cover exceeding
55 kilograms in weight and all beams of any hatch shall be removed or replaced
only with a winch or other suitable mechanical means.

(2)When being replaced, hatch covers and beams shall be placed on the hatches
in the position indicated by the markings thereon and shall be adequately
secured.(3)Hatch covers and beams shall not be removed or replaced while a
dock worker is below the level of the hatch in a position in which he is
liable to be struck by a falling hatch covering or hatch beam.(4)Hatch covers,
tarpaulins, fore and aft beams and thwartship beams which have been removed
shall be so laid down, stacked or secured that they cannot fall into the hold
or otherwise cause danger.(5)Hatch covers and beams shall be so placed as to
leave a safe walkway from bulwark to hatchcoaming or fore and aft.(6)Hatch
covers shall be either arranged in neat piles not higher than the coaming and
away from it or spread one high between coaming and rail with no space between
them. The height of the stack shall be regulated so that, if accidentally
struck by a sling, they will not endanger a dock worker below or overside.

### 37. Securing of hatch covering and hatch beams .-(1) Where any hatch beam
is fitted with a permanent device for securing it in position in the hatch,
that device and its corresponding fitting in the coaming shall be effectively
and properly maintained.

(2)The beams of any hatch in use for the dock work shall, if not removed, be
adequately secured to prevent their displacement.(3)Any sliding or rolling
hatch beams supporting hatch coverings which are left in position in a partly
opened hatch shall be adequately secured to prevent any horizontal movement of
the hatch beams.(4)Every sliding or rolling hatch beams and its guides shall
be so constructed and maintained that the hatch beam is not liable to be
accidentally displaced from its guides.(5)Mechanically operated hatch
coverings shall, when stowed be adequately secured to prevent movement.

### 38. Escape from holds .-Precautions shall be taken to facilitate the
escape of dock workers when handling coal or other bulk cargo in a hold or in
tween decks or bin or hooper.

### 39. Dangerous and harmful environment .-(1) When internal combustion
engines exhaust into a hold or intermediate deck or any other working place
where neither natural ventilation nor the ship's ventilation system is
adequate to keep the carbon monoxide content of the atmosphere, below 50 parts
per million, adequate and suitable measures shall be taken at such places in
order to avoid exposure of dock workers to health hazards.

(2)No dock worker shall be allowed to enter any hold or tank of a vessel
wherein there is given off any dust, fumes or other impurities of such a
nature and to such an extent as is likely to be injurious or offensive to the
dock workers or in which explosives, poisonous, noxious or gaseous cargoes
have been carried or stored or in which dry ice has been used as a refrigerant
or which has been fumigated, or in which there is possibility of oxygen
deficiency, unless all practical steps have been taken to remove the dust,
fumes or other impurities and dangers which may be present and to prevent any
further ingress thereof, and such holds or tanks are certified to be safe and
fit for dock workers to enter the same by the competent authority.(3)When dock
workers are exposed to any dust in substantial quantities as if handling bulk
grains fertilizers, cements and other similar cargoes, they shall be protected
by suitable respiratory protective equipment.E.-LIFTING APPLIANCES AND GEAR

### 40. Construction and maintenance of lifting appliances .--

(1)General .-All lifting appliances including all parts and working gear
thereof, whether fixed or movable, and any plant or gear used in anchoring or
fixing such appliance, shall be--(a)of good construction, sound material,
adequate strength for the purpose for which it is used and free from patent
defects; and(b)maintained in good repair and working order.(2)Drums .-(a)
Every drum or pulley round which the rope of any lifting appliances is
carried, shall be of adequate diameter and construction in relation to the
rope used.(b)Any rope which terminates at the winding drum of lifting
appliance shall be securely attached to the drum and at least three dead turns
of the rope shall remain on the drum in every operating position of the
lifting appliance.(c)The flange of the drum should project twice the rope
diameter beyond the last layer and if this height is not available, other
measures such as anti-slackness guards shall be provided to prevent the rope
from coming off the drum.(3)Brakes .-Every lifting appliance shall be provided
with an efficient brake or brakes which shall,--(a)be capable of preventing
fall of a suspended load (including any test load applied in accordance with
these regulations) and of effectively controlling a load while it is being
lowered;(b)act without shock;(c)have shoes that can be easily removed for
relining; and(d)be provided with simple and easily accessible means of
adjustment:Provided that this regulation shall not apply to steam winch which
can be so operated that the winch is as safe as it would be if a brake or
brakes were provided in accordance with this regulation.(4)Controls .-Controls
of lifting appliance shall,--(a)be so situated that the driver at his stand or
seat has ample room for operating and has an unrestricted view of dock work,
as far as practicable, and remains clear of the load and ropes, and that no
load passes over him;(b)be positioned with due regard to ergonometric
considerations for easy operation;(c)be so located that the driver does not
have to remain in the bight of the heel block;(d)have upon them or adjacent to
them clear markings to indicate their purpose and mode of operation;(e)be
provided, where necessary with a suitable locking device to prevent accidental
movement or displacement;(f)as far as practicable, move in the direction of
the resultant load movement; and(g)automatically come to a neutral position in
case of power failure wherever automatic brakes are provided.

### 41. Test and periodical examination of lifting appliances .-(1) Before
being taken into use for the first time or after it has undergone any
alterations or repairs liable to affect its strength or stability and also
once at least in every five years, all lifting appliances including all parts
and gears thereof, whether fixed or movable, shall be tested and examined by a
competent person in the manner set out in Schedule I.

(2)All lifting appliances shall be thoroughly examined by a competent person
once at least in every 12 months. Where the competent person making this
examination forms the opinion that the lifting appliance cannot continue to
function safely, he shall forthwith give notice in writing of his opinion to
the owner of the lifting appliance or in case of lifting appliance carried on
board a ship not registered in India, to the Master or Officer-in-charge of
the ship.(3)Thorough examination for the purpose of this regulation shall mean
a visual examination, supplemented if necessary by other means such as hammer
test, carried out as carefully as the conditions permit, in order to arrive at
a reliable conclusion as to the safety of the parts examined; and if necessary
for this purpose, parts of the lifting appliance and gear shall be dismantled.

### 42. Automatic safe load indicators .-(1) Every crane, if so constructed
that the safe working load may be varied by raising or lowering of the jib or
otherwise, shall have attached to it an automatic indicator of safe working
loads which shall also give a warning to the operator wherever the safe
working load is exceeded.

(2)Cut-out shall be provided which automatically arrests the movement of the
lifting parts of the crane in the event of the load exceeding the safe working
load wherever possible.(3)The provisions of sub-regulation (1) shall not apply
where it is not possible to instal an automatic safe load indicator, in which
case, provision on the crane of a table showing the safe working loads as the
corresponding inclinations or radii of the jib shall be considered sufficient
compliance.

### 43. Rigging of ship's derricks .-(1) Every ship shall carry the current
and relevant rigging plans and any other relevant information necessary for
the safe rigging of its derricks and necessary gear.

(2)All such rigging plans shall be certified by a competent person.

### 44. Securing of derrick foot .-Appropriate measures shall be taken to
prevent the foot of a derrick being lifted out of its socket or supports.

### 45. Winches .-(1) General .-(a) Winches shall not be used if control
levers operate with excessive friction or excessive play.

(b)Double gear winches shall not be used unless a positive means of locking
the gear shift is provided.(c)When changing gears on a two gear winch, there
shall be no load other than the fall and the cargo hock assembly on the
winch.(d)Adequate protection shall be provided to the winch operator against
weather, where necessary.(e)Temporary seats and shelters for winch operators
which create a hazard to the winch operator or other dock workers shall not be
allowed to be used.(f)When winches are left unattended, control levers shall
be secured in the neutral position and whenever possible, the power shall be
shut off.(2)Steam winches .-In every steam winch used in dock
work,--(a)measures shall be taken to prevent escaping steam, from obscuring
any part of the decks or other work places or from otherwise hindering or
injuring any dock worker;(b)extension control levers which tend to fall of
their own weight shall be counter-balanced;(c)except for short handles on
wheel-type controls, winch operations shall not be permitted to use the winch
control extension levers unless they are provided by either the ship or the
employer and such lever shall be of adequate strength and secure and fastened
with metal connections at the fulcrum and at the permanent control
lever.(3)Electric winches .-(a) In case of any defect, dock workers shall not
be permitted to tamper with or adjust electric control circuits.(b)Electric
wireless shall not be used for dock work in cases where,--(i)the electro-
magnetic brake is unable to hold the load; and(ii)one or more control points,
either hoisting or lowering, is not operating properly.

### 46. Construction and maintenance of loose gears .-(1) Every loose gear
shall be--

(a)of good design and construction, sound material and adequate strength for
the purpose for which it is used and free from patent defects; and(b)properly
maintained in good repair and working order.(2)Components of the loose gear
shall be renewed if one of dimensions at any point has decreased by 10 per
cent or more by user.(3)(a)Chains shall be withdrawn from use when stretched
and increased in length exceeds five per cent or when a link of the chain is
deformed or otherwise damaged or raised scarfs of defective welds
appears.(b)Rings, hooks, swivels and end links attached to chains shall be of
the same material as that of the chains.(4)The voltage of electric supply to
any magnetic lifting device shall not fluctuate by more than ± 10 per cent.

### 47. Test and periodical examination of loose gears .-(1) All loose gears
shall be initially tested for the manufacturer by a competent person, in a
manner set out in Schedule I before taking into use or after undergoing any
substantial alterations or renders to any part liable to affect its safety and
shall subsequently be retested, for the owner of the gear, at least once in
every five years.

(2)All loose gears shall be thoroughly examined once at least in every twelve
months by a competent person. In addition, chains shall be thoroughly examined
once at least every month by a responsible person.

### 48. Ropes .-(1) No rope shall be used for dock work unless--

(a)it is of suitable quality and free from patent defect, and(b)in the case of
wire rope, it has been tested and examined by a competent person in the manner
set out in Schedule 1.(2)Every wire rope of lifting appliance or loose gear
used in dock work shall be inspected by a responsible person once at least in
every three months, provided that after any wire has broken in such rope, it
shall be inspected once at least in every month.(3)No wire rope shall be used
in dock work if in any length of eight diameters the total number of visible
broken wires exceed 10 per cent. of the total number of wires or the rope
shows sign of excessive wear, corrosion or other defects which, in the opinion
of the person who inspects it or Inspector, renders it as unfit for use.(4)Eye
splices and loops for the attachment of hooks, rings and other such parts to
wire ropes shall be made with suitable thimble.(5)A thimble or loop splice
made in any wire rope shall conform to the following standard:--(a)wire rope
or rope sling shall have at least three tucks with full strand of rope and two
tucks with one-half of the wires cut-out of each strand and strands in all
cases shall be tucked against the lay of the rope;(b)protruding ends of
strands in any splice on wire rope and rope slings shall be covered or treated
so as to leave no sharp points;(c)fibre rope or rope sling shall have at least
four tucks tail of such tuck being whipped in a suitable manner;
and(d)synthetic fibre rope or rope sling shall have at least four tucks with
full strand followed by further tuck with one-half filaments cut-out of each
strand and final tuck with one-half of the remaining filaments, cut-out from
strands. The portion of the splices containing the tucks with the reduced
number of filaments shall be securely covered with suitable tape or other
materials:-Provided that this sub-regulation shall not operate to prevent the
use of another form of splice which can be shown to be as efficient as that
laid down in this regulation.

### 49. Heat treatment of loose gears .-(1) All chains other than briddle
chains attached 10 derricks on masts and all rings, hooks, shackles and
swivels used in hoisting or lowering shall, unless they have been subjected to
such treatment as an Inspector may, subject to confirmation by the Chief
Inspector approve, be effectively annealed under supervision of a competent
person and at the following intervals:--

(a)12.5 millimeter and smaller chains, rings, hooks, shackles and swivels in
general use, once at least in every six months; and(b)all other chains, rings,
hooks, shackles and swivels in general use, once at least in every twelve
months:Provided that in the case of such gear used solely on cranes and other
hoisting appliances worked by hand, twelve months shall be substituted for six
months in sub-clause (a) and two years for twelve months in sub-clause
(b):Provided further that where an Inspector is of the opinion that owing to
the size, design, material or frequency of use of any such gear or class of
such gear, the requirement of this regulation as to annealing is not necessary
for the protection of dock workers, he may by a certificate in writing (which
he may at his discretion revoke) and subject to confirmation by the Chief
Inspector exempt such gear or class of gear from such requirement subject to
such conditions as may be specified in such certificate.(2)Sub-regulation (1)
shall not apply to:(i)pitched chains working on sprocket or sprocketed
wheels;(ii)rings, hooks and swivels permanently attached to pirched chain,
pulley block or weighing machines; and(iii)hooks and swivels having ball
bearings or other case hardened parts.(3)All chains and loose gears made from
high tensile steel or alloy steel be plainly marked with an approved mark
indicating that they are so made. No chain or loose gear made from high
tensile steel or alloy steel shall be subject to any form of heat treatment
except where necessary for the purpose of repair and under the direction of a
competent person.(4)If the past history of wrought iron gear is not known or
if it is suspected that the gear has been heat treated at incorrect
temperature, it shall be normalised before using the same for dock work.

### 50. Certificate to be issued after actual testing, examination, etc .-A
competent person shall issue a certificate for the purpose of regulation 41,
47, 48 or 49 only after actual testing or, as the case may be, examination of
the apparatus specified in the said regulation.

### 51. Register of periodical test and examination and certificates thereof
.--(1) A register in Form II shall be maintained and particulars of test and
examination of lifting appliances and loose gears and heat treatment, as
required by regulations 41, 47 and 49 shall be entered in it.

(2)Certificates shall be obtained from a competent person and attached to the
register in Form II, in respect of the following in the forms shown against
each:--(a)initial and periodical test and examination under regulations 41 and
47, for-(i)winches, derricks and their accessory gear in Form III;(ii)cranes
or hoists and their accessory gear in Form IV;(b)test, examination and re-
examination of loose gears under regulation 47 in Form V;(c)test and
examination of wire ropes under regulation 48 in Form VI;(d)heat treatment and
examination of loose gears under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 49, in Form
VII;(e)annual thorough examination of the loose gears under sub-regulation (2)
of regulation 47, in Form VIII, unless required particulars have been entered
in the register in Form II.(3)The register and the certificates attached to
the register shall be--(a)kept on board the ship in case of ship's lifting
appliances, loose gears and wire ropes;(b)kept at premises of the owner in
respect of other lifting appliances, loose gears and wire ropes;(c)produced on
demand before an Inspector; and(d)retained for at least five years after the
date of the last entry.(4)No lifting appliance and loose gear in respect of
which an entry is required to be made and certificates of test and examination
are required to be attached in the register in Form II, shall be used for dock
work unless and until the required entry has been made in the register and the
required certificates have been so attached.

### 52. Marking of safe working load .-(1) Every lifting appliance and every
item of loose gear shall be clearly marked with its safe working load and
identification mark by stamping or, where this is impracticable, by other
suitable means.

(2)(a)Every ship's derrick (other than derrick crane) shall be clearly marked
with its safe working load when the derrick is used--(i)in single
purchase,(ii)with a lower cargo block, and(iii)in union purchases in all
possible block positions.(b)The lowest angle to the horizontal, that the
derrick may be used, shall also be legibly marked.(3)Every lifting appliance
(other than ship's derrick having more than one safe working load shall be
fitted with effective means enabling the operator to determine the safe
working load under each condition of use.(4)Means shall be provided to enable
any dock worker using loose gears to ascertain the safe working load for such
loose gears under such conditions as it may be used and such means shall
consist--(a)as regards chain slings, of marking the safe working load in plain
figures or letters upon the sling or upon a tablet or ring of durable material
attached securely thereto; and(b)as regards wire rope slings, either the means
specified in clause (a) above or a notice or notices so exhibited as can be
easily read by any concerned dock worker stating the safe working load for the
various sizes of the wire rope slings used.(5)No lifting appliance or loose
gear shall be used unless marked in accordance with the provisions of this
regulation.

### 53. Loading of lifting appliances and loose gears .-(1) No lifting
appliance, loose gear and wire rope shall be used in an unsafe way and in such
a manner as to involve risk to life of dock workers, and, in particular, shall
be loaded beyond its safe working load or loads, except for testing purposes
as given in Schedule I and under the direction of a competent person.

(2)No lifting appliance and loose gears or any other cargo handling appliances
shall be used, if--(a)the Inspector is not satisfied by reference to a
certificate of test or examination or to an authenticated record maintained as
provided under the regulations; and(b)in the view of the Inspector, the
lifting appliance, loose gear and any other cargo-handling appliance is not
safe for use in dock work.

### 54. Pulley blocks .-No pulley blocks shall be used in dock work unless the
safe working load and its identification marks are clearly stamped upon it.

### 55. Vacuum and magnetic lifting device .-(1) No vacuum lifting device or
magnetic lifting device, or any other lifting device where the load is held by
adhesive power only, be used while workers are performing operations in the
holds.

(2)Any magnetic lifting device used in connection with dock work shall be
provided with an alternative supply of power, such as batteries, that come
into operation immediately in the event of failure of the main power
supply:Provided that the provisions under this sub-regulation shall not apply
to magnetic lifting device that is being used to load or unload scrap metal or
to other cargo handling operations of such a nature that there is no dock
worker within the swinging zone of the load.

### 56. Knotting of chains and wire ropes .-No chain or wire rope shall be
used in dock work with a knot in it.

F.-TRANSPORT EQUIPMENT AND OPERATIONS

### 57. Power trucks and hand trucks .-(1) All trucks/trailers and tractor
equipment shall be of good material, sound construction, sufficiently strong
for the purpose for which it is used and maintained in good state of repair:

Provided that trucks and trailer employed for transporting freight containers
shall be of the size to carry the containers without overhanging and provided
with twist locks conforming to national standards at all the four comers and
these shall be--(i)approved by a competent person; and(ii)inspected by a
responsible person once at least in every month and record maintained.(2)All
trucks and other equipments shall be inspected at least once a week by a
responsible person and when any dangerous defect is noticed in an equipment,
it shall be immediately taken out of use.(3)Power trucks and tractors shall be
equipped with effective brakes, head lights and tail lamps and maintained in
good repair and working order.(4)Side stanchions on power trucks and trailers
for carrying heavy and long objects shall be--(a)of substantial construction
and free from defects;(b)provided with the chains attached to the top across
the loads for preventing the stanchions from spreading out; and(c)wherever
necessary, the stanchions shall be in position while loading and
unloading.(5)Safe gangways shall be provided for to and from movement of dock
workers engaged in loading and unloading in lorries, trucks, trailers and
wagons.(6)Trucks and other equipment shall not be loaded beyond their safe
carrying capacity which shall be clearly and plainly marked on them.(7)Handles
of hand trucks shall be so designed as to protect the hands of dock workers or
else be provided with knuckle guards.(8)(a)Unauthorised persons shall not ride
on transport equipment employed in connection with the dock work.(b)Driver of
the transport equipment shall manoeuvre the equipment under the direction of a
signaller only:Provided that this sub-regulation shall not apply in case
vision of the driver is not obstructed.

### 58. Use of internal combustion engines in the holds .-(1) Internal
combustion engines shall not be used in connection with the dock work in the
holds or cargo space unless,--

(a)adequate means of ventilation and, where necessary, mechanical ventilation
is provided;(b)suitable fire fighting equipment is readily
available;(c)exhaust pipes, connections and mufflers are kept tight;(d)exhaust
is so directed as not to cause inconvenience to the operator and dock
workers;(e)it is ensured that no explosives, inflammable liquids, gases or
similar dangerous cargo are present;(f)a spark arrestor is fitted on the
exhaust of the engine and the bare heated surfaces of the engine, that are
liable to ignite spilled fuel, are suitably protected;(g)the engine is
refuelled above deck; and(h)the exhaust does not contain the carbon monoxide
above TLY prescribed in the national standards.(2)The internal combustion
engine shall be switched off when not in use in connection with the dock
work.(3)Operators of internal combustion engines in cargo spaces or cargo
holds shall not work alone.(4)Whenever internal combustion engines for use in
dock work are to be brought on board, the master or the officer-in-charge of
the ship shall be notified.

### 59. Use of fork-lifts, electric trucks or cars .-(1) Electrically driven
trucks or cars, fork-lifts, etc., shall be fitted with at least one effective
mechanical braking device and mechanically operated current cut-off that comes
into operation automatically when the operator leaves the vehicle.

(2)Fork-lift trucks shall be fitted with overhead guard, to protect the
operator from falling objects.(3)Fork-lift trucks or electric cars shall have
their gross weight conspicuously marked upon them.(4)When a fork-lift truck or
electric car is operated in intermediate deck, steps shall be taken to ensure
that the working surface can support the load and the hatch covers cannot be
dislodged by the movement of the truck.

### 60. Stability test .-All fork-lift trucks and electric cars shall be
tested for stability as per national standards.

### 61. Dock railways .-(1) Sufficient clearance to ensure safety shall be
allowed between structures or piles of cargo and railway track.

(2)Locomotive drivers shall act only on signals given by an authorised
person:Provided that stop signals shall always be acted upon, irrespective of
their source.(3)Locomotives pulling or pushing wagons shall move dead slow and
shall be preceded by a man on foot when passing through an area where dock
workers are employed.(4)No locomotive or wagon shall be moved on a railway
line until an efficient sound signal as a warning has been given by the man
preceding it on foot where dock workers are working and whose safety is likely
to be endangered, or on approaching any curve where sight is intercepted, or
any other point of danger to dock workers.(5)When a railway wagon or a group
of wagons not directly connected to a locomotive is being moved, a person
shall be appointed to control each wagon or a group of wagons.(6)Cranes,
ship's winches and derricks shall not be used to move railway wagons.(7)Fly
shunting in premises where dock workers are engaged in dock work shall be
prohibited and all trains shall be brought to a full stop before any wagons
are cut loose.(8)As far as practicable, idle wagons shall not be left standing
on quays with short distances between them.(9)When dock workers are required
to work between or beneath railway wagons, they shall be provided with a
lookout man responsible for giving them necessary warnings.(10)Dock workers
shall not be employed inside open wagon when--(a)bulk cargo is being handled
by means of grabs; or(b)steel cargo is being handled by means of electro-
magnets.(11)Locomotive used for pulling or pushing wagons shall be maintained
in good repair and working order.(12)Before moving railway wagons, train crews
shall make sure that all dock workers are out of the wagons and the danger
zone.

### 62. Conveyers .-(1) Conveyers shall be of sound material, good
construction and sufficient strength to support safely the loads for which
they are intended, and shall be kept in good repair.

(2)(a)Conveying machinery shall be so constructed and installed as to avoid
hazardous points between moving and stationary parts or objects.(b)When a
passage way is adjacent to an open conveyer, a clearance of at least 90
centimetres shall be provided between the inner edge of the walkway and the
conveyer.(3)When dock workers have to cross over conveyers, regular crossing
facilities affording safe and adequately lighted passage shall be
provided.(4)When conveyers that are not entirely enclosed cross over places
where dock workers are employed or might pass beneath them, sheet or screen
guards shall be provided to catch any material which might fall from the
conveyers.(5)Power driven conveyers shall be provided at loading and unloading
stations, at drive and take-up ends, and at other convenient places, with
devices for stopping the conveyers machinery in an emergency.(6)Adequate
fencing shall be provided at transfer point.(7)Conveyers which carry loads up-
inclines shall be provided with mechanical devices, that will prevent
machinery from reversing and carrying the loads back towards the loading point
in the event of the power being cut off.(8)Where two or more conveyers are
operated together, the controlling devices shall be so arranged that no
conveyer can feed on to a stopped conveyer.(9)Where the tops to hoppers for
feeding conveyers are less than 90 centimetres above the floors, the openings
shall be adequately guarded.(10)(a)Where conveyers extend to points not
visible from the control stations, they shall be equipped with gongs, whistles
or signed lights, to be use by the operators before starting the machinery so
as to warn dock workers who might be in positions of danger;(b)Similar
provisions shall be made where necessary to enable the dock workers to
communicate with the operator.(11)Conveyers shall be provided with automatic
and continuous lubrication systems, or with lubricating facilities so arranged
that oiling and greasing can be performed without the oilers coming within
dangerous proximity to moving parts.(12)Conveyers shall be thoroughly
inspected once in every three months by a responsible person.(13)Dock workers
shall not ride on conveyers.(14)Belt conveyers shall be provided with guards
at the nips of the belts and drums.(15)Intake openings of blower or exhaust
fans for pneumatic conveyers shall be protected with substantial metal screens
or gratings.(16)Frames of gravity rollers and chutes shall be kept free of
splinters, sharp edges and rough surfaces.(17)Gravity rollers and chutes shall
not be used for the passage of dock workers.(18)Sideboards of chutes shall be
of sufficient height to prevent cargo from falling off.(19)Suitable provision
shall be made for the cleaning of conveyers and for clearing obstructions in a
safe way.

### 63. Transport equipment operators .-No person shall be employed to operate
transport equipment unless he is above 18 years of age and is sufficiently
competent and reliable.

### 64. Qualification for mobile crane drivers, signallers, etc .-No person
shall be employed to drive or operate lifting appliances whether driven by
mechanical power or otherwise or to give signals to driver or operator of such
lifting appliances or to work as rigger for ship's derricks unless he is above
18 years of age and is sufficiently competent and reliable.

G.-HANDLING OF CARGO

### 65. Loading and unloading operations .-(1) No cargo shall be loaded or
unloaded by a fall or sling at any intermediate deck unless either the hatch
at that deck is securely covered or a secure landing platform of a width not
less than that of one section of hatch coverings has been placed across it:

Provided that this regulation shall not apply to any loading or unloading work
the whole of which may be completed within a period of half an hour.(2)No
loose gear or any other object shall be thrown in or out of the
holds.(3)During the loading and unloading of bulk cargo a record of all dock
workers employed in the hold shall be maintained and produced on demand to the
Inspector.(4)Where necessary cargo shall be secured or blocked to prevent its
shifting or falling. In breaking down, precautions shall be taken where
necessary to prevent the remaining cargo from falling.(5)(a)Dragging of cargo
shall be done with the ship's winches only when the runner is led directly
from the derrick heel block; and(b)Pulley blocks shall be used to provide a
fair lead for the runner so as to prevent it from dragging against
obstructions.(6)If the head room in the hold of a ship for the purpose of
stacking and unstaking is less than 1.5 metres, suitable measures shall be
taken to guard against accidents.(7)Loads shall be safely slung before being
hoisted. Loose dunnage or debris hanging or protruding from loads shall be
removed and suitable means shall be adopted to prevent cargo from falling
out.(8)Cargo-handling bridles, such as pallet bridles, which are to remain
attached to the lifting appliance while hoisting successive sling loads, shall
be attached by shackles, or other positive means shall be taken to prevent
them from becoming accidentally disengaged from the hook of the lifting
appliance.(9)When lifting appliance is operating without a load on the
slings:-(a)slings or chains shall be hooked securely to the appliances before
the operators are given signal to move;(b)sharp hooks, multiple hooks and
claws shall not hang at one end but shall be reeved through slings; and(c)the
operators shall raise the appliance sufficiently to keep clear off dock
workers and objects.(10)Effective measures shall be taken, by the use of
suitable packing or otherwise, to prevent edges of any load from coming into
contact with any rope or chain sling which is likely to cause any damage to
the rope or chain sling.(11)Buckets, tubs and similar appliances shall not be
loaded above their rims.(12)No loads shall be lifted at strappings unless such
strappings are approved as proper and safe slinging points. Movement of such
loads is allowed only if everybody has left the danger zone.(13)When working
with lifting appliances, slopepulling, horizontal dragging and intentional
swing of loads and lifting devices are prohibited.

### 66. Stacking and unstacking .-(1) Where stacking, unstacking, stowing or
unstowing, stuffing or destuffing of cargo or handling in connection therewith
cannot be safely carried out unaided, reasonable measures to guard against
accidents shall be taken by shoring or otherwise.

(2)Stacking of cargo shall be made on firm foundation not liable to settle and
the weight of the cargo shall be such as not overload the floors.(3)Cargo
shall not be stacked against partition or walls of warehouses or storeplaces
unless it is known that the partition or the wall is of sufficient strength to
withstand the pressure.(4)Cargo shall not be stacked to such a height and in
such a manner as would render the pile unstable.(5)Where the dock workers are
working on stacks exceeding 1.5 metres in height, safe means of access to the
stack shall be provided.(6)Stacking and unstacking work shall be performed
under the supervision of an authorised person.

### 67. Handling objects having sharp and projecting parts .-Dock workers
handling objects with sharp edges, fins, slivers, splinters or similar
dangerous projecting parts shall be provided with suitable protective
equipment.

### 68. Hooks for bales, etc .-When the working space in a hold is confined to
the square of the hatch, hooks shall not be made fast in the bands or
fastenings of bales of cotton, wool, cork, gunny bags, or other similar goods,
nor shall hooks be used for raising or lowering a barrel when owing to the
construction or condition of the barrel or of the hooks, their use is likely
to be unsafe.

### 69. Cargo platforms .-(1) Cargo platforms (except those formed by cargo
itself) shall be made of sound material, substantially and firmly constructed,
adequately supported and maintained in good repair.

(2)Cargo platforms shall--(a)be of sufficient size to receive cargo and to
ensure the safety of dock workers working on them;(b)if of a height exceeding
1.5 metres, in addition to the requirements of (a) above, be protected on any
side, which is not being used for receiving or delivering cargo, by
substantial fencing to a height of one metre; and(c)be provided with safe
means of access, such as ladders or stairs.(3)Cargo platforms shall not be
overloaded.(4)Portable trestles shall be so placed as to be steady.

### 70. Restrictions on loading and unloading operations .-(1) No other work,
for example, maintenance or repair work such as sand blasting or welding shall
be performed at places where dock work is in progress if it is likely to
endanger or obstruct the person carrying out dock work.

(2)When more than one gang of dock workers are employed in dock work
simultaneously in a hold, it shall be ensured that,-(a)the operation of
loading or unloading is harmonised to avoid dangers to the working gangs from
one another;(b)the slung cargo of one gang will not endanger the dock workers
of the other gang;(c)where gangs are working at different levels, a net shall
be rigged and securely fastened to prevent dock workers from falling down or
cargo falling on to dock workers below;(d)overcrowding of gangs in a section
of the hold is avoided.

### 71. Dock work and midstream .-No dock worker shall be employed to handle
cargo on any ship anchored in midstream whenever the working conditions are
considered to be dangerous.

### 72. Work during berthing and shifting of ships .-(1) While ships are being
berthed or shifted, no dock work shall be carried out by dock workers in the
holds or hatches and on docks.

(2)When ships are being moored, dock workers shall be kept clear of the
mooring ropes and, in particular, shall not be allowed to stand in the height
of ropes being hauled by capstans.

### 73. Protective equipment .-(1) Where other means of protection against
harmful agents are impracticable or insufficient, dock workers shall be
provided with adequate protective clothing and personal protective equipment
to shield them from the effects of such agents.

(2)Protective clothing personal protective equipment shall be of suitable
quality and maintained in good condition and shall be cleaned and disinfected
at suitable intervals.(3)Where protective equipment and clothing may be
contaminated by poisonous or other dangerous goods, it shall be stored in a
separate accommodation where it will not contaminate the dock worker's
clothing and other belongings.(4)Suitable protection equipment shall be issued
to the dock workers employed in the reefer holds or chambers or reefer
containers for affording complete body protection:

### 74. Winch and crane operators .-There shall be one winch or crane operator
for each single or pair of loading winches or cranes which can be operated
from the same point and he shall,--

(a)be not less than 18 years of age;(b)be competent and reliable;(c)possess
the knowledge of the inherent risks of the winch/crane operation; and(d)be
medically examined periodically as per the Schedule XI.

### 75. Signaller .-(1) When cargo is being-loaded or unloaded by a fall at a
hatchway, a signaller shall be employed, and where more than one fall is being
worked at a hatchway, a separate signaller shall be employed to attend to each
fall:

Provided that:-(a)this regulation shall not apply, in cases where a barge,
lighter or other similar vessel is being loaded or unloaded, if the operator
of the crane or winch, working the fall has a clear and unrestricted view of
those parts of the hold where dock work is being carried on; and(b)where the
Inspector is of the opinion that owing to the nature of the crane or winch or
other appliance in use or by reason of any special arrangements, the
requirements of this regulation are not necessary for the safety of dock
workers, he may by certificate in writing (which he may at his discretion
revoke) suspend such requirements subject to such conditions as may be
specified in such certificate.(2)More than one signaller shall be employed
when in the opinion of the Inspector it is necessary to do so in the interest
of the safety of workers.H.-HANDLING OF DANGEROUS GOODS

### 76. Notification .-(1) Before unloading of any dangerous goods, as
categorised in Schedule II, from any ship is commenced, the master or officer-
in--charge and the agent of the ship shall furnish the employer of the dock
workers, Port Authority and the Inspector with a statement in writing
identifying the goods and specifying the nature of the danger which they can
give rise to and specifying the categories and obtain an acknowledgment of the
receipt of the same.

(2)Before any dangerous goods are received for shipment, the shipper or his
agent shall furnish the information as required by sub-regulation (1) above to
the Port Authority, the Inspector and the employer of the dock workers
handling the dangerous goods.

### 77. General precautions .-(1) Dangerous goods shall be loaded, unloaded
handled and stored under the supervision of a responsible person who is
familiar with the risks and the precautions to be taken. In case of doubt as
to the nature of the risk or the precautions to be taken, necessary
instructions shall be obtained from the Safety Officer appointed under these
regulations.

(2)Dangerous goods shall not be loaded, unloaded or stored unless they are
suitably packed and labelled showing the danger therefrom. The dock workers
shall be given adequate information concerning the nature of the cargo and the
special precautions to be observed in handling them.(3)Special precautions,
such as provision of mats, sling nets, boxes and high sided pallets shall be
taken to prevent breakage or damage to containers of the dangerous
goods.(4)Dock workers employed in loading or unloading or otherwise handling
dangerous goods shall be provided with suitable protective equipments.(5)Dock
workers handling dangerous goods shall thoroughly wash their hands and faces
with soap or some other cleaning agent before taking any food, drink, pan and
supari or tobacco.(6)Only specially trained dock workers shall be employed for
cleaning, sweeping or handling spillages or sweeping of dangerous goods.

### 78. Explosive and inflammable cargo .-(1) Where there is a risk of
explosion from electrical equipment, the circuit shall be made dead and kept
dead as long as the risk lasts unless such equipment and circuits are safe for
use in the explosive atmosphere and non-sparking tools shall be provided and
used in such atmosphere.

(2)When inflammable cargo is being loaded or unloaded, special measures shall
be taken to ensure that an incipient fire can be controlled immediately.

### 79. Other dangerous goods .-(1) Before fumigated cargo such as grain is
loaded or unloaded, adequate measures shall be taken to ensure that the cargo
is safe to handle.

(2)Where caustic and corrosive substances are handled or stored, special
precautions shall be taken to prevent damage to the containers and to render
any spillage harmless.(3)If skins, wool, hair, bones, or other animal parts
have not been certified by competent authority as having been disinfected,
especially against anthrax, the dock workers concerned shall be--(a)instructed
about the risk of infection and the precautions to be taken;(b)provided with
suitable type of personal protective equipment; and(c)subjected to special
medical supervision.

### 80. Handling of tetraethyl lead compound .-(1) Tetraethyl lead compound
shall not be unloaded from a ship unless--

(a)it is packed in specially constructed steel drums of substantial
construction, sealed with an inner and outer bung, and fitted with rolling
roofs on to the shell as an added precaution;(b)all receptacles containing
tetraethyl lead compound are distinctively and durably marked with the words
"Tetraethyl Lead Compound Poison"; and(c)two sets of protective equipment
comprising the following are provided and kept readily available for use in
the event of any leakage of tetraethyl lead compound-(i)rubber
gloves,(ii)rubber boots,(iii)rubber apron or oilskin suit, and(iv)suitable
respirator, which should be either of canister type containing minimum of
50cc. of activated charcoal or an airline respirator with an independent fresh
air supply.(2)Following measures shall be taken while unloading tetraethyl
lead compound:-(a)no receptacle containing tetraethyl lead compound shall be
opened within the limits of the port;(b)before commencement of the unloading
operations, the consignment of tetraethyl lead compound shall be inspected on
board the vessel by a responsible person. No tetraethyl lead compound drums
showing any sign of leakage shall be unloaded until suitably repaired or
placed in a larger receptacle or container offering sufficient precautions
from leakage;(c)drums containing tetraethyl lead compound shall be discharged
under the supervision of a responsible person;(d)drums containing tetraethyl
lead compound shall be loaded discharged in rope slings with a maximum of two
drums at a separate sling for each drum. Hooks shall on no account be
used;(e)dock workers handling drums containing tetraethyl lead compound shall
be provided with heavy gloves of canvas or leather and shall use such gloves;
and(f)adequate quantities of non-inflammable solvent or kerosene a soap and
water to deal with any leakages of tetraethyl lead compound shall be kept
readily available where the work of handling of the tetraethyl lead compound
is carried on.(3)Following measures shall be taken in the event of leakage of
tetraethyl lead compound:-(a)the area on which the leakage of tetraethyl lead
compound has occurred (including the outside of a drum) shall be treated as
follows:-(i)flush with kerosene or some other light oil solvent followed by
water. If the surface permits, wash thoroughly with soap working up as much
lather as possible, and again flush with water;(ii)if it is possible to obtain
quickly a supply of common bleaching lime (CaOCl2) the area should first be
treated generously with a mixture of bleaching lime and water in the form of
thin slurry (NEVER use the dry powder) alternatively a five per cent solution
of sulphuryl chloride (SO2Cl2) in kerosene may be used;(b)if contamination of
absorbent material such as wooden flooring, dunnage, or other packing material
has taken place, then such material shall, after treatment as above, be
removed from the place where tetraethyl lead compound is being handled;(c)any
clothing which becomes contaminated by tetraethyl lead compound shall be
removed immediately and cleaned by repeated rinsing in a non-inflammable dry
cleaning fluid;(d)if tetraethyl lead compound can be smelled, dock workers not
assigned to deal with the leakage of tetraethyl lead impound shall be removed
from that place; and(e)dock workers assigned to deal with leakage of
tetraethyl lead compound shall wear the protective equipment described under
sub-regulation 1 (c).(4)Suitable protective clothing shall be provided for
handling of tetraethyl lead compound in refrigerated spaces.

### 81. Broken or leaking containers .-(1) When there is danger from broken or
leaking containers of dangerous goods dock workers shall be evacuated from the
area involved and the following steps taken before dock work is resumed:-

(a)if the cargo produces dangerous gases or vapour:-(i)suitable respiratory
protective equipment shall be made available for dock workers who are to
remove the defective containers;(ii)the area shall be ventilated if necessary
and tested to ensure that the concentration of gases or vapours in the
atmosphere is safe for dock work;(b)if the cargo is a corrosive
substance,-(i)suitable personal protective equipment shall be made available
to the dock workers engaged in the removal of damaged containers;
and(ii)suitable absorbent or neutralizing materials shall be used in cleaning
the spillage.

### 82. Toxic solvents .-Before any solvents are used, the toxic properties of
such solvents shall be ascertained and adequate means to safeguard the health
of the dock workers exposed to toxic solvents shall be provided.

I.-FREIGHT CONTAINER TERMINALS

### 83. Fencing of terminals .-(1) Except on water side, the perimeter of the
container terminal shall be fenced, by wire mesh or some other suitable
material of substantial construction, and of adequate strength and permanency,
which shall be at least 1.5 metres in length.

(2)There shall be separate entry and exit points to the container terminal and
shall be clearly marked.(3)Wherever the containers are stocked, the load
bearing capacity of the floor shall be adequate.(4)Suitable signs or signals
indicating terminal road and pedestrian traffic shall be erected and
maintained at suitable points.(5)A special area or road-way or part thereof
shall be provided for waiting of the vehicles. No private vehicle other than
the container handling equipment and vehicles for transporting containers
shall be allowed inside the container terminals.(6)All areas where mechanical
handling appliances and transport equipment operate, shall be kept free of pot
holes, unnecessary equipment and obstructions.(7)All operational areas and
access to them shall be provided with sufficient and suitable lighting as
specified under regulation 16.

### 84. Lifting appliances and other equipment .-(1) Container terminals shall
be equipped with suitable lifting appliances and transport equipment which
shall be maintained in good repair and working order.

(2)( a ) In the case of fork-lift trucks employed for handling empty
containers, the length of the forks shall be equal to the full width of the
container and the capacity of the fork-lift shall be matching with the weight
of the container.( b ) No fork-lift trucks shall be employed for handling
container which do not have fork pockets.

### 85. Container operation .-(1) Prior to the use of container spreader, the
work supervisor, foreman or any authorised person shall ensure that it is in
good working order and has been tested as per the provisions under regulation
47 (1).

(2)Single or multi-legged slings shall not be used for lifting of
containers.(3)The weight of the container and the spreader used shall be noted
in relation to the safe working load of the lifting appliance or transport
equipment used.(4)When loading or discharging, the container shall be hoisted
squarely under the plumb to avoid swinging of the container.(5)The special
lifting appliances employed in container handling shall be operated only by
the operators possessing adequate knowledge and skill for these
operations.(6)Lifting appliances employed in container handling shall be
operated under the guidance of a signaller who shall be properly trained. When
the signaller is not in a position to communicate effectively with the
operator of the crane, other effective means of signalling like walkie-talkie,
short wave radio, etc., shall be employed.(7)When a container is being lowered
or hoisted from a chassis, no person shall remain in the cabin of its prime
mover.(8)No person shall be standing on a container while,--(a)it is being
lifted or lowered; and(b)another container is being lifted or lowered adjacent
to it.(9)No person shall be lifted to the top of a container by a container
spreader which is being lifted by a crane or any other appliance(10)When a
ladder is used to climb to the top of a container the ladder shall be of sound
construction provided with anti-skid devices or suitable securing arrangements
and there shall be someone to hold the bottom of the ladder wherever
necessary.(11)When workers have to work on top of the containers--(a)it shall
be ensured that the surface is dry and clean to avoid slipping; and(b)suitable
and safe means shall be provided to the workers for going on top of containers
and attending to lashing and unlashing of containers.(12)Pedestrians shall not
be allowed in any part of the container terminal other than the passages
marked for their use.(13)The container shall be firmly secured to the chassis
of truck by means of twist locks before it is transported.(14)All containers
employed in dock work shall be tested, maintained, inspected and approved by a
competent authority.

### 86. Stuffing and destuffing .-(1) The containers used for stuffing shall
be clean, dry and free from odor.

(2)Proper lighting arrangements shall be provided for the stuffing of the
containers and light fittings shall be safely located.(3)Containers mounted on
chassis shall be properly secured and supported and proper bridge plates shall
be used while the stuffing or destuffing operation is on.(4)Dangerous goods
which are not recommended for grouping together shall not be stuffed in the
same container.(5)Containers stuffed with dangerous goods shall be labelled
with internationally approved levels.(6)When fork-lift is employed for
stuffing or destuffing no other person shall be inside container.(7)No
container shall be stuffed beyond its capacity which is marked on it and
containers shall be stuffed in such a manner that weight distribution is
uniform as far as possible, throughout the floor area of containers.(8)No
smoking shall be permitted during stuffing or destuffing operations inside the
container.(9)Upon completion of the stuffing, the container door shall be
properly secured with a lock or container seals.(10)When a container is to be
destuffed, only one door shall be opened carefully at a time to prevent
possibility of any cargo collapsing.(11)Dock workers employed in stuffing and
destuffing of reefer containers shall be provided with proper protective
clothing.J.-MISCELLANEOUS

### 87. Fencing of motors, etc .-(1) All motors, cogwheels, chains and
friction gearing, flywheels, shaftings, every dangerous and moving part of
machinery (whether or not driven by mechanical power) and steam pipes shall be
securely fenced or lagged.

(2)The fencing of dangerous parts of machinery shall not be removed while the
machinery is in motion or in use, but if removed, shall be replaced before the
machinery is taken into normal use again.(3)No part of any machinery which is
in motion and which is not securely fenced shall be examined, lubricated,
adjusted or repaired except by persons duly authorised.(4)Machine parts shall
only be cleaned when the machine is stopped.(5)When machinery is stopped for
servicing or repairs, adequate means shall be taken to ensure that it cannot
inadvertently be re-started.

### 88. Electrical equipment .-(1) Only duly authorised person shall be
permitted to instal, adjust, examine, repair, displace or remove electrical
equipment or circuits.

(2)Efficient and suitably located means shall be provided for cutting off all
pressure from every part of the system, as may be necessary to prevent
danger.(3)All portable electrical equipment shall be maintained in good
working order and inspected by a responsible person at least once in every day
before it is taken into use.(4)Portable electric light or equipment used in a
confined space shall be of twenty-four volts or less.(5)Only flame-proof
electrical equipment shall be used in a confined space where inflammable gas,
fume or dust is likely to be present.(6)All non-current carrying metal parts
of electrical equipment shall be earthed or other suitable measures shall be
taken to prevent them from becoming live.(7)Portable or flexible electric
conductors shall be of heavy duty type and shall be kept clear of loads,
running gear and moving equipment.(8)All live conductors shall be adequately
insulated or fenced to prevent danger by accidental contact of dock workers or
non-current carrying parts of lifting appliances, conveyors, transport
equipment and machinery.

### 89. Transport of dock workers on land .-Suitable means of safe transport
shall be provided for the dock workers for their movement from their place of
booking to the working area or between the two working areas when the distance
between the points exceeds two kilometers.

### 90. Transport of dock workers by water .-(1) When any dock worker has to
proceed to or from a ship by water for the purposes of carrying on a dock
work, proper measures shall be taken to provide for his safe transportation.
Vessels used for this purpose shall be in the charge of a responsible person,
and shall be properly equipped for safe navigation and maintained in good
condition.

(2)The means of transport referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall conform to
the following:-(a)adequate protection is provided to the dock workers from
inclement weather;(b)the vessel shall be manned by adequate and experienced
crew, duly authorised by a competent authority;(c)if the bulwarks of the
vessel are lower than 60 centimetres, the open edges shall be fitted with
suitable fencing to a height of at least one metre above the deck. The posts,
stanchions and similar parts used in the fencing shall not be spaced more than
two metres apart;(d)the number of life buoys on deck shall be at least equal
to the number of persons in the crew and shall not be less than two;(e)all
life buoys shall be kept in good state of maintenance and be so placed that if
the vessel sinks they remain afloat, one of the said buoys shall be within the
immediate reach of the steerman and another shall, be situated after port;
and(f)the position of the steerman of the vessel shall be such that he has a
reasonably free view of all sides.(3)Maximum number of persons that can be
safely carried in the vessel shall be certified by a competent authority and
marked plainly and conspicuously on the vessel and such number shall not be
exceeded.

### 91. Reporting of accidents .-(1) Notice of any accident in a dock which
either,

(a)causes loss of life; or(b)disables a person from work on which he was
employed for the rest of the day or shift in which the accident occurred,
shall forthwith be sent by telegram, telephone or special messenger within
four hours of the occurrence to,--(i)the Inspector;(ii)the relatives of the
worker when the accident causes loss of life to the dock worker or is likely
to disable the dock worker from work for more than ten days; and(iii)in the
case of fatal accidents also to--(a)the Officer-in-Charge of the nearest
police station; and(b)the District Magistrate or if the District Magistrate by
order so directs, the Sub-Divisional Magistrate.(2)In the case of accidents
falling under clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) the injured person shall be
given first-aid and thereafter immediately transferred to a hospital or other
place of treatment.(3)Where any accident causing disablement subsequently
results in the death of dock worker, notice in writing of the death shall be
submitted to the authorities mentioned in sub-regulation (1) within 72 hours
after the death occurs.(4)The following classes of dangerous occurrences shall
be reported to the Inspector, whether death or disablement is caused or not,
in the manner prescribed in sub-regulation (1):--(a)collapse or failure of
lifting appliances or conveyors or breakage or failure of ropes, chains or
other loose gears and lifting devices or overturning of cranes, used in dock
work, falling of headboards or cargo from slings, displacement of hatch beam
resulting in the fall of hatch beams or coverings;(b)collapse or subsidence of
any wall, floor, gallery, roof, platform, staging or means of
access;(c)explosion of a receiver or vessel used for the storage, at a
pressure greater than atmospheric pressure, of any gas or gases (including
air) or any liquid or solid resulting from the compression of gas;(d)explosion
or fire causing damage to any place in the dock in which dock workers are
employed;(e)collapse, capsizing, toppling or collision of the transport
equipment;(f)spillage or leakage of dangerous goods and damage to their
containers; and(g)breakage, buckling or damage of freight containers.(5)If a
failure of lifting appliance, loose gear and transport equipment has occurred,
the concerned appliance, gear or equipment and the site shall, as far as
practicable, be kept undisturbed until inspected by the Inspector.(6)Every
notice given under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (4), shall be
confirmed within seventy-two hours of the occurrence by submitting a written
report to the inspector in Form XII and a proper acknowledgment obtained
provided that in case of an accident under clause (b) of sub-regulation (1),
such written report need be submitted only when the dock worker is disabled
from work on which he was employed for more than forty-eight hours from the
time of accident.

### 92. Notification of certain diseases .-(1) When a dock worker contracts
any disease specified in Schedule IV, a notice in Form XIV shall be sent by
the employer forthwith to the Inspector.

(2)If any medical practitioner attends on a dock worker suffering from any
disease specified in the aforesaid Schedule, the medical practitioner shall
without delay send, addressed to the Director-General, Directorate-General
Factory Advice Service and Labour Institutes, Central Labour Institute
Building, Sion, Bombay-400002, a notice stating the name and full particulars
of the patient and the disease.

### 93. Safety officers .-(1) Every Port Authority and dock labour board shall
employ safety officers as per the scale laid down in Schedule III.

(2)Ever other employer of dock worker shall employ at least one safety
officer, provded that the employers may form a group and appoint safety
officers for the group as per the scale laid down in Schedule I with the
written permission of the Chief Inspector.(3)The duties, qualifications and
conditions of service of the safety officer shall be as provided in Schedule
III.(4)The safety officer shall be assisted by suitable assistants and staff
which got approved from the Chief Inspector.

### 94. Renewal of licences .-The Port Authorities before issue of renewal of
the licences of employers of dock workers shall obtain a report from the Chief
Inspector or the Inspector, regarding the safety performance and compliance of
the regulations and take into consideration the report while granting the
renewal of the licence.

## Part IV – HEALTH

### 95. Cleanliness .-(1) Every place in the ship, dock and all areas which
are in proximity to the place in the dock, where dock workers are employed,
shall be kept clean and free from rubbish or effluvia arising from any drain,
privy or other nuisance.

(2)All the accumulated garbages from the ships and the dock area shall be
disposed of by burning in an incinerator or by other suitable means.(3)All the
damaged or deteriorated cargo posing hazards to safety or health or nuisance
shall be removed or disposed of from the work place where the dock workers are
employed.

### 96. Drinking water .-(1)(a) On board every ship and in every dock,
effective arrangement shall be made to provide and maintain at suitable points
conveniently situated for all dock workers employed therein, sufficient supply
of wholesome drinking water:

Provided that the drinking water point is available within 100 metres of the
place where dock workers are employed.(b)Effective arrangement shall be made
to provide and maintain adequate supply of wholesome drinking water on board
every ship in midstream for all dock workers employed thereon.(c)The water
provided for drinking shall be supplied from the public water supply system or
otherwise from any other source approved in writing by the Health Officer of
the port.(2)All such points shall be legibly marked "drinking water" in a
language understood by a majority of the dock workers and no such point shall
be situated within six metres of any washing place, urinal latrine unless a
shorter distance is approved in writing by the Chief Inspector.(3)In every
dock, the drinking water sup lied to the dock workers shall during hot
weather, be cooled by ice or other effective means:Provided that if ice is
placed, in the drinking water, the ice shall be clean and wholesome and shall
be obtained only from a source approved in writing by the health officer of
the port.(4)Every drinking water centre shall be maintained in a clean and
orderly condition and if necessary shall be in-charge of a suitable person who
shall distribute the water. Such a person shall be provided with clean clothes
while on duty.(5)The drinking water centres shall be sheltered from the
weather and adequately drained.(6)Storage tanks or containers for drinking
water shall always be kept in clean and hygienic condition.(7)The Inspector
may, by order in writing, direct the port authority to obtain at such time or
at such intervals as he may direct, a report from the health officer of the
port as to the fitness for human consumption of the water supplied to the dock
workers, and in every case to submit to the Inspector a copy of such report as
soon as it is received from the health officer.

### 97. Latrines and urinals .-(1) In every dock, latrine and urinal
accommodation shall be provided on the scale given in Schedule VIII and shall
be conveniently situated and accessible to dock workers at all times while
they are at work. Such accommodation and access to it shall be adequately
lighted and ventilated.

(2)Separate latrines shall be provided where female dock workers are
employed.(3)The floors and internal walls of the latrines and urinals and the
sanitary blocks shall be laid in glazed tiles or otherwise finished to provide
a smooth polished impervious surface upto height of at least 90
centimetres.(4)All such accommodation shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition at all times. The floors, side walls and the sanitary pans
of latrines and urinals shall be thoroughly swept and cleaned at least once in
a day with suitable detergents or disinfectants or with both.(5)Every latrine
shall be under cover and so partitioned off as to secure privacy and shall
have a proper door and fastenings.(6)The walls, ceilings and partitions of
every latrine and urinal shall be white-washed or colour-washed and the white-
washing or colour-washing shall be repeated at least once in four months and
record maintained.(7)Where piped water supply is available, sufficient number
of water taps, conveniently accessible, shall be provided in or near such
latrine accommodation.(8)Where piped water supply is not available, provision
shall be made to store adequate quantity of water near the latrine.

### 98. Spittoons .-(1) In every portion of a dock including warehouses and
store places, sufficient number of spittoons shall be provided in convenient
places and they shall be maintained in a clean and hygienic condition.

(2)No person shall spit in the dock area except in the spittoons provided for
the purpose and a notice containing this provision shall be prominently
displayed at suitable places.(3)Whoever spits in contravention of sub-
regulation (2) shall be punishable with a fine not exceeding one hundred
rupees.(4)The spittoons shall be of an approved type.(5)The spittoons shall be
emptied, cleaned and disinfected at least once in every day.

### 99. Ventilation and temperature in dock area including reefer holds on
ships .-Effective and suitable provision shall be made in every dock for
securing and maintaining in every building or an enclosure or a reefer hold or
chamber or reefer container where dock workers are employed, adequate
ventilation by the circulation of fresh air and such temperature and air
movement as will secure to dock workers therein reasonable conditions of
comfort and prevent injury to health.

## Part V – WELFARE

### 100. Washing facilities .-(1) In every dock, rest shed, call stand and
canteen, adequate and suitable facilities for washing shall be provided and
maintained for the use of the dock workers and such facilities shall be
conveniently accessible and shall be kept in clean and orderly condition.
Washing facilities shall include glazed wash basins with taps attached
thereto.

(2)Where dock workers are exposed to skin contamination by poisonous,
infection or irritation substances or oil, grease or dust, adequate number of
shower-baths enclosed in individual compartments, with entrances suitably
screened shall be provided.(3)These facilities shall be provided in every dock
on the scale laid down in Schedule VIII.(4)The floor or ground under and in
the immediate vicinity of every wash basin, stand pipe and shower shall be so
laid or finished as to provide a smooth impervious surface and shall be
adequately drained.(5)The water supply of the washing facilities shall be
adequate having regard to the number of dock workers employed in the dock, and
shall be from a source approved in writing by the health officer of the port.

### 101. First-aid boxes .-(1) In every dock and on board every ship there
shall be provided and maintained so as to be readily accessible during all
working hours, sufficient number of first-aid boxes or cupboards:

Provided that the distance of the nearest first-aid box or cupboard shall not
be more than 200 metres from any working place.(2)Nothing except appliances or
requisites for first-aid shall be kept in the boxes and cupboards. All such
boxes and cupboards shall be so kept that they are protected against
contamination by dust or other foreign matters and against penetration of
moisture. They shall be kept in the charge of a responsible person who is
trained in first-aid treatment and who shall always be readily available
during working hours.(3)Each first-aid box or cupboard shall be distinctly
marked "First-Aid" and shall be equipped with the articles specified in
Schedule VI.

### 102. Ambulance room .-(1) In every dock or in any part of a dock where
dock workers are ordinarily employed, there shall be provided and maintained
an ambulance room with effective communication system and shall be in charge
of a qualified nurse who shall always be readily available during all working
hours and the ambulance room shall be in overall charge of a qualified medical
practitioner.

(2)The ambulance room shall be a separate room used only for the purpose of
first-aid treatment and rest. It shall have a floor area of at least ten
square metres and smooth, hard and impervious walls and flooring and shall be
adequately ventilated and lighted by both natural and artificial means. An
adequate supply of wholesome drinking water shall be provided and the room
shall be equipped with the articles specified in Schedule V.(3)A record of all
cases of accidents and sickness treated at the ambulance room shall be kept
and produced to the inspector on demand.

### 103. Ambulance carriage .-There shall be provided for use at every dock a
suitably constructed motor ambulance carriage and launch which shall be
maintained in good condition for the purpose of removal of serious cases of
accident and sickness.

### 104. Stretchers .-A sufficient number of suitable stretchers including a
Neil Robertson Stretcher or any other suitable sling stretcher, shall be
provided at every dock at convenient places so as to be readily available in
an emergency.

### 105. Shelters or rest sheds and lunch rooms .-(1) In every dock wherein
more than 150 dock workers are ordinarily employed, adequate and suitable
shelters or rest sheds and suitable lunch rooms with provision for drinking
water and washing facilities, where dock workers can eat meals brought by
them, shall be provided at convenient places and maintained for their use:

Provided that any canteen maintained in accordance with regulation 106 shall
be regarded as part of the requirement of this regulation:Provided further
that, where a lunch room is provided, no dock worker shall eat any food in the
precincts of the dock except in such lunch rooms.(2)Covered receptacles shall
be provided and used for disposal of food and litter in every rest shed. These
receptacles shall be emptied at least once in every shift.(3)The shelters or
rest rooms and lunch rooms to be provided under sub-regulation (1) shall be
sufficiently lighted and ventilated and shall be maintained in a cool and
clean condition.

### 106. Canteens .-(1) In any dock or in any part of dock wherein more than
250 dock workers are ordinarily employed, or are waiting to be employed,
adequate canteen facilities in or near the work area shall be provided and
maintained by the port authorities and dock labour boards for the use of all
dock workers. The canteen shall function at all times when twenty-five or more
dock workers are employed at a time.

(2)The canteens shall conform to the requirements laid down in Schedule
IX.(3)An adequate number of mobile canteens shall be provided at every dock
with provision for serving tea and light refreshments.

### 107. Medical examination of dock workers .-(1) It shall be ensured that
all dock workers undergo medical examination,--

(a)before he is employed for the first time or is being selected or trained
for the operation of lifting appliances and transport
equipment;(b)periodically at such intervals as may be considered necessary by
the Chief Inspector in view of the risks inherent in the dock work and the
conditions under which the dock work is performed.(2)(a)Wherever considered
necessary the medical examination shall also, include X-ray and pathological
laboratory examination; and(b)the medical examinations prescribed under sub-
regulations 1 (a), (b) and 2 (a) shall be in accordance with Schedule XI and
no dock worker shall be charged for the same.(3)In the case of dock workers
exposed to special occupational health hazards, the periodical medical
examination shall include any special investigation deemed necessary for the
diagnosis of occupational diseases.(4)The details of the medical examination
shall be suitably recorded and shall be made available to the Inspector on
demand.(5)If the medical officer is of the opinion that the dock worker so
examined is required to be taken away from the dock work for health protection
he may direct the port authorities or dock labour board or the other employers
of dock workers accordingly, as the case may be. However, the dock worker so
taken away shall be provided with alternate placement unless he is in the
opinion of the medical officer, fully incapacitated in which case the worker
affected may be suitably rehabilitated.

### 108. Notices .-Notices shall be exhibited in prominent positions at every
dock stating,--

(a)the position of nearest first-aid box or cupboard and the place where the
person-in-charge thereof can be found;(b)the position of the ambulance room,
the stretchers or other appliances; and(c)the position of the ambulance
carriage and launch, the location of the nearest telephone and the name and
telephone number of the hospital or other place from where such carriage or
launch can be obtained.

### 109. Welfare officers .-(1) Every port authority and dock labour board
shall employ a number of welfare officers with duties, qualifications and
conditions of service as laid down in Schedule X.

(2)Every other employer of dock worker shall employ at least one welfare
officer, provided that the employers may form a group and appoint welfare
officer for the group as specified in Schedule X with the written permission
of the Chief Inspector.

## Part VI – SPECIAL PROVISIONS

### 110. Statement of accidents, etc .-The port authorities, the dock labour
boards and other employers of dock workers shall furnish to the inspector the
monthly statement of reportable accidents under these regulations in Form
XIII.

### 111. Training of dock workers, responsible persons, etc .-(1) Initial and
periodic training shall be imparted to all categories of dock workers,
responsible and authorised persons depending upon their nature of work and
skill required for performing their duties. Safety aspects and precautions to
be taken in pursuance of the provisions under the Act and the regulations
shall be covered in the training.

(2)All first-aid personnel shall be imparted training including refresher
courses by a qualified medical officer authorised for the purpose.

### 112. Emergency action plans .-All the ports shall have an approved
emergency action plan acceptable to the Chief Inspector to handle the
emergencies like,--

(a)fires and explosions;(b)collapse of lifting appliances, buildings, sheds,
etc;(c)gas leakages and spillage of dangerous goods;(d)drowning of dock
workers, sinking of vessels, retrieval of transport equipment from dock
basins; and(e)floods, storms and other natural calamities.

### 113. Display of abstracts .-The abstracts of the Act and of the
regulations made thereunder in Forms X and XI shall be displayed in every
dock.

### 114. Safety committee .-(1) At every port there shall be constituted a
safety committee which shall be headed by an officer not below the rank of
Deputy Chairman of the port. The main functions of the safety committee shall
be--

(a)to investigate into the causes of accidents and unsafe practices in dock
work and to suggest remedial measures;(b)to stimulate interest, of employers
and workers in safety by organising safety weeks, safety competitions, talks
and film shows on safety, preparing posters or taking similar other
measures;(c)to go round the dock with a view to check unsafe practices and
detect unsafe conditions and to recommend remedial measures for their
rectification;(d)to organise training programmes for the supervisory staff and
workers;(e)to look into the health hazards associated with handling different
types of cargoes and to suggest remedial measures including use of proper
personal protective equipment; and(f)to suggest measures for improving welfare
amenities inside the docks and other miscellaneous aspects of safety, health
and welfare in dock work.(2)The safety committee shall be constituted by the
Chairman of the port and shall include besides port officials, representatives
of port users, the recognised labour unions and the Chief Inspector.(3)The
safety committee shall meet at regular intervals at least once in every
quarter, and minutes of the meetings shall be circulated to the concerned
departments of the port, agencies and organisations.(4)The decisions and
recommendations of the safety committee shall be complied with by the port
authorities, port users and the employers of dock workers.

### 115. Occupational health services for dock workers .-(1) In every port
there shall be either a special medical service or an Occupational health
service available at all times, and it shall have the following functions:--

(a)provision of first-aid and emergency treatment;(b)conducting pre-
employment, periodical and special medical examinations of dock
workers;(c)periodical training of first-aid personnel;(d)surveillance and
rendering advice on conditions at work places and facilities that can affect
the health of dock workers;(e)promotion of health education including family
welfare among dock workers; and(f)co-operation with the competent authority or
Inspector in the detection, measurement and evaluation of chemical, physical
or biological factors suspected of being harmful to the dock workers.(2)The
medical service shall collaborate with the labour department or any other
concerned department or service of the port in matters of treatment, job
placement, accident, prevention and welfare of dock workers.(3)The medical
service shall be headed by a doctor specialised in occupational health and
shall be provided with adequate staff, laboratory and other personnel.(4)The
medical services shall be located at ground level, be conveniently accessible
from all workplaces of the port or dock, be so designed as to allow stretcher
cases to be handled easily and, so far as practicable, shall not be exposed to
excessive noise, dust or other nuisance.(5)The premises of the medical service
shall comprise at least a waiting room, a consulting room, a treatment room
and laboratory, apart from suitable accommodation for nurses and other
personnel.(6)Rooms for waiting, consultation and treatment shall,--(a)be
spacious, suitably lighted and ventilated, and wherever necessary heated or
air cooled; and(b)have washable walls, floor and fixtures.(7)The medical
service shall be provided with appropriate medical and laboratory facilities
and such documentation as it may require for its work.(8)The medical service
shall keep and maintain records pertaining to medical examination of dock
workers and other activities and shall provide adequate information
on,--(a)the dock worker's state of health; and(b)the nature, circumstances and
outcome of occupational injuries.

### 116. The employer's general obligations .-(1) The employer shall take all
necessary steps which, considering the kind of work, working conditions and
the worker's age, sex, professional skill and other qualifications are
reasonably necessary for protecting the worker from being exposed to risks of
accidents or injury to health at work.

(2)The employer shall make sure that the work place, its approaches and means
of access conform to these regulations and are also otherwise in a safe
condition.(3)The employer shall take into account the workers' training, skill
and experience when workers are set to work. A worker shall not be assigned a
work for which he has not received sufficient instructions regarding possible
dangers and precautions in the work, taking into account his training, skill
and experience.

### 117. General safety .-No employer or dock worker shall negligently or
wilfully do anything likely to endanger life, safety and health of dock
workers, or negligently or wilfully omit to do anything necessary for the
safety and health for the dock worker employed in dock work.

### 118. Repeal and saving .-The Indian Dock Laborious Regulations, 1948 and
Dock Workers (Safety, Health and Welfare) Scheme, 1961 are hereby repealed:

Provided that any action taken or order issued under the said regulations or
the Scheme shall, as the case may be in so far as it is not inconsistent with
these regulations, be deemed to have been taken or issued under the
corresponding provisions of these regulations.

## I

[See regulations 41(1), 47(1) and 48(1)]MANNER OF TEST AND EXAMINATION BEFORE
TAKING LIFTING APPLIANCE LOOSE GEAR AND WIRE ROPE INTO USE FOR THE FIRST
TIMETest loads :(1)Lifting appliance :Every lifting appliance with its
accessory gear shall be subjected to a test load which shall exceed the safe
working load (SWL) as follows :-

Safe working load | Test load  
---|---  
Up to 20 tonnes | 25 per cent in excess of SWL  
20 to 50 tonnes | 5 tonnes in excess of SWL  
Over 50 tonnes | 10 per cent in excess of SWL  
  
(2)Loose gear:(a)Every ring, lock, chain, shackle, swivel, eye-bolt, plate
clamp, triangular plate or pulley block (except single sheave block) shall be
subjected to a test load which shall not be less than the following :-

Safe working load (in tonnes) | Test load (in tonnes)  
---|---  
Up to 25 | 2xsafe working load  
Above 25 | (1.22xSWL)+20  
  
(b)In the case of a single sheave block, the SWL shall be the maximum load
which can safely be lifted by the block when suspended by its head fitting and
the load is attached to a rope which passes around the sheave of the block and
a test load not less than four times the proposed safe working load shall be
applied to the head of the block.(c)In the case of a multi sheave block, the
test load shall not be less than the following:

Safe working load (in tonnes) | Test load (in tonnes)  
---|---  
Up to 25 | 2xSWL  
25 to 160 | (0.9933xSWL)+27  
Above 160 | 1.1xSWL  
  
(d)In the case of hand-operated pulley blocks used with pitched chains and
rings, hooks, shackles or swivels permanently attached thereto, a test load
not less than 50 per cent. in excess of the safe working load shall be
applied.(e)In the case of a pulley block fitted with a bucket, the bucket
shall be tested and the load applied to the bucket when testing that block
will be accepted as test loading of the bucket.(f)In the case of a sling
having two legs, the safe working load shall be calculated when the angle
between the legs is 90°. In case of multi-legged slings, the safe working load
shall be calculated as per national standards.(g)Every lifting beam, lifting
frame, container spreader, bucket, tub, or other similar devices shall be
subjected to a test load which shall not be less than that given in table
below:

Proposed Safe working load (in tonnes) | Test load (in tonnes)  
---|---  
Up to 10 | 2xSWL  
10 to 160 | (1.04xSWL)+9.6  
Above 160 | 1.1xSWL  
  
(h)Wire rapes:In the case of wire ropes a sample shall be tested to
destruction. The test procedure shall be in accordance with international or
recognised national standards. The safe working load of the rope is to be
determined by dividing the load at which the sample broke by a co-efficient of
utilisation, determined as follows :

Item | Co-efficient of utilisation  
---|---  
(a) Wire rope forming part of sling |   
SWL of the sling: |   
SWL up to and equal to 10 tonnes.......... | 5  
SWL above 10 tonnes and up and equal to 160 tonnes | 10  
| (8.85xSWL)+1910  
(b) SWL above 160 tonnes | 3  
Wire rope as integral part of a lifting appliance : |   
SWL of the lifting appliance : |   
SWL up to and equal to 160 tonnes | 10  
| (8.85xSWL)+1910  
SWL above 160 tonnes | 3  
  
(i)Before any test is carried out, a visual inspection of the lifting
appliance or loose gear involved shall be conducted and any visible defective
gear shall be replaced or renewed.(ii)After being rested, all the loose gears
shall be examined to see whether any parts have been injured or permanently
deformed by the test.Procedure for testing :(3)Ship's derricks:(a)A derrick
shall be tested with its boom at the minimum angle to the horizontal for which
the derrick is designed (generally 15 degrees), or at such greater angle as
may be agreed. The angle at which the test has been carried out shall be
mentioned in the test certificate. The test load shall be applied by hoisting
movable weights. During the test, the boom shall be swung with the test load
as far as practicable in both directions.(b)A derrick boom designed to be
raised with power with the load suspended shall, in addition to the above
tests at (a), be raised (with the load suspended) to its maximum working angle
to the horizontal and the two outermost positions.(c)While test loading of a
heavy lift derrick, the competent person responsible for test using movable
weights shall ascertain from the master that the ship's stability will be
adequate for the test.(4)The derricks tested under clause (3) shall not be
used in union purchase rig unless-(a)the derricks rigged in union purchase are
tested with the test load appropriate to the SWL in union purchase (at the
designed headroom and with the derrick booms in their approved working
positions);(b)the safe working load of that derrick in union purchase rig has
also specified by a competent person in a report in Form III;(c)any
limitations or conditions specified in the said report are complied with;
and(d)the two hoist ropes are coupled together by a suitable swivel
assembly.Note.-The safe working loads of derricks (for each method of rig
including union purchase) shall be shown on the certificate of test and marked
on the derrick booms.(5)Lifting appliance other than ship's derricks and
winches :(a)The test load shall be lifted and swung as far as possible in both
directions. If the jib or boom of the crane has a variable radius, it shall be
tested with test loads at the maximum and minimum radius. In case of hydraulic
cranes, when owing to the limitation of pressure it is impossible to lift a
test load in accordance with the table under paragraph (1), it will be
sufficient to lift the greatest possible load which shall be more than safe
working load.(b)The test shall be performed at maximum, minimum and
intermediate radius points as well as such points in the arc of rotation as
the competent person may decide. The test shall consist of hoisting, lowering,
breaking and swinging through all positions and operations normally performed.
An additional test shall be made by operating the machinery at maximum working
speed with the SWL suspended.(6)Use of spring or hydraulic balances, etc., for
test loading :All tests normally shall be carried on with the help of dead
weights. Test loading of gear on new ships shall always be with dead weights.
In case of periodical tests, replacements or renewals, test load may be
applied by means of a suitable springs or hydraulic balances; In such case,
test load shall be applied with the boom as far as practicable in both
directions. The test shall not be taken as satisfactory unless the balance has
been certified for accuracy by the competent authority within 2.0 per cent.
and the pointer of the machine has remained constant at the test load for a
period of at least five minutes.(7)Testing machines and dead weights:(a)A
suitable testing machine shall be used for testing of chains, wire ropes and
other cargo gear;(b)Testing machines and balances to be used in test loading,
testing and checking shall not be used unless they have been certified for
accuracy at least once in the preceding 12 months by the competent
authority.(c)Movable weights used for the test loading of the lifting
appliances having a safe working load not exceeding 20 tonnes shall be checked
for accuracy by means of suitable weighing machine of certified
accuracy.(8)Thorough examination after testing or test loading:After being
tested or test loaded, every lifting appliance and associated gear shall be
thoroughly examined to see that no part has been damaged or permanently
deformed during the test. For this purpose, the lifting appliance or gear
shall be dismissed to the extent considered necessary by the competent person.

## II

[See regulation 76]CLASSIFICATION OF DANGEROUS GOODSClass 1 ExplosivesClass 2
Gases: compressed, liquefied and dissolved under pressure.Class 3 Inflammable
liquids.Class 4.1 Inflammable solids.Class 4.2 Inflammable solids or
substances liable to spontaneous combustion.Class 4.3 Inflammable solids, or
substances, which in contact with water emit flammable gases.Class 5.1
Oxidising substances.Class 5.2 Organic peroxides.Class 6.1 Poisonous (toxic)
substances.Class 6.2 Infectious substances.Class 7 Radioactive
substances.Class 8 Corrosives.Class 9 Miscellaneous dangerous
substances.Dangerous substances belong to class 9 above include any such
substance which cannot be referred to any other class but which experience has
shown to be so dangerous that these regulations shall apply to it.

## III

(See regulation 93)RULES RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF SAFETY
OFFICERS(1)Number of safety officers.-Within six months of coming into
operation of these regulations every port authority, dock labour board and
every other employer shall appoint safety officers, as laid down in the scale
given below :

### 1\. Up to 2000 dock workers - One safety officer

### 2\. Up to 5000 dock workers - Two safety officers

### 3\. Up to 10000 dock workers - Three safety officers

### 4\. For every additional five thousand dock workers or part thereof. -

One safety officer.Any appointment, when made shall be notified to the
inspector giving full details of the qualifications and terms and conditions
of service.(2)Qualifications.-(a) A person shall be eligible for appointment
as a safety officer unless he-(i)possesses a recognised degree in any branch
of engineering or technology and had practical experience of working in a port
of similar place in a supervisory capacity for a period of not less than two
years; or possesses a recognised degree in physics or chemistry and has had
practical experience of working in a port or similar place in a supervisory
capacity for a period of not less than five years; or possesses a recognised
diploma in any branch of engineering or technology and has had practical
experience of working in a port or similar place in a superivosry capacity for
a period of not less than five years; and(ii)possesses a degree or diploma in
industrial safety recognised by the Central Government in this behalf;
and(iii)has adequate knowledge of the language spoken by majority of the
workers in the port in which he is to be appointed.(b)Notwithstanding the
provisions contained in clause(a), any person who--(i)possesses a recognised
degree or diploma in engineering or technology and has had experience of not
less than five years in a department of the Central Government which deals
with the administration of the Indian Dock Labourers Act, 1934, and or the
Dock Workers (Safety, Health and Welfare) Act, 1986;(ii)possesses a
recognised'degree or diploma in engineering or technology and has had
experience of not less than five years, full time, or training, education,
consultancy, or research in the field of accident prevention in industry or in
any port or any institution, shall also be eligible for appointment as a
safety officer :Provided that, in the case of a person who has been working as
a safety officer in an industry or any institution for a period of not less
than three years on the date of commencement of these regulations, the Chief
Inspector may, subject to such conditions as he may specify, relax all or any
of the above said qualifications.(3)Conditions of service.-(a) Where the
number of safety officers appointed exceeds one, of them shall be designated
as the chief safety officer and shall have a status higher than that of the
others. The chief safety officer shall be in overall charge of the safety
functions as envisaged in sub-clause (4) as also the other safety officers
working under his control.(b)The chief safety officer or the safety officer
where only one safety officer is appointed, shall be given the status of a
senior executive and he shall work directly under the control of his chief
executive. All other safety officers shall be given appropriate status to
enable them to discharge their functions effectively.(c)The scale of pay and
allowances to be granted to the safety officers including the chief safety
officer, and the other conditions of their service shall be the same as those
of the other officers of corresponding status in the port, dock labour board
or firm as the case may be.(4)Duties of safety officers.-(a) The duties of a
safety officer shall be to advise and assist the management in the fulfilment
of its obligations, statutory or otherwise, concerning prevention of personal
injuries and maintaining a safe working environment. These duties shall
include the following, namely :-(i)to advise the concerned departments in
planning and organising measures necessary for the effective control of
personal injuries;(ii)to advise on safety aspects in all dock work, and to
carry out detailed job safety studies of selected dock work;(iii)to check and
evaluate the effectiveness of the action taken or proposed to be taken to
prevent personal injuries;(iv)to advise the purchasing and stores departments
in ensuring high quality and availability of personal protective
equipment;(v)to carry out safety inspections of dock work in order to observe
the physical conditions of work and the work practices and procedures followed
by workers and to render advice on measures to be adopted for removing the
unsafe physical conditions and preventing unsafe actions by workers;(vi)to
investigate all fatal and other selected accidents;(vii)to investigate the
cases of occupational diseases contracted and reputable dangerous
occurrences;(viii)to advice on the maintenance of such records as are
necessary relating to accidents, dangerous occurrences and occupational
diseases;(ix)to promote setting up of safety committees and act as adviser and
catalyst of such committees;(x)to organise, in association with the concerned
departments, campaigns, competitions, contests and other activities which will
develop and maintain the interest of the workers in establishing and
maintaining safe conditions of work and procedures;(xi)to design and conduct
either independently or in collaboration with the training department,
suitable training and educational programmes for the prevention of accidents
to dock workers;(xii)frame departmental safety rules and safe working
practices in consultation with the various departments or authorises;
and(xiii)supervise and guide in respect of safety precautions to be taken
while handling dangerous cargo.(5)Facilities to be provided to safety
officers.-The management shall provide each safety officer with such
facilities, equipment and information as are necessary to enable him to
discharge his duties effectively.(6)Prohibition of performance of other
duties.-No safety officer shall be required or permitted to do any work which
is inconsistent with or detrimental to the performance of the duties
prescribed in sub-clause (4).(7)Exemption.-The chief inspector may in writing
exempt any port authority, dock labour board or any other employer or a group
of employers from any or all provisions of this regelation subject to
compliance with such alternate arrangements as may be approved by him.

## IV

[See regulation 92(1)]LIST OF NOTIFIABLE DISEASES(1)Lead poisoning including
poisoning by any preparation or compound of lead or their sequelae.(2)Lead
tetraethyl poisoning.(3)Manganese poisoning or its sequelae.(4)Carbon
disulfide poisoning.(5)Benzene poisoning, including poisoning by any of its
homologue, their nitre or amide derivatives or its
sequelae.(6)Anthrax.(7)Pneumoconiosis.(8)Poisoning by halogens or halogen
derivatives of the hydrocarbons of the aliphatic series.(9)Primary
epitheliomatous cancer of the skin.(10)Occupational dramatist.(11)Noise
induced hearing loss (exposure to high noise levels).

## V

[See regulation 102(2)]ARTICLES REQUIRED FOR AN AMBULANCE ROOM(i)A glazed sink
with hot and cold water always availablen(ii)A table with a smooth top at
least 180 cms. x 105 cms.(iii)Means for sterilizing instruments.(iv)A
couch.(v)Two stretchers.(vi)Two buckets or containers with close fitting
lids.(vii)Two rubber hot water bags.(viii)A kettle and spirit stove or other
suitable means for boiling water.(ix)Twelve plain wooden splints 900 cms. x
100 cms. x 6 cms.(x)Twelve plain wooden splints 350 cms. x 75 cms. x 6
cms.(xi)Six plain wooden splints 250 cms. x 50 cms. x 12 cms.(xii)Six wooden
blankets.(xiii)Three pairs artery forceps.(xiv)One bottle of spirits anemia
aremations (120 ml.).(xv)Smelling salt (60 gms.).(xvi)Two medium size
sponges.(xvii)Six hand towels.(xviii)Four "kidney" trays.(xix)Four cakes of
toilet, preferably antiseptic soap.(xx)Two glass tumblers and two wine
glasses.(xxi)Two clinical thermometers.(xxii)Two tea spoons.(xxiii)Two
graduated (120 ml.) measuring glasses.(xxiv)Two minimum measuring
glasses.(xxv)One wash bottle (1000 cc.) for washing eyes.(xxvi)One bottle (one
liter) carbolic lotion 1 in 20.(xxvii)Three chairs.(xxviii)One
screen.(xxix)One electric hand torch.(xxx)Four first-aid boxes or cupboards
stocked to the standards prescribed in the Schedule.(xxxi)An adequate supply
of anti-tetanus toxoid.(xxxii)Injections-morphia, pethidine, atrophine,
adrenaline, coramine, novocan (6 each).(xxxiii)Coramine liquid (60
ml.).(xxxiv)Tablets-antibistamhnie antispasmodic (25 each).(xxxv)Syringes with
needles-2cc,`5cc, 10cc and 50cc.(xxxvi)Three surgical scissors.(xxxvii)Two
needle holders, big and small.(xxxviii)`Suturing needles and materials.(xxxix
Three dissecting forceps.(xl)Three dressing forceps.(xli)Three
scalpels.(xlii)One stethoscope.(xliii)Rubber bandage-pressure
bandage.(xliv)Oxygen cylinder with necessary attachments.

## VI

[See regulation 101(3)]EQUIPMENT REQUIRED FOR A FIRST-AID BOX OR
CUPBOARD(i)Twenty-four small sterilised dressings.(ii)Twelve medium size
sterilised dressings. -(iii)Twelve large size sterilised dressings.(iv)Twelve
large size sterilised burn dressings.(vi Twelve (15 gms.) packets of
sterilised cotton wool.(vi)One (200 ml.) bottle of cetrimide solution (1 per
cent) or a suitable antiseptic solution.(vii)One (200 ml.) bottle of
mercurochrome (2 per cent) solution in water.(viii)One (120 ml.) bottle of
salvolatile having the dose and mode of administration indicated on the
label.(ix)One pair of scissors.(x)One roll of adhesive plaster (6 cms. x 1
m.).(xi)Two rolls of adhesive plaster (2 cms. x 1 m.).(xii)Twelve pieces of
sterilised eye pads in separate sealed packets.(xiii)A bottle containing 100
tablets (each of 325 mg.) of aspirin (or any other analgesic).(xiv)One
polythene wash bottle (500 cc.) for washing eyes.(xv)Twelve roller bandages 10
cms. wide.(xvi)Twelve roller bandages 5 cmsn wide.(xvii)Six triangular
bandages.(xviii)One tourniquet.(xix)A supply of suitable splints.(xx)Two
packets of safety pins.(xxi)Kidney tray.(xxii)A snake-bite lancet.(xxiii)One
(30 ml.) bottle containing potassium permaganate crystals.(xxiv)One copy of
first-aid leaflet issued by the Director-General of Factory Advice Service and
Labour`Institutes, Government of India, Bombay.

## VII

(See regulation 18)PERMISSIBLE EXPOSURE IN CASES OF CONTINUOUS NOISE

(1) | (2)  
---|---  
8 | 90  
6 | 92  
4 | 95  
3 | 97  
2 | 100  
1-1/2 | 102  
1 | 105  
¾ | 107  
½ | 110  
¼ | 115  
  
Notes.-1. No exposure in excess of 115 dBA is to be permitted.

### 2\. For any period of exposure falling in between any figure and the next
higher or lower figure as indicated in column 1, the permissible sound
pressure level is to be determined by extrapolation on a proportionate basis.

## VIII

(See regulations 97 and 100)SCALE FOR PROVIDING LATRINES, URINALS, WASHING AND
BATHING FACILITIES A DOCKLatrines.-One for every 50 dock workers and minimum
of three in each block.Urinals.-One for every 100 dock workers and minimum
four urinals in each block.Washing facilities :Washing taps. - Up to 200 dock
workers-Four taps.Over 200 dock workers - Four taps plus one tap for every 100
workers or part thereof.Shower baths.-Up to 200 dock workers-Two shower
baths.Above 200-Up to 500 dock workers - Four shower baths.Over 500 dock
workers - Dour plus one`shower bath for every 200 workers or part thereof.
With a minimum of two shower baths in a block.

## IX

(See regulation 106)REQUIREMENTS FOR CANTEENS(1)Plans and site plans of the
building to be constructed or adopted for use as a canteen shall be submitted
and got approved from the Chief Inspector.(2)The canteen building shall be
constructed according to the approved plans and shall provide accommodation
for a dining hall, kitchen, store rooms, pantry and washing places separately
for workers and for utensils. The minimum height of the building shall not be
less than 4 metres and all the walls and roofs shall be of suitable heat
resisting material and shall be water proof.(3)The canteen building shall be
situated not less than 15 metres from any latrine, urinal or any other source
of dust, smoke or obnoxious fumes:Provided that the Chief Inspector may in any
particular case relax the provisions of this rule to such an extent as may be
reasonable in the circumstances and`may require measures to be adopted to
secure the essential purpose of this provision.(4)In a canteen the floor and
the inside walls up to a height of 1.25 metres from the floor shall be made of
smooth and impervious material and the remaining portion of inside walls shall
be made smooth by cement plaster or in any other suitable manner.(5)The doors,
windows and ventilators of a canteen building shall be fire-proof construction
and shall allow adequate ventilation.(6)The canteen shall be
adequately`lighted at all times when any person has access to it.(7)In every
canteen,-(a)(i)all inside walls of rooms and all ceilings and passages and
staircases shall be time washed or colour washed at least once in each year or
painted once in three years` dating from the period when last lime washed or
painted, as the case may be;(ii)all wood work shall be varnished or painted
once in three years dating from the period when last varnished or
painted;(iii)all internal structural iron or steel work`be varnished or
painted once in three years dating from the period when last varnished or
painted :Provided that inside walls of the kitchen shall be lime washed once
in every four months.(b)Records of dates on which lime washing, colour washing
or painting is carried out shall be maintained in a register in a form
approved by the Inspector.(c)The floor of all rooms shall be kept clean at all
times by sweeping and mopping.(8)The precincts of the canteen shall be
maintained in`a clean and sanitary condition. Waste water shall be carried
away in a suitable covered drain and shall not be allowed to accumulate so as
to cause a nuisance. Covered receptacles shall be provided and used for the
disposal of garbage and the receptacles shall be fully cleaned and disinfected
once at least in every shift.(9)Dining hall.-(a) The dining hall shall
accommodate at a time at least 10 per cent of the dock workers at any time in
any dock or any part of dock for which the canteen is provided :Provided that
in any particular dock, the Chief Inspector may, alter the percentage of
workers to be accommodated in a canteen.(b)The floor area of the dining hall,
excluding the area occupied by the service counter and any furniture except
tables and chairs, shall be not less than one square metres per dinner to be
accommodated as prescribed in sub-rule (a) :Provided that where it is
impracticable owing to the lack of space to provide one square metre of floor
area for each person, such reduced floor area may be provided as approved in
writing by the Chief Inspector.(c)A portion of the dining hall and service
counter shall be partitioned off and reserved for women workers in proportion
to their numbers. Washing places for women shall be separate and screened to
secure privacy.(d)Sufficient tables, chairs or benches shall be available for
the number of dinners to be accommodated as prescribed in sub-rule
(a).(e)Soaps and towels shall be provided at the washing places in the canteen
for the use of the workers.(10)Equipment.-(a) There shall be provided and
maintained utensils, crokery, cutlery, furniture and any other equipment
necessary for the efficient running of the canteen. Suitable uniforms for the
employees serving in the ca teen shall provided and maintained in` clean
condition.(b)Food and food materials shall be stored in flyproof cupboards and
handled with the help of wooden ladles or suitable metal forceps, whichever is
convenient. Vessels used once shall be cleaned before being used again.(c)The
furniture, utensils and other equipment shall be maintained in clean and
hygienic condition. The service counter and all the dining tables shall have
a`top of smooth and impervious materials. Suitable facilities including an
adequate supply of hot water shall be provided for cleaning of the utensils
and equipment.

## X

(See regulation 109)RULES RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF WELFARE OFFICER
PRESCRIBED UNDER REGULATION 109 OF THE DOCK WORKERS (SAFETY, HEALTH AND
WELFARE) REGULATIONS, 1989(1)Number of Welfare Officers.-(a) The port
authority, dock labour board and ever other employer shall appoint at least
one welfare officer in every port where 500 or more dock workers are
ordinarily employed :Provided that, where the number of dock workers exceeds
2000 there shall be additional welfare officer, as indicated in the scale
given below :(i)2000 to 5000 dock workers-2 welfare officers.(ii)for every
additional 5000 dock workers or fraction thereof over 500-1 welfare
officer.(b)Where there are more than one welfare officer appointed, one of
them shall be called the chief welfare officer and the others as welfare
officers.(2)Qualifications.-No person shall be appointed as a welfare officer
unless he or she-(a)is a graduate from a recognised university.(b)has either a
degree or diploma in social science from a recognised university or any other
institution recognised by the Central Government in this behalf, and(c)has
adequate knowledge of the language spoken by the majority of dock workers in
the port to which he/she is attached :Provided that in the case of a person
who has been employed as a welfare officer for one year or more before the day
of commencement of these regulations, the chief inspector may, on request the
port authority, dock labour board or any other employer, in writing relax all
or any of the aforesaid qualifications, subject to such conditions as he may
specify in the order.(3)Conditions of service.-(a) A welfare officer shall be
given appropriate status as a member of the executive staff of the port
authority, dock labour board or firm, as the case maybe.(b)The conditions of
service of a welfare officer shall be the same as those of other members of
the staff or equivalent status under the port authority, dock labour board or
firm, as the case may be :Provided that in the case of discharge or dismissal,
the welfare officer shall have a right of appeal to the chief inspector or
whose decision thereon shall be final and binding on the port authority, dock
labour board or firm, as the case may be. This appeal shall be preferred
within thirty days from the date of receipt by the welfare officer of the
order of discharge or dismissal.(4)Duties of welfare officers. - The duties of
the welfare officer shall be,--(a)to ensure fulfilment on the part of the port
authority, dock labour board or firm of obligations under the provisions of
these regulations and maintaining a liaison with the inspector;(b)to ascertain
what further welfare facilities are needed, how best they can be provided and
make suggestions for their establishment;(c)to make sure that the available
welfare facilities provided under the regulation or otherwise are being
properly maintained and utilised;(d)to ensure adequate supervision of the
amenities provided especially as regards canteens, rest rooms, washing and
toilet facilities and drinking water;(e)to examine grievances voiced by the
dock workers in respect of welfare facilities and other amenities;(f)to ensure
first aid, medical treatment and other assistance for dock workers who are
injured in the course of their employment in dock work and are in need of
vocational rehabilitation due to disablement caused due to injury;(g)to assist
in the organisation of recreational facilities and educational courses and
advise on individual personnel problems and education of children;(h)to
promote relations between the port authority dock labour board or a firm and
dock workers which will ensure productive efficiency as well as amelioration
in the working conditions and to help dock workers to adjust and adapt
themselves to their working environments;(i)to take interest in the working of
safety committee of the port; and(j)to encourage and assist in the
organisation of safety propagation, safety weeks, training courses, suggestion
schemes, safety awards, etc., and such other duties as may be assigned`by the
port authority, dock labour board or a firm which have a bearing on the
welfare of the dock workers.(5)No welfare officer shall deal with any
disciplinary cases against workers or appear before a conciliation officer in
a Court or Tribunal on behalf`of the management against a worker or
workers.(6)Exemption. - The chief inspector may in writing exempt port
authority, dock labour board or any other employer or a group of employers
from any or all provisions of this regulation subject to compliance with such
alternative arrangements as may be approved by him.

## XI

[See regulations 74(d) and 107(2)(b)]

## FOR MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF DOCK WORKERS

### 1\. The employer shall arrange a medical examination of all the dock
workers employed as drivers/operators of lifting appliances and transport
equipment before employing, after illness or injury`if it appears that the
illness or injury may affect his fitness and thereafter once in every two
years up to the age of 40 and once in a year, thereafter.

### 2\. Complete and confidential records of medical examination shall be
maintained by the employer or the physician authorised by him.

### 3\. The medical examination shall include:

(a)full medical and occupational history,(b)clinical examination with
particular reference to,-(i)General physique :(ii)Sight :(1)Distant vision,
either eye should not be less than snellen 6/12 corrected or uncorrected and
not less than 6/36 uncorrected in the worse eye.(2)Near vision, not less Ns
corrected or uncorrected (in either eye).(3)Binocular vision.(4)No
diplopia.(5)No limitation of visual fields.(6)Stercopsis must be column 4,5 or
6 in key-stone vision screening test.(7)Testing of colour vision (especially
the ability to distinguish between red and green) by a suitable
test.(iii)Hearing:Persons with normal hearing must be able to hear a forced
whisper at 24 feet. Persons using hearing aids must be able to hear a warning
shout under noisy working conditions.(iv)Upper limbs. Adequate arm function
and grip (both arms).(v)Lower limbs. Adequate leg and foot function.(vi)Spine.
Adequate flexible for the job concerned.(vii)General Mental alertness and
stability with good eye, hand and foot co-ordination.(c)Any other tests which
the examining doctor considers necessary.FORM I[See regulations 7(4) and
33]DOCK WORKERS (SAFETY, HEALTH AND`WELFARE) REGULATIONS, 1990 NOTICE TO THE
OWNER, MASTER OR OFFICER-IN-CHARGE (NAME OF SHIP)I hereby give notice that the
dock work involving loading or unloading or coaling have been completed (for
the time being) at the hatches named below, and that the hatches in question
have been--

left fenced or covered as required by regulation [Delete whichever is required.] | taken into use by you or on your behalf  
---|---  
Hatchway | Dock  
  
Signature .................................Time
......................................Date
......................................FORM II

## Part I

(See regulations 41 and 51)INITIAL AND PERIODICAL LOAD TEST OF LIFTING
APPLIANCES AND THEIR ANNUAL THOROUGH EXAMINATION"Thorough examination" means a
detailed visual examination by a competent person; supplemented if necessary
by other means such as a hammer test, carried out as carefully`as the
conditions permit, in order to arrive at a reliable conclusion as to the
safety of the parts examined and if necessary for this purpose parts of the
machines and gear must be dismantled.

(A) | (B)  
---|---  
Initial and periodical load tests of lifting appliances | Annual thorough examination  
Situation and description of lifting appliances tested with distinguishing number or makes (if any). |  No.of Certificate of test and examination of competent person | I certify that on the date on which I have appended my signature the lifting appliance shown in column(1) was tested and no defects affecting its safe working condition were found other than those shown in column (5) |  Remarks(to be signed and dated) | I certify that on the date on which I have appended my signature, the lifting appliance shown in column (1) was thoroughly examined and no defects affecting its safe working conditions were found other than those shown in column (12) |  Remarks(to be signed and dated)  
Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10) | (11) | (12)  
(1)(2) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Note.-If all the lifting appliances are thoroughly examined on the same date
it will be sufficient to enter in column (1) "All lifting appliances". If not,
the parts which have been thoroughly examined on the dates stated must be
clearly indicated.

## Part II

(See regulations 47 and 51)INITIAL AND PERIODICAL LOAD TEST OF LOOSE GEARS AND
ANNUAL THOROUGH EXAMINATIONList of loose gears:The following classes of loose
gears, namely:

### 1\. Chains made of malleable cast iron;

### 2\. Plate link chains;

### 3\. Chains, rings, hooks, shackles and swivels made of steel;

### 4\. Pitched chains;

### 5\. Rings, hooks, shackles and swivels permanently attached to pitched
chains, pulley blocks, container spreaders, trays, slings, baskets, etc., and
any other similar gear;

### 6\. Hooks and swivels having screw-threaded parts or ball bearings or
other case-hardened parts; and

### 7\. Bordeaux connections.

Initial test and periodical load test of loose gears | Annual thorough examination of loose gears  
---|---  
Distinguishing No. or marks | Discretion of loose gear tested and examined |  No.of certificates of test and examination of competent person | I certify that on the date to which I have appended my signature the loose gears shown in cols. (1) and (2) were tested and no defects affecting the safe working condition were found other than those shown in col. (6) |  Remarks(to be signed and dated) | I certify that on the date to which I have appended my signature the loose gears shown in columns (1) and (2) were thoroughly examined by me and no defects affecting the working conditions were found other than those shown in column (10) |  Remarks(to be signed and dated)  
Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
(1)(2)(3)(4)(5) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
## Part III

(See regulations 49 and 51)ANNEALING OF CHAINS, RINGS, HOOKS, SHACKLES AND
SWIVELS [OTHER THAN THOSE EXEMPTEO-(See PART II)]

12.5 mms. and smaller chains, rings, hooks, shackles and swivels in general use | If used with lifting appliance driven by power, must be annealed once at least in every six months. If used solely with lifting appliance worked by hand, must be annealed once at least in every 12 months.  
---|---  
Other chains, rings, hooks, shackles and swivels in general use | If used with lifting appliance driven by power, must be annealed once at least in every 12 months. If used solely with lifting appliance worked by hand, must be annealed once at least in every two years.  
  
Note. - It is recommended though not required by the Regulations-that
annealing should be carried out in a suitably constructed furnace heated to
temperature between 1100° and 1300°F or 600° and 700°C, for a period between
30 and 60 minutes.

Distinguishing No. or mark | Description of gear and annealed examination |  No.of the certificate or test and | I certify that on the date to which I have appended my signature, the gear described in columns (1) and (2) was effectually annealed under my supervision, that after being so annealed every article was carefully inspected and that no defects affecting its safe working condition were found other than those shown in column (7) |  Remarks(to be signed and dated)  
---|---|---|---|---  
Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
FORM III[See regulations 41 and 51(2)]CERTIFICATE OF INITIAL AND PERIODICAL
TEST AND EXAMINATION OF WINCHES, DERRICKS AND THEIR ACCESSORY GEARTest
Certificate No ................................(a)In case of dock, wharf or
quay-Name of the dock, wharf or quay where lifting appliances are fitted
................(b)In case of ship-Name of the ship
................................Official number
.................................Call sign
.......................................Port of registry
................................Name of owner
...................................

Situation and description of lifting appliances and gear with distinguishing number marks(if any), which have been tested, thoroughly examined | Angle to the horizontal of deffick boom at which test load applied | Test load applied | Safe working load at the angle shown in column (2)  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
| (Degrees) | (Tonnes) | (Tonnes)  
|  |  |   
  
### 5\. Name and address of public service, association, company or firm or
testing establishment making the test and
examination.............................

### 6\. Name and position of the competent person of public service,
association, company or firm or testing establishment.

I certify that on the ....................day
of.............20....................the lifting appliance shown in column (1)
together with its necessary gear was tested in the manner set forth overleaf
in my presence that a careful examination of the said lifting appliances after
the test showed that it had withstood the test load without injury or
permanent deformation and that the safe working load of the said lifting
appliance and accessory gear is as shown in column (4).Date
................................................................Signature of
the competent person*Seal (see Note 3)Registration/Authority number of the
competent person.Notes.-1. Column (1)-Sufficient particulars must he given to
identify the gear, for example, in the case of a winch or derrick, the number
of the hold, etc., should be shown.

### 2\. Column (2)-As a rule, a derrick should be tested with its boom at the
minimum angle to`the horizontal for which the derrick system is designed
(generally 15*), or at such greater angle as may be agreed.

"competent person" means-(i)a person belonging to a testing establishment in
India who is approved by the Chief Inspector for the purposes of testing,
examination or annealing and certification of lifting appliances, loose gears
or wire ropes;.(ii)any other person who is recognised under the relevant
regulations in force in other countries as competent for issuing certificates
for any of the purposes mentioned in sub-clause (i) for implementation of the
Protection Against Accidents (Dockers) Convention (Revised), 1932 (No. 32) and
the Convention concerning the Occupational Safety and Health in Dock Work (No.
152), 1979, adopted by International Labour Conference.INSTRUCTIONS

### 1\. Lift appliances :

Ever lifting appliance with its accessory gear, shall be subjected to a test
load which shall exceed the safe working load (SWL) as follows :-

Safe working load | Test load  
---|---  
Up to 20 tonnes | 25 per cent in excess  
20 to 50 tonnes | 5 tonnes in excess  
Over 50 tonnes | 10 per cent in excess  
  
### 2\. Ship's derricks :

(a)In the case of derrick system the test load shall be lifted with the ship's
normal tackle with the derrick at the minimum angle to the horizontal for
which the derrick system is designed (generally 15 degrees), or at such
greater angle as may be agreed. The angle at which the test was made should be
stated in the certificate of test. After the test load has been lifted, it
should be swung as far as possible in both the directions.(b)A derrick boom
designed to be raised with`power with the load suspended shall in addition to
the above tests at (a), be raised (with the load suspended) to its maximum
working angle to the horizontal at the two outer most positions.(c)While test
load testing of a heavy lift derrick, the competent person responsible for
latest using movable weights shall ascertain from the master that the ship's
stability will be adequate`for the test.

### 3\. The derrick tested under clause (2) shall not be used in union
purchasing unless,--

(a)the derricks rigged in union purchase are tested with the test load
appropriate to the SWL in union purchase (at the designed head room and with
the derrick booms in their approved working positions),(b)the safe working
load of that derrick in union purchase rig has also been specified by a
competent person in a report in Form III,(c)any limitations or conditions
specified in the said reports are complied with, and(d)the two hoes ropes are
coupled together by a suitable swivel assembly.Note.-The safe working load of
derricks (for each`method of rig including union purchase) shall be shown on
the certificate of test and marked on the derrick booms.

### 4\. Use of spring or hydraulic balances, etc., for test load testing :

All tests normally shall be carried on with the help of dead weights. Tests
load testing on new ships shall always be with dead weights. In case of
periodical tests, replacements or renewals,`test load may be applied by means
of a suitable spring or hydraulic balances. In such case, test load shall be
applied with the boom as far as practicable in both directions. The test shall
not be taken as satisfactory unless the balance has been certified for
accuracy by competent authority, within± two per cent and the pointer of the
machine has remained constant as the test load for a period of at least five
minutes.

### 5\. Testing machines and dead weights :

(a)A suitable testing machine shall be used for testing of chains, wire ropes,
loose gears and other cargo gear.(b)Testing machines and balances to be used
in test loading, testing and checking shall not be used unless they have been
certified for accuracy at least once in the preceding 12 months by competent
authority.(c)Movable weights used for the test loading of the lifting
appliance, loose gears and lifting device having a safe working load not
exceeding 20 tonnes shall be checked for accuracy by means of suitable
weighing machine.

### 6\. Thorough examination after testing or test loading :

After being tested or test loaded, every lifting appliance, with their
accessory gear shall be thoroughly examined to see that no part has been
damaged or permanently deformed during the`test. For this purpose, the lifting
appliance or gear shall be dismantled to the extent considered necessary by
the competent person.

### 7\. In the case of heavy derricks, care should be taken to ensure that the
appropriate shroud and stays are rigged.

### 8\. The test and examination must be made by a competent person.

FORM IV[See regulations 41 and 51(2)]CERTIFICATE OF INITIAL AND PERIODICAL
TEST AND EXAMINATION OF CRANES, HOISTS AND THEIR ACCESSORY GEARTest
Certificate No .................(a)In case of dock, Wharf or quay--Name of the
dock, wharf or quay where lifting appliances are fitted ................(b)In
case of the ship--Name of the ship ............................Official number
..............................Call sign .................................Port
of registry .........................Name of owner
.............................

Situation and description | For jib cranes radius at the test load was applied | Test load applied | Safe working load for jib cranes at radius shown in column (2)  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
| (Metres) | (Tonnes) | (Tonnes)  
|  |  |   
  
### 5\. Name and address of public service, association, company or firm or
testing establishment making the test and examination
................................

### 6\. Name and position of the competent person of public service,
association, company or firm or testing
establishment.................................

I certify that on the .............day of................20.............the
lifting appliance together with its accessory gear, was tested in the manner
set forth overleaf that a careful examination of the said lifting appliance
and gear after the test showed that it had withstood the test load without
injury or permanent deformation and that the safe working load of the said
lifting appliance and accessory gear is as shown in column (4).

........................................................................... | *Seal |  Date.............................  
---|---|---  
Signature of the competent person |  |   
  
Registration/Authority number of the competent person.Notes.-1. Column
(1)-Sufficient particulars must be given to identify the crane or`hoist.

### 2\. Column (2)-If the jib has a variable radius, test loads must be
applied at the maximum and minimum radii.

"competent person" means :(i)a person belonging to a testing establishment in
India who is approved by the Chief Inspector for the purposes of testing,
examination or annealing and certification of lifting appliances, loose gears
or wire ropes;(ii)any other person who is recognised under the relevant
regulations in force in other countries as competent for issuing certificates
for any of the purposes mentioned in sub-clause (i) for implementation of the
Protection Against Accidents (Dockers) Convention (Revised), 1932 (No. 32) and
the Convention Concerning the Occupational Safety and Health in Dock Work (No.
152),1979, adopted by International Labour Conference.INSTRUCTIONSEvery crane
and other hoisting machine with its accessory gear shall be tested with a test
load which shall exceed the safe working load (SWL) as follows :

Safe working load | Test load  
---|---  
Up to 20 tonnes | 25 per cent in excess of SWL  
20 to 50 tonnes | 5 tonnes in excess of SWL  
Over 50 tonnes | 10 per cent in excess of SWL  
  
### 2\. Lifting appliance other than ship's derricks and winches :

(a)The test load shall be lifted and swung as far as possible in both
directions. If the jib or boom of the crane has a variable radius, it shall be
tested with test loads at the maximum and minimum radii. In case of hydraulic
cranes, when owing to the limitation of pressure it is impossible to lift a
test load in accordance with table under paragraph 1, it will be sufficient to
lift the greatest possible load.(b)The test shall be performed at maximum,
minimum and intermediate radius points as well as such points in the arc of
rotation as the competent person may decide. The test shall consist of
hoisting, lowering, braking and swinging through all positions and operations
normally performed.(c)An additional tests shall be made by operating the crane
or hoist at maximum working speed with the SWL suspended.

### 3\. Use of spring or hydraulic balances, etc., for test load testing :

All tests normally shall be carried on with the help of dead weights. Test
load testing on new ships shall always be with dead weights. In case of
periodical tests, replacements or renewals, test load may be applied by means
of a suitable spring or hydraulic balances. In such case, test load shall be
applied with the boom as far out as practicable in both directions. The test
shall not be taken as satisfactory unless the balance has been certified for
accuracy by competent authority, within ± two per cent and the pointer of the
machine has remained constant as the test load for a period of at least five
minutes.

### 4\. Testing machines and weights :-

(a)A suitable testing machine shall be used for testing of chains, wire ropes,
loose gears and other cargo gear.(b)Testing machines and balances to be used
in test loading, testing and checking shall not be used unless they have been
certified for accuracy at least once in the preceding 12 months by competent
authority.(c)Movable weights used for the test loading of the lifting
appliances, having a safe working load not exceeding 20 tonnes shall be
checked for accuracy by means of suitable weighing machine.

### 5\. Thorough examination after testing or test loading :

After being tested or test loaded, every lifting appliance and associated
gears shall be thoroughly examined to see that no part has been damaged or
permanently deformed during the test. For this purpose, the lifting appliance
or gear shall be dismantled to the extent considered necessary by the
competent person.

### 6\. The test and examination must be made by a competent person.

FORM V[See regulations 47 and 51(2)]CERTIFICATE OF INITIAL AND PERIODICAL TEST
AND EXAMINATION OF LOOSE GEARSTest certificate No
......................................(1)In case of dock, wharf or quay--Name
of the dock, wharf or quay where lifting appliances are fitted
...........................(2)In case of ship--Name of the ship
.....................................Official number
......................................Call sign
............................................Port of registry
.....................................Name of owner
........................................

Distinguishing number or mark | Description, dimension and material of gear/device | Number tested | Date of test | Test load applied (tones) | Safe working load (SWL) (tonnes)  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
### 7\. Name and address of manufacturer or
suppliers................................

### 8\. Initial test and examination certificate No. and date (only in case of
periodical test and examination)............................

### 9\. Name and address of public service, association, company or firm or
testing establishment making the test and examination.........................

### 10\. Name and position of the competent person of public service,
association, company or firm or testing
establishment...............................

I certify that on the .................... day of.......20........ the above
gear was tested and examined in the manner set forth overleaf that the
examination of the said gear/device withstood the test load without injury or
permanent deformation and that the safe working load of the said gear/device
is as shown in column (6).

......................................................................... |  |   
---|---|---  
Signature of the competent person | *Seal | Date.....................................  
  
*(see Note 3)Registration/Authority number of the competent person.Notes.-Column (2)-The dimensions of the loose gear, the type of material of which it is made and where applicable, the heat treatment received in manufacture should be stated (unless Form No. VII is used for the purpose)."competent person" means-(i)a person belonging to a testing establishment in India who is approved by the Chief Inspector for the purposes of testing, examination or annealing and certification of lifting appliances, loose gears or wire ropes;(ii)any other person who is recognised under the relevant regulations in force in other countries as competent for issuing certificates for any of the purposes mentioned in sub-clause (i) for implementation of the Protection against Accidents (Dockers) Convention (Revised), 1932 (No. 32) and the Convention concerning the Occupational Safety and Health in Dock Work (No. 152),1979, adopted by International Labour Conference.INSTRUCTIONS(1)Loose gear :(a)Every ring, hook, chain, shackle, swivel, eye-bolt, plate clamps, triangular plate or pulley block (except single sheave block) shall be subjected to a test load which shall be subjected to a test load which shall not be less than the following :-

SWL (in tonnes) | Test load (in tonnes)  
---|---  
Up to 25 | 2xsafe working load (SWL)  
Above 25 | (1.22xSWL)+20  
  
(b)In the case of a single sheave block, the SWL shall be the maximum load
which can safely be lifted by the block when suspended by its head fitting and
the load is attached to a rope which passes around the sheave of the block and
a test load not less than four times the proposed safe working load shall be
applied to the head of the block.(c)In the case of a multi sheave block, the
test load shall not be less than the following :-

SWL (in tonnes) | Test load (in tonnes)  
---|---  
Up to 25 | 2xsafe working load (SWL)  
Above 25 to 160 | (0.9933xSWL)+27  
Above 160 | 1.1xSWL  
  
(d)In the case of hand-operated pulley blocks used with pitched chains and
rings, hooks, shackles or swivels permanently attached thereto, a test load
not less than 50 per cent. in excess of the safe working load shall be
applied.(e)In the case of a pulley block fitted with a bucket, the bucket
shall be tested and the load applied to the bucket while testing that block
will be accepted as test loading of the bucket.(f)In the case of a sling
having two legs, the safe working load shall be calculated when the angle
between the legs is 90°. In the case of multi-legged slings, the safe working
load shall be calculated as per national standards.(g)Every lifting beam,
lifting frame, container spreader, bucket, tub and other such gears shall be
subjected to a test load which shall not be less than that given in table
below :

SWL (in tonnes) | Test load (in tonnes)  
---|---  
Up to 10 | 2xsafe working load (SWL)  
Above 10 to 160 | (1.04xSWL)+9.6  
Above 160 | 1.1xSWL  
  
(h)(i)Before any test is carried out, a visual inspection of the lifting
appliances or loose gear or lifting devices involved shall be conducted and
any vitiable defective gear shall be replaced or renewed.(ii)After being
tested, all the loose gear and other such gears shall be examined. All the
sheaves and the pins of the pulley blocks shajl be removed to see whether any
part has been injured or permanently deformed by the test.

### 2\. The test and examination must be made by a competent person.

FORM VI[See regulations 48 and 51(2)]CERTIFICATE OF TEST AND EXAMINATION OF
WIRE ROPE BEFORE BEING TAKEN INTO USETest certificate No
..............................

### 1\. Name and address of maker or supplier

### 2\. (a) Circumference/diameter of rope

(b)Number of strands(c)Number of wires per strand(d)Lay(e)Core

### 3\. Quality of wire (e.g., best plough steel)

### 4\. (a) Date of test of sampel of rope

(b)Load at which sample broke (tonnes)(c)Safe working load of rope
(tonnes)(Please see Instruction 1)(d)Intended use

### 5\. Name and address of public service, association, company or firm or
testing establishment making the test and examination
................................................

### 6\. Name and position of the competent person in public service,
association, company or firm or testing establishment making the test and
examination .................................................

I certify that the above particulars are correct, and that the test and
examination were carried out by me and no defects affecting its safe working
load (SWL) were found.

......................................................................... |  |   
---|---|---  
Signature of the competent person | *Seal | Date.....................................  
  
*(see Note below)Registration/Authority number of the competent person.Note.-"competent person" means--(i)a person belonging to a testing establishment in India who is approved by the Chief Inspector for the purposes of testing, examination or annealing and certification of lifting appliances, loose gears or wire ropes;(ii)any other person who is recognised under the relevant regulations in force in other countries as competent for issuing certificates for any of the purposes mentioned in sub-clause (i) for implementation of the Protection Against Accidents (Dockers) Convention (Revised), 1932 (No. 32) and the Convention Concerning the Occupational Safety and Health in Dock Work (No. 152),1979, adopted by International Labour Conference.INSTRUCTIONS

### 1\. Wire rope shall be tested by sample, a piece being tested to
destruction, and the safe working load of rope is to be determined by dividing
the load at which the sample broke by a co-efficient of utilisation determined
as follows :-

| Item | Co-efficient ofutilisation  
---|---|---  
(a) | Wire rope forming part of sling SWL of the sling : |   
| SWL up to and equal to 10tonnes................ | 5  
| SWL above 10tonnesand up to and equal to 160tonnes | 104  
|  | (8.85xSWL)+1910  
(b) | SWL above 160tonnes | 3  
| Wire rope as integral part of a lifting appliance : |   
| SWL of the lifting appliance : |   
| SWL up to and equal to 160tonnes | 104  
|  | (8.85xSWL)+1910  
| SWL above 160tonnes | 3  
  
### 2\. The test procedure shall be in accordance with recognisd national
standards.

### 3\. The test must be made by a competent person.

FORM VII[See regulations 49 and 51(2))CERTIFICATE OF ANNEALING OF LOOSE
GEARS(1)In case of dock, wharf or quay--Name of the dock, wharf or quay where
lifting appliance is fitted .............................(2)In case of ship--
Name of the ship ............................................Official number
.............................................Call
sign....................................................Port of
registry.............................................Name of
owner................................................

Distinguishing number or mark | Description gear | Number of the certificate of test and examination | Number annealed | Date of annealing | Defects found at careful inspection after annealing  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
### 7\. Name and address of public service, association, company or firm or
testing establishment carrying out the annealing and
inspection.............................

### 8\. Name and position of the competent person of public service,
association, company or firm or testing
establishment.................................

I certify that on the date shown in column (5) the gear described in columns
(1) to (4) was effectively annealed under my supervision, that after being so
annealed every article was carefully inspected, and that no defects affecting
its safe working condition were found other than those indicated in column
(6).

......................................................................... |  |   
---|---|---  
Signature of the competent person | *Seal | Date.....................................  
  
*(see Note 2)Registration/Authority number of the competent person.Notes.-1. Column (2)-The dimensions of the gear, the type of material of which it is made and the heat treatment received in manufacture should be stated.

### 2\. "competent person" means :

(i)a person belonging to a testing establishment in India who is approved by
the Chief Inspector for the purposes of testing, examination or annealing and
certification of lifting appliances, loose gears or wire ropes;(ii)any other
person who is recognised under the relevant regulations in force in other
countries as competent for issuing certificates for any of the purposes
mentioned in sub-clause (i) for implementation of the Protection against
Accidents (Dockers) Convention (Revised), 1932 (No. 32) and the Convention
concerning the Occupational Safety and Health in Dock Work (No. 152),1979,
adopted by International Labour Conference.

### 3\. For requirements as to annealing see instructions below :

This certificate is optional. The above particulars may be entered in Part IV
of the Register (Form II).INSTRUCTIONS

### 1\. Chains (other than bridle chains attached to derricks or masks),
rings, hooks, shackles and swivels in general use of hoisting or lowering must
be effectively annealed at the following intervals :

Class of gear | If used on lifting appliance driven by power | If used solely on lifting appliances worked by hand  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
(12.5 mm) and smaller gear | 6 months | 12 months  
Other gears | 12 months | 2 years  
  
### 2\. The annealing must be carried out under the supervision of a competent
authority.

### 3\. (a) It is recommended though not required by the Regulations, that
annealing should be carried out in a suitably constructed furnace, heated to a
temperature between 600° and 700°C for a period between 30 and 60 minutes.

(b)It is recommended though not required by Regulations that normalising
should be carried out in suitably constructed furnace, heated to a temperature
between 920° and 950°C.

### 4\. The requirements of annealing does not apply to bridle chains attached
to derricks or masks, and the following classes of gears have been exempted
from annealing subject to the conditions stated below :

(a)Chains made of malleable cast iron;(b)Plate link chains;(c)Chains, rings,
hooks, shackles and swivels made of steel;(d)Pitched chains;(e)Rings, hooks,
shackles and swivels permanently attached to pitched chains, pulley
blocks;(f)Hooks and swivels having screw-threaded parts of ball bearings or
other case hardened parts;(g)Bordeaux connections.These classes of gears have
been exempted from annealing subject to the conditions that such gear shall be
thoroughly examined by a competent person once at least in every twelve months
and that before the gear is subsequently taken into use, the prescribed
certificates of such emanation shall be attached to the prescribed register
(Form II) or alternatively the required particulars may be entered in Part III
of the register.FORM VIIICertificate No
......................................[See regulations 47(2) and
51(2)]CERTIFICATE OF ANNUAL THOROUGH EXAMINATION OF LOOSE GEARS EXEMPTED FROM
ANNEALING(1)In case of dock, wharf or quay--Name of the dock, wharf or quay
where lifting appliance is fitted ......................................(2)In
case of ship--Name of the ship
..............................................Official number
...............................................Call
sign......................................................Port of registry
..............................................Name of owner
.................................................

Distinguishing number or mark | Description of gear | Number of the certificate of initial and periodical tests and examination | Remarks  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  |  |   
  
### 5\. Name and address of public service, association, company or firm or
testing establishment making the test and
examination...........................

### 6\. Name and position of the competent person of public service,
association, company or firm or testing
establishment..................................

I certify that on the............day of............20............the above
gear described in column (2) was thoroughly examined and that no defects
affecting its safe working conditions were found other than those indicated in
column (4).

......................................................................... |  |   
---|---|---  
Signature of the competent person | *Seal | Date.....................................  
  
*(See Note 2.)Registration/Authority number of the competent person.Notes.-1. Column (2)-The dimensions of the gear, the type of OS material of which it is made and the heat treatment received in manufacture should be stated.

### 2\. "Competent person" means--

(i)a person belonging to a testing establishment in India who is approved by
the Chief Inspector for the purposes of testing, examination or annealing and
certification of lifting appliances, loose gears or wire ropes;(ii)any other
person who is recognised under the relevant regulations in force in other
countries as competent for issuing certificates for any of the purposes
mentioned in sub-clause (i) for implementation of the Protection Against
Accidents (Dockers) Convention (Revised), 1932 (No. 32) and the Convention
concerning the Occupational Safety and Health in Dock Work (No. 152),1979,
adopted by International Labour Conference.

### 3\. For list of gear not required to be annealed and definition of
"thorough examination" see below.

### 4\. This certificate is optional. The above particulars may be entered in
Form II of the Register.

INSTRUCTIONS

### 1\. The following classes of gears have been exempted from annealing but
required to be thoroughly examined by a competent person at least once in
every twelve months :

(a)Chains made of malleable cast iron;(b)Plate link chains;(c)Chains, rings,
hooks, shackels and swivels made of steel;(d)Pitched chains;(e)Rings, hooks,
shackles and swivels permanently attached to pitched chains, pulley blocks,
container spreaders, trays, slings, baskets, etc., and any other similar
gear;(f)Hooks and swivels having screw threaded parts or ball bearings or
other case hardened parts;(g)Bordeaux connections.

### 2\. "Thorough examination" means a visual examination supplemented, if
necessary by other means, carried out as carefully as the conditions permit,
in order to arrive at a reliable conclusion as to the safety of the parts
examined; and if necessary for the purpose, parts of the gear must be
dismantled.

FORM IXPROHIBITION ORDER

## Part I

[See section 5(1) of the Dock Workers (Safety, Health and Welfare) Act, 1986,
and regulation 4]Inspector's notice on inspection of dock, ship, lifting
appliance, loose gears and other such gears, equipments, ladders and stagings,
Inspector's notice to the owner, master, officer-in-charge, or agents of the
ship, port authority, owner of lifting appliances, loose gears and lifting
devices or the person who, by himself, his agents, or his employers, carried
on the dock work, as the case may be.

Name of the dock, ship, lifting appliance, loose gear, lifting device, transport equipment, ladders andstagings | Where situated lying/used | Port of registry of ship | Official No. (if any) of ship  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  |  |   
  
An inspection of the above named dock, ship, lifting appliances, loose gears,
lifting devices, transport equipment, ladders and stagings, was made on
..........................The activities connected with dock work which are
being carried on by you/about to be carried on by you/under your control
involve a risk or danger to the life, safety and health of dock workers and
involve the following contraventions:CONTRAVENTIONSTherefore, I hereby direct
that the said activities shall not be carried on by you or under your control
unless the said contraventions and matters mentioned have been remedied to the
satisfaction of the Inspector.This order is being issue without prejudice or
any legal action which may be taken for these contraventions.On hearing from
you that the requirements have been complied with the dock/ship/lifting
appliance, loose gear or similar gear/transport equipment/ladders/staging
shall again be visited with a view to the inspection being completed.No
...........................................Dated at
..........................this ..........................day of
.......................... 20..........Inspector under the Dock Workers
(Safety, Health and Welfare) Act, 1986.REQUIREMENTSOn compliance with all or
any of the above contraventions, the Inspector shall be informed in the manner
prescribed overleaf, of the date and place at which the dock, ship, lifting
appliance, loose gears or similar gear, transport equipment, ladders and
staging can be reinspected.Sir,The contravention notified by you have been
effectively attended to. The dock, ship, lifting appliance, loose gears or
similar gear, transport equipment, ladders and stagings shall be ready for
inspection on the date and place named below :

Date of inspection | Place  
---|---  
Dated at........................ this............................... Day of.........................20....................... | Owner, master, officer-in-charge or agents of the ship, port authority, owner of machinery and gear or the person, who by himself, his agents or his employers, carried on the dock work.  
  
ToThe Inspector under the Dock Workers (Safety, Health and Welfare) Act,
1986.Notes.-1. Failure to comply with a prohibition order is an offence as
provided by section 21(4) of the Dock Workers (Safety, Health and Welfare)
Act, 1986, and renders the offender liable to a fine not exceeding Rs. 5,000
on each conviction or to an unlimited fine as per section 18 of the Act or to
an imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or both fine and
imprisonment, and a further fine not exceeding Rs. 100 per day per conviction
if the offence is continued as given under section 16(2) of the Act.

### 2\. As per section 14(4) of the Act a person who has been convicted for an
offence punishable under any of the provisions of the Act or the regulations
framed thereunder, is again convicted for an offence committed within two
years of the previous conviction and involving the contravention of the same
provisions, he shall be punishable for each subsequent conviction with double
imprisonment to which he would have been liable of the first contravention of
such provision.

### 3\. The Chief Inspector has the power to cancel or modify the order or to
extend the period specified in the order before the end of the period
specified in it without waiting for an appeal from the concerned employer or
wonder of premises/dock worker.

### 4\. Any person aggrieved by a prohibition order issued under section 5 of
the Act may, within 15 days from the date on which the order is communicated
to him, prefer an appeal to the Chief Inspector, Directorate-General, Factory
Advice Service and Labour Institute, Sion, Bombay-400 022, as provided under
section 8 of the Act, where such order is by the Chief Inspector, an appeal
shall be made to the Secretary in the Ministry of Labour, New Delhi.

### 5\. An appeal to the Chief Inspector by any aggrieved person must be
commenced by sending in writing to the Chief Inspector a notice containing the
following particulars---

(a)the name of the appellant and his address for service of documents;(b)date
of a prohibition order or orders appealed against and the addresses of the
premises or place concerned;(c)the name and address (as shown in a prohibition
order) of the respondent;(d)particulars of the requirements or directions
appealed against;(e)the grounds of an appeal.

### 6\. The entering of an appeal does not have the effect to suspend this
prohibition order. The application can be made for the suspension of the
prohibition order to the Chief Inspector, but the prohibition order continues
in force until the Chief Inspector otherwise directs.

### 7\. The issue of this prohibition order does not relieve the aggrieved
person of any legal action resting upon him for failure to comply with any
provision of this or any other enactment, before ordering issue of this order.

## Part II

IMPORTANT NOTICE(See regulation 4)Inspector's notice on inspection of dock,
ship, lifting appliance, loose gear or similar other gears, equipment, ladders
and stagings.Inspector's notice to the owner, master, officer-in-charge, or
agents of the ship, port authority, owner of lifting appliances, loose gears
and lifting devices or the person who, by himself, his agents, or his
employer, carries on the dock work, as the case may be.

Name of the dock, ship, lifting appliance, loose gear, lifting device, transport equipment, ladders and stagings | Where situated lying/used | Port of registry of ship | Official No. (if any) of ship  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  |  |   
  
An inspection of the above named dock, ship, lifting appliances, loose gears,
lifting devices, transport equipment, ladders and stagings was made on
...................The following contraventions were observed. You are
required to remedy the said contraventions and send the compliance report in
writing within ..............days.This notice is being issued without
prejudice to any legal action which may be taken for these contraventions.On
hearing from you that the requirements have been complied with the
dock/ship/lifting appliance/loose gear or similar other gear/transport
equipment/ladders/staging will again be visited with a view to the inspection
being completed.CONTRAVENTIONSNo ...................................Dated
...........................this ...................day of
..........................20................Inspector under the Dock
Workers(Safety, Health and Welfare) Act, 1986REQUIREMENTSOn compliance with
all or any of the above requirements, the Inspector shall be informed in the
manner prescribed overleaf, of the date and place at which the dock, ship,
lifting appliance, loose gears or similar gear, transport equipment, ladders
and stagings can be reinspected.Sir,The requirements noted by you have been
effectively fulfilled. The dock, ship, lifting appliance, loose gears lifting
devices, transport equipment, ladders and stagings shall be ready for
inspection on the date and place named below :

Date of inspection | Place  
---|---  
Dated at..............this.....................day of.............20.............. | Owner, master, officer-in-charge or agents of the ship, port authority, owner of machinery and gear or the person, who by himself, his agents or his employers, carried on the dock work.  
  
ToThe Inspector under the Dock Workers (Safety, Health and Welfare) Act,
1986.FORM X(See regulation 113)ABSTRACTS OF DOCK WORKERS (SAFETY, HEALTH AND
WELFARE) ACT, 1986

### 3\.

(1)The appropriate Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoints such person as it thinks fit to be the Chief Inspector of dock safety
and such persons as it thinks fit to be inspectors subordinate to the Chief
Inspector for the purposes of this Act at such ports as may be specified in
the notification.(2)The Chief Inspector shall also exercise the powers of an
inspector.(3)The Chief Inspector and all inspectors shall be deemed to be
public servants within the meaning of the Indian Penal Code.

### 4\. An inspector may, at any port for which he is appointed,

(a)enter with such assistance (if any), as he thinks fit, any ship, dock,
warehouse or other premises, where any dock work is being carried on, or where
he has reason to believe that any dock work is being carried on;(b)make
examination of the ship, dock, lifting machinery, cargo gear, stagings,
transport equipment, warehouses or other premises, used or to be used for any
dock work;(c)require the production of any register, muster roll or other
document relating to the employment of dock workers and examine such
document;(d)take on the spot or otherwise such evidence of any person which he
may deem necessary :Provided that no person shall be compelled under this
section to answer any question or give any evidence tending to incriminate
himself;(e)take copies of registers, records or other documents or portions
thereof as he may consider relevant in respect of any offence which he has
reason to believe has been committed or for the purpose of any inquiry;(f)take
photograph, sketch, sample, measure or record as he may consider necessary for
the purpose of any examination or inquiry;(g)hold an inquiry into the cause of
any accident which he has reason to believe was the result of the collapse or
failure of lifting machinery, transport equipment, staging or non-compliance
with any of the provisions of this Act or the regulations;(h)issue show-cause
notice relating to the safety, health and welfare provisions arising under
this Act or the Regulations;(i)prosecute, conduct or defend before any Court,
any complaint or other proceeding arising under this Act or the
regulations;(j)exercise such other powers as may be conferred upon him by the
regulations.

### 5\.

(1)If it appears to an inspector that any place at which any dock work is
being carried on is in such a condition that it is dangerous to life, safety
or health of dock workers, he may, in writing, serve on the owner or on the
person in charge of such place and order prohibiting any dock work in such
place until measures have been taken to remove the cause of the danger to his
satisfaction.

### 6\. The owner or the person in charge of the place at which any dock work
is being carried on shall afford the chief inspector or the inspector all
reasonable facilities for making any entry, inspection, survey, measurement
examination or inquiry under this Act or regulations.

### 13\. No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any
person of anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under
this Act.

### 14\.

(1)Whoever,---(a)wilfully obstructs an inspector in exercise of any power
conferred by or under this Act or fails to produce on demand by an inspector
any register or other documents kept in pursuance of the regulations or
otherwise in connection with any dock work or conceals or prevents or attempts
to prevent any person from appearing before, of being examined by, an
inspector; or(b)unless duly authorised or in case of necessity, removes any
fencing, gangway, gear, ladder, life-saving means or appliance, light, mark,
stage or other thing required to be provided by or under, the regulations;
or(c)having in case of necessity removed any such tenting, gangway, gear,
ladder, life-saving means or appliance, light, mark, stage or other things,
omits or restore it at the end of the period for which its removal was
necessary, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend
to six months, or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with
both.(2)If any person, being a person whose duty is to comply with any of the
regulations, contravenes such regulations and such contravention results(a)in
any fatal accident to a dock worker, or(b)an accident which incapacitates a
dock worker from earning his full wages for more than a fortnight, such person
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months or with fine which shall not be less than two thousand rupees in a case
falling under clause (a) and five hundred rupees in a case falling under
clause (b) but which may extend, in either case, to five thousand rupees, or
with both, and the Court may order the whole or part of the fine to be paid to
the dependent of the deceased dock worker or, as the case may be, to the
injured dock worker.Explanation.-The provisions of this sub-section shall be
in addition to any provisions which may be made under sub-section (4) of
section 21.FORM XI(See regulation 113)Abstracts Of The Dock Workers (Safety,
Health And Welfare) Regulations, 1989

## Part 1

General

### 2\. Definitions.-"Inspector" means a person appointed by the Central
Government under section 3 of the Act and includes the Chief Inspector.

### 3\. Powers of Inspector.-(a) An Inspector may, at any port for which he is
appointed,--

(i)enter, with such assistance (if any) as he thinks fit, any ship, dock,
warehouse or other premises where any dock work is being carried on or where
he has reason to believe that any dock work is being carried on;(ii)make
examination of the ship, dock, lifting appliance, loose, gear, lifting device,
staging, transport equipment, warehouse or other premises, used or to be used
for any dock work;(iii)require the production of any register, muster roll or
other document relating to the employment of dock workers and examine such
document;(iv)take on the spot or otherwise such evidence of any person which
he may deem necessary :Provided that no person shall be compelled under sub-
regulation 3(a)(iv) to answer any question or give any evidence tending to
incriminate himself;(v)take copies of registers, records or other documents
portions thereof as he may consider relevant in respect of any offence which
he has reason to believe has been committed or for the purpose of any
inquiry;(vi)take photograph, sketch, sample, weight, measure or record as he
may consider necessary for the purpose of any examination or inquiry;(vii)hold
an inquiry into the cause of any accident or dangerous occurrence which he has
reason to believe was the result of the collapse or failure of any lifting
appliance, loose gear, transport equipment, staging or non-compliance with any
of the provisions of the Act or the regulations;(viii)issue show-cause notice
relating to the safety, health and welfare provisions arising under the Act or
the regulations;(ix)prosecute, conduct or defend before any Court any
complaint or other proceedings arising under the Act or the regulations;
and(x)direct the port authority, dock labour board and other employers of dock
workers for getting the dock workers medically examined if considered
necessary.(b)A person having general management and control of the premises or
the owner, master, officer-in-charge or agents of the ship, as the case may
be, shall provide such means as may be required by the inspector for entry,
inspection, examination, inquiry, or otherwise for the exercise of his powers
under the Act and the regulations in relation to that ship or premises which
shall also include the provisions of launch or other means of transport.

### 4\. Notice of inspection.-(1) An inspector may notify any defects or
deficiencies which may come to his notice during his inspection and
examination which he wishes to point out together with any orders passed by
him under the Act or the regulations in Form IX to---

(i)the owner, master, officer-in-charge or agents of the ship; or(ii)the port
authority; or(iii)the owner of lifting appliance, loose gears, lifting devices
and transport equipment; or(iv)the employer of dock workers.(2)When an
inspector serves notice under sub-regulation 4(1) above in relation to any
dock, lifting appliance, loose gear, lifting device, transport equipment,
ladder or staging, he may, in the notice, prohibit the dock work where
conditions are dangerous to life, safety or health of dock workers and the use
of the same in connection with the dock work, and such dock, lifting
appliances, loose gears, lifting devices, transport equipment, ladders or
stagings shall not be used until the defect or defects specified in the notice
have been remedied and the inspector has withdrawn the prohibitory order.

### 6\. Penalties.-Save as is otherwise expressly provided in these
Regulations, whoever being a person responsible to comply with any of the
regulations commits a breach of such regulations shall be guilty of an offence
and punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or
with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees or with both, and, if the
breach is continued after conviction, with a further fine which may extend to
one hundred rupees for each day on which the breach is so continued.

## Part II

Responsibilities

### 7\. Responsibilities.-(5) It shall be the duty of every dock worker to
comply with the requirements of such of these regulations as relate to the
performance of, or refraining from an act by him and to co-operate in carrying
out requirements of these regulations and if he discovers any defects in the
lifting appliance, loose gear, lifting device, conveying and transport
equipments or other equipment to report such defects without unreasonable
delay to his employer or foreman or other person in authority.

(6)No person shall, unless duly authorised or in case of necessity, remove or
interfere with any fencing, gangway, gear, ladder, hatch, covering life saving
appliance, lighting, or other thing whatsoever required by the Act and these
regulations to be proved of the period during which their removal was needed.
If removed, such things shall be restored at the (sic) by the persons last
engaged in that work was necessitated such removal.(9)Every dock worker shall
use the means of access provided in accordance with these regulations, and no
person shall authorise or order another on or off nor shall any person
authorise or order (sic) accordance therewith.(10)No person shall go upon any
hatch beam for the purpose of adjusting the gear for lifting them on or off
nor shall any person authorise or order another to do so.

## Part III

SafetyA.-WORKING PLACES

### 9\. Surfaces.-(1) Every regular approach over a dock which the dock
workers have to use for going to or from a working place and every such
working place inside the dock shall be--

(a)kept clean and free from objects that can cause slipping, stumbling or
falling;(b)maintained in good repair with due regard to the safety of the dock
workers.(2)All areas of a dock shall be kept properly drained and graded in
order to facilitate safe access to sheds, warehouses and store places and safe
handling of cargo and equipment.(3)Drain pools and catch basins shall be
properly covered or enclosed.(4)All areas of a dock and all approaches on
which lifting appliances and transport equipment are used shall be soundly
constructed, surfaced with good warming material and sufficiently even and
free from holes and cracks to afford safe transport of cargo, shall be
properly maintained.(5)Any working area in a dock which is damaged or under
repair shall be effectively blocked of from other areas and, when necessary,
warning lights shall be provided at night.(6)All landing places used by dock
workers for embarking or disembarking from crafts meant for transport by water
shall be maintained in good repair with due regard to the safety of the
persons using them.

### 10\. Fencing of dangerous places.-(1) The following parts of a dock and
approaches shall, as far as practicable, having regard to the traffic and
working be securely fenced so that the height of the fence shall in no place
be less than one metre and the fencing shall be maintained in good condition
:--

(a)all brakes, dangerous corners and other dangerous parts or edges of a
dock;(b)both sides of such footways, overbridges, caissons and dock gates as
are in general use by dock workers and each side of the entrance at each end
of such footway for sufficient distance not exceeding 4.5 metres :Provided
that, in case of fences which were constructed before the date of commencement
of this regulation, it shall be sufficient if the height of the fence is in no
place less than 75 cms.(2)The ditches, pits, trenches for pipes and cables and
other hazardous openings and excavations shall be securely covered or
adequately fenced.(3)Where wharves or quays slope steeply towards the water,
the outer edge shall be protected as far as practicable.

### 11\. Passage to be kept clear.-(1) Cargo shall not be stored or
transporting equipment or lifting appliances so placed on any areas of a dock
where dock workers are employed so as to obstruct access to ships, cranes,
life-saving appliances, fire fighting equipment and welfare facilities
provided under these regulations.

(2)Where any space is left along the edge of any wharf or quay, it shall be at
least 90 cms. wide and shall be kept clear of all obstructions other than
fixed structures, plant and appliances in use.(3)Where working areas of a dock
are enclosed and the traffic warrants, a separate gate or passage shall be
provided for pedestrians.

### 12\. Railings and fencings.-(1) All railings for the fencing of hatchways
accommodation ladders, gangways, stairway for embarking, disembarking and any
other dangerous place shall be of sound material, good construction and
possess adequate strength and unless specified in these regulations--

(a)be at least one metre in height; and(b)consist of two rails or two taut
ropes or chains supporting stanchions and to be boards.(2)Intermediate rails,
ropes or chains shall be 50 centimetres high.(3)Stanchions shall not be more
than two metres apart and shall be secured against inadvertent lifting
out.(4)The toe board shall be at least 15 centimetres in height.(5)Railings
shall be free from sharp edges.(6)Temporary fencing of hatchways, elevated
platforms, etc., shall as far as reasonably practical, extend to a height of
one metre and consist of either---(a)two taut ropes or chains with stanchions;
or(b)a properly rigged and securely fastened safety net.(7)Stairs giving
access to transport vessel shall be equipped with wooden or rubber tenders so
that a gap of more than 30 centimetres is maintained between the side of the
steps and side of the vessel.

### 15\. Life-saving appliances.-Provision for rescue from drowning of dock
workers shall be made and maintained, and shall include---

(a)a supply of life-saving appliance, kept in readiness on the wharf or quay,
which shall be reasonably adequate having regard to all the circumstances;
and(b)means at or near the surface of the water at reasonable intervals for
enabling a person in water to support himself or escape from the water which
shall be reasonably adequate having regard to all the circumstances.

### 16\. Illumination.-(1) All areas in a dock and on a ship where dock work
is carried on and all approaches to such areas and to places to which dock
workers may be required to go in the course of their employment shall be
safely and efficiently lighted in an appropriate way.

(2)The general illumination in areas on the dock where dock workers have to
pass shall be at least 10 lux and at places where dock workers are employed,
the illumination shall be at least 25 lux without prejudice to the provision
of any additional illumination needed at particularly dangerous places.(3)The
means of artificial lighting shall so fAr as is practicable be such and so
placed as to prevent glare or formation of shadows to such an extent as to
cause risk of accident to any dock worker.(4)The portable lights shall be
maintained in good condition and shall--(a)be equipped with substantial
reflectors and guards; and(b)be equipped with heavy duty electric cards with
connection and insulation maintained in safe condition.

### 18\. Excessive noise, etc.-Adequate precautions shall be taken to protect
dock workers against the harmful effects of excessive noise, vibrations and
air pollution at the work place. In no case the noise levels shall exceed the
limits laid down in Schedule VII.

B.-WAREHOUSES AND STORE PLACES

### 27\. Fencing of and means of access to lifting appliances.-(1) Safe means
of access to every part of a lifting appliance shall be provided.

(2)The operator's platform on every crane or tip driven by mechanical power
shall be securely fenced and shall be provided with safe means of access. In
particular, where access is by a ladder,(a)the sides of the ladder shall
extend to a reasonable distance beyond the platform or some other suitable
handhold shall be provided;(b)the landing place on the platform shall be
maintained free from obstruction and slipping; and(c)in case where the ladder
is vertical and exceeds six metres in height, a resting place shall be
provided, after every six metres and part thereof.D.-DECKS, HATCHWAYS, ETC.

### 29\. Bulwarks or rails.-(1) All upper decks to which dock workers may have
access for the purpose of carrying on dock work shall be provided on the outer
edge up to a height of one metre above the deck with a bulwark or guard rails
so designed constructed and placed, as to prevent any dock worker from
accidently falling overboard.

(2)The bulwark or guard rails shall be continuous except where sections have
to be removed for the purpose of dock work and such sections shall not extend
beyond the minimum distance necessary.

### 33\. Fencing around hatchways.-(1) Every hatchway of a hold exceeding 1.5
metres in depth, which is not protected by coming to a clear height of 75
centimetres shall, when not in use, either be effectively fenced to a height
of one metre or to be securely covered to prevent dock workers from falling
into the hold.

(2)If, in any hatch, dock work is carried on simultaneously at two decks, the
open end of the hatch in the higher deck shall be protected to a height of one
metre by means of planks or nets or in some other suitable manner to prevent
fall of dock workers or cargo and the safety nets when rigged shall not be
secured to the hatch covers.(3)When an edge of a hatch section or of stowed
cargo more than 2.5 metres high is so exposed that it presents a danger to
dock workers falling, the edge shall be guarded by a taut rope, safety net or
railing to a height of one metre.(4)Dock workers employed in a hold on a party
covered hatch or on a stack shall be protected by spreading a net or in some
other suitable way, against the danger of falling down.

### 34\. Hatch coverings, hatch beams, etc. - (1) All fore and beams and
thwartship beams used for hatch covering shall have suitable gear for lifting
them on and off without it being necessary for any dock worker to go upon them
to adjust such gear.

(2)All hatch coverings and beams shall be kept plainly marked to indicate the
deck and hatch to which they belong and their position therein.(3)All hatch
coverings and beams shall be replaced according to their markings :Provided
that this regulation shall not apply in cases where all the hatch coverings
and beams of a ship are interchangeable or, in respect of marking of position,
where all hatch coverings of a hatch are interchangeable.(4)All fore and aft
beams and thwartship beams including sliding beams and the tracks used for
hatch coverings and all hatch coverings shall be maintained in good
condition.(5)Adequate handgrips shall be provided on all hatch coverings,
having regard to their size and weight, unless construction of the hatch or
the hatch covering is of a character rendering the provision of handgrips
unnecessary.(6)Hatch coverings shall not be used in the construction of stages
or for any other purpose which may expose them to damage.(7)Hatch covers and
beams shall not be removed and replaced while dock work is in progress in the
hold under the hatchway. Before loading or unloading takes place, any hatch
cover or beam that is not adequately secured against displacement shall be
removed.(8)Only an authorised person shall be permitted to open or close
power-operated hatch covers.(9)Folding hatch covers shall be fitted with
locking devices to prevent covers from folding back.(10)Hatch covers shall not
be opened or closed in such manner as is likely to cause injury to any dock
worker.

### 37\. Securing of hatch covering and hatch beams.-(1) Where an hatch beam
is fitted with a permanent device for securing it in position in the hatch,
that device and its corresponding fitting in the coaming shall be effectively
and properly maintained.

(2)The beams of any hatch in use for the dock work shall, if not removed, be
adequately secured to prevent their displacement.(3)Any sliding or rolling
hatch beams supporting hatch coverings which are left in position in a partly
opened hatch shall be adequately secured to prevent any horizontal movement of
the hatch beams.(4)Every sliding or rolling hatch beam and its guides shall be
so constructed and maintained that the hatch beam is not liable to be
accidentally displaced from its guides.(5)Mechanically operated hatch
coverings shall, where stored, be adequately secured to prevent
movement.E.-LIFTING APPLIANCES AND GEARS

### 41\. Test and periodical examination of lifting appliances.-(1) Before
being taken into use for the first time or after it has undergone any
alterations or repairs liable to affect its strength or stability and also
once at least in every five years, all lifting appliances including all parts
and gears thereof, whether fixed or movable, shall be tested and examined by a
competent person in the manner set out in Schedule I.

(2)All lifting appliances shall be thoroughly examined by a competent person
once at least in every 12 months. Where the competent person making this
examination forms the opinion that the lifting appliance cannot continue to
function safely, he shall forthwith give notice in writing of his opinion to
the owner of the lifting appliance or in case of lifting appliance carried on
board a ship not registered in India to the master or officer-in-charge of the
ship.(3)Thorough examination for the purpose of this regulation shall mean a
visual examination, supplemented, if necessary, by other means such as hammer
test carried out as carefully as the conditions permit, in order to arrive at
a reliable conclusion as to the safety of the parts examined and, if necessary
for this purpose, parts of the lifting appliance and gear shall be dismantled.

### 48\. Ropes.-(1) No rope shall be used for dock work unless--

(a)it is of suitable quality and free from patent defects, and(b)as regards
wire rope slings, either the (sic) and examined by a competent person in the
manner set out in Schedule I.(2)Every wire rope of lifting appliance or loose
gear used in dock work shall be inspected by a responsible person once at
least in every three months, provided that after any wire has broken in such
rope, it shall be inspected once at least in a month.(3)A thimble or loop
splice made in any wire rope shall conform to the following standard :(a)wire
rope or rope sling shall have at least three tucks with full strand of rope
and two tucks with one-half of the wires cut out of each strand and strands in
all cases shall be tucked against the lay of the rope;(b)protruding ends of
strands in any splice on wire rope and rope slings shall be covered or treated
so as to leave no sharp points;(c)fibre rope or rope sling shall have at least
four tucks tail of such tuck being whipped in a suitable manner;
and(d)synthetic fibre rope or rope sling shall have at least four tucks with
full strand followed by further tuck with one-half filaments cut out of each
strand and final tuck with one-half of the remaining filaments, cut out from
strand. The portion of the splices containing the tucks with the reduced
number of filaments shall be securely covered with suitable tape or other
material :Provided that this sub-regulation shall not operate to prevent the
use of another form of splice which can be shown to be as efficient as that
laid down in this regulation.

### 52\. Marking of safe working load.-(1) Every lifting appliance and every
item of loose gear shall be clearly marked with its safe working load and
identification mark by stamping or, where this is impracticable, by other
suitable means.

(2)(a)Every ship's derrick (other than derrick crane) shall be clearly marked
with its safe working load when the derrick is used :(i)in single
purchase;(ii)with a lower cargo block; and(iii)in union purchases in all
possible dock positions.(b)The lowest angle to the horizontal, that the
derrick may be used shall also be legibly marked.(3)Every lifting appliance
(other than ship's derrick) having more than one safe working load shall be
fitted with effective means enabling the operator to determine the safe
working load under each condition of use.(4)Means shall be provided to enable
any dock worker using loose gears to ascertain the safe working load for such
loose gears under such conditions as it may be used and such means shall
consist of :(a)as regards chain slings, of marking the safe working load in
plain figures or letters upon the sling or upon a tablet or ring of durable
material attached securely thereto; and(b)as regards wire rope slings, either
the means specified in clause (a) above or notice or notices so exhibited as
can be easily read by any concerned dock worker stating the safe working load
for the various sizes of the wire rope slings used.(5)No lifting appliance or
loose gears shall be used unless marked in accordance with the provisions of
this regulation.

### 54\. Pulley blocks.-No pulley blocks shall be used in dock work unless the
safe working load and its identification marks are clearly stamped upon it.

### 56\. Knotting of chains and wire ropes.-No chain or wire shall be used in
dock work with a knot in it.

F.-TRANSPORT EQUIPMENT AND OPERATIONS

### 58\. Use of internal combustion engines in the holds.-(1) Internal
combustion engines shall not be used in connection with the dock work in the
holds or cargo spaces unless,

(a)adequate means of ventilation and, where necessary, mechanical ventilation
is provided;(b)suitable fire-fighting equipment is readily
available;(c)exhaust pipes, connections and mufflers are kept tight;(d)exhaust
is so directed as not to cause inconvenience to the operators and dock
workers;(e)it is ensured that no explosives, inflammable liquids, gases or
similar dangerous cargo are present;(f)a spark arrestor is fitted on the
exhaust of the engine and the bare heated surfaces of the engine, that are
liable to ignite spilled fuel, are suitably protected;(g)the engine is
refuelled above deck; and(h)the exhaust does not contain the carbon monoxide
above TLV prescribed in the national standards.(2)The internal combustion
engine shall be switched off when not in use in connection with the dock
work.(3)Operators of internal combustion engines in cargo spaces or cargo
holds shall not work alone.(4)Whenever internal combustion engines for use in
dock work are to be brought on board, the master or the officer-incharge of
the ship shall be notified.G-HANDLING OF CARGO

### 65\. Loading and unloading operations.-(l) No cargo shall be loaded or
unloaded by a fall or sling at any intermediate deck unless either the hatch
at the deck is securely covered or a secure landing platform of a width not
less than that of one section of hatch coverings has been placed across it.

Provided that this regulation shall not apply to an loading or unloading work
the whole of which may be completed within a period of half an hour.(2)No
loose gear or any other object shall be thrown in or out of the
holds.(3)During the loading and unloading of bulk cargo a record of all dock
workers employed in the hold shall be maintained and produced on demand to the
Inspector.(4)Where necessary, cargo shall be secured or blocked to prevent its
shifting or falling. In breaking down, precautions shall be taken where
necessary to prevent the remaining cargo from falling.(5)(a)Dragging of cargo
shall be done with the ship's winches only when the runner is led directly
from the derrick heel block; and(b)Pulley blocks shall be used to provided a
fair lead for the runner so as to prevent it from dragging against
obstructions.(6)If the head room in the hold of a ship for the purpose of
stacking and unstacking is less than 1.5 metres, suitable measures shall be
taken to guard against accidents.(7)Loads shall be safely slung before being
hoisted. Loose dunnage or debris hanging or protruding from loads shall be
removed and suitable means shall be adopted to prevent cargo from falling
out.(8)Cargo-handling bridles, such as pallet bridles, which are to remain
attached to the lifting appliance while hoisting successive sling loads, shall
be attached by shackles, or other positive means shall be taken to prevent
them from becoming accidentally disengaged from the hook of the lifting
appliance.(9)When lifting appliance is operating without a load on the
slings--(a)slings or chains shall be hooked securely to the appliance before
the operators are given signal to move;(b)sharp hooks, multiple hooks and
claws shall not hang a one end but shall be reeved through slings; and(c)the
operators shall raise the appliance sufficiently to keep clear off dock
workers and objects.(10)Effective measures shall be taken by the use of
suitable packing or otherwise, to prevent edges of any load from coming into
contact with any rope or chain sling which is likely to cause any damage to
the rope or chain sling.(11)Buckets, tubs and similar appliances shall not be
loaded above their rims.(12)No loads shall be lifted at strappings unless such
strappings are approved as proper and safer slinging points. Movements of such
loads is allowed only if everybody has left the danger zone.(13)When working
with lifting appliances, slopepulling, horizontal dragging and intentional
swing of loads and lifting devices are prohibited.

### 66\. Stacking and unstacking.-(1) Where stacking, unstacking, stowing or
unstowing, stuffing or destuffing of cargo or handling in connection therewith
cannot be safely carried out unaided reasonable measures to guard against
accidents shall be taken by shoring or otherwise.

(2)Stacking of cargo shall be made on firm foundation not liable to settle and
the weight of the cargo shall be such as not to overload the floors.(3)Cargo
shall not be stacked against partition or walls of warehouses or storeplaces
unless it is known that the partition or the wall is of sufficient strength to
withstand the pressure.(4)Cargo shall not be stacked to such a height and in
such a manner as would render the pile unstable.(5)Where the dock workers are
working on stacks exceeding 1.5 metres in height, safe means of access to the
stack shall be provided.(6)Stacking and unstacking work shall be performed
under the supervision of an authorised person.

### 68\. Hooks for bales, etc.-When the working space in a hold is confined to
the square of the batch, hooks shall not be made fast in the bonds or
fastenings of bales of cotton, wool, cork, gunny bags, or other similar goods,
nor shall hooks be used for raising or lowering a barrel when, owing to the
construction or condition of the barrel or of the hooks, their use is likely
to be unsafe.

### 70\. Restrictions on loading and unloading operations.-(1) No other work,
for example, maintenance or repair work such as sand blasting or welding shall
be performed at places where dock work is in progress if it is likely to
endanger or obstruct the person carrying out dock work.

(2)When more thap one gang of dock workers are employed in dock work
simultaneously in a hold, it shall be ensured that,--(a)the operation of
loading or unloading is harmonised to avoid dangerous to the working gangs
from one another;(b)the slung cargo of one gang will not endanger the dock
workers of the other gang;(c)where gangs are working at different levels, a
net shall be rigged and securely fastened to prevent dock workers from falling
down or cargo falling on to dock workers below;(d)overcrowding of gangs in a
section of the hold is avoided.

### 71\. Dock work at midstream.-No dock worker shall be employed to handle
cargo on any ship anchored in midstream whenever the working conditions are
considered to be dangerous.

### 72\. Work during berthing and shifting of ships.-(1) While ships are being
berthed or shifted, no dock work shall be carried out by dock workers in the
holds or hatches and on decks.

(2)When ships are being moored, dock workers shall be kept clear of the
mooring ropes and, in particular, shall not be allowed to stand in the bight
ropes being hauled by capstans.

### 73\. Protective equipment.-(1) Where other means of protection against
harmful agents are impracticable or insufficient, dock workers shall be
provided with adequate protective clothing and personal protective equipment
to shield them from the effects of such agents.

(2)Protective clothing and personal protective equipment shall be of suitable
quality and maintained in good condition and shall be cleaned and disinfected
at suitable intervals.(3)Where protective equipment and clothing may be
contaminated by poisonous or other dangerous goods, it shall be stored in a
separate accommodation where it will not contaminate the dock workers clothing
and other belonging.(4)Suitable protective equipment shall be issued to the
dock workers employed in the reefer holds or chambers or reefer containers for
affording complete body protection.H.-HANDLING OF DANGEROUS GOODS

### 77\. General precautions.-(1) Dangerous goods shall be loaded, unloaded,
handled and stored under the supervision of a responsible person who is
familiar with the risks and the precautions to be taken. In case of doubt as
to the nature of the risk or the precautions to be taken, necessary
instructions shall be obtained from the Safety Officer appointed under these
regulations.

(2)Dangerous goods shall not loaded, unloaded or stored unless they are
suitably packed and labelled showing the danger therefrom. The dock workers
shall be given adequate information concerning the nature of the cargo and the
special precautions to be observed in handling them.(3)Special precautions,
such as provision of mats, sling nets, boxes and high sided pallets shall be
taken to prevent breakages or damage to containers of the dangerous
goods.(4)Dock workers employed in loading or unloading or otherwise handling
dangerous goods shall be provided with suitable protective equipment.(5)Dock
workers handling dangerous goods shall thoroughly wash their hands and faces
with soap or some other cleaning agent before taking any food, drink, pan and
supari or tobacco.(6)Only specially trained dock workers shall be employed for
cleaning, sweeping or handling spillages or sweeping of dangerous goods.

### 79\. Other dangerous goods.-(1) Before fumigated cargo such as grain is
loaded or unloaded, adequate measures shall be taken to ensure that the cargo
is safe to handle.

(2)Where caustic and corrosive substances are handled or stored, special
precautions shall be taken to prevent damage to the containers and to render
any spillage harmless.(3)If skins, wool, hair, bones, or other animal parts
have not been certified by competent authority as having been disinfected,
especially against anthrax, the dock workers concerned shall be--(a)instructed
about the risk of infection and the precautions to be taken;(b)provided with
suitable type of personal protective equipment; and(c)subjected to special
medical supervision.

### 81\. Broken or leaking containers.-(1) When there is danger from broken or
leaking containers of dangerous goods, dock workers shall be evacuated from
the area involved and the following steps taken before dock work is resumed--

(a)if the cargo produces dangerous gases or vapours--(i)suitable respiratory
protective equipment shall be made available for dock workers who are to
remove the defective containers;(ii)the area shall be ventilated if necessary
and tested to ensure that the concentration of gases or vapours in the
atmosphere is safe for dock work;(b)if the cargo is a corrosive
substance,(i)suitable personal protective equipment shall be made available to
the dock workers engaged in the removal of damaged containers; and(ii)suitable
absorbent or neutralizing materials shall be used in cleaning the spillage.

### 82\. Toxic solvents.-Before any solvents are used, the toxic properties of
such solvents shall be ascertained and adequate means to safeguard the health
of the dock workers exposed to toxic solvents shall be provided.

J.-MISCELLANEOUS

### 87\. Fencing of motors, etc.-(1) All motors, cogwheels, chains and
friction gearing, flywheels, shaftings, every dangerous and moving part of
machinery (whether or not driven by mechanical power) and steam pipes shall be
securely fenced or lagged.

(2)The fencing of dangerous parts of machinery shall not be removed while the
machinery is in motion or in use, but if removed, shall be replaced before the
machinery is taken into normal use again.(3)No part of any machinery which is
in motion and which is not securely fenced shall be examined, lubricated,
adjusted or repaired except by persons duly authorised.(4)Machine parts shall
only be cleaned when the machine is stopped.(5)When machinery is stopped for
servicing or repairs, adequate means shall be taken to ensure that it cannot
inadvertently be restarted.

### 88\. Electrical equipment.-(1) Only duly authorised person shall be
permitted to install, adjust, examine, repair, displace or remove electrical
equipment or circuits.

(2)Efficient and suitably located means shall be provided for cutting off all
pressure from every part of the system, as may be necessary, to prevent
danger.(3)All portable electrical equipment shall be maintained in good
working order and inspected by a responsible person at least once in every day
before it is taken into use.(4)Portable electric light or equipment used in a
confined space shall be of twenty four volts or less.(5)Only flame-proof
electrical equipment shall be used in a confined space where flammable gas,
fume or dust is likely to be present.(6)All non-current carrying metal parts
of electrical equipment shall be earthed or other suitable measures shall be
taken to prevent them from becoming live.(7)Portable or flexible electric
conductors shall be of heavy duty type and shall be kept clear of loads,
running gear and moving equipment.(8)All live conductors shall be adequately
insulated or fenced to prevent danger by accidental contact of dock workers or
non-current carrying parts of lifting appliances, conveyors, transport
equipment and machinery.

### 89\. Transport of dock workers on land.-Suitable means of safe transport
shall be provided for the dock workers for their movement from their place of
booking to the working area or between the two working areas when the distance
between the points exceeds two kilometres.

### 90\. Transport of dock workers by water.-(1) When any dock worker has to
proceed to or from a ship by water for the purposes of carrying on a dock
work, proper measures shall be taken to provide for his safe transportation
Vessels used for this purpose shall be in the charge of a responsible person
and shall be properly equipped for safe navigation and maintained in good
condition.

(2)The means of transport referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall conform to
the following :-(a)adequate protection is provided to the dock workers from
inclement weather;(b)the vessel shall be manned by adequate and experienced
crew, duly authorised by a competent authority;(c)if the bulwarks of the
vessels are lower than 60 centimetres, the open edges shall be fitted with
suitable fencing to a height of at least one metre above the dock. The posts,
stanchions and similar parts used in the fencing shall not be spaced more than
two metres apart;(d)the number of life buoys on deck shall be at least equal
to the number of persons in the crew and shall not be less than two;(e)all
life buoys shall be kept in good state of maintenance and be so placed that if
vessel sinks they remain afloat, one of the said buoys shall be within the
immediate reach of the steerman and another shall be situated as far as aft
part; and--(f)the position of the steerman of the vessel shall be such that he
has a reasonably free view of all sides.(3)Maximum number of persons that can
be safely carried in the vessel shall be certified by a competent authority
and marked plainly and conspicuously on the vessel and such number shall not
be exceeded.

## Part IV

Health

### 90\. Cleanliness.-(1) Every place in the ship, dock and all areas which
are in proximity to the place in the dock, where dock workers are employed,
shall be kept clean and free from rubbish or effluvia arising from any drain,
privy or other nuisance.

(2)All the accumulated garbages from the ships and the dock area shall be
disposed of by burning in an incenerator or by other suitable means.(3)All the
damaged or deteriorated cargo posing hazards to safety or health or nuisance
shall be removed or disposed of from the work place where the dock workers are
employed.

### 96\. Drinking water.-(1)(a) On board every ship and every dock effective
arrangement shall be made to provide and maintain at suitable points
conveniently situated for all dock workers employed therein, sufficient supply
of wholesome drinking water :

Provided that the drinking water point is available within 100 metres of the
place where dock workers are employed.(b)Effective arrangement shall be made
to provide and maintain adequate supply of wholesome drinking water on board
every ship in midstream for all dock workers employed thereon.(c)The water
provided for drinking shall be supplied from the public water supply system or
otherwise from any other source approved in writing by the health officer of
the port.(2)All such points shall be legibly marked "drinking water" in a
language understood by a majority of the dock workers, and no such point shall
be situated within six metres of any washing place, urinal or latrine unless a
shorter distance is approved in writing by the Chief Inspector.(3)In every
dock, the drinking water supplied to the dock workers shall, during hot
weather, be cooled by ice or other effective means:Provided that if ice is
placed in the drinking water, the ice shall be clean and wholesome and shall
be obtained only from a source approved in writing by the health office of the
port.(4)Every drinking water centre shall be maintained in a clean and orderly
condition and if necessary shall be in-charge of a suitable person who shall
distribute the water. Such a person shall be provided with clean clothes while
on duty.(5)The drinking water centres shall be sheltered from the weather and
adequately drained.(6)Storage tanks or containers for drinking water shall
always be kept in clean and hygienic condition.(7)The Inspector may, by order
in writing, direct the port authority to obtain, at such time or at such
intervals as he may direct, a report from the health officer of the part as to
the fitness for human consumption of the water supplied to the dock workers,
and in every case to submit to the inspector a copy of such report as soon as
it is received from the health officer.

### 97\. Latrine and urinals.-(1) In every dock, latrine and urinal
accommodation shall be provided on the scale given in Schedule VIII and shall
be conveniently situated and accessible to dock workers at all times while
they are at work. Such accommodation and access to it shall be adequately
lighted and ventilated.

(2)Separate latrines shall be provided where female dock workers are
employed.(3)The floors and internal walls of the latrines and urinals and the
sanitary blocks shall be laid in glazed tiles or otherwise finished to provide
a smooth polished impervious surface upto a height of at least 90
centimetres.(4)All such accommodation shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition at all times. The floors, side walls and the sanitary pans
of latrines and urinals shall be thoroughly swept and cleaned at least once in
a day with suitable detergents or disinfectants or with both.(5)Every latrine
shall be under cover and so partitioned off as to secure privacy and shall
have a proper door and fastenings.(6)The walls, ceilings and partitions of
every latrine and urinal shall be whitewashed or colour-washed and the white-
washing or colour washing shall be repeated, at least once in four months and
record maintained.(7)Where piped water supply is available, sufficient number
of water taps, conventionally accessible shall be provided in or near such
latrine accommodation.(8)Where piped water supply is not available, provision
shall be made to store adequate quantity of water near the latrine.

### 99\. Ventilation and temperature in dock area including reefer holds on
ships.-Effective and suitable provision shall be made in every dock for
securing and maintaining in every building or an enclosure or a reefer hold or
chamber or refer container where dock workers are employed, adequate
ventilation by the circulation of fresh air and such temperature and air
movement as will secure to dock workers therein reasonable conditions of
comfort and prevent injury to health.

## Part V

Welfare

### 100\. Washing facilities.-(1) In every dock, rest shed, call stand and
canteen, adequate and suitable facilities for washing shall be provided and
maintained for the use of the dock workers and such facilities shall be
conveniently accessible and shall be kept in clean and orderly condition.
Washing facilities shall include glazed wash basins with taps attached
thereto.

(2)Where dock workers are exposed to skin contamination by poisonous,
infectious or irritant substances or oil, grease or dust, adequate number of
shower-baths enclosed in individual compartments, with entrances suitably
screened shall be provided.(3)These facilities shall be provided in every dock
on the scale laid down in Schedule VIII.(4)The floor or ground under and in
the immediate vicinity of every wash basin, stand pipe and shower shall be so
laid or finished as to provide a smooth impervious surface and shall be
adequately drained.(5)The water supply to the washing facilities shall be
adequate having regard to the number of dock workers employed in the dock and
shall be form a source approved in writing by the health officer of the port.

### 101\. First-aid boxes.-(1) In every dock and on board every ship there
shall be provided and maintained so as to be readily accessible during all
working hours, sufficient number of first aid boxes or cupboards :

Provided that the distance of the nearest first-aid box or cupboard shall not
be more than 200 metres from any working place.(2)Nothing except appliances or
requisites for first-aid shall be kept in the boxes and cupboards. All such
boxes and cupboards shall be so kept that they are protected against
contamination by dust or other foreign matters and against penetration of
moisture. They shall be kept in charge of responsible person who is trained in
first-aid treatment and who shall always be readily available during working
hours.(3)Each first-aid box or cupboard shall be distinctly marked "First-aid"
and shall be equipped with the articles specified in Schedule VI.

### 103\. Ambulance carriage.-There shall be provided for use at every dock a
suitably constructed motor ambulance carriage and launch which shall be
maintained in good condition for the purpose of removal of serious cases of
accident and sickness.

### 104\. Stretchers.-A sufficient number of suitable stretchers including a
Neil Robertson Stretcher or any other, suitable sling stretcher, shall be
provided at every dock at convenient places so as to be readily available in
an emergency.

### 105\. Shelters or rest sheds and lunch rooms.-(1) In every dock wherein
more than 150 dock workers are ordinarily employed, adequate and suitable
shelters or rest sheds and suitable lunch rooms with provision for drinking
water and washing facilities, where dock workers can eat meals brought by
them, shall be provided at convenient places and maintained for their use :

Provided that any canteen maintained in accordance with regulation 106 shall
be regarded as part of the requirement of this regulation:Provided further
that where a lunch room is provided, no dock worker shall eat any food in the
precincts of the dock except in such lunch rooms.(2)Covered receptacles shall
be provided and used for disposal of food and litter in every rest shed. These
receptacles shall be emptied at least once in every shift.(3)The shelters or
rest rooms and lunch rooms to be provided under sub-regulation (1) shall be
sufficiently lighted and ventilated and shall be maintained in a cool and dean
condition.

### 106\. Canteens.-(1) In any dock or in any part of the dock wherein more
than 250 dock workers are ordinarily employed, or are waiting to be employed,
adequate canteen facilities inbr near the work area shall be provided and
maintained by the port authorities and dock labour boards for the use of all
dock workers. The canteen shall function at all times when twenty-five or more
dock workers are employed at a time.

(2)The canteens shall conform to the requirements laid down in Schedule
IX.(3)An adequate number of mobile canteens shall be provided at every dock
with provision for serving tea and light refreshments.

## Part VI

Special Provisions

### 111\. Training of dock workers, responsible persons, etc.-(1) Initial and
periodic training shall be imparted to all categories of dock workers,
responsible and authorised persons depending upon their nature of work and
skill required for performing their duties. Safety aspects and precautions to
be taken in pursuance of the provisions under the Act and the Regulations
shall be covered in the training.

(2)All first-aid personnel shall be imparted training including refresher
courses by a qualified medical officer authorised for the purpose.

### 112\. Emergency action plans.-All the ports shall have an approved
emergency action plan acceptable to the Chief Inspector to handle emergencies
like--

(a)fires and explosions;(b)collapse of lifting appliances, buildings, sheds,
etc.;(c)gas leakages and spillage of dangerous goods;(d)drowning of dock
workers, striking of vessels, retrieval of transport equipment from dock
basins; and(e)floods, storms and other natural calamities.FORM XIITO BE SENT
TO THE INSPECTOR, DOCK SAFETYAddress:Report Of Accident Of Dangerous
Occurrence[Required by regulation 91 of the Dock Workers (Safety, Health and
Welfare) Regulations, 1990, in pursuance of section 22 of the Dock Workers
(Safety, Health and Welfare) Act, 1986](See instruction overleaf)

1\. Name of the employer | __________________________________________________________________________  
---|---  
2\. Address of the employer | __________________________________________________________________________  
3\. Ship, or other exact place where accident or dangerous occurrence happened | __________________________________________________________________________  
4\. Date, shift and hour of accident or dangerous occurrence | __________________________________________________________________________  
5\. (i) Name and address of injured person | Date | Shift | Hour  
|  
|  
|  
| Sex | Age | Year | Occupation No. | Experience in the trade  
(ii) Nature and extent of injuries (e.g., fatal, loss of finger, fracture of legs) | __________________________________________________________________________  
(iii) By whom treatment was given? | __________________________________________________________________________  
(iv) Was the injured person disabled for more than forty-eight hours? | __________________________________________________________________________  
(v) Type and name of cargo handled | __________________________________________________________________________  
6\. Hour at which the injured person started work | __________________________________________________________________________  
7\. Cause of accident or dangerous occurrence | __________________________________________________________________________  
8\. Accident: | __________________________________________________________________________  
(a) If caused by machinery, state: | __________________________________________________________________________  
(i) Name of machine and part causing the accident | __________________________________________________________________________  
(ii) If moved by mechanical power at the time | __________________________________________________________________________  
(b) State exactly what the injured person was doing? | __________________________________________________________________________  
9\. Dangerous occurrence: | __________________________________________________________________________  
(a) Nature of collapse or failure of lifting appliance | __________________________________________________________________________  
(b) Nature of the breakage of rope, chain or other appliances | __________________________________________________________________________  
(c) Nature of collapse or failure of means of access to or from a ship | __________________________________________________________________________  
(d) Nature of any other dangerous occurrences as covered under regulation 90 other than 9(a), 9(b) and 9(c) above | __________________________________________________________________________  
| Signature_______________________  
| Date___________________________  
(To be filled in by Inspector)  
Port | __________________________________________________________________________  
Date of receipt | __________________________________________________________________________  
Accident/dangerous occurrence No. | __________________________________________________________________________  
Causation | __________________________________________________________________________  
Sex | __________________________________________________________________________  
Remarks | __________________________________________________________________________  
  
INSTRUCTIONSReporting Of Accidents And Dangerous OccurrencesReporting of
accidents :(1)Notice of any accident in dock which either :(a)causes loss of
life to a dock worker; or(b)disables a dock worker from work on which he was
employed for the rest of the day or shift in which the accident occurred,
shall forthwith be sent by telegram, telephone or special messenger within
four hours of the occurrence to,--(i)the Inspector;(ii)the relatives of the
workers when the accident causes loss of life to the dock worker or is likely
to disable the dock worker from work for more than ten days; and(iii)in the
case of fatal accidents only, the officer-in-charge of the nearest police
station, and the District Magistrate or if the District Magistrate by order so
directs, the sub-divisional Magistrate.(2)In case of accidents falling under
clause (b) of sub-regulation (1), the injured person shall be given first-aid
and thereafter immediately conveyed to a hospital or other place of
treatment.(3)Where any accident causing disablement results in the death of
dock worker disabled, notice in writing of the death shall be submitted to the
authorities mentioned in sub-regulation (1) within 72 hours after the death
occurs and acknowledgement obtained.(4)The following classes of dangerous
occurrences shall be reported to the Inspector, whether death or disablement
is caused or not, in the manner prescribed in sub-regulation (1) :(a)collapse
of failure of lifting appliances or breakage or failure of ropes, chains or
loose gears, including slings, lifting beams, container spreaders, etc., or
overturn or displacement of cranes used in dock work falling of hatch boards
or beams or cargo slings, displacement of hatch beam resulting in the fall of
hatch beams or coverings;(b)collapse or subsidence of any wall, floor,
gallery, roof, platform, staging or means of access;(c)explosion of a receiver
or vessel used for the storage, at a pressure greater than atmospheric
pressure, of any gas or gases (including air) or any liquid or solid resulting
from the compression of gas;(d)explosion or fire causing damage to any place
in the docks in which dock workers are employed;(e)failure, capsizing,
toppling or collision of transport equipment;(f)spillage or leakage of
dangerous cargoes or damage to their containers;(g)breakage, buckling or
damage of freight containers.(5)If a failure of lifting appliance, loose gear
or similar other gears and transport equipment has occurred, the concerned
equipment shall as far as practicable be kept undisturbed until inspected by
an Inspector;(6)In addition every notice given under sub-regulation (1) and
sub-regulation (4), shall be confirmed within seventy-two hours of the
occurrence by submitting a written report to the Inspector in Form XII:
Provided that in case of an accident under clause (b) of sub-regulation (1)
such written report need be submitted only when the dock worker is disabled
from work on which he was employed for more than forty-eight hours from the
time of the accident.FORM XIII(See regulation 110)Dock Workers (Safety, Health
And Welfare) Regulations, 1990Statement of Accidents for the month of
.......................

1\. Name and address of the employer | _______________________________________________  
---|---  
2\. Number of reportable accidents under regulation during the month | Fatal _____________Non-fatal______________________  
3\. Number of man-shifts worked during the month(see Note 1) |   
4\. Number of man-days lost on account of absence due to reportable non-fatal accidents in case of persons who returned to work (see Note 2) |   
5\. Number of man-days lost on account of permanent disabilities (see Note 3) |   
  
Signature ..........................................Designation
........................................Date ...........................ToThe
InspectorNotes.-1. Item (3).-The total number of man-shifts worked is the sum
of the number of persons at work on each shift during the month.

### 2\. Item (4).-Number of man-days lost should include days lost due to
injury in previous months, that is, if any accident which occurred in previous
months is still causing loss of time in the month under review, such loss of
time is also to be included in the month under review.

### 3\. Item (5).-Calculation of man-days should be used on the following :-

(a)Man-days lost according to schedule of charges for permanent disabilities
as given in appendix B to IS: 3786-1966. In case of multiple injury, the sum
of a schedule charges shall not be taken to exceed 6000 man-days.(b)If any
injury is treated as a lost time injury in one month and subsequently turns
out to be a permanent disability, the man-days charged due to the injury
should be subtracted from the schedule charge for the injury when permanent
disability becomes known.FORM XIV[See regulation 92(1)]Dock Workers (Safety,
Health And Welfare) Regulations, 1990To be filled in by the InspectorNo. of
case .................................Remarks
.....................................Notice Of Poisoning Or Disease

### 1\. Name and address of the employer
................................................

### 2\. Name of the patient and his work no., if any
....................................

### 3\. Address of the patient
................................................

### 4\. Sex and age of the patient .............
..............................

### 5\. Precise occupation of the patient
.....................................

### 6\. State exactly what the patient was doing at the time of contracting
disease ................................................

### 7\. Nature of poisoning or disease from which the patient is suffering
................................................

.........................................Signature of the employerDate
.................................Notification Of Certain Diseases[Extract from
regulation 91 of the Dock Workers (Safety, Health and Welfare) Regulations,
1990]

### 1\. When a dock worker contracts any disease specified in Schedule IV a
notice in Form XIV shall be sent forthwith to the Inspector.

