## Union of India - Act

## The Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act, 1951

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act, 1951

## Act 70 of 1951

  * Published on 7 November 1951 
  * Commenced on 7 November 1951 
  * [This is the version of this document from 7 November 1951.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act, 1951ACT NO. 70 OF 1951

### 27.

/1388The Bill is designed mainly to give relief to displaced debtors in
respect of liabilities incurred by them prior to their displacement from West
Pakistan though remission of court-fee has also been allowed to displaced
creditors. A certain amount of relief was afforded to then by Acts 47 of 1948
and 25 of 1949 but this was found to be inadequate.A thorough examination of
the various problems involved had to be made with a view to affording
displaced persons adequate and, at the same time, reasonable relief in the
matter of their indebtedness, consistently with the needs of their
rehabilitation. The task of such examination was entrusted to the Hon'ble Shri
Bind Basni Prasad, a Judge of the Allahabad High Court, and the present Bill
is the outcome of his recommendations. In brief, the object of the Bill is to
relate the payment of all premigration pecuniary liabilities of a displaced
person to(a) his 'paying capacity' an expression which has been defined after
making liberal allowances in favour of the debtor; and(h) the compensation
which might be received by him in respect of his immovable property left
behind in West Pakistan.A decree under the law will thus consist of two parts,
the first part being equivalent to and recoverable from the 'paying capacity'
of the debtor and the second part being equivalent to the balance of the total
amount decreed and recoverable from the compensation, if and when received by
the debtor. The first part of the decree will, as a rule, be recoverable in
instalments.In respect of the second part of the decree, it has been accepted
that the amount payable should be scaled down in the proportion in which the
displaced debtor is able to obtain recompense in respect of his immovable
property left behind in West Pakistan. Where no recompensation is received,
there will he no recovery of the second part of the decree.Displaced debtors
will have the right to apply, within a period of one year from the enactment
of this Bill. for the reduction of debts due to creditors, in accordance with
the provisions of this Bill. All pre-migration liabilities will be
consolidated for the purposes, but it has been specially provided that no
stigma of insolvency will attach to any one seeking relief under this
law.Certain additional reliefs, for example, remission of interest after
August 15, 1947, exemption from arrest or attachment of rroperties. reduction
of certain pre-migration liabilities like maintenance allowance, apportionment
of liabilities in the case of joint debts, revision of decrees already passed
with a view to bringing them into line with present legislation, etc., have
also been provided and in formulating these reliefs the needs of
rehabilitation and the fact that displaced persons have been unable to derive
benefit from properties left behind in West Pakistan have been given due
weight. Although under the Act Civil Courts will he vested with jurisdiction,
the Bill provides a simplified procedure for the determination of debts, and
minimises the delay involved in a series of appeals and revisions. Debts of
different categories - debts secured on immovable property, debts secured by
pledge of movable property and simple debts are dealt with differently. The
respective circumstances governing such transactions have been taken into
consideration, an attempt being made to temper contractual obligations with
equity when both creditors and debtors have lost control over the properties
offered as security.Special provisions have also been made to enable displaced
persons to be absolved, for a period of ten years, from further liability in
respect of calls on shares in companies, an opportunity being given to them to
have their partly paid up shares converted into a proportionate number of
fully paid up ones. Conditions of contracts with insurance companies which
were more or less of a technical nature and which become incapable of
fulfilment on account of circumstances beyond the control of the insured are
declared to have no effect and the insured is given an opportunity of getting
compensation for the losses which he has suffered. A special provision has
also been made to enable displaced banks to have their existing schemes of
arrangement, sanctioned by High Courts under Section 153 of the Indian
Companies Act, 1913 modified when, due to reliefs granted to their debtors
under this Bill, they find it difficult to carry out their obligations under
the schemes. Recognition of Societies and Companies registered in Pakistan has
been provided for in case the majority of their members or share-holders have
migrated to India." Gaz. Ind., 1951, Pt. II, Section 2, p. 593.[7th November,
1951]An Act to make certain provisions for the adjustment and settlement of
debts due by displaced persons, for the recovery of certain debts due to them
and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.BE it enacted by
Parliament as follows:--

10th December, 1951 in the States of Delhi, Ajmer, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and
Bombay: see notification No. 68(21)/51-Prop., dated 7th December, 1951,
Gazette of India, 1951, Extraordinary, Pt. I, Sec 1, p. 503: and in all other
States of India, 20th December, 1951: see notification No. S.R.O. 2005, dated
13th December, 1951, Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 1951, pt. II, Section 3,
p. 1489.  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act,
1951.(2)It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and
Kashmir.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, and different dates may
be appointed for different States or for different parts thereof.

### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-- (1) "company" means a
company as defined in the Indian Companies Act, 1913 [* * *] [This Act has now
been repealed by Act 1 of 1956.] (7 of 1913), and includes a company deemed to
be registered under that Act by reason of any of the provisions contained in
this Act;(2)"Companies Act" means the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of
1913);(3)"compensation" means any compensation paid, whether in cash or in
kind, in respect of any immovable property in West Pakistan belonging to a
displaced person under any general scheme arrived at in this behalf between
the Government of India and the Government of Pakistan or framed by the
Government of India;(4)"co-operative society" means a co-operative society
registered under the Co-operative Societies Act, 1912 (2 of 1912), or under
any other law for the time being in force in any State for the registration of
co-operative societies;(5)"Co-operative Societies Act" means the Co-operative
Societies Act, 1912 (2 of 1912), and includes any other law for the time being
in force in any State relating to co-operative societies;(6)"debt" means any
pecuniary liability, whether payable presently or in future, or under a decree
or order of a Civil or Revenue Court or otherwise, or whether ascertained or
to be ascertained, which--(a)in the case of a displaced person who has left or
been displaced from his place of residence in any area now forming part of
West Pakistan, was incurred before he came to reside in any area now forming
part of India;(b)in the case of a displaced person who, before and after the
15th day of August, 1947, has been residing in any area now forming part of
India, was incurred before the said date on the security of any immovable
property situate in the territories now forming part of West Pakistan:Provided
that where any such liability was incurred on the security of immovable
properties situate both in India and in West Pakistan, the liability shall be
so apportioned between the said properties that the liability in relation to
each of the said properties bears the same proportion to the total amount of
the debts as the value of each of the properties as at the date of the
transaction bears to the total value of the properties furnished as security,
and the liability, for the purposes of this clause, shall be the liability
which is relatable to the property in West Pakistan;(c)is due to a displaced
person from any other person (whether a displaced person or not) ordinarily
residing in the territories to which this Act extends;and includes any
pecuniary liability incurred before the commencement of this Act by any such
person as is referred to in this clause which is based on, and is solely by
way of 63 renewal of, any such liability as is referred to in sub-clause (a)
or sub-clause (b) or sub-clause (c):Provided that in the case of a loan,
whether in cash or in kind, the amount originally advanced and not the amount
for which the liability has been renewed shall be deemed to be the extent of
the liability;but does not include any pecuniary liability due under a decree
passed after the 15th day of August, 1947, by any Court situate in West
Pakistan or any pecuniary liability the proof of which depends merely on an
oral agreement;(7)"displaced bank" means a banking company which, before the
15th day of August, 1947, carried on the business of banking, whether wholly
or partially, in any area now forming part of West Pakistan and is declared to
be a displaced bank within the meaning of this Act by the Central Government
by [notification] [For such notifications see Gazette of India, 1952, Pt. II,
Section 3, pp. 624 and 889, and ibid., 1953, p. 238.] in the Official
gazette;(8)"displaced creditor" means a displaced person to whom a debt is due
from any other person, whether a displaced person or not;(9)"displaced debtor"
means a displaced person from whom a debt is due or is being
claimed;(10)"displaced person" means any person who, on account of the setting
up of the Dominions of India and Pakistan, or on account of civil disturbances
or the fear of such disturbances in any area now forming part of West
Pakistan, has, after the 1st day of March, 1947, left, or been displaced from,
his place of residence in such area and who has been subsequently residing in
India, and includes any person who is resident in any place now forming part
of India and who for that reason is unable or has been rendered unable to
manage, supervise or control any immovable property belonging to him in West
Pakistan, but does not include a banking company;(11)"prescribed" means
prescribed by rules made under this Act;(12)"Tribunal" means any Civil Court
specified under section 4 as having authority to exercise jurisdiction under
this Act;(13)"verified claim" means any claim registered under the Displaced
Persons (Claims) Act, 1950 (44 of 1950) in respect of which a final order has
been passed under that Act relating to its verification and
valuation;(14)"West Pakistan" means the territories of Pakistan excluding the
Province of East Bengal.

### 3. Overriding effect of Act, rules and orders.

Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the provisions of this Act
and of the rules and orders made thereunder shall have effect notwithstanding
anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being
in force, or in any decree or order of a Court, or in any contract between the
parties.

### 4. Tribunals competent to exercise jurisdiction under this Act.

The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify any
Civil Court or class of Civil Courts as the Tribunal or Tribunals having
authority to exercise jurisdiction under this Act and may define the areas in
which and the extent to which such jurisdiction may be exercised.

## Chapter II  
Debt Adjustment Proceedings

### 5. Application by displaced debtors for adjustment of debts.

(1)At any time within one year after the date on which this Act comes into
force in any local area, a displaced debtor may make an application for the
adjustment of his debts to the Tribunal within the local limits of whose
jurisdiction he actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on business or
personally works for gain.(2)Every application by a displaced debtor shall
contain the following particulars, namely:--(a)the place where he
resides;(b)the trade, calling, profession or other employment in which he is
now engaged and in which he was engaged in West Pakistan before he became a
displaced person;(c)his average annual income in India during the three years
immediately preceding the application;(d)the income-tax and super-tax, if any,
to which he has been assessed for the three years immediately preceding the
application;(e)such other particulars as may be prescribed; and shall be
accompanied by the following schedules, namely:--(i)a schedule containing full
particulars of all his debts, whether owed jointly or individually, with the
names and addresses of his creditors and joint-debtors, if any, so far as they
are known to, or can by the exercise of reasonable care and diligence be
ascertained by him;(ii)a schedule of all his properties, both movable and
immovable (including claims due to him) which are not liable to attachment
either under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, (5 of 1908) as amended by
section 31 of this Act or under any other law for the time being in force, a
specification of the values thereof and of the places where the same may be
found;(iii)a schedule of all his properties, both movable and immovable
(including claims due to him) which are not included in the schedule under
item (ii) of this clause; and(iv)a schedule of all his properties in respect
of which a claim has been submitted to the registering officer under the
Displaced Persons (Claims) Act, 1950, (44 of 1950) and, where any order has
been passed in relation to the verification and valuation of the claim under
that Act, with a certified copy of the order.(3)All persons whose names are
shown in any schedule as having claims against the displaced debtor and all
persons whose names are shown as joint-debtors shall be deemed to be the
respondents to the application and there shall be filed along with the
application, or with the permission of the Tribunal at any later stage of the
proceedings, as many copies of the application and as many envelopes and
notices in the prescribed form duly addressed to the respondents as there are
respondents.

### 6. Rejection of application in certain cases.

Where an application made under section 5 does not comply with any of the
requirements of that section, the Tribunal may either reject it, or grant to
the applicant such further time as it thinks fit to comply with such
requirements.

### 7. Issue of notice.

If the application is not rejected under section 6, the Tribunal shall, after
causing the date for the hearing of the application to be entered in the
notices referred to in section 5, cause them to be served on the respondents.

### 8. Objection by respondents.

In response to a notice under section 7, the respondent may show cause against
the application by filing a written statement containing his objections to the
application:Provided that where he does not appear in person or through any
authorized agent, the written statement may be sent by registered post,
acknowledgment due, to the Tribunal after having been signed in the presence
of a civil judicial officer or a Magistrate or any other prescribed officer
and duly attested by such officer or Magistrate.

### 9. Proceeding after service of notice on respondents.

(1)If there is a dispute as to whether the applicant is a displaced person or
not or as to the existence or the amount of the debt due to any creditor or
the assets of any displaced debtor, the Tribunal shall decide the matter after
taking such evidence as may be adduced by all the parties concerned and shall
pass such decree in relation thereto as it thinks fit.(2)If there is no such
dispute or if the respondents do not appear or have no objection to the
application being granted, the Tribunal may, after considering the evidence
placed before it, pass such decree in relation thereto as it thinks fit.

### 10. Claims by creditors against displaced debtors.

Any displaced person having a claim against a displaced debtor may make an
application, in such form as may be prescribed, for the determination thereof
to the Tribunal within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the displaced
debtor actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on business, or personally
works for gain, together with a statement of the debts owed to the creditor
with full particulars thereof.

### 11. Procedure on creditor's petition.

(1)Where an application under section 10 has been made, the Tribunal shall
cause notice thereof to be served on the displaced debtor calling upon him
either to show cause, if any, against the application or to make an
application on his own behalf under section 5.(2)If, in response to a notice
under sub-section (1), the displaced debtor makes an application in accordance
with the provisions of section 5, the Tribunal shall proceed further in the
matter as if it had commenced with an application by the displaced debtor
under section 67 5, and all the other provisions of this Act shall apply
accordingly; but, if the displaced debtor does not choose to make any such
application, the Tribunal shall, after considering such evidence, if any, as
may be produced before it, determine the claim and pass such decree in
relation thereto as it thinks fit.(3)The period of limitation specified in
sub-section (1) of section 5 in respect of an application by a displaced
debtor shall not apply to an application made under sub-section (2).

### 12. Objection by creditor to schedule of assets.

(1)Any creditor of a displaced debtor may make an application to the Tribunal
stating that the displaced debtor, who has made an application under section 5
or sub-section (2) of section 11, has concealed any part of his assets, and
the Tribunal shall, after giving due notice thereof to the displaced debtor,
determine the matter.(2)If the Tribunal finds that the displaced debtor has
wilfully and fraudulently omitted to include such assets in his application,
the Tribunal may dismiss the application or refuse to allow to the displaced
debtor any of the reliefs under this Act to which he would otherwise have been
entitled or pass such other order in relation thereto as it thinks fit.

### 13. Claims by displaced creditors against persons who are not displaced
debtors.

At any time within one year after the date on which this Act comes into force
in any local area, any displaced creditor claiming a debt from any other
person who is not a displaced person may make an application, in such form as
may be prescribed, to the Tribunal within the local limits of whose
jurisdiction he or the respondent or, if there are more respondents than one,
any of such respondents, actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on
business or personally works for gain, together with a statement of the debt
owing to him with full particulars thereof.

### 14. Procedure on displaced creditor's petition.

(1)Where an application under section 13 has been made to the Tribunal, the
Tribunal shall cause notice thereof to be given to the debtor, calling upon
him to show cause, if any, against the application.(2)If there is a dispute as
to whether the applicant is a displaced creditor or not or as to the existence
of the debt or as to the amount thereof, the Tribunal shall decide the matter,
after taking such evidence as may be produced before it, and pass such decree
in relation thereto as it thinks fit.(3)If there is no such dispute or if the
debtor does not appear or has no cause to show, the Tribunal may, after
considering the evidence placed before it, pass such decree in relation
thereto as it thinks fit.

### 15. Consequences of application by displaced debtor.

Where a displaced debtor has made an application to the Tribunal under section
5 or under sub-section (2) of section 11, the following consequences shall
ensue, namely:--(a)all proceedings pending at the date of the said application
in any Civil Court in respect of any debt to which the displaced debtor is
subject (except proceedings by way of appeal or review or revision against
decrees or orders passed against the displaced debtor) shall be stayed, and
the records of all such proceedings other than those relating to the appeals,
reviews or revisions as aforesaid shall be transferred to the Tribunal and
consolidated;(b)all attachments, injunctions, orders appointing receivers or
other processes issued by any such Court and in force at the date of the said
application in respect of any such debt shall cease to have effect and no
fresh process shall, except as hereinafter expressly provided, be
issued:Provided that where an order appointing a receiver ceases to have
effect under this section, the receiver shall; within fourteen days from the
date on which his appointment ceases to have effect or within such further
time as the Tribunal may in any case allow, submit to the Tribunal instead of
to the Court which appointed him his outstanding accounts, and the Tribunal
shall, in relation to such accounts, have the same powers with respect to the
receiver as the Court which appointed him had or could have had;(c)no fresh
suit or other proceeding [other than any such appeal, review or revision as is
referred to in clause (a)] shall be instituted against a displaced debtor in
respect of any debt mentioned by him in the relevant schedule to his
application:(d)any immovable property belonging to the displaced debtor and
liable to attachment shall not be transferred except under the authority of
the Tribunal and no such terms as it thinks fit, until the application of the
displaced debtor has been finally disposed of or any decree passed against 69
him is satisfied in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

### 16. Debts secured on immovable property.

(1)Where a debt incurred by a displaced person is secured by a mortgage,
charge or lien on the immovable property belonging to him in West Pakistan,
the Tribunal may, for the purpose of any proceeding under this Act, require
the creditor to elect to retain the security or to be treated as an unsecured
creditor.(2)If the creditor elects to retain the security, he may apply to the
Tribunal, having jurisdiction in this behalf as provided in section 10, for a
declaration of the amount due under his debt.(3)Where in any case, the
creditor elects to retain his security, if the displaced debtor received any
compensation in respect of any such property as is referred to in sub-section
(1), the creditor shall be entitled--(a)Where the compensation is paid in
cash, to a first charge thereon:Provided that the amount of the debt in
respect of which he shall be entitled to the first charge shall be that amount
as bears to the total debt the same proportion as the compensation paid in
respect of the property bears to the value of the verified claim in respect
thereof and to that extent the debt shall be deemed to have been
reduced:(b)Where the compensation is by way of exchange of property, to a
first charge on the property situate in India so received by way of
exchange:Provided that the amount of the debt in respect of which be shall be
entitled to the first charge shall be that amount as bears to the total debt
the same proportion as the value of the property received by way of exchange
bears to the value of the verified claim in respect thereof and to that extent
the debt shall be deemed to have been reduced.(4)Notwithstanding anything
contained in this section, where a debt is secured by a mortgage of
agricultural lands belonging to a displaced person in West Pakistan and the
mortgage was with possession, the mortgagee shall, if he has been allotted
lands in India in lieu of the lands of which he was in possession in West
Pakistan, be entitled 70 to continue in possession of the lands so allotted
until the debt is satisfied from the usufruct of the lands or is redeemed by
the debtor:Provided that in either case the amount of the debt shall be only
that amount as bears to the total debt the same proportion as the value of the
lands allotted to the creditor in India bears to the value of the lands left
behind by him in West Pakistan and to that extent the debt shall be deemed to
have been reduced.(5)Where a creditor elects to be treated as an unsecured
creditor in relation to the debt, the provisions of this Act shall apply
accordingly.

### 17. Debts secured on movable property.

(1)Where in respect of a debt incurred by a displaced debtor and secured by
the pledge of movable property belonging to him, the creditor had been placed
in possession of such property at any time before the debtor became a
displaced person, the following rules shall regulate the rights and
liabilities of the creditor and the debtor, namely:-(a)the creditor may, if he
is still in possession of the pledged property, realise the sum due to him by
the sale of such property after giving to the debtor reasonable notice of the
sale:(b)the creditor shall not be entitled, in any case where the pledged
property is no longer in his possession or is not available for redemption by
the debtor to recover from the debtor the debt or any part thereof for which
the pledged property was security:(c)the debtor shall not be liable, in the
case of a sale by the creditor of any pledged property, whether under clause
(a) or otherwise, to pay the balance where the proceeds of such sale are less
than the amount of the debt due:(d)the creditor shall, in any case where the
proceeds of the sale of the pledged property are greater than the amount of
the debt due, pay over the surplus to the debtor.Explanation I.-For the
purposes of this section, the creditor shall be deemed to be in possession of
the pledged property in any case in which the pledged property, although not
delivered to him was delivered to a person authorized by him or was being held
by the debtor on behalf of the creditor, and the ownership of possession
thereof could not have been transferred to a third party without the express
consent or permission of the creditor.Explanation II.-Where any motor vehicle
or other movable property has been purchased with money the whole or any part
of which has been advanced by a creditor who retains the ownership thereof by
way of security but allows the debtor to use it with his permission, the
property shall for the purposes of this section be deemed to be pledged
property of the debtor in the possession of the creditor.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in this section, the creditor shall be entitled to receive,
and to give a valid discharge in respect of, any sum due under this Act or
under any other law for the time being in force from an insurance company in
respect of any claim arising out of the loss or destruction of the pledged
property, but the creditor shall, in any case where the sum received from the
insurance company is greater than the amount of the debt due to him, pay over
the surplus to the debtor.

### 18. Claims against insurance companies.

(1)Where any property in West Pakistan belonging to a displaced person was
insured with any insurance company before the 15th day of August, 1947,
against any risk arising out of fire or theft or riot and civil commotion and
there has been a loss in respect of such property arising out of any such risk
at a time when the contract of insurance was in force, such company shall not
be entitled to refuse payment of the sum due under any claim in relation
thereto on the ground that--(a)no report was lodged with the police within the
agreed time, or(b)the claim was not made to the company with the agreed time,
or(c)in the case of a policy covering any risk arising out of riot and civil
commotion, the disturbances in West Pakistan were not in the nature of a riot
or civil commotion, or(d)the displaced person has not fulfilled any other
condition of the contract which in the opinion of the Central government is of
a technical nature and which the Central Government has, by [notification]
[See notification No. S.R.O. 350, dated February 13, 1953; Gazette of India,
1953, Pt. II, Section 3, p. 239.] in the Official Gazette, specified as a
condition of the contract for the purposes of this section, and any contract
to the contrary, to the extent to which it is in contravention of the
provisions of this sub-section, shall be deemed to have had no effect.(2)Where
a loss has been incurred in respect of any property in the circumstances
specified in sub-section (1), the Tribunal shall, in every proceeding where it
is necessary to do so, determine respectively the amount of the loss, the
amount for which the property was insured on the date of such loss, and the
amount, if any, paid by the insurance company, and shall make a report thereof
to such board or other authority as may be prescribed, and the prescribed
board or other authority shall, after taking into account such matters as may
be prescribed as being relevant thereto, and subject to any rules made in this
behalf, in turn propose to the Tribunal the amount for which the claim against
the insurance company shall be decreed, and the Tribunal shall pass a decree
accordingly.(3)The amount realised from the insurance company under any decree
passed under sub-section (2) shall first be applied towards the satisfaction
of the debt due from the displaced person, and the balance, if any, shall be
refunded to the displaced person.(4)An application under this section may be
made either by a displaced person having a claim against the insurance company
in the circumstances specified in sub-section (1) or by an assignee or any
other person having an interest in the claim of any such displaced person, to
the Tribunal within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the displaced
person actually and voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally
works for gain or, in the case of a displaced bank making an application under
this section, within whose limits the bank carries on business, for the
determination of the amount due in respect of the claim in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (2).(5)To every proceeding under sub-section (4) the
insurance company and all persons interested in the claim shall be made
parties:Provided that the Tribunal may at any stage of the proceeding direct
that the name of any person whose presence before the Tribunal may be
necessary in order to enable the Tribunal effectually and completely to
adjudicate upon and settle all the questions involved, be added to the
proceeding.(6)No application under this section shall be entertained in any
case where no claim has been made to the insurance company within one year
after the date of the loss. 7.Explanation.-A claim shall be deemed to have
been made within the meaning of this sub-section if intimation thereof has
been given to the insurance company within one year after the date of the loss
notwithstanding that the intimation does not specify the amount of the claim
or is not in the form, if any, required by the contract of insurance or in any
other specified form.

### 19. Calls on shares in companies.

(1)Where a company or a co-operative society has made any call upon a
displaced person or a displaced bank in respect of any moneys remaining unpaid
on any share held by him or it on the 15th day of August, 1947, in the company
or co-operative society, as the case may be, and there has been a failure on
the part of the shareholder to pay any moneys due in respect of such call,
then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Companies Act,
or in the memorandum or articles of association or the Co-operative Societies
Act, no interest shall be payable in respect of any such moneys due and the
company or the co-operative society, as the case may be, shall not be entitled
to forfeit the share or any part thereof, and any forfeiture made before the
commencement of this Act in respect of any share in the circumstances
specified in the sub-section shall be deemed to have had no effect, and no
person shall be deemed to have ceased to be a member of the company or co-
operative society merely by reason of such forfeiture.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Companies Act, or in the memorandum or articles of
association, or the Co-operative Societies Act, it shall be lawful for a
displaced person or a displaced bank to apply to the company or the co-
operative society, as the case may be, for the conversion of any partly paid-
up share held by him or it in the company or society into such smaller number
of fully paid-up shares as the society or company may have issued and in
respect of which calls have already been made.(3)Where any share forfeited
before the commencement of this Act has been disposed of by the company in
accordance with its articles of association and it is not possible for the
company to give to the displaced person the relief to which he is entitled
under this section without increasing its capital, the capital of the company
shall be deemed to have been increased to the extent to which it is necessary
to provide that relief.(4)If the company or the co-operative society refuses
to comply with any such request as is contained in an application under sub-
section (2), the Tribunal may, on application made to it in this behalf 74 and
if satisfied that there is no cause for such refusal, issue a direction to the
company or the co-operative society accordingly, and the company or society
shall be bound to comply therewith and every such direction shall take effect
from the date thereof.(5)Save as otherwise provided in this section, nothing
contained herein shall affect the validity of any action taken by the company
or its board of directors in pursuance of the provisions of the Companies Act
or of the memorandum or articles of association relating to the company.(6)The
provisions of this section shall have effect for a period of ten years from
the 15th day of August, 1947, and thereafter shall cease to have effect except
as respects things done or omitted to be done.

### 20. No calls to be made on displaced person or bank when company or co-
operative society is in liquidation.

(1)Where a company or a co-operative society is being wound up, no displaced
person or displaced bank shall be called upon, notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in the Companies Act or in the memorandum or articles of
association or the Co-operative Societies Act, to make any contribution to the
assets of the company or co-operative society, as the case may be, in respect
of any share held by him or it in the company or society on the 15th day of
August, 1947.(2)The provisions of this section shall have effect for a period
of ten years from the 15th day of August, 1947, and shall also apply in
respect of any calls made and not satisfied before that date, and shall cease
to have effect after the expiry of the said period except as respects things
done or omitted to be done.

### 21. Power to revise certain decree and settlement.

(1)Where, before the commencement of this Act, a decree has been passed by a
Civil court against, or a settlement has been entered into by, a displaced
debtor in respect of any debt, the Tribunal shall, on the application of such
debtor revise it so as to bring it into accord with the provisions of the
Act.(2)In determining the amount due under any such decree or settlement, the
Tribunal shall accept as binding the findings of the Court which passed the
decree or the facts contained in the settlement, as the case may be, to the
extent to which the findings or the facts are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act:Provided that the Tribunal shall not determine any
claim under any such decree until any appeal or revision filed against it has
been finally decided or the period allowed for any appeal therefrom has 75
expired, and in all such cases the finding of the Tribunal shall be based on
the final decree.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, no
Tribunal shall in respect of any debt revise any settlement arrived at before
the commencement of this Act between an insurance company and a displaced
person or between an insurance company and a displaced bank having an interest
in the claim of a displaced person against the insurance company and arriving
at such settlement by virtue of that interest:Provided that payment in full
has been made in pursuance of such settlement.

### 22. Apportionment of joint debts.

Where a debt is due from a displaced person jointly with another person, the
Tribunal shall, for the purposes of this Act, apportion the liability between
them according to the following rules, namely:--(a)if the liability of each
debtor is defined, then according to the defined share of each;(b)if the debt
was taken for any trade or business of the joint debtors, then according to
the shares held by each of the joint debtors in the trade or business;(c)if
the debt was not taken in any defined shares or for any trade or business in
which the partners have any defined share, the debt shall be apportioned into
as many parts as there are joint debtors, and each joint debtor shall be
liable only for the part apportioned to him;(d)if one joint debtor is a
displaced person and another is not, the sum apportioned to the non-displaced
person shall not be deemed to be a debt within the meaning of this Act and the
creditor may in respect of such debt seek any remedy open to him in a Civil
court or otherwise;(e)if the debt was taken by a joint Hindu family, the
members of the joint Hindu family shall be deemed to be joint debtors within
the meaning of this section and the debt shall be apportioned amongst the
members thereof in the same proportion in which shares would be allotted to
them on partition:Provided that the share of any member of such a joint family
any of whose male lineal ascendants in the male line of ascent is alive and
joint with such 76 member shall be deemed to be included in the share of his
oldest surviving ascendant in the male line of ascent, and such member shall
not be separately regarded as a joint debtor for the purpose of this
clause;(f)if the liability is secured by a mortgage of movable and immovable
properties, the debt shall be apportioned between the two properties in the
same proportion as the value of each property bears to the total value of the
properties.Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause, the value of the
movable property shall be deemed to be the value thereof immediately before
the date on which the debtor became a displaced person, and the value of the
immovable property shall be deemed to be the value of the verified claim in
respect thereof;(g)Where the relationship between the joint debtors is that of
principal and surety, nothing contained in this Act shall prevent the
institution of a suit for the recovery of the debt against the surety but no
decree shall be passed in such suit for an amount in excess of the amount
decreed or which can be decreed against the principal debtor in accordance
with the provisions of this Act:Provided that the total amount which may be
recovered from the principal debtor and the surety shall not exceed the amount
decreed or which can be decreed by the Tribunal against the principal debtor
in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

### 23. Simplified procedure in certain cases.

In the determination of any individual debt which does not exceed five
thousand rupees,--(a)it shall not be necessary for the Tribunal to take down
the evidence of the witnesses in writing at length but the Tribunal, as the
examination of each witness proceeds, shall make a memorandum of the substance
of what he deposes and such memorandum shall be written and signed by the
Tribunal and shall form part of the record;(b)the decision of the Tribunal
need not contain more than the points for determination and the decision
thereon.

### 24. Presumption respecting registered documents.

It shall be presumed until the contrary is proved that any document registered
under the Indian Registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908) or any certified copy
thereof and produced before the Tribunal has been proved.

### 25. Application of Act 5 of 1908.

Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act or in any rules made
thereunder, all proceedings under this Act shall be regulated by the
provisions contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).

### 26. Signing and verification of applications and written statements.

Every application and the schedules, if any, attached thereto and every
written statement filed before the Tribunal for any relief under this Act
shall be signed and verified in the manner prescribed by the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), for the signing and verification of pleadings.

### 27\. Contents of decrees.

In all cases in which the Tribunal passes a decree on the application of a
displaced person, it shall prepare a complete schedule of the creditors and of
the assets and liabilities of the displaced person.

### 28. Execution of decrees.

It shall be competent for the Civil Court which has been specified as the
Tribunal for the purposes of this Act to execute any decree or order passed by
it as the Tribunal in the same manner as it could have done if it were a
decree or order passed by it as a Civil Court.

## Chapter III  
Reliefs

### 29. Cesser of accrual of interest.

(1)On and from the 15th day of August, 1947, no interest shall accrue or be
deemed to have accrued in respect of any debt owed by a displaced person, and
no Tribunal shall allow any future interest in respect of any decree or order
passed by it:Provided that--(a)where the debt is secured by the pledge of
shares, stocks, Government securities of a local authority, the Tribunal shall
allow, for the period commencing from the 15th day of August, 1947, and ending
with the date of commencement of this Act, interest to the creditor at the
rate mutually agreed upon or at a rate at which any dividend or interest has
been paid or is payable in respect thereof, whichever is less;(b)in any other
case the Tribunal may, if it thinks it just and proper to do so after taking
into account the paying capacity of the debtor as defined in section 32,
allow, for the period mentioned in clause (a), interest at a rate not
exceeding four per cent. per annum simple.(2)Nothing in this section shall
apply to the interest payable in respect of any moneys advanced by a creditor,
including an insurance company, on the security of a policy of life insurance
of a displaced debtor in order to keep it alive.

### 30. Exemption from arrest.

No displaced person shall be liable to arrest or imprisonment in execution of
any decree for the recovery of any debt whether passed before or after the
commencement of this Act.

### 31. Further reliefs in the matter of attachment of property.

Section 60 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) shall, in relation
to the execution of any decree for a debt against a displaced person (whether
passed before or after the commencement of this Act), have effect, as if-- (1)
for clause (c) of the proviso to sub-section (1), the following clauses had
been substituted, namely:--"(c) houses and other buildings (with the materials
and the sites thereof and the land immediately appertaining thereto and
necessary for their enjoyment) belonging to an agriculturist and not proved by
the decree-holder to have been let out on rent or otherwise to any person
other than the father, mother, wife, son, daughter, daughter-in-law, brother,
sister or other dependant of the judgment-debtor or to have been left vacant
for a period of one year or more;(cc)milch animals, whether in milk or in
calf, kids, animals used for the purpose of transport or draught cart and open
spaces or enclosures belonging to an agriculturist and required for use in
case of need for tying cattle, parking carts or stacking fodder or
manure;(ccc)one main residential house and other buildings attached to it
(with the materials and the sites thereof and the land immediately
appertaining thereto and necessary for their enjoyment) belonging to a
judgment-debtor other than an agriculturist and occupied by him";(2)in clause
(i), for the words "hundred rupees" the words "two hundred and fifty rupees"
had been substituted;(3)after clause (p), the following had been inserted,
namely:--"(q) two-thirds of the agricultural produce of the judgment-
debtor;(r)so much of any other property of the judgment-debtor as constitutes
the means of his livelihood and as is likely, in the opinion of the Court, to
yield to him an income of not less than two hundred and fifty rupees a
month;(s)any loan advanced or agreed to be advanced by or on behalf of or out
of the funds of the Central Government or a State Government, or any asset
created from any such loan;.Explanation.-Where any such asset as is referred
to in clause (s) has been created partly from such loan and partly from the
private funds of the judgment-debtor, that portion of the asset which has been
created from the private funds shall, if severable from the remaining portion,
be liable to attachment or sale.

### 32. Scaling down of debts.

(1)Where, on the application of a displaced debtor under section 5 or sub-
section (2) of section 11, the Tribunal has determined the amount due in
respect of each debt in accordance with the provisions of this Act, it shall
proceed to determine the paying capacity of the debtor.(2)If the paying
capacity of the debtor is equal to or exceeds the aggregate sum of all the
debts so determined (exclusive of any debt in respect of which the creditor
has elected to retain the security in accordance with the provisions of
section 16), the Tribunal shall pass a decree for the aggregate sum so
determined, specifying the amount due to each creditor and shall allow
repayment thereof in instalments, in accordance with the provisions contained
in section 33, unless for reasons to be recorded it directs otherwise.(3)If
the paying capacity of the debtor is less than the aggregate sum referred to
in sub-section (2), the Tribunal shall divide the decree into two parts and
provide in the first part thereof (hereinafter referred to as the first part
of the decree) that the sum equivalent to the paying capacity shall, subject
to the provisions contained in section 33, be realised from the assets of the
debtor in India, and provide in the second part thereof (hereinafter referred
to as the second part of the decree) that the balance shall be realised,
subject to the provisions contained in sub-section (6), from any compensation
which the debtor may receive:Provided that if no such compensation is
received, the balance shall be irrecoverable.(4)A creditor who has elected to
retain his security under section 16 shall have no right to realise any money
due to him from the assets of the debtor in India, but nothing in this sub-
section shall affect any of the rights given to him by section 16.(5)A
creditor shall have the right at any time at least six months before the
receipt by the debtor of compensation to apply that the whole or the balance
of the first part of the decree, in so far as any debt due to him is
concerned, may be added to the second part of the decree, and thereupon he
shall have no right to realise any money from the assets of the debtor in
India.(6)For the purposes of this Act, the amount payable from the
compensation for the satisfaction of the second part of the decree shall be
that amount as bears to the aggregate amount of all the debts in the second
part of the decree [including therein any sum added to it under sub-section
(5) and the sum determined in favour of the secured creditor in the manner
specified in the proviso to clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 16] as
the compensation in respect of the property of the debtor payable to him under
the Displaced Persons (Claims) Act, 1950 (44 of 1950) bears to the verified
claim; and the balance of the compensation, if any, shall be refunded to the
displaced debtor.(7)Every instalment paid by the displaced debtor in respect
of the first part of the decree and any sum payable from the compensation in
accordance with sub-section (6) shall be distributed rateably amongst the
decree-holders, if more persons than one are entitled thereto:Provided that
the secured creditor who has not elected to be treated as an unsecured
creditor under section 16 shall be entitled to a prior charge on the amount
payable from the compensation.(8)Where a displaced person receives
compensation by way of exchange of property, then, subject to the prior
charge, if any, of a creditor under section 16, the aggregate sum payable in
respect of the second part of the decree shall be a second charge upon the
property received by way of exchange, but the amount of the second charge
shall be that amount as bears to the total sum the same proportion as the
value of the property received by way of exchange bears to the value of the
original property verified and valued under the Displaced Persons (Claims)
Act, 1950 (44 of 1950).(9)Where a displaced person makes a default in the
payment of any instalment fixed in respect of the first part of the decree or
does not pay the amount determined in accordance with sub-section (4) of
section 16 or sub-section (8) of this section for which the first or the
second charge may have been created upon the property received by way of
exchange, the creditor may apply for the execution of the decree by the
attachment and sale of the attachable assets of the judgment-debtor or by the
sale of the property obtained by way of exchange upon which the charge has
been created, as the case may be, and the amount realised by such execution
shall be distributed rateably among the decree-holders:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall affect the rights of any charge-
holders.(10)For the purposes of this Act, where the compensation is paid in
cash, the amount which shall be available for purposes of satisfaction of the
debts in the second part of the decree shall in no case exceed seventy-five
per cent. of the amount of such compensation; and where it is by way of
exchange or property, the extent of the property which shall be available for
the said purposes shall in no case exceed seventy-five per cent. in value of
such property.Explanation.-In this section the expression "paying capacity"
means the aggregate of the market value of all the attachable assets in India
of the displaced debtor plus the income which is likely to accrue to him for
the next three years succeeding, excluding from the computation of such income
a sum calculated at the rate of two hundred and fifty rupees a month.

### 33. Matters to be taken into account in directing payment by instalments.

(1)In directing payment of any sums by instalments under the first part of the
decree, the Tribunal shall take into account among other matters-(a)the
present income of the displaced debtor from all sources and the income that is
likely to accrue to him in future;(b)the size of the family dependant upon him
for the ordinary necessaries of life and the expenditure likely to be incurred
for the education and marriage of the children of the displaced person
dependant upon him.(2)Where a displaced creditor is a minor, or a widow or a
person who, by reason of any physical disability, is permanently disabled from
earning his livelihood, the Tribunal may direct that any instalment payable to
him or her shall be twenty-five per cent. higher than what would otherwise
have been directed to be paid, and where it does so, it shall also direct that
the instalments of other decree-holders shall be proportionately reduced.

### 34. Variation of maintenance allowances.

Where a displaced debtor has been ordered to pay an allowance periodically to
any person for his maintenance under any decree or order of a Court, or is
liable to pay such allowance under any agreement voluntarily entered into, the
rate at which such allowance is payable may be varied by the Tribunal on
application made to it in his behalf, if in view of the change in the
circumstances of the displaced debtor, the Tribunal thinks that such variation
is necessary, and such variation shall have effect for such period as the
Tribunal may direct, notwithstanding anything in any decree, order or
agreement to the contrary.

### 35. Taxation of lawyer's fees.

In directing payment of costs by any person as costs in respect of fees to any
legal practitioner employed in any proceeding before it, the Tribunal shall be
guided by any rules for the time being in force regulating the payment of such
costs in proceedings of a similar nature before the ordinary Civil Courts, and
shall not award more than one-half of what in its opinion the costs before the
Civil court would have been.

### 36. Extension of period of limitation.

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Limitation Act, 1908 (9 of
1908) or in any special or local law or in any agreement,--(a)any suit or
other legal proceeding in respect whereof the period of limitation was
extended by section 8 of the Displaced Persons (Institution of Suits) Act,
1948 [*] [Since lapsed. may be instituted at any time within one year from the
commencement of this Act.] (47 of 1948), and(b)any suit or other legal
proceeding for the enforcement of a claim against an insurance company not
falling within the provisions of clause (a) in respect whereof the cause of
action had arisen, whether wholly or in part, in the territories now situate
in West Pakistan and the institution of the suit or other legal proceeding has
become barred by reason of a condition in the contract, which, but for the
condition, would have been governed by the provisions obtained in clause (a),

### 37. Curtailment of period of limitation for execution of certain decrees.

Notwithstanding anything contained in section 48 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), or in any other law for the time being in force,
no order for the execution of a decree in respect of a debt against a
displaced person shall be made upon an application presented after the
expiration of--(a)in the case of decrees passed before the commencement of
this Act, six years from such commencement;(b)in the case of decrees passed
after the commencement of this Act, six years from the date of the
decrees;(c)in the case of decrees directing payment of money to be made at
prescribed intervals or on certain dates, six years from the date of default
in making the payment in respect of which the decree-holder seeks to have the
decree executed:Provided that nothing in this section shall be construed as
extending the limit of time for execution as provided in section 48 of the
said Code for an application for the execution of a decree passed before the
commencement of this Act.

### 38. Sale of immovable property in execution.

(1)Where in the execution of any decree for the recovery of a debt against a
displaced person his immovable property is sought to be sold, the Court
executing the decree shall, in the first instance, determine the market value
of the property and, if the value so determined is less than or equal to the
amount of the decree together with the proportionate amount of any prior
encumbrance, the Court shall transfer the property to the decree-holder.(2)If
the value determined under sub-section (1) is greater than the amount of the
decree together with the proportionate amount of any prior encumbrance, the
Court shall determine the portion of such property the value of which is equal
to the amount of the decree with proportionate amount of such prior
encumbrance, and may, if it is reasonable or convenient to do so, transfer
that portion to the decree-holder.(3)Where any property is transferred under
the provisions of this section to the decree-holder, the decree shall be
deemed to be satisfied to the extent of the value of the property so
transferred:Provided that if the decree-holder does not desire to take the
property or, in the opinion of the Court, it is not reasonable or convenient
to transfer the property to him, the property may be sold by public auction,
but irrespective of the price fetched at the public auction the market value
of the property as determined under this section (and not the amount payable
to the decree-holder out of the sale proceeds of the public auction) shall be
deemed to be the amount which has been paid to the decree-holder in respect of
the decree, and satisfaction thereof shall be entered accordingly.

### 39. Encouragement of settlements.

If the displaced debtor and the creditor or, where there are more creditors
than one, such number thereof as hold more than two-thirds in value of the
debts due from the displaced debtor enter into an agreement for the adjustment
of the liabilities, the Tribunal shall, if an application is made to it in
this behalf, after giving due notice to the other creditors affected, adjust
the remaining debts accordingly if the terms of the agreement are just and
fair, and pass a decree accordingly.

## Chapter IV  
Appeals

### 40. General provisions relating to appeals.

Save as otherwise provided in section 41, an appeal shall lie from--(a)any
final decree or order of the Tribunal, or(b)any order made in the course of
execution of any decree or order of the Tribunal, which if passed in the
course of execution of a decree or order of a Civil Court would be appealable
under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908). to the High Court within
the limits of whose jurisdiction the Tribunal is situate.

### 41. Restrictions on right of appeal in certain cases.

Notwithstanding anything contained in section 40, where the subject-matter of
the appeal relates to the amount of a debt and such amount on appeal is less
than rupees five thousand, no appeal shall lie.

### 42. Parties to appeals.

For the purpose of any appeal under this Act, it shall be sufficient if only
such persons as, in the opinion of the appellant, are necessary parties to the
appeal for the purpose of determining the real questions in controversy
between them, are impleaded as respondents to the appeal:Provided that where
it appears to the High Court at the hearing that any person who was a party to
the proceeding before the Tribunal from whose decree the appeal is preferred
but who has not been made a party to the appeal is interested in the result of
the appeal, the Court may adjourn the hearing to a future date to be fixed by
the Court and direct that such person be made a respondent.

## Chapter V  
Miscellaneous

### 43. Registration of certain societies and companies under Indian law.

(1)Where the registered office of any society or company registered before the
15th day of August, 1947, under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of
1860), or the Co-operative Societies Act, 1912 (2 of 1912), or under any other
law then in force in any Province for the registration of co-operative
societies or the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913), is situated in the
territory now forming part of West Pakistan but a majority of its members for
the time being are resident in India, or, in the case of a company, more than
thirty-three and one-third per cent. of its shares in value are being held by
persons resident in India, the society, or company, as the case may be, may
apply within one year from the commencement of this Act to the Registrar of
Societies, Co-operative Societies or Companies, as the case may be, within the
local limits of whose jurisdiction the majority of the members of the
governing body reside or carry on business, for the recognition of the society
or company as such in India.(2)The Registrar, after making such inquiry into
the matter as he deems fit, may either accord such recognition or refuse to do
so.(3)An appeal shall lie from the order of the Registrar under sub-section
(2) to the State Government and no order passed by the Registrar or by the
State Government on appeal shall be called in question in any Court.(4)Where
the Registrar accords recognition to a society, co-operative society or
company, he shall cause necessary entries thereof to be made in his register
and thereupon, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law
for the time being in force or in any instrument, the society or the company,
as the case may be, shall be deemed to have been formed and registered under
the relevant law as in force in India, and every such society or company
shall, among other matters, have the right to demand and receive any moneys
due to it from any person residing or carrying on business in India.

### 44. Bar of further applications in certain cases.

Subject to the other provisions contained in this Act, where an application
made by a displaced debtor under section 5 or under sub-section (2) of section
11, or by a displaced creditor under section 13 has been dismissed, no further
application for the same purpose shall lie.

### 45. Amendment of applications.

Clerical or arithmetical mistakes in any application or in any schedule
annexed thereto arising from any accidental slip or omission may at any time
be corrected by the Tribunal, either of its own motion or on the application
of any of the parties.

### 46. Service of notices.

Every notice issued under this Act shall be served by registered post,
acknowledgment due, unless the Tribunal for reasons to be recorded, directs
service in any of the other modes specified in Order V of the First Schedule
to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).

### 47. Effect of failure on the part of displaced debtor to disclose certain
matters.

Where a displaced debtor has not mentioned in the relevant schedule to his
application any debt owing by him or any property, movable or immovable,
belonging to him, whether such property is liable to attachment or not liable
to attachment at all, nothing contained in this Act shall prevent--(a)in the
case of the debt, the creditor from instituting any proceeding for the
recovery thereof under any law for the time being in force other than this
Act; and(b)in the case of the property, from being attached or otherwise dealt
with under any such law.

### 48. Proceedings not to abate on death of debtor.

Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no proceeding before a
Tribunal shall be deemed to abate by reason merely of the death of the debtor
who is a party to the proceeding, and a decree may be passed notwithstanding
the death and such decree shall have the same force and effect as if it had
been passed before the death took place:Provided that the Tribunal on an
application made in that behalf, shall cause the legal representative of the
deceased debtor to be made a party to the proceeding, and any person so made a
party may make any defence appropriate to his character as legal
representative of the deceased debtor:Provided further that nothing contained
herein shall be deemed to render the legal representative of the deceased
debtor liable to satisfy the decree except to the extent to which any of the
assets of the deceased debtor have devolved on him.

### 49. Past transactions not to be affected.

(1)If before the commencement of this Act a displaced debtor has satisfied or
discharged any of his liabilities in any manner whatsoever, such transactions
shall not be affected by anything contained in this Act.(2)Where the Tribunal
has determined the amount due in respect of any debt in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, any payments (including payments by way of interest)
made by the displaced debtor towards the debt prior to such determination
shall be adjusted towards the amount so determined:Provided that no creditor
shall be called upon to refund any amount paid to him if it is found that it
is in excess of the amount determined as being due to him under this Act.

### 50. Displaced debtor not to be deemed insolvent.

Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force
relating to insolvency, no displace debtor shall be deemed to be insolvent or
to have been adjudicated as such within the meaning of any law for the time
being in force relating to insolvency by reason only of his applying to get
his debts adjusted under this Act, and no petition in insolvency shall lie
against a displaced debtor in respect of any debt incurred by him before the
15th day of August, 1947.

### 51. Compromises or arrangements between banks and their debtors not to be
reopened in certain cases.

Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no compromise or arrangement
arrived at, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, between a
displaced debtor and a bank relating to the repayment, discharge or
satisfaction of any debt owing by the displaced debtor to the bank shall be
reopened by the Tribunal, and nothing contained in this Act shall affect any
such compromise or arrangement:Provided that there is in force in respect of
the bank a compromise or arrangement between it and its own creditors or any
class of such creditors which has been duly sanctioned by the Court under
section 153 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913): andProvided further
that the particulars specified in clauses (c), (cc), (ccc), (i), (q), (r), and
(s) of the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 60 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), as amended by section 31 of this Act, shall not
be liable to attachment or sale in any proceeding against the displaced
debtor.

### 52. Communication of contents of decrees to prescribed authority.

(1)Every Tribunal shall communicate to the prescribed authority, in such
manner as may be prescribed, the amount of the prior charge declared under
sub-section (3) of section 16, and shall also forward to it a copy of the
decree passed on the application of a displaced debtor under section 5 or sub-
section (2) of section 11 and also of any order passed under sub-section (5)
of section 32, specifying the amount due to the creditor mentioned therein on
the date of the order.(2)The prescribed authority shall scale down the debts
reported to him in accordance with sub-section (6) of section 32 and shall,
subject to any rules made in this behalf, meet the prior charge of the secured
creditor in accordance with sub-section (2) of section 16 in the first
instance and thereafter distribute the balance of the compensation available
for distribution within the meaning of sub-section (10) of section 32 rateably
amongst the other decree-holders whose decrees have been reported to
him:Provided that in making any such rateable distribution the prescribed
authority shall have due regard to the provisions contained in sub-section (2)
of section 33.(3)The balance from the amount of the compensation payable shall
be refunded to the displaced debtor.(4)Any amount paid by the prescribed
authority to any decree-holder under the provisions of this section shall, to
that extent, be a valid discharge of the debt due by the displaced debtor.

### 53. Application of the Limitation Act.

Subject to the other provisions contained in this Act, the Indian Limitation
Act, 1908 (9 of 1908) shall apply to the institution of any proceeding under
this Act, and, for the purpose of determining and computing the period of
limitation prescribed by that Act in relation thereto, every application made
under this Act shall be deemed to be a suit for the purpose of that Act.

### 54. Order XXX VIII of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure
not to apply.

Nothing contained in Order XXXVIII of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), relating to arrest and attachment before
judgment, shall apply to any proceeding under this Act.

### 55. Protection of action taken in good faith.

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Government or any person, in respect of anything done or intended to be done
by it or him in good faith in pursuance of this Act or of any rule or order
made thereunder.

### 56. Delegation of Powers.

The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct
that any power exercisable by it under this Act may also be exercised by such
officer or authority subordinate to the Central Government or by the State
Government or by any officer or authority subordinate to the State Government
as may be specified in the direction.

### 57. Power of Central Government to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
[rules] [For the Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Rules, 1951, see Gazette
of India, 1952, Pt. II, See. 3, p. 80. For the Insurance Claims Board Rules,
1952, see ibid., Pt. II, Section 3, p. 1764.] for carrying out the purposes of
this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the
provisions contained in sub-section (1), the rules so made may provide for all
or any of the following matters, namely:--(a)the additional particulars, if
any, which an application under section 5, should contain;(b)the form in which
notices under this Act may be issued;(c)the form in which applications under
section 10 or section 13 may be made;(d)the registers which should be
maintained under this Act;(e)the authorities required to be prescribed under
this Act;(f)the board or other authority to which any report under sub-section
(2) of section 18 may be made and the matters which such board or other
authority should take into account in making its report.

### 58. Power of State Government to make rules.

The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules
providing for--(a)the distribution of business amongst the various Tribunals
within the State;(b)the manner in which copies of documents produced before
the Tribunals should be certified;(c)the returns to be made by the Tribunals
and the authorities to which they may be so made.

### 58A. [ Laying of rules. [Inserted by Act 20 of 1983, Section 2 & Sch.
(w.e.f. 15-3-1984)]

(1)Every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid, as
soon as may be after it is made, before the State Legislature.(2)Every rule
made by the Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament while it is in session, for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule.]

### 59. Repeals.

Save as otherwise provided in section 36, the Displaced Persons (Institution
of Suits) Act, 1948 (47 of 1948) and the Displaced Persons (Legal Proceedings)
Act, 1949 (25 of 1949) shall cease to apply to displaced persons as defined in
this Act.

