## Union of India - Act

## THE DIGITAL PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION ACT, 2023

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# THE DIGITAL PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION ACT, 2023

## Act 22 of 2023

  * Published in Gazette of India on 11 August 2023 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 August 2023.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

THE DIGITAL PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION ACT, 2023(NO. 22 OF 2023)[11th August,
2023.]AnAct to provide for the processing of digital personal data in a manner
that recognisesboththerightofindividualstoprotecttheirpersonaldataandthe need
to process such personal data for lawful purposes and for matters
connectedtherewithorincidentalthereto.BE it enacted by Parliament in the
Seventy-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-CHAPTER I PRELIMINARY

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Digital Personal Data ProtectionAct, 2023.(2)It
shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint and different dates may be
appointed for different provisions of this Act and any reference in any such
provision to the commencement of this Act shall be construed as a reference to
the coming into force of that provision.

### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)“Appellate Tribunal”
means the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal established under
section 14 of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act,
1997;(b)“automated” means any digital process capable of operating
automatically in response to instructions given or otherwise for the purpose
of processing data;(c)“Board” means the Data Protection Board of India
established by the Central Government under section 18;(d)“certain legitimate
uses” means the uses referred to in section 7;(e)“Chairperson” means the
Chairperson of the Board;(f)“child” means an individual who has not completed
the age of eighteen years;(g)“Consent Manager” means a person registered with
the Board, who acts as a single point of contact to enable a Data Principal to
give, manage, review and withdraw her consent through an accessible,
transparent and interoperable platform;(h)“data” means a representation of
information, facts, concepts, opinions or instructions in a manner suitable
for communication, interpretation or processing by human beings or by
automated means;(i)“Data Fiduciary” means any person who alone or in
conjunction with other persons determines the purpose and means of processing
of personal data;(j)“Data Principal” means the individual to whom the personal
data relates and where such individual is—(i)a child, includes the parents or
lawful guardian of such a child;(ii)a person with disability, includes her
lawful guardian, acting on her behalf;(k)“Data Processor” means any person who
processes personal data on behalf of a Data Fiduciary;(l)“Data Protection
Officer” means an individual appointed by the Significant Data Fiduciary under
clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 10;(m)“digital office” means an
office that adopts an online mechanism wherein the proceedings, from receipt
of intimation or complaint or reference or directions or appeal, as the case
may be, to the disposal thereof, are conducted in online or digital
mode;(n)“digital personal data” means personal data in digital form;(o)“gain”
means—(i)a gain in property or supply of services, whether temporary or
permanent; or(ii)an opportunity to earn remuneration or greater remuneration
or to gain a financial advantage otherwise than by way of legitimate
remuneration;(p)“loss” means—(i)a loss in property or interruption in supply
of services, whether temporary or permanent; or(ii)a loss of opportunity to
earn remuneration or greater remuneration or to gain a financial advantage
otherwise than by way of legitimate remuneration;(q)“Member” means a Member of
the Board and includes the Chairperson;(r)“notification” means a notification
published in the Official Gazette and the expressions “notify” and “notified”
shall be construed accordingly;(s)“person” includes—(i)an individual;(ii)a
Hindu undivided family;(iii)a company;(iv)a firm;(v)an association of persons
or a body of individuals, whether incorporated or not;(vi)the State;
and(vii)every artificial juristic person, not falling within any of the
preceding sub-clauses;(t)“personal data” means any data about an individual
who is identifiable by or in relation to such data;(u)“personal data breach”
means any unauthorised processing of personal data or accidental disclosure,
acquisition, sharing, use, alteration, destruction or loss of access to
personal data, that compromises the confidentiality, integrity or availability
of personal data;(v)“prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(w)“proceeding” means any action taken by the Board under the provisions
of this Act;(x)“processing” in relation to personal data, means a wholly or
partly automated operation or set of operations performed on digital personal
data, and includes operations such as collection, recording, organisation,
structuring, storage, adaptation, retrieval, use, alignment or combination,
indexing, sharing, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise
making available, restriction, erasure or destruction;(y)“she” in relation to
an individual includes the reference to such individual irrespective of
gender;(z)“Significant Data Fiduciary” means any Data Fiduciary or class of
Data Fiduciaries as may be notified by the Central Government under section
10;(za)“specified purpose” means the purpose mentioned in the notice given by
the Data Fiduciary to the Data Principal in accordance with the provisions of
thisAct and the rules made thereunder; and(zb)“State” means the State as
defined under article 12 of the Constitution

### 3. Application of Act

Subject to the provisions of this Act, it shall(a)apply to the processing of
digital personal data within the territory of India where the personal data is
collected––(i)in digital form; or(ii)in non-digital form and digitised
subsequently;(b)also apply to processing of digital personal data outside the
territory of India, if such processing is in connection with any activity
related to offering of goods or services to Data Principals within the
territory of India;(c)not apply to—(i)personal data processed by an individual
for any personal or domestic purpose; and(ii)personal data that is made or
caused to be made publicly available by—(A)the Data Principal to whom such
personal data relates; or(B)any other person who is under an obligation under
any law for the time being in force in India to make such personal data
publicly available.Illustration.X, an individual, while blogging her views,
has publicly made available her personal data on social media. In such case,
the provisions of this Act shall not apply.

## Chapter II OBLIGATIONS OF DATA FIDUCIARY

### 4. Grounds for processing personal data.

(1)Aperson may process the personal data of a Data Principal only in
accordance with the provisions of this Act and for a lawful purpose,—(a)for
which the Data Principal has given her consent; or(b)for certain legitimate
uses.(2)For the purposes of this section, the expression “lawful purpose”
means any purpose which is not expressly forbidden by law.

### 5. Notice.

(1)Every request made to a Data Principal under section 6 for consent shall be
accompanied or preceded by a notice given by the Data Fiduciary to the Data
Principal, informing her,—(i)the personal data and the purpose for which the
same is proposed to be processed;(ii)the manner in which she may exercise her
rights under sub-section (4) of section 6 and section 13; and(iii)the manner
in which the Data Principal may make a complaint to the Board, in such manner
and as may be prescribed.Illustration.X, an individual, opens a bank account
using the mobile app or website of Y, a bank.To complete the Know-Your-
Customer requirements under law for opening of bank account, X opts for
processing of her personal data by Y in a live, video-based customer
identification process. Y shall accompany or precede the request for the
personal data with notice to X, describing the personal data and the purpose
of its processing.(2)Where a Data Principal has given her consent for the
processing of her personal data before the date of commencement of this
Act,—(a)the Data Fiduciary shall, as soon as it is reasonably practicable,
give to the Data Principal a notice informing her,––(i)the personal data and
the purpose for which the same has been processed;(ii)the manner in which she
may exercise her rights under sub-section (4) of section 6 and section 13;
and(iii)the manner in which the Data Principal may make a complaint to the
Board, in such manner and as may be prescribed.(b)the Data Fiduciary may
continue to process the personal data until and unless the Data Principal
withdraws her consent.Illustration.X, an individual, gave her consent to the
processing of her personal data for an online shopping app or website operated
by Y, an e-commerce service provider, before the commencement of thisAct. Upon
commencement of theAct,Y shall, as soon as practicable, give through email,
in-app notification or other effective method information to X, describing the
personal data and the purpose of its processing.(3)The Data Fiduciary shall
give the Data Principal the option to access the contents of the notice
referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2) in English or any language specified
in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution.

### 6. Consent

(1)The consent given by the Data Principal shall be free, specific, informed,
unconditional and unambiguous with a clear affirmative action, and shall
signify an agreement to the processing of her personal data for the specified
purpose and be limited to such personal data as is necessary for such
specified purpose.Illustration.X, an individual, downloads Y, a telemedicine
app.Y requests the consent of X for (i) the processing of her personal data
for making available telemedicine services, and (ii) accessing her mobile
phone contact list, and X signifies her consent to both. Since phone contact
list is not necessary for making available telemedicine services, her consent
shall be limited to the processing of her personal data for making available
telemedicine services.(2)Any part of consent referred in sub-section (1) which
constitutes an infringement of the provisions of thisAct or the rules made
thereunder or any other law for the time being in force shall be invalid to
the extent of such infringement.Illustration.X, an individual, buys an
insurance policy using the mobile app or website of Y, an insurer. She gives
to Y her consent for (i) the processing of her personal data by Y for the
purpose of issuing the policy, and (ii) waiving her right to file a complaint
to the Data Protection Board of India. Part (ii) of the consent, relating to
waiver of her right to file a complaint, shall be invalid.(3)Every request for
consent under the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder shall be
presented to the Data Principal in a clear and plain language, giving her the
option to access such request in English or any language specified in the
Eighth Schedule to the Constitution and providing the contact details of a
Data Protection Officer, where applicable, or of any other person authorised
by the Data Fiduciary to respond to any communication from the Data Principal
for the purpose of exercise of her rights under the provisions of this
Act.(4)Where consent given by the Data Principal is the basis of processing of
personal data, such Data Principal shall have the right to withdraw her
consent at any time, with the ease of doing so being comparable to the ease
with which such consent was given.(5)The consequences of the withdrawal
referred to in sub-section (4) shall be borne by the Data Principal, and such
withdrawal shall not affect the legality of processing of the personal data
based on consent before its withdrawal.Illustration.X, an individual, is the
user of an online shopping app or website operated by Y, an e-commerce service
provider. X consents to the processing of her personal data by Yfor the
purpose of fulfilling her supply order and places an order for supply of a
good while making payment for the same. If X withdraws her consent, Y may stop
enabling X to use the app or website for placing orders, but may not stop the
processing for supply of the goods already ordered and paid for by X.(6)If a
Data Principal withdraws her consent to the processing of personal data under
sub-section (5), the Data Fiduciary shall, within a reasonable time, cease and
cause its Data Processors to cease processing the personal data of such Data
Principal unless such processing without her consent is required or authorised
under the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder or any other law
for the time being in force in India.Illustration.X, a telecom service
provider, enters into a contract with Y, a Data Processor, for emailing
telephone bills to the customers of X. Z, a customer of X, who had earlier
given her consent to X for the processing of her personal data for emailing of
bills, downloads the mobile app of X and opts to receive bills only on the
app. X shall itself cease, and shall cause Y to cease, the processing of the
personal data of Z for emailing bills.(7)The Data Principal may give, manage,
review or withdraw her consent to the Data Fiduciary through a Consent
Manager.(8)The Consent Manager shall be accountable to the Data Principal and
shall act on her behalf in such manner and subject to such obligations as may
be prescribed.(9)Every Consent Manager shall be registered with the Board in
such manner and subject to such technical, operational, financial and other
conditions as may be prescribed.(10)Where a consent given by the Data
Principal is the basis of processing of personal data and a question arises in
this regard in a proceeding, the Data Fiduciary shall be obliged to prove that
a notice was given by her to the Data Principal and consent was given by such
Data Principal to the Data Fiduciary in accordance with the provisions of this
Act and the rules made thereunder.

### 7. Certain legitimate uses.

A Data Fiduciary may process personal data of a Data Principal for any of
following uses, namely:(a)for the specified purpose for which the Data
Principal has voluntarily provided her personal data to the Data Fiduciary,
and in respect of which she has not indicated to the Data Fiduciary that she
does not consent to the use of her personal data.Illustrations.(I)X, an
individual, makes a purchase atY, a pharmacy. She voluntarily provides Yher
personal data and requests Y to acknowledge receipt of the payment made for
the purchase by sending a message to her mobile phone. Y may process the
personal data of X for the purpose of sending the receipt.(II)X, an
individual, electronically messages Y, a real estate broker, requesting Y to
help identify a suitable rented accommodation for her and shares her personal
data for this purpose. Y may process her personal data to identify and
intimate to her the details of accommodation available on rent. Subsequently,
X informs Y that X no longer needs help from Y. Y shall cease to process the
personal data of X;(b)for the State and any of its instrumentalities to
provide or issue to the Data Principal such subsidy, benefit, service,
certificate, licence or permit as may be prescribed, where––(i)she has
previously consented to the processing of her personal data by the State or
any of its instrumentalities for any subsidy, benefit, service, certificate,
licence or permit; or(ii)such personal data is available in digital form in,
or in non-digital form and digitised subsequently from, any database,
register, book or other document which is maintained by the State or any of
its instrumentalities and is notified by the Central Government, subject to
standards followed for processing being in accordance with the policy issued
by the Central Government or any law for the time being in force for
governance of personal data.Illustration.X.a pregnant woman, enrols herself on
an app or website to avail of government’s maternity benefits programme, while
consenting to provide her personal data for the purpose of availing of such
benefits. Government may process the personal data of X processing to
determine her eligibility to receive any other prescribed benefit from the
government;(c)for the performance by the State or any of its instrumentalities
of any function under any law for the time being in force in India or in the
interest of sovereignty and integrity of India or security of the State;(d)for
fulfilling any obligation under any law for the time being in force in India
on any person to disclose any information to the State or any of its
instrumentalities, subject to such processing being in accordance with the
provisions regarding disclosure of such information in any other law for the
time being in force;(e)for compliance with any judgment or decree or order
issued under any law for the time being in force in India, or any judgment or
order relating to claims of a contractual or civil nature under any law for
the time being in force outside India;(f)for responding to a medical emergency
involving a threat to the life or immediate threat to the health of the Data
Principal or any other individual;(g)for taking measures to provide medical
treatment or health services to any individual during an epidemic, outbreak of
disease, or any other threat to public health;(h)for taking measures to ensure
safety of, or provide assistance or services to, any individual during any
disaster, or any breakdown of public order.Explanation.—For the purposes of
this clause, the expression “disaster” shall have the same meaning as assigned
to it in clause (d) of section 2 of the Disaster ManagementAct, 2005; or(i)for
the purposes of employment or those related to safeguarding the employer from
loss or liability, such as prevention of corporate espionage, maintenance of
confidentiality of trade secrets, intellectual property, classified
information or provision of any service or benefit sought by a Data Principal
who is an employee.

### 8.General obligations of Data Fiduciary.

(1)A Data Fiduciary shall, irrespective of any agreement to the contrary or
failure of a Data Principal to carry out the duties provided under thisAct, be
responsible for complying with the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder in respect of any processing undertaken by it or on its behalf by a
Data Processor.(2)A Data Fiduciary may engage, appoint, use or otherwise
involve a Data Processor to process personal data on its behalf for any
activity related to offering of goods or services to Data Principals only
under a valid contract.(3)Where personal data processed by a Data Fiduciary is
likely to be—(a)used to make a decision that affects the Data Principal;
or(b)disclosed to another Data Fiduciary, the Data Fiduciary processing such
personal data shall ensure its completeness, accuracy and consistency.(4)A
Data Fiduciary shall implement appropriate technical and organisational
measures to ensure effective observance of the provisions of this Act and the
rules made thereunder.(5)A Data Fiduciary shall protect personal data in its
possession or under its control, including in respect of any processing
undertaken by it or on its behalf by a Data Processor, by taking reasonable
security safeguards to prevent personal data breach.(6)In the event of a
personal data breach, the Data Fiduciary shall give the Board and each
affected Data Principal, intimation of such breach in such form and manner as
may be prescribed.(7)A Data Fiduciary shall, unless retention is necessary for
compliance with any law for the time being in force,—(a)erase personal data,
upon the Data Principal withdrawing her consent or as soon as it is reasonable
to assume that the specified purpose is no longer being served, whichever is
earlier; and(b)cause its Data Processor to erase any personal data that was
made available by the Data Fiduciary for processing to such Data
Processor.Illustrations.(I)X, an individual, registers herself on an online
marketplace operated by Y, an e-commerce service provider. X gives her consent
to Y for the processing of her personal data for selling her used car. The
online marketplace helps conclude the sale. Y shall no longer retain her
personal data.(II)X, an individual, decides to close her savings account with
Y, a bank.Y is required by law applicable to banks to maintain the record of
the identity of its clients for a period of ten years beyond closing of
accounts. Since retention is necessary for compliance with law, Y shall retain
X’s personal data for the said period.(8)The purpose referred to in clause (a)
of sub-section (7) shall be deemed to no longer be served, if the Data
Principal does not––(a)approach the Data Fiduciary for the performance of the
specified purpose;and(b)exercise any of her rights in relation to such
processing, for such time period as may be prescribed, and different time
periods may be prescribed for different classes of Data Fiduciaries and for
different purposes.(9)AData Fiduciary shall publish, in such manner as may be
prescribed, the business contact information of a Data Protection Officer, if
applicable, or a person who is able to answer on behalf of the Data Fiduciary,
the questions, if any, raised by the Data Principal about the processing of
her personal data.(10)AData Fiduciary shall establish an effective mechanism
to redress the grievances of Data Principals.(11)For the purposes of this
section, it is hereby clarified that a Data Principal shall be considered as
not having approached the Data Fiduciary for the performance of the specified
purpose, in any period during which she has not initiated contact with the
Data Fiduciary for such performance, in person or by way of communication in
electronic or physical form.

### 9. Processing of personal data of children.

(1)The Data Fiduciary shall, before processing any personal data of a child or
a person with disability who has a lawful guardian obtain verifiable consent
of the parent of such child or the lawful guardian, as the case may be, in
such manner as may be prescribed.Explanation.—For the purpose of this sub-
section, the expression “consent of the parent” includes the consent of lawful
guardian, wherever applicable.(2)A Data Fiduciary shall not undertake such
processing of personal data that is likely to cause any detrimental effect on
the well-being of a child.(3)A Data Fiduciary shall not undertake tracking or
behavioural monitoring of children or targeted advertising directed at
children.(4)The provisions of sub-sections (1) and (3) shall not be applicable
to processing of personal data of a child by such classes of Data Fiduciaries
or for such purposes, and subject to such conditions, as may be
prescribed.(5)The Central Government may, if satisfied that a Data Fiduciary
has ensured that its processing of personal data of children is done in a
manner that is verifiably safe, notify for such processing by such Data
Fiduciary the age above which that Data Fiduciary shall be exempt from the
applicability of all or any of the obligations under sub-sections (1) and (3)
in respect of processing by that Data Fiduciary as the notification may
specify.

### 10. Additional obligations of Significant Data Fiduciary.

(1)The Central Government may notify any Data Fiduciary or class of Data
Fiduciaries as Significant Data Fiduciary, on the basis of an assessment of
such relevant factors as it may determine, including—(a)the volume and
sensitivity of personal data processed;(b)risk to the rights of Data
Principal;(c)potential impact on the sovereignty and integrity of
India;(d)risk to electoral democracy;(e)security of the State; and(f)public
order.(2)The Significant Data Fiduciary shall—(a)appoint a Data Protection
Officer who shall—(i)represent the Significant Data Fiduciary under the
provisions of this Act;(ii)be based in India;(iii)be an individual responsible
to the Board of Directors or similar governing body of the Significant Data
Fiduciary; and(iv)be the point of contact for the grievance redressal
mechanism under the provisions of this Act;(b)appoint an independent data
auditor to carry out data audit, who shall evaluate the compliance of the
Significant Data Fiduciary in accordance with the provisions of this Act;
and(c)undertake the following other measures, namely:—(i)periodic Data
Protection ImpactAssessment, which shall be a process comprising a description
of the rights of Data Principals and the purpose of processing of their
personal data, assessment and management of the risk to the rights of the Data
Principals, and such other matters regarding such process as may be
prescribed;(ii)periodic audit; and(iii)such other measures, consistent with
the provisions of this Act, as may be prescribed.

## Chapter III RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF DATA PRINCIPAL

### 11.Right to access information about personal data.

(1)The Data Principal shall have the right to obtain from the Data Fiduciary
to whom she has previously given consent, including consent as referred to in
clause (a) of section 7 (hereinafter referred to as the said Data Fiduciary),
for processing of personal data, upon making to it a request in such manner as
may be prescribed,—(a)a summary of personal data which is being processed by
such Data Fiduciary and the processing activities undertaken by that Data
Fiduciary with respect to such personal data;(b)the identities of all other
Data Fiduciaries and Data Processors with whom the personal data has been
shared by such Data Fiduciary, along with a description of the personal data
so shared; and(c)any other information related to the personal data of such
Data Principal and its processing, as may be prescribed.(2)Nothing contained
in clause (b) or clause (c) of sub-section (1) shall apply in respect of the
sharing of any personal data by the said Data Fiduciary with any other Data
Fiduciary authorised by law to obtain such personal data, where such sharing
is pursuant to a request made in writing by such other Data Fiduciary for the
purpose of prevention or detection or investigation of offences or cyber
incidents, or for prosecution or punishment of offences.

### 12. Right to correction and erasure of personal data.

(1)A Data Principal shall have the right to correction, completion, updating
and erasure of her personal data for the processing of which she has
previously given consent, including consent as referred to in clause (a) of
section 7, in accordance with any requirement or procedure under any law for
the time being in force.(2)A Data Fiduciary shall, upon receiving a request
for correction, completion or updating from a Data Principal,—(a)correct the
inaccurate or misleading personal data;(b)complete the incomplete personal
data; and(c)update the personal data.(3)A Data Principal shall make a request
in such manner as may be prescribed to the Data Fiduciary for erasure of her
personal data, and upon receipt of such a request, the Data Fiduciary shall
erase her personal data unless retention of the same is necessary for the
specified purpose or for compliance with any law for the time being in force.

### 13.Right of grievance redressal

(1)A Data Principal shall have the right to have readily available means of
grievance redressal provided by a Data Fiduciary or Consent Manager in respect
of any act or omission of such Data Fiduciary or Consent Manager regarding the
performance of its obligations in relation to the personal data of such Data
Principal or the exercise of her rights under the provisions of this Act and
the rules made thereunder.(2)The Data Fiduciary or Consent Manager shall
respond to any grievances referred to in sub-section (1) within such period as
may be prescribed from the date of its receipt for all or any class of Data
Fiduciaries.(3)The Data Principal shall exhaust the opportunity of redressing
her grievance under this section before approaching the Board.

### 14.Right to nominate.

(1)A Data Principal shall have the right to nominate, in such manner as may be
prescribed, any other individual, who shall, in the event of death or
incapacity of the Data Principal, exercise the rights of the Data Principal in
accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder.(2)For the purposes of this section, the expression “incapacity”
means inability to exercise the rights of the Data Principal under the
provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder due to unsoundness of mind
or infirmity of body.

### 15.Duties of Data Principal.

A Data Principal shall perform the following duties, namely:—(a)comply with
the provisions of all applicable laws for the time being in force while
exercising rights under the provisions of this Act;(b)to ensure not to
impersonate another person while providing her personal data for a specified
purpose;(c)to ensure not to suppress any material information while providing
her personal data for any document, unique identifier, proof of identity or
proof of address issued by the State or any of its instrumentalities;(d)to
ensure not to register a false or frivolous grievance or complaint with a Data
Fiduciary or the Board; and(e)to furnish only such information as is
verifiably authentic, while exercising the right to correction or erasure
under the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder.

## Chapter IV SPECIAL PROVISIONS

### 16. Processing of personal data outside India.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, restrict the transfer of
personal data by a Data Fiduciary for processing to such country or territory
outside India as may be so notified.(2)Nothing contained in this section shall
restrict the applicability of any law for the time being in force in India
that provides for a higher degree of protection for or restriction on transfer
of personal data by a Data Fiduciary outside India in relation to any personal
data or Data Fiduciary or class thereof.

### 17.Exemptions.

(1)The provisions of Chapter II, except sub-sections (1) and (5) of section 8,
and those of Chapter III and section 16 shall not apply where—(a)the
processing of personal data is necessary for enforcing any legal right or
claim;(b)the processing of personal data by any court or tribunal or any other
body in India which is entrusted by law with the performance of any judicial
or quasi-judicial or regulatory or supervisory function, where such processing
is necessary for the performance of such function;(c)personal data is
processed in the interest of prevention, detection, investigation or
prosecution of any offence or contravention of any law for the time being in
force in India;(d)personal data of Data Principals not within the territory of
India is processed pursuant to any contract entered into with any person
outside the territory of India by any person based in India;(e)the processing
is necessary for a scheme of compromise or arrangement or merger or
amalgamation of two or more companies or a reconstruction by way of demerger
or otherwise of a company, or transfer of undertaking of one or more company
to another company, or involving division of one or more companies, approved
by a court or tribunal or other authority competent to do so by any law for
the time being in force; and(f)the processing is for the purpose of
ascertaining the financial information and assets and liabilities of any
person who has defaulted in payment due on account of a loan or advance taken
from a financial institution, subject to such processing being in accordance
with the provisions regarding disclosure of information or data in any other
law for the time being in force.Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause,
the expressions “default” and“financial institution” shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in sub-sections (12) and (14) of section 3 of
the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.Illustration.X, an individual, takes
a loan from Y, a bank. X defaults in paying her monthly loan repayment
instalment on the date on which it falls due. Y may process the personal data
of X for ascertaining her financial information and assets and
liabilities.(2)The provisions of this Act shall not apply in respect of the
processing of personal data—(a)by such instrumentality of the State as the
Central Government may notify, in the interests of sovereignty and integrity
of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States,
maintenance of public order or preventing incitement to any cognizable offence
relating to any of these, and the processing by the Central Government of any
personal data that such instrumentality may furnish to it; and Processing of
personal data outside India.(b)necessary for research, archiving or
statistical purposes if the personal data is not to be used to take any
decision specific to a Data Principal and such processing is carried on in
accordance with such standards as may be prescribed.(3)The Central Government
may, having regard to the volume and nature of personal data processed, notify
certain Data Fiduciaries or class of Data Fiduciaries, including startups, as
Data Fiduciaries to whom the provisions of section 5, sub-sections (3) and (7)
of section 8 and sections 10 and 11 shall not apply.Explanation.—For the
purposes of this sub-section, the term “startup” means a private limited
company or a partnership firm or a limited liability partnership incorporated
in India, which is eligible to be and is recognised as such in accordance with
the criteria and process notified by the department to which matters relating
to startups are allocated in the Central Government.(4)In respect of
processing by the State or any instrumentality of the State, the provisions of
sub-section (7) of section 8 and sub-section (3) of section 12 and, where such
processing is for a purpose that does not include making of a decision that
affects the Data Principal, sub-section (2) of section 12 shall not
apply.(5)The Central Government may, before expiry of five years from the date
of commencement of this Act, by notification, declare that any provision of
thisAct shall not apply to such Data Fiduciary or classes of Data Fiduciaries
for such period as may be specified in the notification.

## Chapter V DATA PROTECTION BOARD OF INDIA

### 18. Establishment of Board.

(1)With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification,
appoint, there shall be established, for the purposes of this Act, a Board to
be called the Data Protection Board of India.(2)The Board shall be a body
corporate by the name aforesaid, having perpetual succession and a common
seal, with power, subject to the provisions of thisAct, to acquire, hold and
dispose of property, both movable and immovable, and to contract and shall, by
the said name, sue or be sued.(3)The headquarters of the Board shall be at
such place as the Central Government may notify.

### 19.Composition and qualifications for appointment of Chairperson and
Members

(1)The Board shall consist of a Chairperson and such number of other Members
as the Central Government may notify.(2)The Chairperson and other Members
shall be appointed by the Central Government in such manner as may be
prescribed.(3)The Chairperson and other Members shall be a person of ability,
integrity and standing who possesses special knowledge or practical experience
in the fields of data governance, administration or implementation of laws
related to social or consumer protection, dispute resolution, information and
communication technology, digital economy, law, regulation or techno-
regulation, or in any other field which in the opinion of the Central
Government may be useful to the Board, and at least one among them shall be an
expert in the field of law.

### 20.Salary, allowances payable to and term of office.

(1)The salary, allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the
Chairperson and other Members shall be such as may be prescribed, and shall
not be varied to their disadvantage after their appointment.(2)The Chairperson
and other Members shall hold office for a term of two years and shall be
eligible for re-appointment.

### 21.Disqualifications for appointment and continuation as Chairperson and
Members of Board.

(1)A person shall be disqualified for being appointed and continued as the
Chairperson or a Member, if she—(a)has been adjudged as an insolvent;(b)has
been convicted of an offence, which in the opinion of the Central Government,
involves moral turpitude;(c)has become physically or mentally incapable of
acting as a Member;(d)has acquired such financial or other interest, as is
likely to affect prejudicially her functions as a Member; or(e)has so abused
her position as to render her continuance in office prejudicial to the public
interest.(2)The Chairperson or Member shall not be removed from her office by
the Central Government unless she has been given an opportunity of being heard
in the matter.

### 22.Resignation by Members and filling of vacancy.

(1)The Chairperson or any other Member may give notice in writing to the
Central Government of resigning from her office, and such resignation shall be
effective from the date on which the Central Government permits her to
relinquish office, or upon expiry of a period of three months from the date of
receipt of such notice, or upon a duly appointed successor entering upon her
office, or upon the expiry of the term of her office, whichever is
earliest.(2)A vacancy caused by the resignation or removal or death of the
Chairperson or any other Member, or otherwise, shall be filled by fresh
appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Act.(3)The Chairperson
and any other Member shall not, for a period of one year from the date on
which they cease to hold such office, except with the previous approval of the
Central Government, accept any employment, and shall also disclose to the
Central Government any subsequent acceptance of employment with any Data
Fiduciary against whom proceedings were initiated by or before such
Chairperson or other Member.

### 23.Proceedings of Board.

(1)The Board shall observe such procedure in regard to the holding of and
transaction of business at its meetings, including by digital means, and
authenticate its orders, directions and instruments in such manner as may be
prescribed.(2)No act or proceeding of the Board shall be invalid merely by
reason of—(a)any vacancy in or any defect in the constitution of the
Board;(b)any defect in the appointment of a person acting as the Chairperson
or other Member of the Board; or(c)any irregularity in the procedure of the
Board, which does not affect the merits of the case.(3)When the Chairperson is
unable to discharge her functions owing to absence, illness or any other
cause, the senior-most Member shall discharge the functions of the Chairperson
until the date on which the Chairperson resumes her duties.

### 24.Officers and employees of Board.

The Board may, with previous approval of the Central Government, appoint such
officers and employees as it may deem necessary for the efficient discharge of
its functions under the provisions of this Act, on such terms and conditions
of appointment and service as may be prescribed.

### 25.Members and officers to be public servants.

The Chairperson, Members, officers and employees of the Board shall be deemed,
when acting or purporting to act in pursuance of provisions of this Act, to be
public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.

### 26.Powers of Chairperson.

The Chairperson shall exercise the following powers, namely:—(a)general
superintendence and giving direction in respect of all administrative matters
of the Board;(b)authorise any officer of the Board to scrutinise any
intimation, complaint, reference or correspondence addressed to the Board;
and(c)authorise performance of any of the functions of the Board and conduct
any of its proceedings, by an individual Member or groups of Members and to
allocate proceedings among them.

## Chapter VI POWERS, FUNCTIONS AND PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED BY BOARD

### 27. Powers and functions of Board.

(1)The Board shall exercise and perform the following powers and functions,
namely:—(a)on receipt of an intimation of personal data breach under sub-
section (6) of section 8, to direct any urgent remedial or mitigation measures
in the event of a personal data breach, and to inquire into such personal data
breach and impose penalty as provided in this Act;(b)on a complaint made by a
Data Principal in respect of a personal data breach or a breach in observance
by a Data Fiduciary of its obligations in relation to her personal data or the
exercise of her rights under the provisions of this Act, or on a reference
made to it by the Central Government or a State Government, or in compliance
of the directions of any court, to inquire into such breach and impose penalty
as provided in this Act;(c)on a complaint made by a Data Principal in respect
of a breach in observance by a Consent Manager of its obligations in relation
to her personal data, to inquire into such breach and impose penalty as
provided in this Act;(d)on receipt of an intimation of breach of any condition
of registration of a Consent Manager, to inquire into such breach and impose
penalty as provided in this Act; and(e)on a reference made by the Central
Government in respect of the breach in observance of the provisions of sub-
section (2) of section 37 by an intermediary, to inquire into such breach and
impose penalty as provided in this Act.(2)The Board may, for the effective
discharge of its functions under the provisions of thisAct, after giving the
person concerned an opportunity of being heard and after recording reasons in
writing, issue such directions as it may consider necessary to such person,
who shall be bound to comply with the same.(3)The Board may, on a
representation made to it by a person affected by a direction issued under
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), or on a reference made by the Central
Government, modify, suspend, withdraw or cancel such direction and, while
doing so, impose such conditions as it may deem fit, subject to which the
modification, suspension, withdrawal or cancellation shall have effect.

### 28.Procedure to be followed by Board.

(1)The Board shall function as an independent body and shall, as far as
practicable, function as a digital office, with the receipt of complaints and
the allocation, hearing and pronouncement of decisions in respect of the same
being digital by design, and adopt such techno-legal measures as may be
prescribed.(2)The Board may, on receipt of an intimation or complaint or
reference or directions as referred to in sub-section (1) of section 27, take
action in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder.(3)The Board shall determine whether there are sufficient grounds
to proceed with an inquiry.(4)In case the Board determines that there are
insufficient grounds, it may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, close the
proceedings.(5)In case the Board determines that there are sufficient grounds
to proceed with inquiry, it may, for reasons to be recorded in writing,
inquire into the affairs of any person for ascertaining whether such person is
complying with or has complied with the provisions of this Act.(6)The Board
shall conduct such inquiry following the principles of natural justice and
shall record reasons for its actions during the course of such inquiry.(7)For
the purposes of discharging its functions under this Act, the Board shall have
the same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908, in respect of matters relating to—(a)summoning and enforcing
the attendance of any person and examining her on oath;(b)receiving evidence
of affidavit requiring the discovery and production of documents;(c)inspecting
any data, book, document, register, books of account or any other document;
and(d)such other matters as may be prescribed.(8)The Board or its officers
shall not prevent access to any premises or take into custody any equipment or
any item that may adversely affect the day-to-day functioning of a
person.(9)The Board may require the services of any police officer or any
officer of the Central Government or a State Government to assist it for the
purposes of this section and it shall be the duty of every such officer to
comply with such requisition.(10)During the course of the inquiry, if the
Board considers it necessary, it may for reasons to be recorded in writing,
issue interim orders after giving the person concerned an opportunity of being
heard.(11)On completion of the inquiry and after giving the person concerned
an opportunity of being heard, the Board may for reasons to be recorded in
writing, either close the proceedings or proceed in accordance with section
33.(12)At any stage after receipt of a complaint, if the Board is of the
opinion that the complaint is false or frivolous, it may issue a warning or
impose costs on the complainant.

## Chapter VII APPEAL AND ALTERNATE DISPUTE RESOLUTION

### 29. Appeal to Appellate Tribunal.

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order or direction made by the Board under this
Act may prefer an appeal before the Appellate Tribunal.(2)Every appeal under
sub-section (1) shall be filed within a period of sixty days from the date of
receipt of the order or direction appealed against and it shall be in such
form and manner and shall be accompanied by such fee as may be
prescribed.(3)The Appellate Tribunal may entertain an appeal after the expiry
of the period specified in sub-section (2), if it is satisfied that there was
sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within that period.(4)On
receipt of an appeal under sub-section (1), the Appellate Tribunal may, after
giving the parties to the appeal, an opportunity of being heard, pass such
orders thereon as it thinks fit, confirming, modifying or setting aside the
order appealed against.(5)The Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every
order made by it to the Board and to the parties to the appeal.(6)The appeal
filed before theAppellate Tribunal under sub-section (1) shall be dealt with
by it as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made by it to
dispose of the appeal finally within six months from the date on which the
appeal is presented to it.(7)Where any appeal under sub-section (6) could not
be disposed of within the period of six months, the Appellate Tribunal shall
record its reasons in writing for not disposing of the appeal within that
period.(8)Without prejudice to the provisions of section 14Aand section 16 of
the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997, the Appellate Tribunal
shall deal with an appeal under this section in accordance with such procedure
as may be prescribed.(9)Where an appeal is filed against the orders of the
Appellate Tribunal under this Act, the provisions of section 18 of the Telecom
Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997 shall apply.(10)In respect of appeals
filed under the provisions of thisAct, theAppellate Tribunal shall, as far as
practicable, function as a digital office, with the receipt of appeal, hearing
and pronouncement of decisions in respect of the same being digital by design.

### 30.Orders passed by Appellate Tribunal to be executable as decree.

(1)An order passed by the Appellate Tribunal under this Act shall be
executable by it as a decree of civil court, and for this purpose,
theAppellate Tribunal shall have all the powers of a civil
court.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the Appellate
Tribunal may transmit any order made by it to a civil court having local
jurisdiction and such civil court shall execute the order as if it were a
decree made by that court.

### 31.Alternate dispute resolution.

If the Board is of the opinion that any complaint may be resolved by
mediation, it may direct the parties concerned to attempt resolution of the
dispute through such mediation by such mediator as the parties may mutually
agree upon, or as provided for under any law for the time being in force in
India.

### 32.Voluntary undertaking.

(1)The Board may accept a voluntary undertaking in respect of any matter
related to observance of the provisions of this Act from any person at any
stage of a proceeding under section 28.(2)The voluntary undertaking referred
to in sub-section (1) may include an undertaking to take such action within
such time as may be determined by the Board, or refrain from taking such
action, and or publicising such undertaking.(3)The Board may, after accepting
the voluntary undertaking and with the consent of the person who gave the
voluntary undertaking vary the terms included in the voluntary
undertaking.(4)The acceptance of the voluntary undertaking by the Board shall
constitute a bar on proceedings under the provisions of this Act as regards
the contents of the voluntary undertaking, except in cases covered by sub-
section (5).(5)Where a person fails to adhere to any term of the voluntary
undertaking accepted by the Board, such breach shall be deemed to be breach of
the provisions of this Act and the Board may, after giving such person an
opportunity of being heard, proceed in accordance with the provisions of
section 33.

## Chapter VIII PENALTIES AND ADJUDICATION

### 33. Penalties

(1)If the Board determines on conclusion of an inquiry that breach of the
provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder by a person is
significant, it may, after giving the Orders passed by Appellate Tribunal to
be executable as decree.(2)While determining the amount of monetary penalty to
be imposed under sub-section (1), the Board shall have regard to the following
matters, namely:—(a)the nature, gravity and duration of the breach;(b)the type
and nature of the personal data affected by the breach;(c)repetitive nature of
the breach;(d)whether the person, as a result of the breach, has realised a
gain or avoided any loss;(e)whether the person took any action to mitigate the
effects and consequences of the breach, and the timeliness and effectiveness
of such action;(f)whether the monetary penalty to be imposed is proportionate
and effective, having regard to the need to secure observance of and deter
breach of the provisions of this Act; and(g)the likely impact of the
imposition of the monetary penalty on the person.

### 34.Crediting sums realised by way of penalties to Consolidated Fund of
India.

All sums realised by way of penalties imposed by the Board under this Act,
shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund of India.

## Chapter IX MISCELLANEOUS

### 35.Protection of action taken in good faith.

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Central
Government, the Board, its Chairperson and any Member, officer or employee
thereof for anything which is done or intended to be done in good faith under
the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder.

### 36.Power to call for information.

The Central Government may, for the purposes of this Act, require the Board
and any Data Fiduciary or intermediary to furnish such information as it may
call for.

### 37.Power of Central Government to issue directions.

(1)The Central Government or any of its officers specially authorised by it in
this behalf may, upon receipt of a reference in writing from the Board
that—(a)intimates the imposition of monetary penalty by the Board on a Data
Fiduciary in two or more instances; and(b)advises, in the interests of the
general public, the blocking for access by the public to any information
generated, transmitted, received, stored or hosted, in any computer resource
that enables such Data Fiduciary to carry on any activity relating to offering
of goods or services to Data Principals within the territory of India, after
giving an opportunity of being heard to that Data Fiduciary, on being
satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so to do, in the interests of the
general public, for reasons to be recorded in writing, by order, direct any
agency of the Central Government or any intermediary to block for access by
the public or cause to be blocked for access by the public any such
information.(2)Every intermediary who receives a direction issued under sub-
section (1) shall be bound to comply with the same.(3)For the purposes of this
section, the expressions “computer resource”, “information” and “intermediary”
shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Information
Technology Act, 2000.

### 38.Consistency with other laws.

(1)The provisions of thisAct shall be in addition to and not in derogation of
any other law for the time being in force.(2)In the event of any conflict
between a provision of this Act and a provision of any other law for the time
being in force, the provision of this Act shall prevail to the extent of such
conflict.

### 39.Bar of jurisdiction.

No civil court shall have the jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding
in respect of any matter for which the Board is empowered under the provisions
of this Act and no injunction shall be granted by any court or other authority
in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power under
the provisions of this Act.

### 40.Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, and subject to the condition
of previous publication, make rules not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely:—(a)the manner in which the notice
given by the Data Fiduciary to a Data Principal shall inform her, under sub-
section (1) of section 5;(b)the manner in which the notice given by the Data
Fiduciary to a Data Principal shall inform her, under sub-section (2) of
section 5;(c)the manner of accountability and the obligations of Consent
Manager under sub-section (8) of section 6;(d)the manner of registration of
Consent Manager and the conditions relating thereto, under sub-section (9) of
section 6;(e)the subsidy, benefit, service, certificate, licence or permit for
the provision or issuance of which, personal data may be processed under
clause (b) of section 7;(f)the form and manner of intimation of personal data
breach to the Board under sub-section (6) of section 8;(g)the time period for
the specified purpose to be deemed as no longer being served, under sub-
section (8) of section 8;(h)the manner of publishing the business contact
information of a Data Protection Officer under sub-section (9) of section
8;(i)the manner of obtaining verifiable consent under sub-section (1) of
section 9;(j)the classes of Data Fiduciaries, the purposes of processing of
personal data of a child and the conditions relating thereto, under sub-
section (4) of section 9;(k)the other matters comprising the process of Data
Protection Impact Assessment under sub-clause (i) of clause (c) of sub-section
(2) of section 10;(l)the other measures that the Significant Data Fiduciary
shall undertake under sub-clause (iii) of clause (c) of sub-section (2) of
section 10;(m)the manner in which a Data Principal shall make a request to the
Data Fiduciary to obtain information and any other information related to the
personal data of such Data Principal and its processing, under sub-section (1)
of section 11;(n)the manner in which a Data Principal shall make a request to
the Data Fiduciary for erasure of her personal data under sub-section (3) of
section 12;(o)the period within which the Data Fiduciary shall respond to any
grievances under sub-section (2) of section 13;(p)the manner of nomination of
any other individual by the Data Principal under sub-section (1) of section
14;(q)the standards for processing the personal data for exemption under
clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 17;(r)the manner of appointment of
the Chairperson and other Members of the Board under sub-section (2) of
section 19;(s)the salary, allowances and other terms and conditions of
services of the Chairperson and other Members of the Board under sub-section
(1) of section 20;(t)the manner of authentication of orders, directions and
instruments under sub-section (1) of section 23;(u)the terms and conditions of
appointment and service of officers and employees of the Board under section
24;(v)the techno-legal measures to be adopted by the Board under sub-section
(1) of section 28;(w)the other matters under clause (d) of sub-section (7) of
section 28;(x)the form, manner and fee for filing an appeal under sub-section
(2) of section 29;(y)the procedure for dealing an appeal under sub-section (8)
of section 29;(z)any other matter which is to be or may be prescribed or in
respect of which provision is to be, or may be, made by rules.

### 41.Laying of rules and certain notifications.

Every rule made and every notification issued under section 16 and section 42
of this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each
House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions,
and if before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or
the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the rule or notification or both Houses agree that the rule or
notification should not be made or issued, the rule or notification shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule
or notification.

### 42. Power to amend Schedule.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, amend the Schedule, subject to
the restriction that no such notification shall have the effect of increasing
any penalty specified therein to more than twice of what was specified in it
when thisAct was originally enacted.(2)Any amendment notified under sub-
section (1) shall have effect as if enacted in this Act and shall come into
force on the date of the notification.

### 43. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of thisAct, the
Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make such
provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of thisAct as may appear to it
to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty.(2)No order as
referred to in sub-section (1) shall be made after the expiry of three years
from the date of commencement of this Act.(3)Every order made under this
section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House
of Parliament.

### 44.Amendments to certain Acts.

(1)In section 14 of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997, in
clause (c), for sub-clauses (i) and (ii), the following sub-clauses shall be
substituted, namely:—“(i) the Appellate Tribunal under the Information
Technology Act, 2000;(ii)the Appellate Tribunal under the Airports Economic
Regulatory Authority of IndiaAct, 2008; and(iii)the Appellate Tribunal under
the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023.”.(2)The Information
TechnologyAct, 2000 shall be amended in the following manner,
namely:—(a)section 43A shall be omitted;(b)in section 81, in the proviso,
after the words and figures “the Patents Act, 1970”, the words and figures “or
the Digital Personal Data ProtectionAct, 2023”shall be inserted; and(c)in
section 87, in sub-section (2), clause (ob) shall be omitted.(3)In section 8
of the Right to InformationAct, 2005, in sub-section (1), for clause (j), the
following clause shall be substituted, namely:—“(j) information which relates
to personal information;”.

Sl. No. | Breach of provisions of this Act or rules made thereunder | Penalty  
---|---|---  
1. | Breach in observing the obligation of Data Fiduciary to take reasonable security safeguards to prevent personal data breach under sub-section (5) of section 8. | May extend to two hundred and fifty crore rupees.  
2. | Breach in observing the obligation to give the Board or affected Data Principal notice of a personal data breach under sub-section (6) of section 8. | May extend to two hundred crore rupees.  
3. | Breach in observance of additional obligations in relation to children under section 9. | May extend to two hundred crore rupees.  
4. | Breach in observance of additional obligations of Significant Data Fiduciary under section 10. | May extend to one hundred and fifty  
crore rupees.  
5. | Breach in observance of the duties under section 15. | May extend to ten thousand rupees.  
6. | Breach of any term of voluntary undertaking accepted by the Board under section 32. | Up to the extent applicable for the  
breach in respect of which the  
proceedings under section 28 were  
instituted.  
7. | Breach of any other provision of this Act or the rules made thereunder. | May extend to fifty crore rupees.

