## Union of India - Act

## The Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954

## Act 12 of 1954

  * Published on 1 January 1954 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1954 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1954.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act to provide for the disposal of certain proceedings pending under the
Displaced Persons (Claims) Act, 1950 (44 of 1950), and for matters connected
therewith.BE it enacted by Parliament as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act,
1954 .(2)It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and
Kashmir.

### 2. Definitions. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a) "
appointed day" means the 17th day of May, 1953 ;

(b)" claim" means-(i)any claim registered under the principal Act and pending
on the appointed day; or(ii)any claim submitted to any authority under the
principal Act by any person migrating to India from any tribal area and
pending on the appointed day; and includes any application filed on or before
the 12th December, 1952 for setting aside an ex- parte order of a Claims
Officer passed under the principal Act and pending on the appointed day, if
the application was not, on the date on which it was filed, barred by
limitation under the rules made under the principal Act;(c)" prescribed" means
prescribed by rules made under this Act;(d)" principal Act" means the
Displaced Persons (Claims) Act, 1950 (44 of 1950 );(e)" tribal areas" means
the tribal areas of Tochi and Kurram and includes such other Tribal areas
adjoining the North- West Frontier Province as may be specified in this behalf
by an order of the Central Government;(f)" verified claim" means any claim
registered under the principal Act in respect of which a final order has been
passed under that Act;(g)all words and expressions used but not defined in
this Act and defined in the principal Act shall have the meanings assigned to
them in that Act.

### 3. Appointment of Chief Settlement Commissioner, etc.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint a Chief Settlement Commissioner, a Joint Chief Settlement
Commissioner, a Deputy Chief Settlement Commissioner and as many Settlement
Commissioner, Additional Settlement Commissioners and Settlement Officers as
may be necessary for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to them
by or under this Act and may, by general or special order, provide for the
distribution or allocation of work to be performed by them under this
Act.(2)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Joint Chief Settlement
Commissioner, the Deputy Chief Settlement Commissioner and all Settlement
Commissioners, Additional Settlement Commissioners and Settlement Officers
shall perform the functions assigned to them by or under this Act under the
general superintendence and control of the Chief Settlement Commissioner.

### 4. Verification of Claims.

(1)Subject to any rules that may be made under this Act, a Settlement Officer
shall have jurisdiction to decide such claims or such classes of claims as
may, by general or special order, be transferred to him by the Chief
Settlement Commissioner.(2)A Settlement Officer shall hold a summary inquiry
into the claims transferred to him and, after taking such evidence and
examining such documents, as he may consider necessary, pass such orders as he
thinks fit in relation to the verification of the claim and the valuation of
such claim.(3)The decision of the Settlement Officer shall be final: Provided
that the Chief Settlement Commissioner may call for the record of any case
which has been decided by the Settlement Officer and may make such order in
the case as he thinks fit; but no order varying the decision of the Settlement
Officer which prejudicially affects any person shall be made without giving
him an opportunity of being heard.

### 5. Special power of revision in respect of cases decided under Act 44 of
1950 .

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the principal Act, the Chief
Settlement Commissioner-(a)may, on an application for revision made to him
within time by any person aggrieved by the decision of the Claims Officer,
call for the record of the case and make such order in the case as he thinks
fit. Explanation.-- For the purposes of this clause, an application for
revision shall be deemed to be or to have been made within time, if-(i) such
application was not barred by limitation on the appointed day under the rules
made under the principal Act and is filed within one month from the
commencement of this Act; or(ii)such application had been filed before the
appointed day and was not, on the date on which it was filed, barred by
limitation under the rules made under the principal Act;(b)may, on his own
motion, but subject to any rules that may be made in this behalf, revise any
verified claim and make such order in relation thereto as he thinks fit.(2)No
order varying the decision of the Claims Officer or revising any verified
claim which prejudicially affects any person shall be made without giving him
an opportunity of being heard.

### 6. Powers of Settlement Officers.

(1)The Chief Settlement Commissioner, the Joint or Deputy Chief Settlement
Commissioner or a Settlement Commissioner, an Additional Settlement
Commissioner or a Settlement Officer shall have the same powers as are vested
in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908 ), when
trying a suit, in respect of the following matters, namely:-(a)summoning and
enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;(b)requiring
the discovery and production of any document;(c)requisitioning any public
record from any Court or office;(d)issuing commissions for the examination of
witnesses;(e)appointing guardians or next friends of persons who are minors or
of unsound mind;(f)any other matter which may be prescribed.(2)A Settlement
Officer may, if he so thinks fit, and shall, if so required by the Chief
Settlement Commissioner, appoint one or more persons as assessors to advise
him in any proceeding before him.

### 7. Power to transfer cases.

The Central Government or the Chief Settlement Commissioner may, by order in
writing, at any stage transfer any case pending before a Settlement Officer to
another Settlement Officer and the Settlement Officer to whom the case is so
transferred, may, subject to any special directions in the order of transfer,
proceed from the stage at which it was transferred.

### 8. Certain officers to be public servants.

The Chief Settlement Commissioner, the Joint or Deputy Chief Settlement
Commissioner and all Settlement Commissioners, Additional Settlement
Commissioners and Settlement Officers appointed under this Act shall be deemed
to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal
Code (45 of 1860 ).

### 9. Bar of jurisdiction of Civil Court.

No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction in respect of any matter which the
Chief Settlement Commissioner or the Settlement Officer is empowered by or
under this Act to determine, and no injunction shall be granted by any Court
or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance
of any power conferred by or under this Act.

### 10. Delegation of Powers.

(1)The Central Government may, by general or special order, direct that any
power exercisable by it under this Act shall, subject to such conditions, if
any, as may be specified in the order, be exercisable also by the Chief
Settlement Commissioner.(2)Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules
made thereunder, the Chief Settlement Commissioner may delegate all or any of
his powers under this Act to the Joint or Deputy Chief Settlement Commissioner
or any Settlement Commissioner or Additional Settlement Commissioner as may be
specified by the Chief Settlement Commissioner.

### 11. Validation of certain proceedings.

All proceedings held or decisions made in relation to the verification of any
claim or the valuation of such claim of any person who has migrated to India
from any tribal area purporting to have been held or made under the principal
Act shall, notwithstanding anything therein contained, be deemed for all
purposes to have been validly made under the principal Act as if that Act were
applicable to such persons as it applied to displaced persons from West
Pakistan.

### 12. Power to make rules.

The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules 1 to carry out the purposes of this Act.

### 1\. For Rules, see gazette of India, 1954, Pt. II, Sec. 3. p. 297.

### 13. [ Repeal of Ordinance 3 of 1954 .] Rep. by the Repealing and amending
Act, 1960 (58 of 1960 ), s. 2 and Sch. I.

