## Union of India - Act

## The Delivery Of Books And Newspapers (Public Libraries) Act, 1954

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Delivery Of Books And Newspapers (Public Libraries) Act, 1954

## Act 27 of 1954

  * Published on 20 May 1954 
  * Commenced on 20 May 1954 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 May 1954.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Delivery Of Books And Newspapers (Public Libraries) Act, 1954(27 OF 1954)

### 7.

/423Statement of Objects and Reasons.-In order to promote public libraries in
India and to encourage scholarship, it is considered necessary to buildup good
libraries, and for this purpose it is desired to acquire not more than four
copies of books and publications in India. One set of books so acquired will
be deposited in the National Library Calcutta, and the remaining three sets
will be utilised for other important libraries.[20th May, 1954]An Act to
provide for delivery of books [and newspapers] [ Inserted by Act 99 of 1956,
Section 2 (w.e.f. 29.12.1956).] to the National Library and other public
libraries.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Fifth Year of the Republic of
India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent .-(1) This Act may be called the Delivery of
Books [and Newspapers] (Public Libraries) Act, 1954.

(2)[ It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.]
[ The Act has now been extended to the Union territories of -(a) Goa, Daman
and Diu by Regulation 11 of 1962 (w.e.f. 14.1.1965). Goa is now a State; (b)
Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regulation 6 of 1963 (w.e.f. 1.7.1965); (c)
Pondicherry by Regulation 7 of 1963 (w.e.f. 1.10.1965).]

### 2. Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"book" includes every volume, part or division of a volume, and pamphlet,
in any language and every sheet of music, map, chart or plan separately
printed or lithographed, but does not include a newspaper published in
conformity with the provisions of section 5 of the Press and Registration of
Books Act, 1867 (25 of 1867).(aa)[ "newspaper" means any printed periodical
work containing public news or comments on public news published in conformity
with the provisions of section 5 of the Press and Registration of Books Act,
1867 (25 of 1867).](b)"public libraries" means the National Library at
Calcutta and any three other [libraries] [ Delhi Public Library, S.P.
Mukherjee Marg, Delhi-Specified as Public Library, See Gazette of India, dated
30.1.1982, Part II, Section 3(i), p. 262, G.S.R. 106/82.] which may be
specified by the Central Government in this behalf by notification in the
Official Gazette.

### 3. Delivery of books to public libraries .-(1) Subject to any rule that
may be made under this Act, but without prejudice to the provisions contained
in section 9 of the Press and Registration of Books Act, 1867 (25 of 1867),
the publisher of every book published in the territories to which this Act
extends after the commencement of this Act, shall, notwithstanding any
agreement to the contrary, deliver at his own expense a copy of the book to
the National Library at Calcutta and one such copy to each of the other three
public [libraries] within thirty days from the date of its publication.

(2)The copy delivered to the National Library shall be a copy of the whole
book with all maps and illustrations belonging thereto, finished and coloured
in the same manner as the best copies of the same, and shall be bound, sewed
or stitched together, and on the best paper on which any copy of the book is
printed.(3)The copy delivered to any other public library shall be on the
paper on which the largest number of copies of the book is printed for sale,
and shall be in the like condition as the books prepared for sale.(4)Nothing
contained in sub-section (1) shall apply to any second or subsequent edition
of a book in which edition no additions or alterations either in the letter-
press or in the maps, book-prints or other engravings, belonging to the book
have been made, and a copy of the first or some preceding edition of which
book has been delivered under this Act.[3-A. Delivery of newspapers to public
libraries.- Subject to any rules that may be made under this Act, but without
prejudice to the provisions contained in the Press and Registration of Books
Act, 1867 (25 of 1867), the publisher of every newspaper, published in the
territories to which this Act extends, shall deliver at his own expense one
copy of each issue of such newspaper as soon as it is published to each such
public library as may be notified in this behalf by the Central Government in
the Official Gazette.]

### 4. Receipt for books delivered .-The person in charge of a public library
(whether called a librarian or by any other name) or any other person
authorised by him in this behalf to whom a copy of a book is delivered under
section 3 shall give to the publisher a receipt in writing therefor.

### 5. Penalty .-Any publisher who contravenes any provision of this Act or of
any rule made thereunder shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
fifty rupees [and, if the contravention is in respect of a book], shall also
be punishable with fine which shall be equivalent to the value of the book,
and the Court trying the offence may direct that the whole or any part of the
fine realised from him shall be paid, by way of compensation, to the public
library to which the book [or newspaper, as the case may be] [ Inserted by Act
99 of 1956, Section 6 (w.e.f. 29.12.1956).] ought to have been delivered.

### 6. Cognizance of offences .-(1) No Court shall take cognizance of any
offence punishable under this Act save on complaint made by an officer
empowered in this behalf by the Central Government by a general or special
order:

(2)No Court inferior to that of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the
first class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.

### 7\. [ Application of Act to books and newspapers published by Government

.-This Act shall also apply to books and newspapers published by or under the
authority of the Government but shall not apply to books meant for official
use only.]

### 8. Power to make rules .- [(1)] The Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make [rules] [ See Delivery of Books
(Public Libraries) Rules, 1954.] to carry out the purposes of this Act.

(2)[ Every rule made by the Central Government under this Act shall be laid,
as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it
is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both
Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule.] [ Inserted by Act 4
of 2005, Section 2 and Schedule (w.e.f. 11.1.2005).]

