## Union of India - Act

## The Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954

## Act 44 of 1954

  * Published in Gazette of India on 9 October 1954 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 27 February 1960.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Amendment Act, 1960 (Act 02 of 1960) on 27 February 1960] 

An act to provide for the payment of Compensation and Rehabilitation grant to
displaced persons and for matters connected therewith.Be it enacted by
Parliament in the Fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows: -

### 1. Short title—This Act may be called the Displaced Person (Compensation
and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954.

### 2. Definitions—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:

(a)“compensation pool” means the compensation pool constituted under Section
14;(b)“displaced person” means any person who, on account of the setting up of
the Dominions of India and Pakistan, or on account of civil disturbances or
the fear of such disturbances in any area now forming part of West Pakistan,
has after the first day of March, 1947, left, or been displaced from, his
place of residence in such area and who has been subsequently residing in
India, and includes any person who is resident in any place now forming part
of India and who for that reasons is unable or has been rendered unable to
manage, supervise or control any immovable property belonging to him in West
Pakistan, and also includes the successors-in-interest of any such
person;(c)“evacuee property” means any property which has been declared or is
deemed to have been declared as evacuee property under the Administration of
Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950),(d)“public dues” in relation to a
displaced persons, includes—(i)arrears of rent in respect of any property
allotted or leased to the displaced person by Central Government or a State
Government or the Custodian;(ii)any amount recoverable, whether in one lump
sum or in installments, from the displaced person on account of loans granted
to him by the Central Government or a State Government or the Rehabilitation
Finance Administration constituted under the Rehabilitation Finance
Administration Act, 1948 (XII of 1948), and any interest on such
loans;(iii)the amount of purchase money or any part thereof and any interest
on such amount or part remaining unpaid and recoverable from the displaced
person on account of transfer to him of any property or interest therein
by—(a)the Central Government; or(b)any State Government; or(c)any body
corporate or other authority or person financed by the Central Government or a
State Government for the purpose of the acquisition; development or
construction of any immovable property for the rehabilitation of displaced
persons;(iii)a) any dues payable, whether in one lump sum or in installments,
to a co- operative society, registered as such under any law for the time
being in force, by the displaced person on account of loans granted to him by
the co-operative society, where such loans have been granted out of funds
placed at the disposal of the co-operative society by the Central Government
or a State Government and such dues have been declared by the Central
Government by notification in the Official Gazette, to be public dues;(iv)any
other dues payable to the Central Government, a State Government, or the
Custodian which may be declared by the Central Government, by notification in
the Official Gazette, to be public dues recoverable from the displaced
persons;(e)“verified claim” means any claim registered under the Displaced
Persons (Claims) Act, 1950 (XLV of 1950) in respect of which a final order has
been passed under that Act or under the Displaced Persons (Claims)
Supplementary Act, 1954 (12 of 1954), and includes any claim registered on or
before the 31st day of May, 1953 under the East Punjab Refugees (Registration
of Land) (Claims) Act, 1948 (East Punjab Act, XII of 1948) or under the
Patiala Refugees (Registration of Land (Claims) ordinance, 2004 (Order 10 of
2004 BK) and verified by any authority appointed for the purpose by the
Government of Punjab, the Government of Patiala or the Government of Patiala
and East Punjab States Union, as the case may be, which has not been satisfied
wholly or partially by the allotment of any evacuee land under the relevant
notification specified in Section 10 of this Act, but does not include—(i)any
such claim registered in respect of property held in trust for a public
purpose of a religious or charitable nature;(ii)except in the case of a
banking company for the purpose of sub clause (I) of clause (b) of sub-section
(3) of Section 6, only—(a)any such claim made by or on behalf of any company
or association whether incorporated or not;(b)any such claim made by a
mortgagee or other person holding a charge or lien on immovable property
belonging to a displaced person in West Pakistan;(f)“prescribed” means
prescribed by rules made under this Act;(g)“West Pakistan” means the
territories of Pakistan excluding the Province of East Bengal and includes the
tribal area to Tochi and Kurram and such other tribal areas adjoining the
North West Frontier as may be specified in this behalf by order of the Central
Government;(h)all other words and expressions used but not defined in this Act
and defined in the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950)
have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.Commentary

## Chapter II

Payment of Compensation & Rehabilitation Grants to Displaced Persons

### 3. Appointment of Chief Settlement Commissioner, etc.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint a Chief Settlement Commissioner, a Joint Chief Settlement
Commissioner, and as many Deputy Chief Settlement Commissioners, Settlement
Commissioners, Additional Settlement Commissioners, Assistant Settlement
Commissioners, Settlement Officers, Assistant Settlement Officers and Managing
Officers as may be necessary for the purpose of performing the functions
assigned to them by or under this Act and may by general or special order
provide for the distribution or allocation of work to be performed by them
under this Act.(2)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Joint Chief
Settlement Commissioner, all Deputy Chief Settlement Commissioners, Settlement
Commissioners, Additional Settlement Commissioners, Assistant Settlement
Commissioners, Settlement Officer, Assistant Settlement Officers and Managing
Officers shall perform the functions assigned to them by or under this Act
under general superintendence and control of the Settlement Commissioner.

### 4. Application for payment of compensation—

(1)The Central Government shall, from time to time, but not later than the
thirtieth day of June, 1955, by notification in the Official Gazette require
all displaced persons having a verified claim to make applications for the
payment of compensation and any such notification may be issued with reference
to displaced persons residing in any State or in any one of a group of
States.(2)Every displaced person who, by a notification issued under sub-
section (1) is required to make an application for the payment of compensation
shall make such application in the prescribed form to the Settlement Officer
having jurisdiction, within three months of the date of the
notification.Provided that the Settlement Officer may entertain any such
application after the expiry of the said period of three months, if he is
satisfied that the applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the
application in time.(3)An application for the payment of compensation under
this section shall contain the following particulars, namely :-(a)the name and
address of the applicant;(b)the amount of the verified claim;(c)the
encumbrances, if any, on the property to which the verified claim
relates;(d)the form in which the applicant desires to receive
compensation;(e)the amount, if any, of the public dues recoverable from the
applicant;(f)the property, if any, allotted or leased to the applicant by the
Central Government or a State Government or by the Custodian;(g)such other
particulars as may be prescribed.(4)Any notification issued by the Central
Government before the commencement of this Act inquiring displaced persons of
any class or description to make applications for the payment of compensation,
shall be deemed to have been issued under this Section and all applications
for the compensation made in pursuance of any such notification shall be
deemed to have been made under this Section and any proceeding in relation to
any such application pending at the commencement of this Act shall be disposed
of in accordance with the provisions of this Act;Provided that a displaced
person who made an application for payment of compensation before the
commencement of this Act may, within one month of such commencement, intimate
in writing to the Officer or authority to whom the application was made or the
successor-in-office of any such officer or authority, the form in which he
desires to receive the compensation.

### 5. Determination of public dues by Settlement Officers—

On receipt of an application under Section 4, the Settlement Officer shall,
after making an inquiry in such manner as may be prescribed, pass an order
determining the amount of public dues, if any, recoverable from the applicant
and shall forward the application and the record of the case to the Settlement
Commissioner.

### 6. Relief to certain banking companies—

(1)Where a debt due to a banking company is secured by a mortgage, charge or
lien on any immovable property belonging to a displaced person in West
Pakistan in respect of which compensation is payable under this Act and such
mortgage, charge or lien was subsisting or the date when the claim of the
banking company was registered under the Displaced Persons (Claims) Act, 1950
(XLIV of 1950), the banking company shall be entitled to relief in accordance
with the provisions of this Section.(2)Where the displaced person is entitled
to receive compensation in respect of any such property as is referred to in
sub-section (1), the banking company shall be entitled: -(a)if the
compensation to the displaced person in respect of such property is payable in
cash, to receive such amount as bears to the total debt, the same proportion
as the compensation payable to the displaced person bears to the value of the
verified claims of the displaced person in respect of such property;(b)if the
compensation to the displaced person is payable in the form of transfer of any
property from the compensation pool, then, subject to a prior charge under
sub-section (3) Section 20 to a second charge on such property for the amount
which would have been payable to the banking company under clause (a) if the
displaced person had been paid compensation in cash;(c)if the compensation to
the displaced person is payable in any other form, to such relief as the
Settlement Officer, having regard to the principle specified in clause (a) or
(b), may determine.(3)For the purpose of this Section,--(a)the expression
‘banking company’ means any of the displaced banks specified in the Schedule
and includes any other banking company which before the fifteenth day of
August, 1947 carried on the business of banking, whether wholly or partially
in any area now forming part of West Pakistan and which the Central Government
may, having regard to the dislocation of such business on account of the
partition of the country, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in
this behalf;(b)the expression ‘total debt’ means,--(i)where the banking
company has preferred a claim under the Displaced Persons (Claims) Act, 1950
(XLV of 1950) and the claim has been verified, the amount of the verified
claim, subject to such adjustment as the Settlement Officer, having regard to
the provisions of the Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act, 1951 (LXX of
1951) applicable to secured debts, may make;(ii)where the banking company has
preferred such claim but the claim has not been verified, such amount as the
Settlement Officer, having regard to the provisions of the Displaced Persons
(Debts Adjustment) Act, 1951 (LXX of 1951) applicable to secured debts, may
determine.

### 7. Determination of the amount of compensation—

(1)On receipt of an application for payment of compensation together with the
record of the case forwarded under Section 5, the Settlement Commissioner
shall make an enquiry in such manner as may be prescribed and having due
regard to the prescribed scales of compensation, the nature of the verified
claim and other circumstances of the case, shall ascertain the amount of
compensation to which the applicant is entitled.(2)On ascertaining the amount
of compensation to which an applicant is entitled under sub-section (1) the
Settlement Commissioner shall deduct therefrom the following dues recoverable
from the applicant, in the order of priority mentioned below :-(a)the amount,
if any, of the public dues recoverable from the applicant under Section
5;(b)the amount, if any, payable to a banking company under section 6, and the
amount, if any, of the prior charge declared under sub-section (3) of section
16 of the Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act, 1951 (LXX of 1951) in
respect of which any communication is received from tribunal under Section 52
of that Act;(c)where any communication is received from any tribunal under
Section 52 of the Displaced Persons (Debts (Adjustment) Act, 1951) (LXX 1951)
in respect of any unsecured debts, the amount of such debts, payable by the
applicant in accordance with the provisions of that Act.(3)After deducting the
dues referred to in sub-section (2) the Settlement Commissioner shall make an
order determining the net amount of compensation, if any, payable to the
applicant.(4)The amount, if any, deducted under sub-section(2) shall be paid
to the person entitled to it.

### 8. Form and manner of payment of compensation—

(1)A displaced person shall be paid out of the compensation pool the amount of
net compensation determined under sub-section (3) of Section 7 as being
payable to him and subject to any rules that may be made under this Act the
Settlement Commissioner or any other officer or authority authorized by the
Chief Settlement Commissioner in this behalf may make such payment in any one
of the following forms or partly in one and partly in any other form, namely
:-(a)in cash;(b)in Government bonds;(c)by sale to the displaced person of any
property from the compensation pool and setting off the purchase money against
the compensation payable to him;(d)by any other mode of transfer to the
displaced person of any property from the compensation pool and setting off
the valuation of the property against the compensation payable to him;(e)by
transfer of share or debentures in any company or corporation;(f)in such other
form as may be prescribed.(2)For the purpose of payment of compensation under
this Act the Central Government may, by rules, provide for all or any of the
following matters:(a)the classes of displaced person to whom compensation may
be paid;(b)the scales according to which, the form and manner in which, and
the installment by which, compensation may be paid to different classes of
displaced persons;(c)the valuation of all property, shares and debentures to
be transferred to displaced person;(d)any other matter which is to be or may
be prescribed.Commentary

### 8A. Payment of Compensation case of mortgaged properties—

(1)Where any compensation is payable to any displaced person in lieu of
property abandoned by him in West Pakistan which on the date of his migration
from West Pakistan was subject to a mortgage is in favour of a person who is
not resident in India, the Settlement Commissioner shall after giving a
reasonable notice to the displaced person, determine the principal sum for
which the property was so mortgaged and such portion of the principal sum so
determined as bears the same proportion as the compensation payable to the
displaced person bears to the value of verified claim of the displaced person
in respect of that mortgaged property shall be deductible from the
compensation payable in respect of the mortgaged property :Provided that where
compensation has been paid to any displaced person without such deduction
having been made, the displaced person shall pay to the Central Government the
amount of such deduction within three months of the determination thereof or
such longer period as may be prescribed;Provided further that where
compensation has been paid to any displaced person by sale or any other mode
of transfer to him of any property from the compensation pool the displaced
person may, within the aforesaid period of three months or, as the case may
be, within the aforesaid prescribed period—(a)either retain the property on
his paying in cash the aforesaid amount.or(b)surrender a portion of that
property of a value equivalent to the amount of such deduction, such value
being determined by the Settlement Commissioner in the prescribed manner.(2)If
any displaced person fails to pay any amount which is liable to be deducted
from his compensation under sub-section (1), or fails to surrender the
property of the value equivalent to such amount, such amount may be recovered
in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.Commentary

### 9. Payment of compensation in cases of disputes—

Where there is any dispute as to the person or persons who are entitled to the
compensation (including any dispute as to who are the successors-in-interest
of any deceased claimant to compensation) or as to the apportionment of
compensation among persons entitled thereto, such dispute shall, after such
enquiry as may be prescribed, be decided,--(a)where the value of the verified
claim does not exceed twenty thousand rupees, by the Settlement
Officer;(b)where the value of the verified claim exceeds twenty thousand
rupees, by the Settlement Commissioner;Provided that the Settlement Officer or
the Settlement Commissioner, as the case may be may refer any such dispute to
District Judge nominated in this behalf by the State Government, whose
decision thereon shall be final.

### 10. Special procedure for compensation in certain cases—Where any
immovable property has been leased or allotted to a displaced person by the
Custodian under the conditions published—

(a)by the notification of the Government of Punjab in the Department of
Rehabilitation No.4895-Development or 4891-Development dated the 8th July,
1959, or(b)by the notification of all Government of Patiala and East Punjab
States Union in the Department of Rehabilitation No. 8R or 9R dated the 23rd
July, 1949, and published in the Official Gazette of that State dated the 7th
August, 1949.and such property is acquired under the provisions of this Act
and forms part of the compensation pool, the displaced person shall, so long
as the property remains vested in the Central Government, continue in
possession of such property on the same conditions on which he held the
property immediately before the date of acquisition, and the Central
Government may, for the purpose of payment of compensation to such displaced
person transfer to him such property on such terms and conditions as may be
prescribed.Explanation—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that
the notification of the Government of Patiala and East Punjab States Union
Nos. 7R, 8R and 9R, dated the 23rd July, 1949, and published in the Official
Gazette on the 7th August, 1949, purporting to have been made under provisions
of the Patiala and East Punjab States Union Evacuee (Administration of
Property) Ordinance, 2006 (Ordinance No. XIII of 2006) shall be deemed to have
been issued under the provisions of the Patiala and East Punjab States Union
Administration of Evacuee Property Ordinance, 2006 (Ordinance NO.XVII of 2006)
and the said notification shall not be invalid and shall be deemed never to
have been invalid merely by reason of the fact that they were expressed to
have been issued under the provisions of the said Ordinance No. XIII of 2006,
and anything done or any action taken (including any lease or allotment
granted or made) under the provisions of the said notifications shall,
notwithstanding any defect in or invalidity of the said notifications, be
deemed for all purposes to have been validly done or taken as if the said
notifications were issued under the provisions of the aforesaid Ordinance No.
XVII of 2006 and this Section was in force on the day on which such thing was
done or action was taken.Commentary

### 11. Rehabilitation and other grants to displaced persons—

(1)The Central Government may for the relief and rehabilitation of displaced
persons direct payment of any rehabilitation grant or other grant out of the
compensation pool to a displaced person under such conditions and to such
extent and in such form and manner as may be prescribed.Sub-Section 2 omitted
by Act No.86 of 1956.

## Chapter III

Compensation Pool for purposes of payment of compensation and rehabilitation
grants to displaced persons

### 12. Power to acquire evacuee property for rehabilitation of displaced
persons—

(1)If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary to acquire any
evacuee property for a public purpose, being a purpose connected with the
relief and rehabilitation of displaced persons, including payment of
compensation to such persons, the Central Government may at any time acquire
such evacuee property by publishing in the Official Gazette a notification to
the effect that the Central Government has decided to acquire such evacuee
property in pursuance of this section.(2)On the publication of a notification
under sub-section (1), the right, title and interest of any evacuee in the
evacuee property specified in the notification shall, on and from the
beginning of the date on which the notification is so published, be
extinguished and the evacuee property shall vest absolutely in the Central
Government free from all encumbrances.(3)It shall be lawful for the Central
Government, if it so considers necessary, to issue from time to time the
notification referred to in sub-section (1) in respect of—(a)all evacuee
property generally; or(b)any class of evacuee property; or(c)all evacuee
property situated in a specified area; or(d)any particular evacuee
property.(4)All evacuee property acquired under this Section shall form part
of the compensation pool.Commentary

### 13. Compensation for evacuee property acquired under this Act—

There shall be paid to an evacuee compensation in respect of his property
acquired under Section 12 in accordance with such principles and in such
manner as may be agreed upon between the Government of India and Pakistan.

### 14. Compensation pool—

(1)For the purpose of payment of compensation and rehabilitation grants to
displaced persons, there shall be constituted a compensation pool which shall
consists of—(a)all evacuee property acquired under Section 12, including the
sale proceeds of any such property and all profits and income accruing from
such property;(b)such cash balances lying with the Custodian as may, by order
of the Central Government be transferred to the compensation pool;(c)such
contributions, in any form whatsoever, as may be made to the compensation pool
by the Central Government or any State Government;(d)such other assets as may
be prescribed.(2)The compensation pool shall be vested in the Central
Government free from all encumbrances and shall be utilized in accordance with
the provisions of this Act and rules made thereunder.Commentary

### 15. Exemption of property in compensation pool from processes of Courts—

No property which forms part of the compensation pool and which is vested in
the Central Government under the provisions of this Act shall be liable to be
proceeded against for any claim in any manner whatsoever in execution of any
decree or order or by any other process of any court or other authority.

### 16. Management of compensation pool—

The Central Government may take such measures as it considers necessary or
expedient for the custody management and disposal of the compensation pool in
order that it may be effectively utilised in accordance with provisions of
this Act—(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the
fore-going power, the Central Government may, for the purposes referred in
sub-section (1) by notification in the Official Gazette.—(a)appoint such
officers as it may deem fit (hereinafter referred a managing officer);
or(b)constitute such authority or corporation, as it may deem fit (hereinafter
referred to as managing corporation)(c)Every managing corporation shall be
constituted under such name and shall consist of such number of persons as may
be specified in the notification and every such corporation shall be a body
corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal and shall by the said
name sue and be sued;Provided that one third of members of every managing
corporation shall be non-officials.Commentary

### 17. Functions and duties of managing officers and managing corporations-

(1)All managing officers or managing corporations shall perform such functions
as may be assigned to them by or under the general superintendence and control
of the Chief Settlement Commissioner.(2)Subject to the provisions of this Act
and the rules made there-under, a managing officer or managing corporation may
take such measures as he or it considers necessary or expedient for the
purpose of securing, administering, preserving managing or disposing of any
property in the compensation pool entrusted to him or it and generally for the
purpose of satisfactorily discharging any of the duties imposed on him or it
by or under this Act and may for any such purpose as aforesaid, do all acts
and incur all expenses necessary or incidental thereto.(3)An amount due to the
Custodian in respect of any evacuee property acquired under this Act for any
period prior to the date of the acquisition shall vest in and be payable to
the Central Government and shall be recoverable by the managing officer or
managing corporation from the person liable to pay the same.

### 18. Dissolution of Managing Corporation—

(1)Where the Central Government is satisfied that the property entrusted to a
managing corporation for custody, management and disposal has been transferred
to any person or persons under this Act or that for any other reason it is no
longer necessary to continue the managing corporation, the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, dissolve the managing
corporation.(2)Upon the publication of a notification under sub-section (1)
dissolving a managing corporation—(a)all the members of the managing
corporation shall vacate their office as such members;(b)all the powers and
duties which may, by or under the provisions of this Act, be exercised or
performed by or on behalf of the managing corporation shall be exercised and
performed by such person or persons as the Central Government may
direct;(c)all property vested in the managing corporation at the date of
dissolution shall vest in the Central Government.Commentary

### 19. Power to vary or cancel lease or allotment of any property acquired
under this Act.—

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or any other law for the
time being in force but subject to any rules that may be made under this Act,
the managing officer or managing corporation may cancel any allotment or
terminate any lease or amend the terms of any lease or allotment under which
any evacuee property acquired under this Act is held or occupied by a person,
whether such allotment or lease was granted before or after the commencement
of this Act.(2)Where any person,--(a)has ceased to be entitled to the
possession of any evacuee property by reason of any action taken under sub-
section (1), or(b)is otherwise in un-authorised possession of any evacuee
property or any other immovable property forming part of the compensation
pool, he shall, after he has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing
cause against his eviction from such property, surrender possession of the
property on demand being made in this behalf by the managing officer or
managing corporation or by any other person duly authorised by such officer or
corporation.(3)If any person fails to surrender possession of any property on
demand made under sub-section (2), the managing officer or managing
corporation may notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any
other law for the time being in force, eject such person and take possession
of such property and may, for such purpose, use or cause to be used such force
as may be necessary.(4)Where a managing officer or a managing corporation is
satisfied that any person, whether by way of allotment or lease, is, or has at
any time been, in possession of any evacuee property acquired under this Act
to which he was not entitled, or which was in excess of that to which he was
entitled, under the law, under which such allotment or lease was made or
granted, then, without prejudice to any other action which may be taken
against that person, the managing officer or the managing corporation may,
having regard to such principles of assessment or rent as may be specified in
this behalf by the Central Government, by order, assess the rent payable in
respect of such property and that person shall be liable to pay the rent so
assessed for the period for which the property remain or has remained in his
possession.Provided that no such order shall be made without giving to the
person concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(5)Where any person
is, or has at any time been, in unauthorised possession of any evacuee
property acquired under this Act, the managing officer of the managing
corporation may, having regard to such principles of assessment of damages as
may be specified in this behalf by the Central Government, assess the damages
on account of the use and occupation of such property and may, by order,
require that person to pay the damages within such time and in such
installment as may be specified in the order :Provided that no such order
shall be made without giving to the person concerned a reasonable opportunity
of being heard.

### 20. Power to transfer property out of the compensation pool—

(1)Subject to rules that may be made under this Act, the managing officer or
managing corporation may transfer any property out of the compensation
pool—(a)by sale of such property to a displaced person or any association of
displaced persons, whether incorporate or not, or to any other person, whether
the property is sold by public auction or otherwise;(b)by lease of any such
property to a displaced person or an association of displaced persons whether
incorporated or not, or to any other person;(c)by allotment of any such
property to a displaced person or an association of displaced persons whether
incorporated or not, or to any other person, on such valuation as the
Settlement Commissioner may determine;(d)in the case of a share of an evacuee
a company, by transfer of such share to a displaced person or any association
of displaced persons whether incorporated or not, or to any other person,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Indian Companies
Act, 1913 (7 of 1913) or in the memorandum of articles of association of such
company;(e)in such other manner as may be prescribed.(1A)for the purpose of
transferring any property out of the compensation pool under sub-section (i),
it shall be lawful for the managing officer or the managing corporation to
transfer the same to a displaced persons jointly with any other person or an
association of displaced persons or otherwise.(2)Every managing officer or
managing corporation selling any immovable property by public auction under
sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be a Revenue Officer within the meaning of
sub-section (4) of Section 89 of the Indian Registration Act, 1908 (XVI of
1908)(3)Where the ownership of any property has passed to the buyer before the
payment of the whole of the purchase money, the amount of the purchase money
or any part thereof remaining unpaid and any interest on such amount or part
shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law, be
a first charge upon the property in the hands of buyer or any transferee from
such buyer and may, on a certificate issued by the Chief Settlement
Commissioner, be recovered in the same manner as an arrear of land
revenue.Commentary

### 20A. Utilisation of compensation pool in connection with restoration of
evacuee property in certain cases—

Where any evacuee or his heir is entitled to the restoration of any evacuee
property on an application made by him in this behalf under Section 16 of the
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950, (31 of 1950), hereinafter in
this Section referred to as Evacuee Property Act, and the Central Government
is of opinion that it is not expedient or practicable to restore the whole or
any part of such property to the applicant by reason of the property or part
thereof being in occupation of a displaced person or otherwise, then, not-
withstanding anything contained in the Evacuee Property Act, and this Act, it
shall be lawful for the Central Government—(a)to transfer to the applicant in
lieu of the evacuee property or any part thereof, any immovable property in
the compensation pool or any part thereof being in the opinion of the Central
Government as nearly as may be of the same value as the evacuee property or as
the case may be, any part thereof, or(b)to pay to the applicant such amount in
cash from the compensation pool in lieu of the evacuee property or part
thereof as the Central Government having regard to the value of the evacuee
property or part thereof, may, in the circumstances, deem fit.Explanation—The
provision of this sub-section shall apply, whether or not a certificate for
the restoration of the evacuee property has been issued to the aplicant under
sub-section (1) of section 16 of the Evacuee Property Act, as in force
immediately before the commencement of the Administration of Evacuee Property
(Amendment) Act, 1956, if the evacuee property has not in fact been restored
to the applicant.(2)Where in pursuance of sub-section (1) any evacuee or his
heir has been granted any immovable property from the compensation pool or has
been paid any amount in cash from the compensation pool, his application under
Section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, for the restoration
of the evacuee property shall be deemed to have been disposed of and his
right, title and interest in such evacuee property shall be deemed to have
been extinguished but such extinguishment shall not affect the power of the
Central Government to acquire the evacuee property under Section 12 of this
Act.This Section was inserted by Section 4 of Act of 1956, but the said
Amending Act 1956, has since been repealed wholly by the Repealing and
Amending Act, 1960.Commentary

### 20B. Restrictions on restoration of certain property—

(1)Where any person is entitled to the restoration of any property by virtue
of an order made by the Custodian General under Section 27 of the
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (31 of 1950) or by the competent
officer or the appellate officer under the Evacuee Interest Separation Act,
1951 (64 of 1951), and the Central Government is of opinion that it is not
expedient or practicable to restore the whole or any part of such property to
that person by reason of the property or part thereof being in occupation of a
displaced person or otherwise then, notwithstanding anything contained in the
said Act or this Act, it shall be lawful for the Central Government—(a)to
transfer to that person in lieu of the property to be restored or any part
thereof, any immovable property in the compensation pool or any part thereof
being in the opinion of the Central Government as nearly as may be of the same
value as the property to be restores or, as the case may be, any part thereof,
or(b)to pay to that person such amount in cash from the compensation pool in
lieu of the property to be restored or part thereof, as the Central
Government, having regard to the value of the property to be restored or part
thereof, may in the circumstances deem fit.(2)Where in pursuance of sub-
section (1) any person has been granted any immovable property from the
compensation pool or has been paid any amount in cash from compensation pool,
his right, title and interest in the property to be restored shall be deemed
to have been extinguished.Commentary

### 21. Recovery of certain sums as arrears of land revenue—

(1)Any sum payable to the Government or to the Custodian in respect of any
evacuee property, under any agreement, express or implied, lease or other
document or otherwise howsoever, for any period prior to the date of
acquisition of such property under this Act, which has not been recovered
under Section 48 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950, and any
sum payable to the Government in respect of any property in the compensation
pool may be recovered in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.(2)If
any question arises whether a sum is payable to the Government or to the
Custodian within the meaning of sub-section (1) in respect of any property
referred to herein, it shall be referred to the Settlement Commissioner within
whose jurisdiction the property is situated and the Settlement Commissioner
shall after making such inquiry as he may deem fit and giving to the person by
whom the sum is alleged to be payable an opportunity of being heard decide the
question; and the decision of the Settlement Commissioner shall subject to any
appeal or revision under this Act, be final, and shall not be called in
question by any Court or other authority.(3)For the purpose of this section, a
sum shall be deemed to be payable to the Custodian, notwithstanding that its
recovery is barred by the India Limitation Act, 1908, (9 of 1908), or any
other law for the time being in force relating to limitation of actions.

## Chapter IV

Appeal, revision and powers of officers under the Act

### 22. Appeals to Chief Settlement Commissioner—(1) Subject to the provisions
of sub-section (2), any person aggrieved by an order of the Settlement Officer
or a managing officer under this Act may, within thirty days from the date of
the order, prefer an appeal to the Settlement Commissioner in such form and
manner as may be prescribed :

Provided that the Settlement Commissioner may entertain the appeal after the
expiry of the said period of thirty days, if he is satisfied that the
appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in
time.(2)No appeal shall lie from an order of the Settlement Officer under
Section 5 if the difference between the amount of public dues as determined by
the Settlement Officer and that as admitted by the applicant is less than one
thousand rupees or such other amount not exceeding one thousand Rupees as may
be specified by the Central Government in this behalf by notification in the
Official Gazette.(3)The Settlement Commissioner may, after hearing the appeal,
confirm, vary or reverse the order appealed from and pass such order in
relation thereto as he deems fit.Commentary

### 23. Appeals to Chief Settlement Commissioner—(1) Subject to the provisions
of Sub-section (2), any person aggrieved by an order of the Settlement
Commissioner or the Additional Settlement Commissioner or an Assistant
Settlement Commissioner or a managing corporation under this Act may, within
thirty days from the date of the order, prefer an appeal to the Chief
Settlement Commissioner in such form and manner as may be prescribed :

Provided that the Chief Settlement Commissioner may entertain the appeal after
the expiry of the said period of thirty days, if he is satisfied that the
appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in
time.(2)No appeal shall lie from any order passed in appeal under Section
22.(3)The Chief Settlement Commissioner may, after hearing the appeal confirm,
vary or reverse the order appealed from and pass such order in relation
thereto as he deems fit.Commentary

### 24. Power of revision of the Chief Settlement Commissioner:-- (1) The
Chief Settlement Commissioner may at any time call for the record of any
proceeding under this Act in which a Settlement Officer, an Assistant
Settlement Officer, an Assistant Settlement Commissioner, an Additional
Settlement Commissioner, a Settlement Commissioner, a managing officer or a
managing corporation has passed an order for the purpose of satisfying himself
as to the legality or propriety of any such order and may pass such order in
relation thereto as he thinks fit.

(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power under sub-
section (1), if the Chief Settlement Commissioner is satisfied that any order
for payment of compensation to a displaced person or any lease or allotment
granted to such a person has been obtained by him by means of fraud, false
representation or concealment of any material facts, then notwithstanding
anything contained in this Act, the Chief Settlement Commissioner may pass an
order directing that no compensation shall be paid to such a person or
reducing the amount of compensation to be paid to him or as the case may be,
canceling the lease or allotment granted to him; and if it is found that a
displaced person has been paid compensation which is not payable to him or
which is in excess of the amount payable to him, such amount or excess, as the
case may be , may on a certificate issued by the Chief Settlement
Commissioner, be recovered in the same manner as an arrear of land
revenue.(3)No order which prejudicially affects any person shall be passed
under this Section without giving him a reasonable opportunity of being
heard.(4)Any person aggrieved by any order made under sub-section (2) may
within thirty days of the date of the order make an application for the
revision of the order in such form and manner as may be prescribed to the
Central Government and the Central Government may pass such order thereon it
thinks fit.Commentary

### 25. Review and amendment of orders—(1) Any person aggrieved by an order of
the Settlement Officer under Section 5 from which no appeal is allowed under
Section 22 may, within thirty days from the date of the order, make an
application in such form and manner as may be prescribed to the Settlement
Officer for review of his order and the decision of the Settlement Officer on
such application shall, subject to the provisions of Section 24 and Section
33, be final.

(2)Clerical or arithmetical mistakes in order passed by an officer or
authority under this Act or errors arising thereto from any accidental slip or
omission may, at any time be corrected by such officer or authority or the
successor-in-office of such officer or authority.Commentary

### 26. Power of officers appointed under this Act etc.—(2) Every Officer
appointed under this Act shall for the purpose of making any inquiry or
hearing any appeal under this Act have the same powers as are vested in a
Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908) when
trying a suit, in respect of the following matters, namely :-

(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on
oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production of any
document;(c)requisitioning any public record from any court or
office;(d)issuing commission for examination of witnesses;(e)appointing
guardians or next friends of person who are minors or of unsound mind;(f)any
other matter which may be prescribed;and any proceeding before any such
officer shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of
sections 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860) and every such
officer shall be deemed to be a Civil Court within the meaning of Sections 480
and 481 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898).(1A)Every
officer appointed under this Act may for the purpose of making an inquiry
under this Act and generally for the purpose of enabling him satisfactorily to
discharge any of the duties imposed on him by or under this Act, require any
person to submit to him such accounts, books or other documents or to furnish
to him such information relating to any evacuee property acquired under this
Act as he may reasonably think necessary.(2)The Chief Settlement Commissioner
or any other officer hearing an appeal under this Act shall subject to the
provisions of this Act, have such further powers as are vested in a civil
court under the Code of Civl Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908) when hearing an
appeal.Commentary

### 27. Finality of Orders—Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act,
every order made by any officer or authority under this Act, including a
managing corporation, shall be final and shall not be called in question in
any court by way of an appeal or revision or in any original suit, application
or execution proceedings.

Commentary

## Chapter V

Miscellaneous

### 28. Power to transfer cases—The Central Government or the Chief Settlement
Commissioner may, by order in writing at any time transfer any case pending
before an officer appointed under this Act to another officer and the officer
to whom the case is so transferred may subject to any special direction in the
order of transfer, proceed from the stage at which it was so transferred.

### 29. Special protection from ejectment to certain classes of persons—Where
any person to whom the provisions of this section apply, is in lawful
possession of any immovable property of the class notified under sub-section
(2), which is transferred to another person under the provisions of this Act,
then, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, such person shall,
without prejudice to any other right which he may have in the property, be
deemed to be a tenant of the transferee on the same terms and conditions as to
payment of rent or otherwise on which he held the property immediately before
the transfer :

Provided that notwithstanding anything contained in any such terms and
conditions, no such person shall be liable to be ejected from the property
during such period not exceeding two years as may be prescribed in respect of
that class of property, except on any of the following grounds, namely;(a)that
he has neither paid nor tendered the whole amount of arrears of rent due after
the date of the transfer within one month of the date on which a notice of
demand has been served on him by the transferee in the manner provided in
Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (IV of 1982);(b)that he has,
without obtaining the consent of the transferee in writing:-(i)subject or
otherwise parted with the possession of the whole or any part of the property,
or(ii)used the property for a purpose other than the purpose for which he was
using it immediately before the transfer;(c)that he has committed any act,
which is destructive of, or permanently injurious to, the property.(2)The
Central Government may, from time to time by notification in the Official,
Gazette, specify the class of persons to whom, and the class of immovable
property in the compensation pool, other than agricultural land in respect of
which the provisions of this section shall apply and in issuing any such
notification the Central Government shall have regard to the following
matters, that is to say—(a)the length of period for which any such persons may
have been in lawful possession of the property.(b)the difficulty of obtaining
alternative accommodation;(c)the availability of any other suitable
residential accommodation for the use of the transferee; and(d)such other
matters as may be prescribed.Commentary

### 30. Exemption from arrest.—(1) No person shall be liable to arrest or
imprisonment in pursuance of any process issued for the recovery of any sum
due under this Act which is recoverable as an arrear of land revenue.

(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) if the Chief
Settlement Commissioner is of opinion that a person is refusing or neglecting,
or has refused or neglected to pay any sum due under this Act, he may, after
giving such person an opportunity of being heard, by order in writing stating
the grounds therefor, direct that the provision of sub-section (1) shall not
apply to him, and thereupon such person shall, cease to be entitled to the
exemption conferred by that sub-section.Commentary

### 31. Advisory Board.—(1) The Central Government shall, as soon as may be,
constitute a Board to advise the Central Government on matters of policy
arising out of the administration of this Act.

(2)The Board shall consist of a Chairman and such number of other members not
exceeding six as the Central Government may think fit to appoint and the
members (including the Chairman) shall hold office for a period of two years
and shall be eligible for appointment:Provided that the Chairman or any other
members of the Board may resign his office by writing under his hand addressed
to the Central Government and shall, on such resignation being accepted by
that Government, be deemed to have vacated his office.(3)The Board may,
subject to the previous approval of the Central Government, make by-laws
fixing a quorum and regulating its own procedure and the conduct of all
business to be transacted by it.(4)No act done or proceeding taken by the
Board shall be questioned on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy
in, or a defect in the constitution of the Board.(5)If at any time the Central
Government is of opinion that the continued existence of the Board is
unnecessary, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that the
Board shall be dissolved with effect from such date as may be specified in the
notification and the Board shall be deemed to be dissolved accordingly.

### 32. Power to give directions.—The Central Government may give direction to
any State Government as to the carrying into execution in the State of any of
the provisions contained in this Act or of any rules or orders made
thereunder.

### 33. Certain residuary powers of Central Government—The Central Government
may at any time call for the record of any proceeding under this Act and may
pass such order in relation thereto as in its opinion the circumstances of the
case require and as is not inconsistent with any of the provisions contained
in this Act or the rules made thereunder.

Commentary

### 34. Delegation of powers—(1) The Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, direct that any power exercisable by it under this
Act shall in such circumstances and under such conditions, if any, as may be
specified to the direction, be exercisable also by such officer or authority
subordinate to the Central Government or by the State Government or by such
officer or authority subordinate to the State Government as may be specified
in the notification.

(2)Subject to the provisions of this Act and of the rules and orders made
thereunder, the Chief Settlement Commissioner may, by general or special order
delegate all or any of his powers under this Act to the Joint Chief Settlement
Commissioner, a Deputy Chief Settlement Commissioner, a Settlement
Commissioner and Additional Settlement Commissioner or an Assistant Settlement
Commissioner, subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the
order.(3)Subject to the provisions of this Act and of the rules and orders
made thereunder, a Settlement Commissioner may, by general or special order
delegate all or any of his powers under this Act to an Additional Settlement
Commissioner, an Assistant Settlement Commissioner, a Settlement Officer or an
Assistant Settlement Officer, subject to such condition, if any, as may be
specified in the order.Commentary

### 35. Penalty—(1) Any person who furnishes in his application for payment of
compensation any information which he knows, or has reason to believe to be
false or which he does not believe to be true, shall be punishable with
imprisonment which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

(2)No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act,
save upon complaint in writing made by an officer authorised by the Chief
Settlement Commissioner by general or special order in this behalf.

### 36. Bar of jurisdiction—Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act,
no civil Court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceedings in
respect of any matter which the Central Government or any officer or authority
appointed under this Act is empowered by or under this Act to determine, and
no injunction shall be granted by any court or other authority in respect of
any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or
under this Act.

Commentary

### 37. Officers appointed under the Act to be public servants—Every officer
appointed under this Act and every member of a managing corporation shall be
deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian
Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860).

### 38. Protection of action taken in good faith—No suit or other legal
proceeding shall lie against the Central Government or any person appointed
under this Act in respect of anything which is in good faith done or intended
to be done in pursuance of this Act or of any rules or orders made thereunder.

### 39. Validation of certain action taken before the commencement of the
Act—Anything done or any action taken (including any order made) by the Chief
Settlement Commissioner, Settlement Commissioners, Additional Settlement
Commissioners or Settlement Officers for the purpose of payment of
compensation or rehabilitation grants or other grants to displaced persons
shall, in so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act, be
deemed to have been done or taken in the exercise of the powers conferred by
or under this Act as if this Act were in force on the date on which such thing
was done or action was taken.

### 40. Power to make rules—(1) The Central Government may by notification in
the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the form and manner in which and time within which, an application
for payment of compensation may be made and the particulars which it may
contain;(b)the circumstances in which and the conditions subject to which
evacuee property may be acquired under this Act;(c)the sales according to
which the form and manner in which, and the installments by which compensation
may be paid to displaced persons;(d)the dues which may be deducted from the
amount of compensation to which a displaced person is entitled;(e)the form and
manner in which Government bonds may be isued to displaced persons;(f)the
valuation of property, shares and debentures which may be transferred to
displaced persons;(g)the terms and conditions subject to which property may be
transferred to a displaced person under section 10;(h)the circumstances under
which, the extent to which and the manner in which, rehabilitation grants and
other grants may be paid to a displaced person;(hh)the manner in which any
dispute as to who are the successors in interest of any deceased claimant to a
rehabilitation grant or other grant, and as to the apportionment of such grant
among persons entitled thereto, may be determined;(i)the powers, functions and
duties of managing officers and managing corporations;(j)the procedure for the
transfer of property out of the compensation pool and the manner of
realisation of the sale proceeds or the adjustment of the value of the
property transferred against the amount of compensation;(k)the procedure to be
followed by officers appointed under this Act for making enquiries under this
Act;(l)the form and manner in which appeals and applications for review or
revision may be preferred or made under this Act and the procedure for hearing
such appeals or application for review or revision;(m)the powers vested in a
Civil Court which may be exercised by an officer appointed under this
Act;(n)the form and manner in which records and books of accounts may be
maintained under this Act;(nn)the fees payable in respect of appeals,
revisions or other application made under this Act;(o)any other matter which
is to be or may be prescribed under this Act.(3)Every rule made under this
section shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made before each House of
Parliament while it is in session for a period of thirty days which may be
comprised in one session or in two successive sessions and if before the
expiry of the session in which it is so laid or the session immediately
following, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule, or both
houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case made be, so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule.CommentarySTATEMENT
OF OBJECTS AND REASONS“Negotiations have been in progress with the Government
of Pakistan for more than six years with a view to arrive at an equitable
solution of the problem of immovable evacuee property. The Government of India
have all through been of the view that the immovable evacuee properties
including agricultural land in India and Pakistan should be exchanged in lump
on Government to Government basis, the debtor country paying to the creditor
for the difference between the values of such properties in the two countries.
The proposals made by the Government of India from time to time have, however,
been turned down by Pakistan. There has been a persistent demand from
displaced persons that these properties should be transferred to them in
permanent ownership, the properties have been fast deteriorating and many of
them have already been declared unfit for habitation or have crumbled down. To
halt further deterioration and to facilitate the rehabilitation of displaced
persons from West Pakistan this Bill provides that the right title and
interest of evacuees in evacuee properties in India should be acquired by
Government. The compensation to be paid to displaced persons will be confined
to the utilization of the acquired evacuee property in India as well as any
amount realized from Pakistan on account of the difference between the values
of evacuee properties in the two countries. The loans so far advanced to
displaced persons from West Pakistan, the properties built by the Government
for their rehabilitation and the provision made till May, 1953 for their
rehabilitation for the future under the Five Year Plan or otherwise will be
utilized for rehabilitation by giving grants. The Bill provides for the
payment of rehabilitation grants.

### 2\. The Bill provides for the appointment of a Chief Settlement
Commissioner, Settlement Commissioners and Settlement Officers who will
determine and pay the amount of compensation and rehabilitation grant payable
to persons having verified claims. Managing officers and managing corporations
will be entrusted with the custody, management and disposal of the assets in
the pool.

The Bill provides for the setting up of the Displaced Persons Welfare
Corporation for the purpose of providing educational and medical facilities to
displaced persons from West Pakistan and rendering assistance to institution
engaged in such activities. The payments due to educational and medical trusts
with verified claims will be placed at the disposal of this corporation along
with other properties for being utilised for the above mentioned purpose.”
Gaz. Ind., 1954, Extra, Pt. 11-Sec. 2, page 322.COMMENTARY\--Sale objected to
as without Mushtri Munadi in the area – And also occupants non-claimant
occupants also entitled to purchase the property – Held, “property was
indivisible, non-claimant occupants did not have any right to the transfer of
the property” – Further held auction was held after observing due Mushtri
Munadi – Writ petition dismissed – Constitution of India Articles 226/227.
1991(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 331\--Administration of Evacuee Property
Act, 1950—Plaintiff has been able to prove that he purchased the property from
the custodian—Defendant was not a tenant of plaintiff—Plaintiff being allottee
of the shop which is somehow in possession of the defendant, is entitled to
mesne profits—No rent deed in favour of defendant—Nobody from the department
was examined to prove his possession as allottee—How his name came to be
written in some of the receipts is for the department/defendant to explain—And
this amount cannot be taken as rent paid to custodian—Defendant has failed to
adduce any evidence so as to confer upon his the status of an allottee in
terms of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act—No merit in Regular Second
Appeal. 1993(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 58\--On terms non-existent in the
policy decisions and others rules framed and also in the letters of allotment,
the allotted land is ordered to be resumed on the pretext that it has not been
cultivated at the end of 5 years—What was provided was allottee could purchase
the allotted land on a fixed price and the payment made in any form will be
deducted—Land vests in the allottees free from all encumbrances—A contract is
validly arrived at-- Can be challenged before the competent authority under
the statute or in a Civil Court—Order of the Joint Secy. (Rshab). Haryana and
the Financial Commissioner (Revenue) etc. are quashed—Writ Petitions allowed.
1993(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 279\--After 14 years of allotment the
allotment of land is reviewed by Chief Settlement Commissioner and a part of
it is required to be surrendered as at the time of allotment the department
erred in evaluating this land—Writ filed against the decision, case remanded
to the Chief Settlement Commissioner to decide this case after hearing the
party—Petitioner gave an undertaking that question of delay of 14 years will
not be raised—Remand was thus conditional and the Chief Settlement
Commissioner justified the action already proposed—Another writ was
filed—Held, it is a simple case where the land has been wrongly
evaluated—Allotment was made by State Government—All the proceedings of the
allotment and cancellation were in pursuance of the act—Instructions contained
in Land Resettlement Manual would not apply—Provisions of the Act would have
overriding effect—Petition dismissed. 1993(1) All India Land Laws Reporter
476\--One who has left or has been displaced from his place of residence. In
any area now known as West Pakistan (ii) with residence at Jalandhar and
Lahore and visiting Jammu on business trips, cannot be said not to be living
at Lahore and as such is a Displaced Person. Supp. Vol.23 All India Land Laws
Reporter 116Non-agricultural tribe, sold land to an agriculturist, mutation
was effected in 1932 in their favour and was shown as mortgagee—On migration
to India, they were allotted lands in lieu of that but in 1961 when the
records of relevant revenue estates were obtained from Pakistan the allotment
of the mortgagees was cancelled—When cancellation was impugned, High Court
held since there was a disputed question of fact, appropriate course would be
a civil suit—When filed the lower court and the High Court came to a
conclusion that the civil courts had no jurisdiction—In appeal apex Court
held—Original sale was valid—Without considering the 1932 mutation changes,
the allotment in lieu of lost land was right—Civil Courts had the
jurisdiction—Findings of lower appellate court and High Courts had the
jurisdiction—Findings of lower appellate court and High Court are set
aside—Trial Court findings that appellants were owners of the lands in
Pakistan, and land allotted in lieu of that to rehabilitate them was
correct—Injunction issue to restrain dispossession is upheld and confirmed;
Dalip Chand & Ors. V. Union of India & Ors.: 1995(1) All India Land Laws
Reporter (Supreme Court) 519Keeping in view the press note published by
Government of Punjab that as a policy decision no correction in Khasra
Girdawris after 1.8.1974 are to be recognized—This policy has not been
attacked and proved illegal—Additional commissioner has rightly excluded such
entities—Error of fact when based on evidence cannot be corrected—Constitution
of India, Art. 226; Magar Singh v. The Additional Comm., Ferozepur Division :
1997(1) All India Land Laws Reporter (P&H) 239Land allotted to the deceased
father of the petitioner was cancelled as it was allotted due to a clerical
mistake—Petitioner’s grievance is that allotment was cancelled without issuing
any notice to the petitioner or any legal representative of the deceased
allottee—Orders are void abinitio, passed against a dead person—Held--Order of
cancellation is non-est as it was passed against a dead person-Should not have
been passed without affording an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner or
the legal representatives of the deceased; Mehal Singh v. Union of India &
Ors.: 1997(2) All India Land Laws Reporter (P&H) 500On cancellation of
allotted land, petitioner obtained certified copies of the revenue records
from Pakistan—When produced as evidence, Chief Settlement Commissioner did not
take these into account, doubting their authenticity—Held—Court is of the
opinion that certified copies, authenticated by the Indian Embassy should not
have been rejected on the ground that they were not authenticated—It is a fit
case for remanding the matter to Chief Settlement Commissioner for a decision
afresh; Mehal Singh v. Union of India & Ors.: 1997(2) All India Land Laws
Reporter (P&H) 500Section 2 : SYNOPSIS

### 1\. Allottee and Lessee

### 2\. Default in repayment of loan

COMMENTARY

### 1\. Allottee and lessee—Tenant of Evacuee Property—Not covered by the said
definition of Allottee and lessee. Mam Chand v. Union of India, 1984(2) L.L.R.
531.

### 2\. Default in repayment of loan—Loan obtained by the displaced persons
under the provisions of Rehabilitation Finance Administration Act, 1948—Land
Improvement Loans Act, 1883—Agriculturist Loans Act, 1884—Displaced persons
cannot be arrested in case there is default in the repayment of loan. Kartar
Singh v. State of Punjab, 1983 L L R.326

Sections 2(6), 2(10), 5, 17 and 37—Loan incurred prior to partition of country
from a Bank under overdraft account is a debt within the meaning of Section
2(6)—A person is a Displaced Person who may be having two places of residence
one in India and one in now known as Pakistan if is unable to manage his
property in West Pakistan as per Section 2(2)—Section 5 has no application to
debt sought to be enforced against a displaced debtor—He need not have his
status determined—Debt incurred in Jammu and Kashmir decreed by Jammu
Court—Executed by Delhi Court – Valid. Supp. Vol. 23 All India Land Laws
Reporter 116Section 8 - SYNOPSIS

### 1\. Disposal of pool Property.

### 2\. Expression “Subject to Rule”.

### 3\. Payment of compensation.

COMMENTARY

### 1\. Disposal of pool Property--Central Government has ample powers to take
steps for disposal of pool property by auction sale—Section do not lay law
that payment of compensation by sale—Of the pool property to a displaced
person shall not be done unless the rules are framed, Surinder Singh v.
Central Government, 1987(2) L.L.R. 469.

### 2\. Expression “Subject to Rules”--Expression—Subject to Rules only means
in accordance with the rules if any—If the rules are framed then the authority
is not precluded from exercising the power conferred by the statute, Surinder
Singh v. Central Government, 1987(2) L.L.R. 469.

### 3\. Payment as Compensation - Sections 8 and 20 provide for payment of
compensation to displaced persons—Framing of rules is not condition precedent
to the exercise of power conferred by statute—Central Government has ample
jurisdiction to issue administrative directions, Surinder Singh v. Central
Government, 1987 (1) L.L.R. 250.

Section 8A-COMMENTARYSs.8A—Inserted section gives an option to the displaced
person either to retain the property on paying cash redemption amount
deductible from compensation or to surrender the part of the property—And or
failure to pay, the amount is made recoverable as land revenue—Held—Provision
no where speaks of automatic cancellation of the allotment made in favour of
displaced person on account of non-payment of mortgaged money—Managing Officer
was not vested with the power to cancel the allotment (in 1960)—Recovery could
be made by selling the property; Dalip Singh v. The Financial Comm. Cum Sec.
To Govt. Haryana Rehabilation Dept.: 1996(1) All India Land Laws Reporter (P &
H) 117Section – 10 - SYNOPSIS

### 1\. Grant of Sanad.

COMMENTARY

### 1\. Grant of Sanad—Displaced person becomes owner of land on the date when
sanad is granted and not when sanad Taqsim is granted—Adverse possession and
period of limitation would start from the date sanad is granted. Battan Singh
v. Smt. Rakhi, 1982 L.L.R. 463.

Section – 12 - SYNOPSIS

### 1\. Applicability of provisions

### 2\. Interference in second appeal

### 3\. Purpose of Act

### 4\. Sale Certificate

### 5\. Selection of Land

COMMENTARY

### 1\. Applicability of provisions—Plaintiff claiming to be owner in
possession of the Shamlat land—Composite property partitioned—Provisions of
Sections 12 and 27 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation)
Act not applicable—What vest in the custodian or the Central Government is the
evacuee interest and not the interest of the non-evacuee—Suit not barred.
Union of India v. Nihal Singh, 1983(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 285.

### 2\. Interference in second appeal—Suit claiming ownership on the basis of
sale certificate dismissed—High Court would not interfere in second appeal.
Arjan Singh v. Pritam Singh, 1982 All India Land Laws Reporter 508.

### 3\. Purpose of Act—Purpose of act is to rehabilitate displaced
persons—Interpretation which would lead to depriving the displaced persons of
their legal right of allotment should be avoided—Rehabilitation Department
should not take shelter behind procedural lacuna and mere technicalities.
1989(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 319.

### 4\. Sale certificate—Issued by Managing Officer (Sales) in pursuance of
auction—In the absence of any order of cancellation the only assumption which
can be drawn is that the Sales certificate continues to have the force and the
holder of Sale certificate can recover damages for use and occupation of the
house auctioned to him. J.S. Chawla v. Ishar Das, 1984(1) All India Land Laws
Reporter 127.

### 5\. Selection of land—Allotment of Urban Agricultural land consisting of
more than one Khasra the value of which exceeds Rs.15,000/- --Land regarding
which allotment to be made is to be selected by the Regional Settlement
Commissioner—Lessee has no option to select the land—Allotment made by
Regional Settlement Commissioner cannot be interfered with by the revisional
authority. Municipal Committee Samana v. F.C. (Taxation) Punjab, 1982 All
India Land Laws Reporter 533.

\--Section 12—Property allotted to a displaced and subsequently conveyance
deed also issued—Conveyance deed does not require registration—Conveyance deed
brought on the record can be looked into—Suit for possession based on such
conveyance deed decreed. 1990(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 120.Section –14
- SYNOPSIS

### 1\. Allotment

COMMENTARY

### 1\. Allotment—Property canbe allotted to a non-displaced person also. Gian
Singh v. Secretary to Govt. Punjab, Rehabilitation Department, 1983(1) L.L.R.
30

Occupancy rights vested in muslim evacuees. Muslim occupancy tenants were
shown to be in possession in the Jamabandis from 1920 to 1945. It was held
that the land was part of the compensation pool and could be allotted. 1980
Land Laws Reporter 211.S. 14, 16, 20—Muslims left their undivided interest in
the Shamlat deh--Such interest cannot be termed as evacuee property—Cannot be
governed by the Central Act—State has the power to make laws and has made laws
for the Shamlat deh—Local Act would prevail upon the Central Act—One is not in
derogation of the other—Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Act,
1953—S.4; Gram Panchyat, Johar Majra thru Nar Singh v. Union of India: 1996(2)
All India Land Laws Reporter (P & H) 505\--Sections 14 and 20—Allotment of
excess land—Allotment cancelled later on—Person who was allotted the excess
land has no right to demand transfer of excess allotment—Can purchase the land
if offered at the price offered Rehabilitation authorities need not make the
allotment at the fixed price—Cannot seek protection of Rules dealing with
fixation of prices i.e. Rules 56, 62 and 63 of the Displaced Persons
(Compensation and Rehabilitation) Rules, 1955. 1990(1) All India Land Laws
ReporterSections 14- 19, 24 & 33—Rules, 1955—Rule 102—Present respondent the
widowed daughter-in-law of the grantee of the land against verified claim,
took her ailing son for medical treatment, asked D to take care of land in her
absence—D claimed himself to be adopted son of the original allottee, her
fiather-in-law—On returning ‘D’ refused to deliver back possession—By a
chequered history of litigation, Central Govt. delegate ordered resumption in
favour of govt. as possession has been parted with— Such orders were passed
under R.102—On her appeal, Ld. Single Judge under Section 33 of the Displaced
Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act restored the allotment in her
favour—Hence this appeal by State and others—held—Rule 102 is applicable to
lands in Compensation Pool—After grant of agricultural land against verified
claim and “Sanad” is granted the allottee became the owner and the land ceased
to be in “Compensation pool”—Authorities under the Act/Rule had no power to
cancel the allotment when she asked “D” to look after the land in her
absence—When authorities treated “D” as rank trespasser, an order for
restoration of possession should have been passed by the authorities—Judgment
passed by the Ld. Single Judge does not require any interference; State of
Rajasthan & Anr. V. Mst. Tikko Bai & Anr.: 1997(2) All India Land Laws
Reporter (Rajasthan) 3Section – 16 - SYNOPSIS

### 1\. Right to Allotment.

COMMENTARY

### 1\. Right of Allotment—Competent officer not accepting the higher
bid—Order not challenged—Persons giving the bid acquires no right to
allotment. Gian Singh v. Secretary to Govt. Punjab, Rehabilitation Department,
1983(1) L.L.R. 300.

Section 18 & \- COMMENTARY\--Sections 18 and 19-DD—Land awarded as Gallantry
award posthumously for gallantry during Second World War situated in Lyalpur
(Pakistan)-—resent Land awarded in Compensation to Displaced Person in
District Jalandhar—Tenants applied for purchase of a part of it under Section
18 allowed but in the meantime by suit by that landowner, the tenant
evicted—No evidence led by the landowners to prove exemption under Section
19-DD, from land being declared surplus—Also the tenant under Section 18—Can
purchase it—No infirmity, in the judgment of High Court—Displaced Persons
(Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954, Sections 7 and 8. Supp. Vol. 26
All India Land Laws Reporter 540Section – 19 -
SYNOPSIS(1)Claim(2)ResumptionCOMMENTARY

### 1\. Claim--Claimant alleged to have dies in 1954—Sons of the claimant
lodging claims for substitution without disclosing the existence of the
sisters and the mother—Application given by the sisters and the wife dismissed
without permitting them to lead evidence regarding the date of death—Dismissal
of application held to be without jurisdiction. Smt. Raj Rani v. Chief
Settlement Commissioner, Delhi, 1984(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 71.

### 2\. Resumption--Managing Officer on behalf of the President of India
entering into an agreement—Agreement providing that in the event of default in
the payment of any installment the possession of the land could be
resumed—Only Managing Officer can exercise the power of resumption—Chief
Settlement Commissioner acting under Section 24 has no authority—Order passed
by him held to be ultra vires—Such an order if confirmed under S. 33 would
still be invalid. Manohar Lal v. Financial Commissioner, Haryana, 1984(1) All
India Land Laws Reporter 52.

\--Section 19—Relevant and material question in this dispute is whether the
property in dispute is an evacuee estate and consequently does the possession
of the appellant, as a displaced person, need be protected—As held by the
court if the appellant is a tres-passer, even a trespasser can be evicted only
by a rightful owner—And this title again depends on the question if the
property is evacuee property—Held—Judgment of the authorities below are set
aside and remitted the matter to Custodian General for disposal in accordance
with law—Tehsildar may also be involved as he would be able to collect
relevant material from Village Officer to prove the character of property.
1994(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 79\--Section 19—Cancellation of the
allotment of land without giving notice to legal heirs of the deceased
allottee would be a nullity—Under Rule 102, the Managing Officer having passed
the order of cancellation against a deed person was a nullity—Upholding of the
nullity order at the appellate or revisional stage is of no
consequence—Mandatory requirement of S. 19 and Rule 102 of the Rule were not
complied with. 1991(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 418Section – 20 -
SYNOPSIS(1)Acceptance of bid(2)Exemption from acquisition(3)Suit on basis of
title(4)Transfer of Urban LandCOMMENTARY

### 1\. Acceptance of Bid--Settlement Commissioner or other Officer cannot
refuse to accept bid without assigning reason—Refusal to disclose reasons
cannot be interpreted to mean not bound to give reasons. Surja Ram v. State of
Haryana, 1984(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 199.

### 2\. Exemption from Acquisition--Land purchased on 7.6.1980 from Regional
Settlement Commissioner of public auction by Petitioner—Acquisition not
permissible as land exempted from notice being evacuee land. B.S. Tolani v.
Union of India. 1987(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 348.

### 3\. Suit on Basis of Title--Suit on basis of title against unauthorised
occupant—Such suit could not be filed till the sale certificate was
issued—Course of action for filing suit— Dr. Bhargava vs. Shyam Sunder Seth,
1988(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 614.

### 4\. Transfer of Urban Land--Managing Officer transferring the Urban
Land—Financial Commissioner exercising the power under Section 33 cannot set
aside the order of the Managing Officer on a mere suspicion that the transfer
of Urban Land was contrary of law—Firm finding has to be recorded—No such
finding recorded order quashed. Mahant Tara Singh v. Financial Commissioner
Punjab, 1982 All India Land Laws Reporter 447.

\--Section 20—Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958—Section 14 (i) (e)—Landlord bid for
the property in auction by Managing Officer in August 1961—Made final payment
in 1983—Sale certificate issued in January 1984—Indicated full ownership since
January 1964-- Simple question is from which date a period of 5 years would
start for ejectment of the occupant/tenant—Held landlord would be deemed to be
owner from 1983 when he made the final payment. 1993(2) All India Land Laws
Reporter 593\--Section 20—Father of Petitioners was allotted land, to satisfy
claim in sub-urban agricultural area—He found his allotment short of the land
due—Applied for making good the shortage—Expired—L.R.s pursued the case, gave
preference to the land adjacent to the land already allotted—Managing Officers
ordered allotment—Tehsildar (Sales) before implementation referred the
proposal to Joint Secretary because decision taken by him was subject to the
final approval of Joint Secretary (Rehabilitation)—Who differed Petitioner
file appeal in High Court—Held, Tehsildar (Sales) cum Managing Officer fully
competent to give allotment under Section 20—No approval of higher authority
is required by Tehsildar (Sales). Vol. 29 All India Land Laws Reporter
47\--Section 20—Auction sale of evacuee property—Purchased by a displaced
person—He alleges area less than one stipulated—Offers to purchase on
proportionate price—Sale cancelled—Resold at an appreciated price—Appeal
against cancellation was dismissed by the Assistant Settlement Commissioner
and also appeal dismissed by High Court in limine—Supreme Court find no scope
of interference. Vol. 29 All India Land Laws Reporter 225\--Section 20—Rule
90(15) of the Rules—Appellant claims to have contributed one half of the sale
amount and as such is the owner of one half property—Assertion is in direct
conflict with Rule 90(15) which provides that in case two or more displaced
persons take the property in auction sale, the sale certificate is to be made
out jointly in their names—Sale certificate being in the name of Respondent 2
alone, belies the claim of the appellant—Respondent No.2 admitted in cross
examination that “sale deed was in his favour alone there was no associate.”
1993(4) All India Land Laws Reporter 103S. 20—Left behind by muslim migrants,
undivided interest in the Shamlat—Allotted to migrants from Pakistan by
custodian—Custodian had no title in the Shamlat Deh which is fact vested in
the Gram Panchayat—Custodian could not pass on such defective title to all the
allottees—Refund can be claimed from the custodian—Alternative remedy is to
establish their claims as bonafide purchasers in appropriate forum—Transfer of
Property Act, 1882—S. 41; Gram Panchyat, Johar Majra thru Nar Singh v. Union
of India: 1996(2) All India Land Laws Reporter (P & H) 505Section
20A-SYNOPSIS(1)Relief(2)Sale Certificate.COMMENTARY

### 1\. Relief--Person basing his rights on these Sections can get no relief
as these Sections have been declared ultra vires. Banwari Ram v. Attar Chand
1983(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 122.

### 2\. Sale Certificate--Suit on basis of title against unauthorised
occupant—Such suit could not be filed till the sale certificate was
issued—Course of action for filing suit arose only when sale certificate was
issued. Dr. Bhargava & Co. & Anr. V. Sh. Shyam Sunder Seth, 1988(1) All India
Land Laws Reporter 614.

\--Section 20-A—Explanation—Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950,
Section 16—Property by mistake declared to be evacuee property—Certificate
issued by Central Government under Section 16 declaring it otherwise—During
this period a tenant inducted into the house and property sold to him—Could
not be restored to the original owner—He being entitled to compensation
only—Provisions of Section 20-A of Displaced Persons Act by virtue of the
explanation gave overriding effect—Inspite of the certificate issued by
Central Government it was open to the Central Government not to allow
restoration of the property—Appellant entitled to compensation only. Vol. 26
Supp. All India Land Laws Reporter 150Section – 20B-COMMENTARY\--Section
20(1)—Open vacant land with the site allotted to defendants was acquired by
the Improvement Trust and allotted to appellants-defendants filed suit
claiming ownership of the land—Suit for permanent injunction—In the mean time
defendant raised wall on the site—Suit amended to that extent—Held, Managing
Officer had no power to transfer the said property to Improvement Trust—Could
do so to displaced persons either as compensation or as
rehabilitation—Appellants cannot claim any right title or interest in vacant
land attached to house allotted to defendants. 1990(2) All India Land Laws
Reporter 376Section – 22-COMMENTARYSection 22—Displaced Persons (Compensation
and Rehabilitation) Rules, 1955—Rules 90(11) and 90(14)—Rules say that if
auction purchaser does not deposit full price within 15 days of the auction,
he has no claim towards the property and no order cancelling the sale is
necessary--Petitioner lays claim to such property which was “purchased” in
1969 but was not fully paid for—And this land as a part of larger chunk was
allotted to other auction purchasers—Possession in revenue records is with
auction purchasers—Mortgagees—Successors in interest—Held-- Petitioner has no
claim on property which is in possession of the respondents/their mortgagees
since 1981—No merit in petition which is dismissed. 1994(2) All India Land
Laws Reporter 390Section – 23- SYNOPSIS(1)Cancellation of sale
certificate(2)Indivisible Property(3)Defective AuctionCOMMENTARY

### 1\. Cancellation of Sale Certificate--Financial Commissioner coming to the
conclusion that the reasons for dismissing the application of cancellation of
sale was not correct case remanded for consideration of the application on
merits—In the absence of any specific order of cancellation of sale
certificate the sale certificate continues to have force, J.S. Chawla v. Ishar
Dass, 1984(1) L.L.R. 127.

### 2\. Indivisible Property-House allotted—Occupied by two different
evacuees—Evaluation oficer reporting that the two portions are indivisible and
structural changes would be required to divide them—Property is to be taken as
indivisible. Dayal Chand v. Financial Commissioner, 1982 All India Land Laws
Reporter 459.

### 3\. Defective Auction-An auction cannot be set aside simply because
another auction in the village was found to be defective. 1980 Land laws
Reporter 210.

\--Sections 23, 24 and 28—Transfer of urban evacuee agricultural
land—Jurisdiction of Chief Settlement Commissioner—Delegated powers to
Settlement Officer (Sales) for the purposes of passing necessary orders in
respect of all urban agricultural lands—Power properly vested in the Chief
Settlement Commissioner and delegated to the Settlement Officer (Sales).
1990(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 521Section – 24-
SYNOPSIS(1)Allotment(2)Allotment of excess area.(3)Bonafide
Purchasers.(4)Cancellation of allotment(5)Cancellation of Permanent
rights(6)Cancellation of sale(7)Contrary view(8)Challenge to
allotment(9)Exercise of Revisional Powers(10)Exercise of suo motu
powers(11)Limitation(12)Permanent rights(13)Power of cancellation(14)Power of
C.S.C.(15)Words at any timeCOMMENTARY

### 1\. Allotment--Allotment to a claimant—non-claimant has no locus standi to
challenge the order passed in favour of a claimant. Dharam Dev v. Roshan Lal
Pasricha, 1983(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 627.

\--Allotment of land to displaced persons—Setting aside of --Suomotu reference
for setting aside allotment on the ground that provisions of para 7.30 of
Punjab Records Manual have not been complied with—Rehabilitation Department
taking objections regarding non-compliance—Held that the forum of proceedings
under the Act should have been resorted to for setting at naught the allotment
of the land. Vaishno Mal v. Chief Settlement Commissioner, 1983(2) All India
Land Laws Reporter 34.\--Financial Commissioner remanding the case to the
Chief Settlement Commissioner for a fresh decision to determine the value of
the porperty—Chief Settlement Commissioner can hold that the allottee is not
entitled to final allotment as being not in continuous possession. Charan Dass
v. The Chief Settlement Commissioner, 1983(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 409

### 2\. Allotment of Excess Area--Chief Settlement Commissioner competent to
cancel allotment of land in excess of area, the petitioner is entitled to get
under the provision of the Act—Excess area forms part package deal
properties—Does not remain in compensation pool as it vests in Punjab
Government—Managing Officer not competent to sell property. Pala Singh v.
Union of India, 1988 (1) All India Land Laws Reporter 366

### 3\. Bonafide Purchasers--Bonafide purchasers from allottee—Land allotted
in 1957—Allottee selling the same in 1975—Transferees put in possession
–Allotment cancelled in 1970—Transferees held to be bona-fide
purchasers—Protected u/s 41 of T.P. Act. State of Haryana v. Smt. Savitri
Devi, 1987(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 301

\--Bonafied purchasers for value—Tenders purchasing the land from the original
allottees—Order cannot be passed under Section 24 once vendees are shown to be
bonafide purchasers for value. Bhagwan Dass v. State of Haryana, 1982 All
India Land Laws Reporter 677

### 4\. Cancellation of Allotment--Allotment of Suburban land
cancelled—Allottee should be given opportunity to adduce evidence—Record
received—From Pakistan cannot be considered conclusive evidence. Raizada Luxmi
v. Financial Commissioner and Secretary, Rehabilitation, 1986(1) All India
Land Laws Reporter 413

\--Chief Settlement Commissioner can set aside permanent rights in exercise of
revisional power under Section 24—Managing Officer has no jurisdiction to
cancel the allotment of land. Gurdev Singh v. Chief Settlement Commissioner,
1985(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 185.\--Cancellation of allotment on the
ground that allottee had failed to pay mortgage money to Muslim residents with
whom land was mortgaged in West Pakistan—Cancellation of allotment by
rehabilitation authorities on this ground not permissible. Qandhara Singh v.
Union of India, 1983(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 444.\--Conveyance deed
cannot be cancelled unless notice of 15 days to pay arrears in terms of
Section 90(13) is given to the party—Arrears due should be brought to the
notice of the person concerned—Cancellation held to be bad. Hans Raj v.
Commissioner & Secretary to Government, Haryana, 1983(1) All India Land Laws
Reporter 398.

### 5\. Cancellation of Permanent Rights--Cancellation of permanent
rights—Notice given which came back un-served—Third person appearing
representing himself to be the attorney of petitioner—No power of attorney
existing on the record—Proceedings held to be illegal as being without notice
and without opportunity. Hari Chand v. Chief Settlement Commissioner, 1982 All
India Land Laws Reporter 26.

### 6\. Cancellation of Sale --Finding recordeed that the discretion exercised
in approving the bid was improper—Sale conducted under some
influence—Cancellation can be ordered at any time. Rajinder Kumar v. Chief
Settlemet Commissioner, 1983(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 670

### 7\. Contrary View--Chief Settlement Commissioner taking a contrary view to
one expressed by him while he was holding the office of the settlement
Officer—No opinion expressed on merits while acting as Settlement
Officer—Subsequent orders passed is not review. Harbhajan Singh JMT v. F.C.
(Taxation) Punjab, 1982 All India Land Laws Reporter 484

### 8\. Challenge to Allotment--Challenge to allotment can be made before
Chief Settlement Officer power to cancel allotment obtained by fraud, false
representation or concealment of material facts in Court of C.S.C.—Civil Court
Jurisdiction barred. Smt. Sumitra Devi v. Thoru Ram, 1986(2) All India Land
Laws Reporter 368

### 9\. Exercise OF Revisional Powers--Chief Settlement Commissioner deciding
in favour of the allottee—Allottee making a representation to the Central
Government that the matter may be treated as closed—Letter written by a
functionary of the Central Government stating that there is no material for
taking any other view and that the matter may be treated as closed—Such a
letter written on account of the petition filed by a person whose favour a
decision has been given cannot be treated as a exercise of power under Section
33 because the person making the representation cannot be said to be an
aggrieved person—Only aggrieved person can seek exercise of revisional power.
Union of India v. Avtar Singh, 1984(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 627

### 10\. Exercise of Suo Moto Powers --Suo moto powers—Exercise of—Can be
exercised within reasonable time—Delay to be fully explained. Raizada Luxmi
Narain v. Financial Commissioner & Secretary, Rehabilitation, 1986(1) I.L.R.
413

### 11\. Limitation--No limitation prescribed for filling revision u/s 24 of
the Act –Rule 104(i) is not applicable. Union of India v. M/s Navin Bharat,
All India Land Laws Reporter (Vol. 17) Suppl. 481

\--No period of limitation was laid down by Rule 104(i) for an application for
revision presented to the Chief Settlement Commission under Section 24(i) of
the Act. Union of India v. M/s Navin Bharat, All India Land Laws Reporter
(Vol. 17) Suppl.481

### 12\. Permanent Rights--Permanent rights conferred—Third person purchasing
the property—Protected by the principles indicated in Section 41 of the
Transfer of Property Act, 1882 as a bonafide purchaser for value M/s Electric
Construction & Equipment Co. Ltd. V. Union of India, 1982 All India Land Laws
Reporter 324

### 13\. Power of Cancellation--Land allotted in 1957 by Assistant Registrar-
cum-Managing Officer—On reference allotment orders set aside in 1967 by Chief
Settlement Commissioner—Power of cancellation vests in Managing Officer or
Chief Settlement Commissioner by virtue of Section 24 --Such powers can be
exercised within ambit of Clause (2) of Section 24. Union of India v. Baba
Surinder Singh Bedi, 1986(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 236

### 14\. Power of C.S.C.--Sub-section (1) gives very wide powers to Chief
Settlement Commissioner to examine the legality and propriety of any order of
Settlement Commissioner—Cannot be held that sub-section (9) will be applicable
if the matter relates to payment of compensation. Bal Krishan Mukhi v.
Commissioner, Revenue, Haryana, All India Land Laws Reporter (Vol. 12) Suppl.
342

### 15\. Words ‘At Any Time’--Words at any time—Could not be intended that
title of owner should be constantly in jeopardy for an indefinite time
particularly when no fault is ascribed to him. Bal Krishan Mukhi v.
Commissioner, Revenue, Haryana, All India Land Laws Reporter (Vol. 12)

\--Section 24—Crust of the case depends on the question whether father of the
sons, who got quasi permanent allotment died in Pakistan before family came
over to India or dies in India—Evidence prove his death in Pakistan and as
such this allotment in Kishanpura village has been rightly upheld by F.C.
–Petitioner herein purchased a piece of land in village Hussainpura several
years later—This fact is no ground that the allotment of sons in V.
Hussainpura was in accordance with law—Allotment had been obtained by
fraud—Respondent No. 4 purchased land from Dharam Singh who in turn had
purchased land for respondents 2 and 3—Respondent No. 4 is a bona fide vendee
from the date his vendor had purchased that land—No merit in writ which is
dismissed. 1994(1) All India Land Laws ‘reporter 473\--Section 24—Displaced
Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Rules, 1955—Rule 92—Joint reading of
Section and Rule indicate that vide powers are given to authorities to set
aside transactions which are fraudulent. 1992(2) All India Land Laws Reporter
490\--Section 24—Simply because the petitioner had occupied wrong khasra
numbers instead of the allotted ones is no reason to cancel the sale—Already
sold khasra numbers could not be resold to the Respondents unless the first
sale was cancelled—This could be cancelled when there were reasons or
allegations of fraud, misrepresentation or concealment of material facts—And
also these khasra numbers were not available—Petitioners had kept wrong khasra
numbers for 6 long years and then woke up to lay his claim on the khasra
numbers which had been allotted to him but his petition deserves to
succeed—Impropriety is not of such a nature that can be used against him.
1993(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 576S.24—Petitioners assertion that power
vested in the Chief Settlement Commissioner under S.24, power to set aside the
sale, is controlled by Rule 92, although looks attractive on the face of it
but has to be rejected if considered on the anvil of relevancy—Rule are
subordinate legislation and that a delegated legislation and that gives the
rule a status of being “subordinate” to the provisions of the act—Cannot
control the power vested in the Chief Settlement Commissioner by
section24—Held—Passing of the order for restoration of property to respondent
3, all actions subsequent to that including the sale of property by way of
action, are rendered void—Rule 92 of the rules may not be looked to for
compliance; Dalip Singh v. The Financial Comm. Cum Secy. To Govt. Haryana
Rehabilitation Dept.: 1996(1) All India Land Laws Reporter (PH) 117Section
24—No period of limitation is prescribed for invoking the revisional
jurisdiction of the Chief Settlement Commissioner- Complaint moved after about
32 years to reopen the issue would certainly be too late to challenge illegal
transfer of proprietary rights; Kartar Singh (Died) through L.Rs. v. Financial
Commissioner (Planning) punjab : 1997(2) All India Land Laws Reporter (P&H)
586Section 24—Power of Revision of the Chief Settlement Commissioner-Can ask
for the record of the orders passed by officers junior to him to judge the
legality of orders passed—But no revision petition is maintainable before the
same authority—Cancellation orders passed by his predecessor cannot be
reconsidered by him revision—Only a review petition is maintainable—Or order
could be challenged by writ petition—If the petitioners were really aggrieved
by order of the Chief Settlement Commissioner, they should have filed an
application for REVIEW or challenged the order in High Court—Petitioners
failed to take any such stamps—Allowed orders to become final—No interference
is called for; Jogi Ram Saini v. State of Haryana : 1997(2) All India Land
Laws Reporter (P&H) 83Section 24—Evacuee property came to be sold by public
auction, sold to highest bidder, sale confirmed—But this higher bidder failed
to deposit the amount—Sale was cancelled and property was
reauctioned—Appellant now claims right over it—Held—Unless the sale was duly
set aside, property could not be put to resale and sold to
appellate—Cancellation of this subsequent sale cannot be said to be vitiated
by any error of law warranting interference; Jog Ram v. State of Haryana &
Ors.: 1997(3) All India Land Laws Reporter (Supereme Court) 197\--Sections 24
and 33—Rules, 1955—Rule 30(c)—Auction of evacuee property held legally—Auction
purchaser, predecessor-in-interest of the petitioners, was a displaced person,
found eligible for purchase—Gave the highest bid—Price adjusted against the
claim due—But sale certificate inspite of reminders and inspite of Central
Government ordering not issued—Instead Financial Commissioner, a delegate of
Central Government cancelled the sale under Rule 30(c) at the instance of the
Haryana Government—Since the property was not of “Package deal” State
Government had nothing to do with it—Taking into consideration evidence as
well as records produced, held, sale certificate should have been issued and
is ordered to be issued. All India Land Laws Reporter 445Sections 24 and
33—Entire land was on lease in the predecessor of in-interest of the
petitioner since before partition—Lessors migrated—Property became evacuee
property—Petitioner applied for allotment in terms of policy of State—Was
allowed only a part of it—Claim for the rest rejected—Revision under Setion 33
was also rejected by F.C. as decision was based on new policy to be published
yet—New Policy was published later—Petitioner made another application for the
claim based on new policy but the application was rejected and land was put to
sale the SAME DAY—This auction was held in violation of the orders of the
Chief Settlement Commissioner—Petitioner was effectively precluded from
participating with auction held—Auction held is quashed—Property ordered to be
reauctioned with liberty to petitioner also to participate; 1998(1) All India
Land Laws Reporter 5\--Section 24 (1)—Displaced Persons (Compensation and
Rehabilitation) Rules, 1955, Rule 90(1)—Urban agricultural plot
auctioned—Highest bid much less than reserve price—Regional Settlement
Commissioner approved the sale in favour of petitioner—On complaints of
irregularity in sale, Chief Settlement Commissioner called for the record of
the sale and on account of glaring irregularities, set aside the
sale—Petitioner’s is in appeal in High Court—Held—Order accepting bid and
completing sale made by Regional Settlement Commissioner under Rule 90(1) of
Rules 1955 is such that can be reviewed by the Chief Settlement Commissioner
under Section 24(1) of the Act –Chief Settlement Commissioner could revise it
also—No merit in appeal. 1992(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 51\--Sections
24(2), 33 and Arts. 226, 227 of Constitution of India –Writ Petition filed
before High Court—Matter considered--- Allotment of land with wrong decision
and fabricating record-- Interference by High Court—Valid.\--Held, in other
words, inspite of the opportunity given to the appellants to support the
allotment in their favour, they never challenged the correctness, of the
Jamabandi on the basis of which both the Chief Settlement Commissioner and the
revisional authority came to the conclusion that the appellants had no
occupancy right in the land in Pakistan. As there was a definite finding in
the orders of these authorities that the appellants had no occupancy right in
the land in Pakistan based on relevant materials and the interference
therefrom could only be that the appellants obtained the allotment by making
false representation we think that the High Court was justified in declining
to exercise its jurisdiction under Article 226 or 227 of the Constitution.
Vol. 20 Supp. All India Land Laws Reporter 201Section – 25-SYNOPSISClerical
MistakesCOMMENTARYClerical Mstakes--Ratification of mistakes—Clerical mistakes
regarding boundary indicated in conveyance deed--Managing Officer is competent
to rectify the same under Section 25--Chief Settlement Commissioner approving
the correction made by the Managing Officer—Interference not to be made under
Section 33. Ram Nath v. Financial Commissioner, 1983(2) All India Land Laws
Reporter 165\--Financial Commissioner exercising the powers of Central
Government—Clerical Mistakes rectified by the Managing Officer and the same
approved by the Chief Settlement Commissioner-- Financial Commissioner has no
jurisdiction to interfere when he comes to the conclusion that the mistakes
rectified by the Managing Officer was duly approved by the Chief Settlement
Officer, Ram Nath v. Financial Commissioner, 1983(2) All India Land Laws
Reporter 165Section – 26-SYNOPSISScopeCOMMENTARY

### 1\. Scope- (1)Scope of—Where the Chief Settlement Commissioner wants to
accept a reference made by the Managing Officer it is necessary to hear the
persons likely to be affected. The persons affected should be given notice of
the date to which the case stands adjourned. 1961 PLR 160.

### 2\. Section 148 of the Code of Civil Procedure is not applicable to
proceedings under the Act. 1972 PLR 749.

In a suit for declaration filed by a person claiming to be a claimant under
the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, it was held that
the conclusion of the Courts below should not be interfered within a second
appeal unless it is shown that the decision is tainted with any illegality.
AIR 1970 Delhi 85.Section – 27- SYNOPSIS

### 1\. Finality

### 2\. Jurisdiction

COMMENTARY

### 1\. Finality--This section confers finality to an order made by an officer
or authority acting under this Act. This cannot be challenged in any civil
court. AIR 1961 Bombay 69.

### 2\. Jurisdiction--An order was passed by the Managing Officer under
Section 19. It could be challenged by way of an appeal under Section 22. The
appeal was competent before the Chief Settlement Commissioner. This was not
resorted to. However, an appeal was preferred to the Additional Custodian of
Property and further revision was preferred to the Deputy Custodian General
who had no jurisdiction in the matter. It was held that the order of the
Managing Officer became final under section 27. 1961 PLR 420.

Civil Courts jurisdiction is barred whenever remedy is provided under a
special provision. 1982 LLR 414.However, if the authorities under the Act,
without jurisdiction then the bar would not be attracted 1982 LLR 450.A
decision given by the authorities that the plaintiff had entered into lease of
evacuee property and that certain amounts was due from him under the lease
cannot be called in question in a Civil Court. 1969 PLR 49.As the Settlement
Commissioner is competent to determine the liability of a person arising out
of a lease of evacuee land, consequently no action would be maintainable in a
Civil Court. AIR 1968 Punjab 40.However, this Act does not empower any
authority to determine finally the question of title to property left behind
in Pakistan. 1966 Cur, LJ 794.A policy decision was taken by the Punjab
Government to sell land to lessees from Muslim Evacuees. The request to
enforce policy decision and to purchase the land was turned down by the
Government. The land ceased to form part of the compensation poll. It was held
that the Civil Court could entertain a dispute AIR 1963 Pb. 405.The finality
attached under Section 27 does not bar the Chief Settlement Commissioner from
re-opening a matter under Section 24. ILR 1969 (1) Pb. 554.Such a bar may also
not operate where the property has never been declared as an evacuee property.
AIR 1980 SC 1906.Section 27 would bar a suit where a sale of property forming
part of compensation pool is sought to be challenged on the ground that the
sale was collusive or that it was not properly published. AIR 1974 Delhi 151.A
Settlement Commissioner did not comply with statutory obligation under Rule
90(12) to make adjustment out of a compensation towards the balance of payment
of price due in respect of property sold by auction. It was held that the
jurisdiction is not barred. ILR 1972 (1) Delhi 663.The Central Government has
no power to acquire property which is not evacuee property. In any case it has
no power to acquire property which has not been declared an evacuee property.
Accordingly it was held that a suit filed under the Treasury Act for its
possession would be maintainable. 1976 All LJ 190.Where an allotment was
cancelled by the Managing Officer then the Civil Court would not have any
jurisdiction in the matter. 1972 PLR 381.\--Section 27, 22, 23, 24 and
25—Section 27 specifically bars the jurisdiction of civil courts for
challenging cancellation orders passed under this Act—S.25 provides that
setting aside of ex parte orders is not a review of orders. 1991(1) All India
Land Laws Reporter 418Section –29
SYNOPSIS(1)Applicability(2)Eviction(3)Purpose of Section(4)StatusCOMMENTARY

### 1\. Applicability--Persons to whom provisions of Section 29 would apply
are persons specified in notification which the Central Government may issue
under sub-section (2). Sabra Begum v. Mohd. Ikhlaq, 1986(2) All India Land
Laws Reporter 376

### 2\. Eviction--Property belonging to Custodian—In possession of
tenant—Appelant purchasing the same from auction purchaser—Can evict only
through ejectment order under Rent Act.Balraj Krishan v. Hari Singh, 1987(1)
All India Land Laws Reporter 15.

### 3\. Purpose of Section--Purpose of Section is to transform a person in
occupation of property into a tenant on specified terms and conditions. Baldev
Raj Batra v. Krishan Lal, 1986(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 561

### 4\. Status --Status of a person in occupation—Whether unauthorized
occupant or tenant—Person in possession of the property as tenant under the
custodian—Subsequent transfer of the property to another person—Person in
possession as tenant under custodian cannot be equated with an authorized
occupant. Krishan Lal v. Manohar Lal 1983(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 642

\--Section 29—Deemed tenant—To enjoy special protection from ejectment
possession of suit premises must be authorized and legal—Occupation having
been permitted by an authority authorized to permit—Appellants held to be
authorized occupants by two Courts below—Appeal liable to be dismissed.
1992(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 116Section – 30 -SYNOPSISDivisible
PropertyCOMMENTARY

### 1\. Devisible Property --Rule 30—Possession of property—Not being
claimant—Transfer of occupation under the Act—Scope and consideration. Vol. 17
Supp. All India Land Laws Reporter 491

\--Sections 30, 33 and 40—Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation)
Rules, 1955, Rr, 25 and 26—Two divisible portions of property occupied by two
displaced persons—One having a verified claim and the other non-
claimant—Living as such for over 40 years and have obviously found it
convenient to do so—Litigation for 40 years with justice swaying this say or
that—During this Chief Settlement Commissioner held two independent properties
can be treated as in occupation of two displaced persons, one claimant and the
other non-claimant—Are as such entitled to transfer to property under Rs. 25
and 26 of the Rules—This did not find favour with the High Court—Supreme Court
upheld the findings of the Chief Settlement Commissioner and thus put an end
to over 40 year’s litigation. 1990(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 114Section
– 33-SYNOPSIS(1)Allegation of fraud(2)Auction sale(3)Cancellation of auction
sale(4)Cancellation of sale(5)Capacity in which order passed(6)Compensation
pool

### 6A.

) Dual charge(7)Exercise of powers(7A)Functionary of Government—Unauthorised
possession(8)Package Deal Property(8A)Quasi permanent
allotment(9)Review(10)Revisional Jurisdiction(11)Revisional
powers(12)Selection of Land(13)Time limit(14)Unauthorised occupant(15)Word
occupationCOMMENTARY

### 1\. Allegation of Fraud--Allegation of fraud on compensation
pool—Financial Commissioner held to be justified in interfering with the
impugned order—Petition dismissed. Mehnga Singh v. Financial Commissioner
(Revenue) Punjab, 1985(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 143.

\--Authorities can extend time for deposit of purchase money—Such anorder does
not amount to Review. Surinder Singh v. Central Government 1987 (1) All India
Land Laws Reporter 250.

### 2\. Auction Sale--Petitioner purchasing evacuee land in open auction-Sale
confirmed—Cannot be cancelled on the ground that the other party had offered
higher bid. Haria v. Financial Commissioner, Revenue, 1982 All India Land Laws
Reporter 211.

### 3\. Cancellation of Auction Sale--Cancellation of auction sale—Central
Government has the power to set aside the order of cancellation and issue
declaration which it considers necessary. Surinder Singh v. Central
Government, 1987(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 469.

Cancellation of Auction held again -- Subsequent purchaser have a right to
opportunity of hearing as they are likely to be adversely affected. Surinder
Singh v. Central Government, 1987(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 469.

### 4\. Cancellation of Sale --Financial Commissioner coming to the conclusion
that the reason for dismissing the application of cancellation of sale was not
correct—Case remanded for consideration of the application on merits—In the
absence of any specific order of cancellation of sales certificate, the sale
certificate continues to have force. J.S. Chawla v. Ishar Dass, 1984(1) All
India Land Laws Reporter 127.

\--Sale of Property by public auction—Auction purchaser failing to deposit the
amount within the stipulated period—Authorities concelling sale without
notice—Order set aside in the exercise of power under Section 33 and the case
remanded to determine as to whether on the failure to deposit the auction
money the sale stood automatically cancelled or not. Rajinder Singh v. Chief
Setlement Commissioner, 1983(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 181\--Auction
Purchase Purchasing the property—Auction set aside on the basis of High Court
decision—Decision of High Court upset by Supreme Court—Ultimately authorities
deciding in favour of the auction purchaser—No interference should be
made—Litigation should have some end. 1989(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 65

### 5\. Capacity in Which Order Passed--Rehabilitation Department filing
petition for setting aside order passed by CSC—Contending that property in
dispute was package deal property and CSC was not competent to pass orders
regarding transfer of land in question—Contention rejected—CSC was competent
to exercise powers under both the capacities namely CSC and Under Secretary
Rehabilitation-cum-Settlement Commissioner—Order passed in one capacity would
not be deemed to be void on the ground that it has not been passed under the
capacity in which it ought to have been passed. State of Haryana
Rehabilitation Dept. v. Bhagwan Singh and Kartar Singh, 1988(1) All India Land
Laws Reporter 394.

### 6\. Compensation Pool --Property in Question sold to petitioner—Auction
Confirmed—Sale certificate issued—Property goes out of compensation
pool—Cannot be transferred subsequently to any one on basis of possession.
Sukh Dyal v. State of Punjab, 1985(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 44

### 6A. Dual Charge --Rehabilitation Department filing petition for setting
aside order passed by CSC—Contending that property in dispute was package deal
property and CSC was not competent to pass orders regarding transfer of land
in question—Contention rejected—CSC competent to exercise/powers under the
both capacities namely - CSC and Under Secretary Rehabilitation-cum-Settlement
Commissioner—Order passed in one capacity would not be deemed to be void on
the ground that it has not been passed under the capacity in which it ought to
have been passed. 1988(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 394

### 7\. Exercise of Powers --Powers of Central Government—Under Section 33 can
be exercised at any time suo moto—Words at any time would not tolerate any
period of limitation so long as the order was passed within reasonable time.
Rajinder Singh v. Chakravarti Malhotra, All India Land Laws Reporter (Vol. 12)
Suppl. 549

### 7A. Functionary Government – Unauthorised Possession--Government servant
in unauthorized possession of property—Can he be allowed the benefit of
transfer—No—Government being Custodian of public properties as trustee for
larger Community of Citizens, no functionary of Government can be allowed to
encroach upon Govt. properties and thereafter transfer of proprietary rights,
1988(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 668

### 8\. Package Deal Property--Secretary to Government exercising powers under
Section 33 of the Act competent to decide cases relating to Package Deal
Property. Union of India v. Bhagirath, 1985(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 92

\--Managing Officer under the Displaced Persons Act has no jurisdiction to
sell the land which was Package Deal Property. Pala Singh v. Union of India,
1987(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 352\--Package deal property
auctioned—Order of Deputy Secretary Rehabilitation-cum-Settlement Commissioner
not assailable under Section 33. Milkha Singh v. State of Punjab, 1983(1) All
India Land Laws Reporter 636\--Petition under Section 33 cannot be treated to
have been filed under Rule 15 of Package Deal Property Rules. Milkha Singh v.
State of Punjab, 1983(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 636

### 8A. Quasi Permanent Allotment--Allotment made under the Scheme dealing
with quasi permanent allotment—Scheme/allotment cancelled—Fresh application
filed in 1967 seeking allotment—Application filed without proper appraisal on
merits—Application not taken into consideration in view of the instructions of
executive nature issued by the Additional Financial Commissioner—Application
held to be wrongly rejected. 1989(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 319

### 9\. Review--No power of review vests in the Financial Commissioner
exercising power under Section 33—Interference can be made if the party and
the property is different. Harbans Singh v. The Union of India through the
Secretary Rehabilitation Department, 1983(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 364

### 10\. Revisional Jurisdiction--Sanction does not provide a reservoir of
power from which revisional jurisdiction can be exercised more than once in
respect of the same order. Union of India v. Avtar Singh, 1985(1) All India
Land Laws Reporter 76

### 11\. Revisional Powers--Revisional power can be exercised only once—Power
once exercised gets exhausted and cannot be restored again and again (Note :-
However in this case it was held that there was no exercise). Union of India
v. Avtar Singh. 1984(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 627

\--Revisional power—Is that of Central Government and not of Punjab
Government—. Union of India v. Avtar Singh. 1985(1) All India Land Laws
Reporter 76Section confers a very wide revisional power of the Central
Government--No Limitation is prescribed—Such power of vide plentitude
conferred to set right any illegal, unfair, unjust or plainly untenable order.
Union of India v. Avtar Singh 1985(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 76

### 12\. Selection of Land --Allotment made of Urban Agricultural Land by the
Regional Settlement Commissioner—Question of option on the part of lessee does
not arise—Revisional authority cannot interfere with the Selection made by the
Regional Settlement Commissioner. Municipal Committee Samana v. F.C.
(Taxation) Punjab, 1982 All India Land Laws Reporter 533

### 13\. Time Limit--Exercise of Power by Central Government—No time limit
prescribed—Power should however be exercised within reasonable time depending
on circumstances of each case—Property auctioned in June 1964—Petition filed
in January 1975 against ordr of Chief Settlement Commissioner dated
27.10.1965. Mehnga Singh v. Financial Commissioner(Revenue) Punjab, 1985(2)
All India Land Laws Reporter 143

### 14\. Unauthorised Occupant --Unauthorised occupant is entitled to purchase
land under his occupation—Right to purchase and price to be determined on the
prevalent on the date of application. Bhagat Singh v. Financial Commissioner,
Revenue, Haryana. 1987(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 152

### 15\. Words ‘Occupation’--Word ‘Occupation’ denotes occupation in one’s own
right—Case of a person in occupation as licensee at the sufferance of an
allottee is not covered by the word ‘Occupation’ –Petitioner found to be not
in occupation of the city in dispute—Mere payment of rent held to be of no
consequence. 1988(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 71

\--Section 33—Punjab Package Deal Properties (Disposal) Act, 1976—Section
10(4)—Two streams of litigation, one under the State Act and the other under
the Central Act, are available to the litigants—These are clearly
distinguishable and cannot be intermixed at the discretion of the litigants—In
the present case an appeal against the orders of Chief Sales Commissioner has
to be challenged before the Commissioner under the State Act instead of
challenging it direct before the Financial Commissioner under the Central
Act—Petition dismissed. 1994(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 551\--Section
33—Part of land left in Pakistan was mortgaged—On allotment of the land in
India, the allottee failed to deposit mortgage money for 7 years—Allotments of
such part of land was cancelled and put up for auction—Purchased by
respondents—Challenged by the original allottee and on his death, his son,
present appellant stepped into his shoes—Writ was allowed “to the extent it
relates to respondents”—Appellant has filed Letters Patent Appeal—Held,
appellant did not take steps to deposit mortgage money for more than 7
years—No ground is made out to interfere with the discretion exercised by the
learned Single Judge—Appeal wholly lacking in merit, is dismissed. 1994(1) All
India Land Laws Reporter 214\--Section 33—Rules 1965—Rule 90—Inspite of
opportunity allowed to make payment of the 20% of the sale money, the auction
purchaser failed to do so—Under Sub (8) of Rule 90, initial deposit is liable
to be forfeited. 1993(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 298\--Section 33—Second
defendant failed to pay the sale price after sale of property to her—Property
was reauctioned and petitioner purchased it—Deed of conveyance was executed
and registered—Second respondent filed petition for purchase of
property—Property as per rules is to be sold to the persons in possession and
respondent No.2 has been found not to be in possession—Petitioner is in
possession—Respondent never disclosed the fact of sale of property—Order of
Central Government delegate cannot be sustained and is set aside—Auction sale
in favour of petitioner is upheld. 1994(3) All India Land Laws Reporter
65\--Section 33—Auction Sale—Only the cultivators in possession are entitled
to transfer of the land under the rules framed by the State Government for
disposal of rural package deal properties—Petitioner or his predecessor-in-
interest was not cultivating possession since Kharif 1960—was not entitled to
the transfer of land—Petition fails and is dismissed—The Punjab Package Deal
Property (Disposal) Rules, 1976—Rr. 5 and 6. 1994(3) All India Land Laws
Reporter 79\--Section 33—Transfer of Property Act, 1882—Section
41—Predecessor-in-interest of the petitioner was allotted land in lieu of land
left by him in Pakistan—Levelled the land and developed it into plots at
considerable expenditure and sold the plots to numerous persons who raised
constructions on it—Ten years thereafter the department found that some land
in excess of entitlement was allotted—Wanted the allottee to pay the price @
Rs.35/- per sq.yard—Petitioner make three alternative offers but the
department did not accept these—One was to charge the price at which he had
sold plots—Petitioner moved the Court by a writ petition—Held, Petitioners
offer was genuine and right to be accepted—Numerous persons with houses built
could not be dispossessed under Transfer of Property Act, Section
41—Department will charge price of the excess area at which allottee had sold
plots to vendees. 1994(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 375\--Section
33—Question is if a Central Government delegate can review in suo moto
reference orders of the other Central Government delegate of the same status,
exercising same powers of the Central Government under Section 33 of the
Act—Held—It was not open to the delegate purportedly exercising the powers of
the Central Government to set aside the order of the Financial Commissioner
(R) who is also delegated with power of the Central Government. 1994(2) All
India Land Laws Reporter 448\--Section 33—Financial Commissioner (exercising
the powers of the Central Government) non suited the appellant on grounds of
the application being belated—Authority exercising those powers under Section
33 of the Act cannot be compelled to decide a case irrespective of the delay
in putting in the application. 1990(2) All India Land Laws Reporter
521\--Section 33—Punjab Package Deal Properties (Disposal) Act, 1976—Section
10(4)—Two streams of litigation, one under the State Act and the other under
the Central Act, are available to the litigants—These are clearly
distinguishable and cannot be intermixed at the discretion of the litigants—In
the present case an appeal against the orders of Chief Sales Commissioner has
to be challenged before the Commissioner under the State Act instead of
challenged it direct before the Financial Commissioner under the Central
Act—Petition dismissed. 1994(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 551\--Section
33—Suo moto proceedings—Initiated by Settlement Commission (C) after 4
years—Evacuee Urban agricultural plot allotted to deceased Mahant, inherited
by the present respondent by inheritance as per Will—Managing Officer (UL)
held the respondent eligible for transfer of the land—Settlement Commission
(C) order setting aside the transfer and the conveyance deed executed in
favour of the respondent on various grounds—Grounds challenged as frivolous—No
rebuttal of averments was made by the state counsel on the ground
that—Rehabilitation Department had not made available the relevant
record—Further held by the respondent that in case the lease had expired,
respondent remained in possession of the said land continuously—As such this
was definitely a case of holding over --And of long possess—Held—Objection
that the order of M.O. (UL) was wrong is not tenable as the allottee was in
actual possession—And mistake had been rectified in a subsequent order –As for
the fixation of price—The valuation was approved by the Assistant Settlement
Commissioner in 1967 and having not been appealed against had attained
finality—Reference by the state fails—Section 33 is not attracted. 1992(1) All
India Land Laws Reporter 589Ss.33 and 22-Writ petition is against the orders
of F.C., Rehabilitation Haryana issued under S.22, declaring land under
mortgage to be restored to respondent No.3 which allotment was cancelled as
back as 1960 for non-payment of mortgage money—Contention is that no appeal
having been filed by respondent No.3, Order of the Managing Officer
(Redemption) such orders had become final—Land in dispute was purchased by
petitioner in auction, being higher bidders—Chief Settlement Commissioner was
not vested with any power to annual the sale and after that long
period—Held—Power vested in the Chief Settlement Commissioner are wide and
pervasive—Can be exercised by him in case the appeal is rejected by the
Competent Authority or even where no appeal has been preferred-“May at any
time call for record” shows the intention of the legislature to clothe the
Chief Settlement Commissioner with power to pass orders when he finds orders
passed by a subordinate authority suffers from illegality; Dalip Singh v. The
Financial Comm.-cum-Secretary to Govt. Haryana Rehabilitation Dept.: 1996(1)
All India Land Laws Reporter (P&H) 117Section – 34 - SYNOPSIS

### 1\. Delegation of Powers

### 2\. Revisional Powers

### 3\. Word ‘Also’

### 4\. Revise Decision

COMMENTARY

### 1\. Delegation of Powers--In the absence of a notification delegation
powers under Section 10 it cannot be said that the Settlement Officers and the
Settlement Commissioner are the delegates of the Central Government. AIR 1964
Pb. 33.

This Section confers power on the Central Government to delegate the authority
on any officer. This, however, does not mean that an officer otherwise
entitled to act would be debarred from so acting. AIR 1962 Pb. 164Where power
has been delegated under Section 3(1) then there is no question of a further
delegation being there under Section 34(1). AIR 1976 Delhi 265.In exercise of
the delegated power under Section 34(1) and in pursuance of the guidelines
indicated by the Central Government it was prescribed that the rent and
damages would be at six times the land revenue for being in possession as an
unauthorized possession. This notification ws held to be valid. AIR 1979
Punjab 99.Section 34(2) empowers the Chief Settlement Commissioner to delegate
all or any of the powers to the Joint Chief Settlement Commissioner, Deputy
Settlement Commissioner and Additional Settlement Commissioner or Assistant
Settlement Commissioner. 1981 All India Land Laws Reporter 52

### 2\. Revisional Powers -- An additional Settlement Commissioner or Regional
Settlement Commissioner cannot in the exercise of powers of revision delegated
to them by the Chief Settlement Commissioner review their own earlier
decisions on grounds which do not fall within the scope of Section 25. AIR
1967 Bom. 312.

A revision was disposed of by the Deputy Secretary to Government. Plea that
there was no gazette notification u/s 34 (1) authorizing him was raised for
the first time in the grounds of appeal. This plea was not pressed. It was
held that this cannot be allowed to be raised in a second appeal. AIR 1974
Delhi 265.

### 3\. Word ‘Also’--The word ‘also’ as used in Section 34(1) indicates that
the delegation of power is in addition to additional machinery established by
rules of business. AIR 1970 Delhi 171.

### 4\. Revise Decisions--A Joint Secretary to Government of India who is also
Chief Settlement Officer can revise decisions of Chief Settlement Officer. AIR
1974 Delhi 181.

Section – 36- SYNOPSIS

### 1\. Jurisdiction of Civil Court.

COMMENTARY

### 1\. Jurisdiction of Civil Court--Civil Court jurisdiction barred regarding
act done by officers empowered under the Act. Smt. Sumitra Devi v. Thoru Ram,
1986(2) All Indian Land Laws Reporter 368

\--Section 36—64 sq. yards of land, between the house of appellant and
defendant No. 1 to the half of which appellant had a right to purchase, was
sold to defendant No. 1 by Tehsildar (Sales) with the help of defendant No.
2—This allotment was challenged—Trial Court negatived the plea that Civil
Court had no jurisdiction to entertain suit—In appeal High Court set aside the
orders of the Trial Court. 1991(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 462Section
–40-SYNOPSIS

### 1\. Allotment

### 2\. Press Note

COMMENTARY

### 1\. Allotment--Allotment of land to persons who have built Khokhas—Not
mandatory. Gian Singh v. Secretary to Government Punjab, Rehabilitation
Department, 1983(1) All India Land Laws Reporter 300.

### 2\. Press Note--Order passed contrary to the press note by the Chief
Settlement Commissioner—No bar—Order is valid, Gian Singh v. Secretary to
Government Punjab, Rehabilitation Department, 1983(1) All India Land Laws
Reporter 300

\--Sections 40, 9 and 4—Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation
Rule 1955—Rule 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21—Compensation for claim and the right of a
claimant as a legatee under a Will are different—Cannot be clubbed together
Dispute under Section 9 of the Act, could relate to a right by inheritance to
or by succession under a Will of another claimant --Has to be paid
separately—Rule 18 show different kinds of claims for properties left in
Pakistan which can be clubbed together—Such reference is to an individual’s
claim to compensation and not to claims of different person which could by
transfer or devolution vest separately in an individual—And there is nothing
in the Act to prevent a claimant from making a gift or a Will in respect of
the amount he may be entitled to get. 1993(2) All India Land Laws Reporter 186

