## Union of India - Act

## The Export (Quality Control And Inspection) Act, 1963

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Export (Quality Control And Inspection) Act, 1963

## Act 22 of 1963

  * Published on 24 August 1963 
  * Commenced on 24 August 1963 
  * [This is the version of this document from 24 August 1963.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Export (Quality Control And Inspection) Act, 1963ACT NO. 22 OF 1963

### 1322.

The Government of India appointed an ad hoc Committee on Quality Control and
Pre-shipment Inspection to examine the question of enforcing quality control
and inspection on various goods exported from India. The Committee, after
reviewing the existing statutory provisions relating to the export of goods
recommended that separate legislation should be undertaken covering all
aspects of quality control in respect of export commodities. The present Bill
seeks to give effect to this recommendation of the Committee which has been
accepted by the Government.2\. The Bill provides for the establishment of an
Export Inspection Council with a Chairman and 15 members to advise the
Government regarding the measure to be adopted for the enforcement of quality
control and inspection in relation to commodities intended for export and to
draw up programmes therefor.3\. Under the Bill, the Government will be
empowered to notify commodities which shall be subject to quality control or
inspection prior to export, specify the type of quality control and inspection
to be applied to the commodities so notified, establish, adopt or recognise
standard specifications for such notified commodities, and prohibit the export
in the course of international trade of a notified commodity unless it is
accompanied by a certificate issued by an agency, established or recognised by
the Government for this purpose, that the commodity satisfies the conditions
relating to quality control and inspection.4\. The Bill also provides for
appropriate penalties for contravention of the provisions of the Bill.- S.O.R.
Gazette of India, 4-4-1963, Pt. 11, Section 2. Extra., p. 294.[24th August,
1963.]An Act to provide for the sound development of the export trade of India
through quality control and inspection and for matters connected therewith.BE
it enacted by Parliament in the Fourteenth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:--

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act,
1963.(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such
[date ] [1st January, 1964; vide Notification No. S. O. 3604, dated
30-12-1963, Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 1963, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p.
895] as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--(a)[ "adjudicating
authority" means the authority specified in, or under, section 10K ; [Re-
lettered & Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 2 (w.e.f.
2-7-1984)](ab)"Appellate authority" means the Appellate authority referred to
in section 10M;](ac)[ "Council" means the Export Inspection Council
established under section 3;] [Re-lettered & Inserted by Act 40 of 1984,
Section 2 (w.e.f. 2-7-1984). 66 ](b)"export", with its grammatical variations
and cognate expressions, means taking out of India to a place outside
India;(c)"inspection", in relation to a commodity, means the process of
determining whether a batch of goods in that commodity complies with the
standard specifications applicable to it or any other specifications
stipulated in the export contract generally by inspecting either the whole
batch or a selected sample or samples which purport to represent the whole
batch;(d)"notified commodity" means any commodity notified under clause (a) of
section 6;(e)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(f)"quality control" means any activity having for its object the
determination of the quality of a commodity (whether during the process of
manufacture or production or subsequently) in order to ascertain whether it
satisfies the standard specifications applicable to it or any other
specifications stipulated in the export contract and whether it may be
accepted for purposes of export

### 3. Establishment of Export Inspection Council.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
establish, with effect from such date as may be specified in the notification,
a Council to be known as the Export Inspection Council, which shall consist
of--(a)a Chairman to be appointed by the Central Government;(b)the Director of
Inspection and Quality Control, ex officio, who shall be the Secretary;(c)the
Honorary Adviser on Standardization to the Government of India and Director of
Indian Standards Institution, ex officio;(d)the Agricultural Marketing Adviser
to the Government of India, ex officio;(e)the Director-General of Commercial
Intelligence and Statistics, ex officio;(f)[fifteen] [Substituted by Act 40 of
1984, Section 3 (w.e.f. 2-7-1984).] other members nominated by the Central
Government three of whom shall be persons representing the agencies referred
to in section 7.(2)The Council shall be a body corporate by the name
aforesaid, having perpetual succession and a common seal, with power to
acquire, hold and dispose of property and to contract, and shall by the said
name sue and be sued.(3)The term of office of, and the manner of filling
casual vacancies among, the members of the Council referred to in clauses (a)
and (f) of sub-section (1) and the travelling and daily allowances payable to
the members of the Council and the procedure to be followed in the discharge
of its functions by the Council shall be such as may be prescribed.(4)No act
or proceeding of the Council shall be invalidated merely by reason of any
vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the Council.(5)Subject to
such rules as may be made by the Central Government in this behalf, the
Council may appoint such officers and other employees as it considers
necessary for the purpose of discharging its functions under this Act.

### 4. Director of Inspection and Quality Control.

The Central Government shall appoint a Director of Inspection and Quality
Control to exercise such powers and perform such duties under this Act as may
be prescribed.

### 5. Functions of the Conncil.

(1)The functions of the Council shall generally be to advise the Central
Government regarding measures for the enforcement of quality control and
inspection in relation to commodities intended for export and to draw up
programmes therefor, to make, with the concurrence of the Central Government,
grants-in-aid to the agencies established or recognised under section 7 and to
perform such other functions as may be assigned to it by or under this
Act.(2)For the purpose of performing its functions, the Council may co-opt as
members such number of persons as it thinks fit who have special knowledge and
practical experience in matters relating to any commodity or trade therein and
any such person shall have the right to take part in the discussions of the
Council but shall not have the right to vote and shall not be a member for any
other purpose.(3)The Council may also constitute specialist committees for
conducting investigations on special problems connected with its
functions.(4)In the performance of its functions under this Act, the Council
shall be bound by such directions as the Central Government may give to it in
writing from time to time.

### 6. Powers of the Central Government in regard to quality control and
inspection.

If the Central Government, after consulting the Council, is of opinion that it
is necessary or expedient so to do for the development of the export trade of
India, it may, by order published in the Official Gazette,--(a)notify
commodities which shall be subject to quality control or inspection or both
prior to export;(b)specify the type of quality control or inspection which
will be applied to a notified commodity;(c)establish, adopt or recognise one
or more standard specifications for a notified commodity;(d)prohibit the
export in the course of international trade of a notified commodity unless it
is accompanied by a certificate issued under section 7 that the commodity
satisfies the conditions relating to quality control or inspection, or it has
affixed or applied to it a mark or seal recognised by the Central Government
as indicating that it conforms to the standard specifications applicable to it
under clause (c).

### 7. Machinery for quality control and inspections.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
establish, or recognise subject to such conditions as it may deem fit,
agencies for quality control or inspection or both:Provided that if the
Central Government is of opinion that any recognition granted to any agency
under this sub-section should, in the public interest, be withdrawn, the
Central Government may, after giving a reasonable opportunity to that agency
to make representations in the matter, withdraw, by like notification, the
recognition granted to it.(2)Any agency referred to in sub-section (1) may, on
application made to it or otherwise, hold or cause to be held such examination
as it thinks fit relating to quality control or inspection of notified
commodities, either at the time of export or earlier, in such testing houses
or by such surveyors or samplers as are approved by the Central Government in
this behalf and may charge such fees as may be prescribed for the purpose of
such examination.(3)If, after the examination, the agency is of opinion that
the commodity satisfies the standard specifications laid down in respect of it
under section 6 or, as the case may be, any other specifications stipulated in
the export contract, it may issue a certificate that the commodity satisfies
the conditions relating to quality control and inspection.(3A)[ Where the
agency has reason to believe that a certificate issued under sub-section (3)
has been obtained fraudulently or by misrepresentation, or the commodity in
relation to which the certificate is issued has been changed or has
deteriorated in quality, the agency may, by order amend, suspend or cancel the
certificate in such manner and subject to such procedure as may be
prescribed:Provided that before amending, suspending or cancelling any such
certificate the holder thereof shall be given a reasonable opportunity of
being heard.] [Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 4 (w.e.f. 2-7-1984)];(4)Any
person aggrieved by the refusal of any agency referred to in sub-section (1)
to issue a certificate [, or by the amendment, suspension or cancellation of a
certificate under sub-section (3A),] [Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 4
(w.e.f. 2-7-1984).] may prefer an appeal within such time as may be prescribed
to such authority as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, constitute for the purpose of hearing appeals.(5)Subject to
the provisions of sub-section (6), the decision of the agency where no appeal
is filed, and the decision of the appellate authority where an appeal is
filed, shall be final and shall not be questioned in any court of law.(6)The
Central Government may, at any time, call for and examine the record of any
proceeding relating to any decision of an agency or appellate authority under
this section for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality or
propriety of such decision and may pass such order thereon as it thinks fit.

### 8. Power to recognise or establish marks to denote conformity with
standard specifications.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
recognise or establish any mark or seal in relation to a notified commodity
for the purpose of denoting that such commodity conforms to a standard
specification applicable to it.(2)Any such mark or seal affixed or applied to
a notified commodity or to any covering containing, or label attached to, such
commodity shall be deemed to be evidence of the commodity being in conformity
with the standard specifications applicable to it under this Act:Provided that
nothing in this sub-section shall prevent any officer of customs from
examining any consignment of a notified commodity intended for export if he
has reason to believe that the seal or mark is not genuine or has been affixed
or applied fraudulently or if such an examination is necessary for the purpose
of any other law for the time being in force.

### 9. Power to obtain information from exporters, etc.

The Central Government or any officer or authority authorised by it in this
behalf may, by notice published in the Official Gazette, require--(i)persons
manufacturing, dealing in or exporting notified commodities; and(ii)such other
persons as may be prescribed, to furnish any information, return or report
which the Central Government or such officer or authority may consider
necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

### 10. Finance, accounts and audit.

(1)For the purpose of enabling the Council to discharge its functions under
this Act, the Central Government may, after due appropriation made by
Parliament by law in this behalf, pay to the Council such sums of money as
that Government considers necessary by way of grants, loans or
otherwise.(2)For the purpose of discharging its functions under this Act, the
Council may receive grants or donations from bodies and institutions approved
by the Central Government in this behalf.(3)The Council shall have its own
fund to which shall be credited the sums of money referred to in sub-sections
(1) and (2) and the moneys in the fund shall be applied for--(a)meeting the
pay and allowances of the officers and other employees of the Council and
other administrative expenses of the Council;(b)carrying out the functions of
the Council under this Act.(4)The Council shall prepare, before the
commencement of each financial year, a statement of programme of its
activities during that year as well as a financial estimate in respect
thereof.(5)A statement prepared under sub-section (4) shall, not later than
three months before the commencement of each financial year, be submitted for
approval to the Central Government.(6)The Council shall maintain such accounts
and prepare the balance-sheet in such form as may, in consultation with the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India, be prescribed.(7)The accounts of the
Council shall be audited in such manner and at such times as may, in
consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India, be prescribed.

### 10A. [ Power to enter and inspect. [Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 5
(w.e.f. 2.7.1984)]

The Director of Inspection and Quality Control or any officer of the Central
Government authorised by him in writing in this behalf (hereinafter referred
to as the "authorised officer") may enter at any reasonable time, any premises
in which--(a)any commodity which has been changed after inspection by any
agency, referred to in sub-section (1) of section 7; or(b)any books of account
or other documents or things which, in his opinion, will be useful for, or
relevant to, any proceeding under this Act, are suspected to have been kept or
concealed, and inspect such commodity, books of account, other documents or
things and may take such notes or extracts from such books of account or other
documents as he may think fit.]

### 10B. Power to search. [Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 5 (w.e.f.
2.7.1984)]

If the authorised officer has any reason to believe that--(a)any commodity
which has been changed after inspection by any agency referred to in sub-
section (1), of section 7; or(b)any books of account or other documents or
things which, in his opinion, will be useful for, or relevant to, any
proceeding under this Act, are secreted in any place, he may enter into and
search such place or premises for such commodity, books of account, other
documents or fsthings.]

### 10C. Power to seize commodities, etc. [Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section
5 (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)]

(1)If the authorised officer has any reason to believe that any commodity is
liable to confiscation under this Act, he may seize such commodity together
with the package, covering or receptacle, if any, in which such commodity is
found and where such commodity is found to have been mixed with any other
goods or materials, he may seize such commodity together with the goods or
materials with which it is so mixed:Provided that where it is not practicable
to seize any such commodity, the authorised officer may serve on the owner of
the commodity an order that he shall not remove, part with, or otherwise deal
with, the commodity except with the previous permission of such authorised
officer.(2)Where any commodity is seized under sub-section (1) and no notice
in respect thereof is given under section 10L within six months of the seizure
of such commodity, it shall be returned to the person from whose possession it
was seized:Provided that the aforesaid period of six months may, on sufficient
cause being shown, be extended by the Director of Inspection and Quality
Control by a further period not exceeding six months.(3)The authorised officer
may seize any documents or things which, in his opinion, will be useful for,
or relevant to, any proceeding under this Act.(4)The person from whose custody
any documents are seized under sub-section (3) shall be entitled to make
copies thereof or take extracts therefrom in the presence of the authorised
officer.(5)If any person legally entitled to the documents or things seized
under sub-section (3) objects, for any reason, to the retention by the
authorised officer of the documents or things, he may make an application to
the Central Government stating therein the reasons for such objection and
requesting for the return of the documents or things.(6)On receipt of an
application under sub-section (5), the Central Government may, after giving
the applicant an opportunity of being heard, pass such order as it may think
fit.(7)Where any document--(a)is produced or furnished by any person or has
been seized from the custody or control of any person under this Act or any
other law for the time being in force; or(b)has been received from any place
outside India (duly authenticated by such authority or person and in such
manner as may be prescribed) in the course of the investigation of any offence
alleged to have been committed by any person against this Act, and such
document is tendered in evidence against the person by whom it is produced or
from whom it was seized or against such person and any other person who is
jointly tried, or proceeded against, with him, the court, or, as the case may
be, the adjudicating authority shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in any other law for the time being in force,--(i)presume, unless
the contrary is proved, that the signature and every other part of such
document which purports to be in the handwriting of any particular person or
which the court or the adjudicating authority may reasonably assume to have
been signed by, or to be in the handwriting of, any particular person, is
under that person's handwriting, and, in the case of a document executed or
attested, it was executed or attested by the person by whom it purports to
have been so executed or attested;(ii)admit the document in evidence
notwithstanding that it is not duly stamped, if such document is otherwise
admissible in evidence.]

### 10D. Power to stop and seize conveyances. [Inserted by Act 40 of 1984,
Section 5 (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)]

Any authorise officer may, if he has any reason to suspect that any conveyance
or animal is being, or is about to be, used for the transportation of any
commodity which is liable to confiscation under this Act and that by such
transportation any provision of this Act has been, is being, or is about to
be, contravened, at any time, stop such conveyance or animal or, in the case
of an aircraft, compel it to land, and(a)rummage and search the conveyance or
any part thereof,(b)examine and search any goods or materials in the
conveyance or on the animal,(c)if it becomes necessary to stop any conveyance
or animal, he may use all lawful means for stopping it and where such means
fail, the conveyance or animal may be fired upon, and where he is satisfied
that it is necessary so to do to prevent the contravention of any provision of
this Act, he may seize such conveyance or animal.Explanation.--Any reference
in this section to a conveyance shall, unless the context otherwise requires,
be construed as including a reference to an aircraft, vehicle or vessel.]

### 10E. Search and seizure to be made in accordance with the Code of Criminal
Procedure 1973. [Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 5 (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)]

The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, relating to searches
and seizures shall, so far as may be, apply to every search or seizure made
under this Act.]

### 10F. Confiscation. [Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 5 (w.e.f.
2.7.1984)]

Any commodity in respect of which(a)a certificate has been obtained from an
agency referred to in sub-section (1) of section 7 fraudulently or by
misrepresentation, or(b)any provision of this Act has been, is being, or is
attempted to be, contravened, shall, together with any package, covering or
receptacle in which such commodity is found, be liable to confiscation and,
where such commodity is so mixed with any other goods or materials that it
cannot be readily separated, such other goods or materials shall also be
liable to confiscation:Provided that where it is established to the
satisfaction of the adjudicating authority that any commodity, which is liable
to confiscation under this Act, belongs to a person other than the person who
has, by any act or omission, rendered it liable to confiscation, and such act
or omission was without the knowledge or connivance of the person to whom it
belongs, such commodity shall not be ordered to be confiscated; but such other
action as is authorised by this Act may be taken against the person who has,
by such act or omission, rendered such commodity liable to confiscation.]

### 10G. Confiscation of conveyance. [Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 5
(w.e.f. 2.7.1984)]

Any conveyance or animal which has been, is being, or is attempted to be, used
for the transport of any commodity which is liable to confiscation under this
Act, shall be liable to confiscation unless the owner of the conveyance or
animal proves that it was, is being, or is about to be, so used without the
knowledge or connivance of the owner himself, his agent, if any, and the
person in charge of the conveyance or animal and that each of them had taken
all reasonable precautions against such use:Provided that in the case of a
conveyance or animal used for the transport of goods or passengers for hire,
the owner of the conveyance or animal shall be given an option to pay, in lieu
of confiscation of the conveyance of animal, a fine not exceeding the value of
the commodity which has been, is being, or is attempted to be, transported by
such conveyance or animal.]

### 10H. Option to pay fine in lieu of confiscation. [Inserted by Act 40 of
1984, Section 5 (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)]

Whenever confiscation of any commodity is authorised by this Act, the officer
adjudging it shall, without prejudice to the provisions of the proviso to
section 10G, give to the owner of the commodity an option to pay in lieu of
confiscation such fine not exceeding the value of the commodity.]

### 10I. Liability to penalty. [Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 5 (w.e.f.
2.7.1984)]

Any person,--(a)who, in relation to any commodity, does or omits to do any act
which act or omission would render such commodity liable to confiscation under
this Act, or abets the doing or omission of such an act; or(b)who acquires
possession of or is in any way concerned in carrying, removing, depositing,
keeping, concealing, selling or purchasing, or in any manner dealing with, any
commodity which he knows or has reason to believe is liable to confiscation
under this Act, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding five times the
value of the commodity or five thousand rupees, whichever is more, whether or
not such commodity has been confiscated or is available for confiscation.]

### 10J. Confiscation or penalty not to interfere with other punishments.
[Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 5 (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)]

No confiscation made or penalty imposed under the foregoing provisions of this
Act shall prevent the infliction of any other punishment to which the person
affected thereby is liable under the provisions of this Act or under any other
law for the time being in force.]

### 10K. Adjudication [Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 5 (w.e.f.
2.7.1984)]

Any confiscation may be adjudged or penalty, may be imposed under this Act by
the Director of Inspection and Quality Control, or, where he so directs, by a
general or special order, by any officer subordinate to him.]

### 10L. Giving of opportunity to the owner of goods, etc. [Inserted by Act 40
of 1984, Section 5 (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)]

No order of adjudication of confiscation or imposing a penalty shall be made
unless the owner of the commodity, conveyance or animal or other person
concerned, is given a notice in writing--(a)informing him of the grounds on
which it is proposed to confiscate such commodity, conveyance or animal or to
impose a penalty;(b)giving him a reasonable opportunity of making a
representation in writing within such reasonable time as may be specified in
the notice against the confiscation or imposition of penalty mentioned
therein, and, if he so desires, of being heard in the matter.]

### 10M. Appeal. [Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 5 (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)]

(1)Any person aggrieved by any decision or order made under this Act may
prefer an appeal,--(a)Where the decision or order has been made by the
Director of Inspection and Quality Control, to the Central Government;(b)where
the decision or order has been made by any officer subordinate to the Director
of Inspection and Quality Control, to the Director of Inspection and Quality
Control, within a period of forty-five days from the date on which the
decision or order is served on such person:Provided that the Appellate
authority may, if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by
sufficient cause from preferring the appeal within the aforesaid period of
forty-five days, allow such appeal to be preferred within a further period of
forty-five days:Provided further that in the case of an appeal against an
order imposing a penalty, no such appeal shall be entertained unless the
amount of the penalty has been deposited by the appellant:Provided also that
where the Appellate authority is of the opinion that the deposit to be made
will cause undue hardship to the appellant, it may, at its discretion,
dispense with such deposit either unconditionally or subject to such
conditions as it may impose.(2)The Appellate authority may, after giving to
the appellant a reasonable opportunity of being heard, if he so desires, and
after making such further inquiries, if any, as it may consider necessary,
pass such orders as it thinks fit, confirming, modifying or reversing the
decision or order appealed against, or may send back the case, with such
directions as it may think fit, for a fresh adjudication or decision, as the
case may be, after taking additional evidence, if necessary:Provided that an
order enhancing or imposing a penalty or confiscating commodity of a greater
value shall not be made under this section unless the appellant has had an
opportunity of making a representation and, if he so desires, of being heard,
in his defence.]

### 10N. Powers of revision. [Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 5 (w.e.f.
2.7.1984)]

The Central Government may, on its own motion or otherwise, call for and
examine the records of any proceeding in which an order of adjudication of
confiscation or imposing any penalty has been made by any officer under this
Act and against which no appeal has been preferred, for the purpose of
satisfying itself as to the correctness, legality or propriety of such order
or decision and pass such orders thereon as it may think fit:Provided that no
decision or order shall be varied under this section so as to prejudicially
affect any person unless such person--(a)has, within a period of two years
from the date of such decision or order, received a notice to show cause why
such decision or order shall not be varied, and(b)has been given a reasonable
opportunity of making a representation and, if he so desires, of being heard
in his defence.]

### 10O. Powers of adjudicating and other authorities. [Inserted by Act 40 of
1984, Section 5 (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)]

(1)Every authority making any adjudication or hearing any appeal or exercising
any powers of revision under this Act shall have all the powers of a civil
court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, while trying a suit, in respect
of the following matters, namely:--(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance
of witnesses;(b)requiring the discovery and production of any
document;(c)requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any court or
office;(d)receiving evidence on affidavits; and(e)issuing commissions for the
examination of witnesses or documents.(2)Every authority making any
adjudication or hearing any appeal or exercising any powers of revision under
this Act shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for the purposes of sections 345
and 346 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.(3)Every authority making any
adjudication or hearing any appeal or exercising any powers of revision under
this Act shall have the power to make such orders of an interim nature as it
may think fit and may also, for sufficient cause, order the stay of operation
of any decision or order.]

### 10P. Continuance of proceedings in the event of death or insolvency.
[Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 5 (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)]

(1)Where a penalty has been imposed by the adjudicating authority and--(a)no
appeal against the order imposing such penalty has been preferred to the
Appellate authority and the person entitled to file such appeal dies or is
adjudicated an insolvent before the expiry of the period within which the
appeal can be preferred; or(b)an appeal has been preferred to the Appellate
authority against the order imposing such penalty but the appellant dies or is
adjudicated an insolvent during the pendency of the appeal, then, it shall be
lawful for the legal representatives of such person or the Official Assignee
or the Official Receiver as the case may be, to prefer an appeal to the
Appellate authority or as the case may be to continue the appeal before the
Appellate authority in place of such person and the provisions of section 10M
shall so far as may be, apply or continue to apply to such appeal.(2)The
powers of the Official Assignee or the Official Receiver under sub-section (1)
shall be exercised by him subject to the provisions of the Presidency-towns
Insolvency Act, 1909, or the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1909, or the
Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, as the case may be.]

### 11. Penalty.

(1)If any person contravenes any order under clause (d) of section 6, or
fraudulently obtains a certificate under section 7, or fraudulently affixes or
applies any such mark or seal as is referred to in sub-section (1) of section
8, he shall, on conviction, be punishable--(i)for the first offence, with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may
extend to five thousand rupees, or with both;(ii)for the second or subsequent
offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to [three years]
[Substituted by act 40 of 1984 s. 6 (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)] and also with fine
which may extend to five thousand rupees and in the absence of special and
adequate reasons to be mentioned in the judgment of the court, such
imprisonment shall not be less than three months.(2)Any person who attempts to
commit or abets the commission of an offence punishable under sub-section (1)
shall be deemed to have committed such offence.(3)If any person contravenes or
attempts to contravene or abets the contravention of any other provision of
this Act or any rules or orders made thereunder, he shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.

### 11A. [ Penalty for contravention of order made by adjudicating authority
or Appeallate authority. [Inserted by act 40 of 1984 s. 7, (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)]

If any person fails to pay the penalty imposed by the adjudicating or the
Appellate authority or fails to comply with any direction or order made, or
deemed to have been made, under this Act, he shall, on conviction, be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with
fine, or with both.]

### 11B. Offences by officers and employees of agency, etc. [Inserted by act
40 of 1984 s. 7, (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)]

(1)If any officer or employee of the Council or of any agency referred to in
sub-section (1) of section 7, or any surveyor, sampler or employee of any
testing house, referred to in sub-section (2) of that section enters into, or
acquiesces in, any agreement to do, abstains from doing, permits, conceals or
connives at, any act or thing whereby any provision of this Act is or may be
contravened, he shall, on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to five
thousand rupees, or with both.(2)If any officer searches or authorises any
other officer of the Central Government to search any place without having
reason to believe that any commodity, books of account or documents or things
of the nature referred to in section 10B are secreted in that place, he shall,
on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with
both.(3)If any officer or employee of the Council or of any agency referred to
in sub-section (1) of section 7, or any surveyor, sampler or employee of any
testing house, referred to in sub-section (2) of that section, except in the
discharge in good faith of his duty as such officer or employee or in
compliance with any requisition made under any law for the time being in force
discloses any particulars learnt by him in his official capacity in respect of
any commodity, he shall on conviction be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to one
thousand rupees or with both.]

### 11C. Correction of clerical or arithmetical mistakes. [Inserted by act 40
of 1984 s. 7, (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)]

Clerical or arithmetical mistakes in any decision or order, or errors arising
therein from any accidental slip or omission may, at any time, be corrected by
the authority by which the decision or order was made either on its own motion
or on the application of the aggrieved person:Provided that where any
correction proposed to be made under this section will have the effect of
prejudicially affecting any person, no such correction shall be made except
after giving to that person a reasonable opportunity of making a
representation in the matter and no such correction shall be made after the
expiry of a period of two years from the date on which such decision or order
was made.]

### 12. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any negligence on the part of, any director, manager,
secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary
or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall
be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation.--For
the purposes of this section--(a)"company" means a body corporate and includes
a firm or other association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a
firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 13. Delegation of powers.

The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct
that any power exercisable by it under this Act shall, in relation to such
matters and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the
direction, be exercisable also by--(a)the Council;(b)such officer or authority
subordinate to the Central Government, or such State Government or such
officer or authority subordinate to a State Government as may be specified in
the direction.

### 14. Procedure for prosecution.

No prosecution for an offence punishable under this Act shall be instituted
except by or with the consent of an officer authorised by the Central
Government by general or special order in this behalf.

### 15. Officers and employees of agency to be public servants.

All officers and employees of the Council or of any agency established or
recognised under sub-section (1) of section 7 and all surveyors, samplers and
employees of testing houses, referred to in sub-section (2) of that section
shall, while acting or purporting to act in pursuance of the provisions of
this Act or any rule or order made thereunder, be deemed to be public servants
within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.

### 16. Protection of action taken in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Council or any officer or employee of the Government or the Council or any
agency referred to in sub-section (1) of section 7 for anything which is in
good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule or
order made thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against
the Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything which
is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any
rule or order made thereunder.

### 16A. [ Suspension, etc. [Inserted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 8 (w.e.f.
2-7-1984)]

, of operation of the provisions of the Act. (1) If the Central Government is
satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary or expedient so
to do in the public interest, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
suspend or relax to a specified extent the operation of all or any of the
provisions of this Act in respect of such notified commodity or commodities
generally or in respect of any area and for such period as may be specified in
the notification.(2)Where the operation of any provision of this Act has,
under sub-section (1), been suspended or relaxed, such suspension or
relaxation may, at any time be removed by the Central Government by a like
notification.(3)Every notification issued under this section shall be laid, as
soon as may be after it is issued before each House of Parliament, while it is
in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the notification or
both Houses agree that the notification should not be issued, the notification
shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as
the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
notification.].

### 17. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide
for--(a)the travelling and daily allowances payable to members of the Council,
persons co-opted under sub-section (2) of section 5, and members of specialist
committees referred to in sub-section (3) of that section;(b)the functions of
the Council and the procedure to be followed by it;(c)the appointment of
officers and other employees of the Council;(d)the procedure to be followed
for various types of quality control and inspection;(e)the conditions which a
testing house, surveyor or sampler should satisfy for purposes of approval by
the Central Government;(f)the fees chargeable for purposes of examination and
issue of certificates under section 7;(ff)[ the manner in which, and the
procedure subject to which, any certificate issued under sub-section (3) of
section 7 shall be amended, suspended or cancelled;] [Inserted and substituted
by Act 40 of 1984, Section 9 (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)];(g)the filing of appeals under
section 7 and the fees payable therefor;(gg)[ the authority or person by which
or by whom, and the manner in which, any document received from a place
outside India shall be authenticated;] [Inserted and substituted by Act 40 of
1984, Section 9 (w.e.f. 2.7.1984)];(h)the manner in which the accounts of the
Council shall be maintained and audited;(i)any other matter which is required
to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Every rule made by the Central Government
under this section shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made before
each House of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty
days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive
sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session [immediately following the
session] [Inserted and substituted by Act 40 of 1984, Section 9 (w.e.f.
2.7.1984)] or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making
any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be
made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be
of no effect, as the case may be; so however that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule.

For Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Rules, 1964, see S.O. 3317,
Gazettee of India, 14-9-1964, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), Extra, p. 907
(1-10-1964).Export Inspection Council Contributory Provident Fund Rules, 1986
see S.O. 3329 of 1986, Gazette of India, 27-9-1986, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p.
3896, 1969 Rules andExport Inspection Agency Contributory Provident Funds
Rules, 1964, repealed by 1986 Rules.For Export Inspection Council, Pension and
General Provident Fund Rules, 1981, see S.O. 2922, Gazette of India, Pt. II,
Section 3(ii), p. 3503.  
---  
  
### 18. Act to override other enactments.

As from the date on which a commodity is notified under clause (a) of section
6, the provisions of this Act or anything done or any action taken thereunder
shall have effect in relation to that commodity notwithstanding any provisions
(relating to quality control and inspection prior to the export of such
commodity) contained in any enactment other than this Act or in any instrument
having effect by virtue of any enactment other than this Act.

