## Union of India - Act

## The Employment Exchanges (Compulsory Notification Of Vacancies) Act, 1959

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Employment Exchanges (Compulsory Notification Of Vacancies) Act, 1959

## Act 31 of 1959

  * Published in Gazette 31 on 2 September 1959 
  * Assented to on 2 September 1959 
  * Commenced on 2 September 1959 
  * [This is the version of this document from 2 September 1959.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Employment Exchanges (Compulsory Notification Of Vacancies) Act, 1959[2nd
September, 1959]ACT NO. 31 OF 1959An Act to provide for the compulsory
notification of vacancies to employment exchanges.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Tenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.—

(1)This Act may be called the Employment Exchanges (Compulsory Notification of
Vacancies) Act, 1959.(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into
force in a State on such date2 as the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, appoint in this behalf for such State and different
dates may be appointed for different States or for different areas of a State.

### 2. Definitions.—

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)“appropriate
Government” means—(1)in relation to—(a)any establishment of any railway, major
port, mine or oil-field, or(b)any establishment owned, controlled or managed
by—(i)the Central Government or a department of the Central Government,(ii)a
company in which not less than fifty-one per cent of the share capital is held
by the Central Government or partly by the Central Government and partly by
one or more State Governments,(iii)a corporation (including a co-operative
society) established by or under a Central Act which is owned, controlled or
managed by the Central Government, the Central Government;(2)in relation to
any other establishment, the Government of the State in which that other
establishment is situate;(b)“employee” means any person who is employed in an
establishment to do any work for remuneration;(c)“employer” means any person
who employs one or more other persons to do any work in an establishment for
remuneration and includes any person entrusted with the supervision and
control of employees in such establishment;(d)“employment exchange” means any
office or place established and maintained by the Government for the
collection and furnishing of information, either by the keeping of registers
or otherwise, respecting—(i)persons who seek to engage employees,(ii)persons
who seek employment, and(iii)vacancies to which persons seeking employment may
be appointed;(e)“establishment” means—(a)any office, or(b)any place where any
industry, trade, business or occupation is carried on;(f)“establishment in
public sector” means an establishment owned, controlled or managed by—(1)the
Government or a department of the Government;(2)a Government company as
defined in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);(3)a corporation
(including a co-operative society) established by or under a Central,
provincial or State Act, which is owned, controlled or managed by the
Government;(4)a local authority;(g)“establishment in private sector” means an
establishment which is not an establishment in public sector and where
ordinarily twenty-five or more persons are employed to work for
remuneration;(h)“prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(i)“unskilled office work” means work done in an establishment by any of
the following categories of employees, namely:—(1)daftri;(2)Jemadar, orderly
and peon;(3)dusting man or farash;(4)bundel or record lifter;(5)process
server;(6)watchman;(7)sweeper;(8)any other employees doing any routine or
unskilled work which the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, declare to be unskilled office work.

### 3. Act not to apply in relation to certain vacancies.—

(1)This Act shall not apply in relation to vacancies—(a)in any employment in
agriculture (including horticulture) in any establishment in private sector
other than employment as agricultural or farm machinery operatives;(b)in any
employment in domestic service;(c)in any employment the total duration of
which is less than three months;(d)in any employment to do unskilled office
work;(e)in any employment connected with the staff of Parliament.(2)Unless the
Central Government otherwise directs by notification in the Official Gazette
in this behalf, this Act shall not also apply in relation to—(a)vacancies
which are proposed to be filled through promotion or by absorption of surplus
staff of any branch or department of the same establishment or on the result
of any examination conducted or interview held by, or on the recommendation
of, any independent agency, such as the Union or a State Public Service
Commission and the like;(b)vacancies in an employment which carries a
remuneration of less than sixty rupees in a month.

### 4. Notification of vacancies to employment exchanges.—

(1)After the commencement of this Act in any State or area thereof, the
employer in every establishment in public sector in that State or area shall,
before filling up any vacancy in any employment in that establishment, notify
that vacancy to such employment exchanges as may be prescribed.(2)The
appropriate Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, require
that from such date as may be specified in the notification, the employer in
every establishment in private sector or every establishment pertaining to any
class or category of establishments in private sector shall, before filling up
any vacancy in any employment in that establishment, notify that vacancy to
such employment exchanges as may be prescribed, and the employer shall
thereupon comply with such requisition.(3)The manner in which the vacancies
referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be notified to the
employment exchanges and the particulars of employments in which such
vacancies have occurred or are about to occur shall be such as may be
prescribed.(4)Nothing in sub-sections (1) and (2) shall be deemed to impose
any obligation upon any employer to recruit any person through the employment
exchange to fill any vacancy merely because that vacancy has been notified
under any of those sub-sections.

### 5. Employers to furnish information and returns in prescribed form. —

(1)After the commencement of this Act in any State or area thereof, the
employer in every establishment in public sector in that State or area shall
furnish such information or return as may be prescribed in relation to
vacancies that have occurred or are about to occur in that establishment, to
such employment exchanges as may be prescribed.(2)The appropriate Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, require that from such date as
may be specified in the notification, the employer in every establishment in
private sector or every establishment pertaining to any class or category of
establishments in private sector shall furnish such information or return as
may be prescribed in relation to vacancies that have occurred or are about to
occur in that establishment to such employment exchanges as may be prescribed,
and the employer shall thereupon comply with such requisition.(3)The form in
which, and the intervals of time at which, such information or return shall be
furnished and the particulars which they shall contain shall be such as may be
prescribed.

### 6. Right of access to records or documents.—

Such officer of Government as may be prescribed in this behalf, or any person
authorised by him in writing, shall have access to any relevant record or
document in the possession of any employer required to furnish any information
or returns under section 5 and may enter at any reasonable time any premises
where he believes such record or document to be and inspect or take copies of
relevant records or documents or ask any question necessary for obtaining any
information required under that section.

### 7. Penalties.—

(1)If any employer fails to notify to the employment exchanges prescribed for
the purpose any vacancy in contravention of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)
of section 4, he shall be punishable for the first offence with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees and for every subsequent offence with fine which
may extend to one thousand rupees.(2)If any person—(a)required to furnish any
information or return—(i)refuses or neglects to furnish such information or
return, or(ii)furnishes or causes to be furnished any information or return
which he knows to be false, or(iii)refuses to answer, or gives a false answer
to, any question necessary for obtaining any information required to be
furnished under section 5; or(b)impedes the right of access to relevant
records or documents or the right of entry conferred by section 6;he shall be
punishable for the first offence with fine which may extend to two hundred and
fifty rupees and for every subsequent offence with fine which may extend to
five hundred rupees.

### 8. Cognizance of offences.—

No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall be instituted except by, or
with the sanction of, such officer of Government as may be prescribed in this
behalf or any person authorised by that officer in writing.

### 9. Protection of action taken in good faith.—

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this
Act.

### 10. Power to make rules.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette and
subject to the condition of previous publication, make rules1 for carrying out
the purposes of this Act.—(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide, for all or any of
the following matters, namely:—(a)the employment exchange or exchanges to
which, the form and manner in which, and the time within which, vacancies
shall be notified, and the particulars of employments in which such vacancies
have occurred or are about to occur;(b)the form and manner in which, and the
intervals at which, information and returns required under section 5 shall be
furnished, and the particulars which they shall contain;(c)the officers by
whom and the manner in which the right of access to documents and the right of
entry conferred by section 6 may be exercised;(d)any other matter which is to
be, or may be, prescribed under this Act.(3)Every rule made under this Act
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

