## Union of India - Act

## The Essential Commodities Act, 1955

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Essential Commodities Act, 1955

## Act 10 of 1955

  * Published in Gazette 10 on 1 January 1980 
  * Assented to on 1 January 1980 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1980 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 September 2020.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE ESSENTIAL COMMODITIES (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2006 (Act 54 of 2006) on 24 December 2006] 
  2. [Amended by The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2010 (Act 35 of 2010) on 8 September 2010] 
  3. [Amended by THE ESSENTIAL COMMODITIES (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2020 (MINISTRYOFLAWANDJUSTICE 22 of 2020) on 26 September 2020] 

The Essential Commodities Act, 1955The Indian Express discussed THE BANKING
REGULATION (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2020 where they redefined essential items and Why
it was needed, and who it will impact?

### 1. Short title and extent.—

(1)This Act may be called the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.(2)It extends to
the whole of India.

### 2. Definitions.—

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(ia)“Collector” includes
an Additional Collector and such other officer, not below the rank of Sub-
Divisional Officer, as may be authorised by the Collector to perform the
functions and exercise the powers of the Collector under this Act;(b)“food-
crops” include crops of sugarcane;(c)“notified order” means an order notified
in the Official Gazette;(cc)“order” includes a direction issued
thereunder;(d)“State Government,” in relation to a Union territory, means the
administrator thereof;(e)“sugar” means—(i)any form of sugar containing more
than ninety per cent., of sucrose, including sugar candy;(ii)khandsari sugar
or bura sugar or crushed sugar or any sugar in crystalline or powdered form;
or(iii)sugar in process in vacuum pan sugar factory or raw sugar produced
therein.

### 2A. Essential commodities declaration, etc.—

(1)For the purposes of this Act, “essential commodity” means a commodity
specified in the Schedule.(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (4), the
Central Government may, if it is satisfied that it is necessary so to do in
the public interest and for reasons to be specified in the notification
published in the Official Gazette, amend the Schedule so as to—(a)add a
commodity to the said Schedule;(b)remove any commodity from the said Schedule,
in consultation with the State Governments.(3)Any notification issued under
sub-section (2) may also direct that an entry shall be made against such
commodity in the said Schedule declaring that such commodity shall be deemed
to be an essential commodity for such period not exceeding six months to be
specified in the notification:Provided that the Central Government may, in the
public interest and for reasons to be specified, by notification in the
Official Gazette, extend such period beyond the said six months.(4)The Central
Government may exercise its powers under sub-section (2) in respect of the
commodity to which Parliament has power to make laws by virtue of Entry 33 in
List III in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.(5)Every notification
issued under sub-section (2) shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is
issued, before both Houses of Parliament.

### 3. Powers to control production, supply, distribution, etc., of essential
commodities.—

(1)If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient
so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or
for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices, or
for securing any essential commodity for the defence of India or the efficient
conduct of military operations, it may, by order, provide for regulating or
prohibiting the production, supply and distribution thereof and trade and
commerce therein.(1A)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(1),—(a)the supply of such foodstuffs, including cereals, pulses, potato,
onions, edible oilseeds and oils, as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify, may be regulated only under
extraordinary circumstances which may include war, famine, extraordinary price
rise and natural calamity of grave nature;(b)any action on imposing stock
limit shall be based on price rise and an order for regulating stock limit of
any agricultural produce may be issued under this Act only if there
is—(i)hundred per cent. increase in the retail price of horticultural produce;
or(ii)fifty per cent. increase in the retail price of non-perishable
agricultural foodstuffs, over the price prevailing immediately preceding
twelve months, or average retail price of last five years, whichever is
lower:Provided that such order for regulating stock limit shall not apply to a
processor or value chain participant of any agricultural produce, if the stock
limit of such person does not exceed the overall ceiling of installed capacity
of processing, or the demand for export in case of an exporter:Provided
further that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply to any order,
relating to the Public Distribution System or the Targeted Public Distribution
System, made by the Government under this Act or under any other law for the
time being in force.Explanation.—The expression "value chain participant", in
relation to any agricultural product, means and includes a set of
participants, from production of anyagricultural produce in the field to final
consumption, involving processing, packaging, storage, transport and
distribution, where at each stage value is added to the product.’(2)Without
prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by sub-section (1), an
order made thereunder may provide-(a)for regulating by licences, permits or
otherwise the production or manufacture of any essential commodity;(b)for
bringing under cultivation any waste or arable land, whether appurtenant to a
building or not, for the growing thereon of food-crops generally or of
specified food-crops, and for otherwise maintaining or increasing the
cultivation of food-crops generally, or of specified food-crops.(c)for
controlling the price at which essential commodity may be bought or
sold;(d)for regulating by licences, permits or otherwise the storage,
transport, distribution, disposal, acquisition use or consumption of, any
essential commodity;(e)for prohibiting the withholding from sale of any
essential commodity ordinarily kept for sale;(f)for requiring any person
holding in stock, or engaged in the production, or in the business of buying
or selling, of any essential commodity,-(a)to sell the whole or a specified
part of the quantity held in stock or produced or received by him or,(b)in the
case of any such commodity which is likely to be produced or received by him,
to sell the whole or a specified part of such commodity when produced or
received by him,(c)to the Central Government or a State Government or to an
officer or agent of such Government or to a Corporation owned or controlled by
such Government or to such other person or class of persons and in such
circumstances as may be specified in the order.Explanation 1- An order made
under this clause in relation to food-grains, edible oilseeds or edible oils,
may, having regard to the estimated production, in the concerned area, of such
food grains, edible oilseeds and edible oils, fix the quantity to be sold by
the producers in such area and may also fix, or provide for the fixation of,
such quantity on a graded basis, having regard to the aggregate of the area
held by, or under the cultivation of, the producers.Explanation 2- For the
purposes of this clause, "production" with its grammatical variations and
cognate expressions includes manufacture of edible oils and sugar;(g)for
regulating or prohibiting any class of commercial or financial transactions
relating to foodstuffs which, in the opinion of the authority making the
order, are, or, if unregulated, are likely to be, detrimental to the public
interest;(h)for collecting any information or statistics with a view to
regulating or prohibiting any of the aforesaid matters;(i)for requiring
persons engaged in the production, supply or distribution of or trade and
commerce in, any essential commodity to maintain and produce for inspection
such books, accounts and records relating to their business and to furnish
such information relating thereto, as may be specified in the order;(ii)for
the grant or issue of licences, permits or other documents, the charging of
fees therefore, the deposit of such sum, if any, as may be specified in the
order as security for the due performance of the conditions of any such
licence, permit or other document, the forfeiture of the sum so deposited or
any part thereof for contravention of any such conditions, and the
adjudication of such forfeiture by such authority as may be specified in the
order;(j)for any incidental and supplementary matters, including, in
particular, the entry, search or examination of premises, aircraft, vessels,
vehicles or other conveyances and animals, and the seizure by a person
authorised to make such entry, search or examination.](i)of any articles in
respect of which such person has reason to believe that a contravention of the
order has been, is being, or is about to be committed and any packages,
coverings or receptacles in which such articles are found;(ii)of any aircraft,
vessel, vehicle or other conveyance or animal used in carrying such article,
if such person has reason to believe that such aircraft, vessel, vehicle or
other conveyance or animal is liable to be forfeited under the provisions of
this Act:(iii)of any books of accounts and documents which in the opinion of
such person, may be useful for, or relevant to, any proceeding under this Act
and the person from whose custody such books of accounts or documents are
seized shall be entitled to make copies thereof or to take extracts therefrom
in the presence of an officer having the custody of such books of accounts or
documents.](3)Where any person sells any essential commodity in compliance
with an order made with reference to clause (f) of sub-section (2), there
shall be paid to him the price therefore as hereinafter provided:(a)where the
price can, consistently with the controlled price, if any, fixed under this
section, be agreed upon, the agreed price;(b)where no such agreement can be
reached, the price calculated with reference to the controlled price, if
any;(c)where neither clause (a) nor clause (b) applies, the price calculated
at the market rate prevailing in the locality at the date of sale.(3A)(i)If
the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary so to do for
controlling the rise in prices or preventing the hoarding, of any food-stuff
in any locality, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that
notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), the price at which the
food-stuff shall be sold in the locality in compliance with an order made with
reference to clause (f) of subsection (2) shall be regulated in accordance
with the provisions of this sub-section.(ii)Any notification issued under this
sub-section shall remain in force for such period not exceeding three months
as may be specified in the notification.(iii)Where, after the issue of a
notification under this sub-section, any person sells foodstuff of the kind
specified therein and in the locality so specified, in compliance with an
order made with reference to clause (f) of sub-section (20), there shall be
paid to the seller as the price therefore-(a)where the price can, consistently
with the controlled price of the foodstuff, if any, fixed under this section,
be agreed upon, the agreed price:(b)where no such agreement can be reached,
the price calculated with reference to the controlled price, if any;(c)where
neither clause (a) nor clause (b) applies, the price calculated with reference
to average market rate prevailing in the locality during the period of three
months immediately preceding the date of the notification.(iv)For the purposes
of sub-clause (c) of clause (iii), the average market rate prevailing in the
locality shall be determined by an officer authorised by the Central
Government in this behalf, with reference to the prevailing market rates for
which published figures are available in respect of that locality or of a
neighbouring locality; and the average market rate so determined shall be
final and shall not be called in question in any court.](3B)Where any person
is required, by an order made with reference to clause (f) of sub-section (2),
to sell to the Central Government or a State Government or to an officer or
agent of such Government or to a Corporation owned or controlled by such
Government, any grade or variety of food grains, edible oilseeds or edible
oils in relation to which no notification has been issued under sub-section
(3A), or such notification having been issued, has ceased to be in force,
there shall be paid to the person concerned, notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in subsection (3), an amount equal to the procurement price
of such food grains, edible oilseeds or edible oils, as the case may be,
specified by the State Government, with the previous approval of the Central
Government having regard to -(a)the controlled price, if any, fixed under this
section or by or under any other law for the time being in force for such
grade or variety of food grains, edible oilseeds or edible oils;(b)the general
crop prospects;(c)the need for making such grade or variety of food grains,
edible oilseeds or edible oils available at reasonable prices to the
consumers, particularly the vulnerable sections of the consumers; and(d)the
recommendations, if any, of the Agricultural Prices Commission with regard to
the price of the concerned grade or variety of food grains, edible oilseeds or
edible oils.(3C)Where any producer is required by an order made with reference
to clause (f) of sub-section (2) to sell any kind of sugar (whether to the
Central Government or to a State Government or to an officer or agent of such
Government or to any other person or class of persons) whether a notification
was issued under sub-section (3A) or otherwise, then, notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (3), there shall be paid to that producer only such
amount as the Central Government may, by order, determine, having regard
to—(a)the fair and remunerative price, if any, determined by the Central
Government as the price of sugarcane to be taken into account under this
section;(b)the manufacturing cost of sugar;(c)the duty or tax, if any, paid or
payable thereon; and(d)a reasonable return on the capital employed in the
business of manufacturing of sugar:Provided that the Central Government may
determine different prices, from time to time, for different areas or
factories or varieties of sugar:Provided further that where any provisional
determination of price of levy sugar has been done in respect of sugar
produced up to the sugar season 2008-2009, the final determination of price
may be undertaken in accordance with the provisions of this sub-section as it
stood immediately before the 1st day of October, 2009.Explanation I.— For the
purposes of this sub-section,—(a)"fair and remunerative price" means the price
of sugarcane determined by the Central Government under this
section;(b)“manufacturing cost of sugar” means the net cost incurred on
conversion of sugarcane into sugar including net cost of transportation of
sugarcane from the purchase center to the factory gate, to the extent it is
borne by the producer;(c)“producer” means a person carrying on the business of
manufacturing sugar;(d)“reasonable return on the capital employed” means the
return on net fixed assets plus working capital of a producer in relation to
manufacturing of sugar including procurement of sugarcane at a fair and
remunerative price determined under this section.]Explanation II.--For the
removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the expressions "fair and
remunerative price" referred to in clause (a), "manufacturing cost of sugar"
referred to in clause (b) and "reasonable return on the capital employed"
referred to in clause (d), of this sub-section do not include the price paid
or payable under any order or any enactment of any State Government and any
price agreed to between the producer and the grower or a sugarcane growers'
co-operative society.(3D)The Central Government may direct that no producer,
importer or exporter shall sell or otherwise dispose of or deliver any kind of
sugar or remove any kind of sugar from the bonded go downs of the factory in
which it is produced, whether such godowns are situated within the premises of
the factory or outside or from the warehouses of the importers or exporters,
as the case may be except under and in accordance with the direction issued by
the Government:Provided that this sub-section shall not affect the pledging of
such sugar by any producer or importer in favour of any scheduled bank as
defined in clause (e) of section 2 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 or
any corresponding new bank constituted under section 3 of the Banking
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970),
so, however, that no such hank shall sell the sugar pledged to it except under
and in accordance with a direction issued by the Central Government.(3E)The
Central Government may, from time to time, by general or special order, direct
any producer or importer or exporter or recognised dealer or any class of
producers or recognised dealers, to take action regarding production,
maintenance of stocks, storage, sale, grading, packing, marking, weighment,
disposal, delivery and distribution of any kind of sugar in the manner
specified in the direction.Explanation.-For the purposes of sub-section (3D)
and this sub-section,--(a)"producer" means a person carrying on the business
of manufacturing sugar;(b)"recognised dealer" means a person carrying on the
business of purchasing, selling or distributing sugar;(c)"sugar" includes
plantation while sugar, raw sugar and refined sugar. whether indigenously
produced or imported.(4)If the Central Government is of opinion that it is
necessary so to do for maintaining or increasing the production and supply of
an essential commodity, it may, by order, authorize any person (hereinafter
referred to as an authorized controller) to exercise, with respect to the
whole or any part of any such undertaking engaged in the production and supply
of the commodity as may be specified in the order such functions of control as
may be provided therein and so long as such order is in force with respect to
any undertaking or part thereof,-(a)the authorized controller shall exercise
his functions in accordance with any instructions given to him by the Central
Government, so, however, that he shall not have any power to give any
direction inconsistent with the provisions of any enactment or any instrument
determining the functions of the persons in-charge of the management of the
undertaking, except in so far as may be specifically provided by the order;
and(b)the undertaking or part shall be carried on in accordance with any
directions given by the authorised controller under the provisions of the
order, and any person having any functions of management in relation to the
undertaking or part shall comply with any such directions.(5)An order made
under this section shall,-(a)in the case of an order of a general nature or
affecting a class of persons, be notified in the Official Gazette; and(b)in
the case of an order directed to a specified individual be served on such
individual-(i)by delivering or tendering it to that individual, or(ii)if it
cannot be so delivered or tendered, by affixing it on the outer door or some
other conspicuous part of the premises in which that individual lives, and a
written report there of shall be prepared and witnessed by two persons living
in the neighbourhood.(6)Every order made under this section by the Central
Government or by any officer or authority of the Central Government shall be
laid before both Houses of Parliament, as soon as may be, after it is made.

### 4. Imposition of duties on State Governments, etc.—

An order made under section 3 may confer powers and impose duties upon the
Central Government or the State Government or officers and authorities of the
Central Government or State Government, and may contain directions to any
State Government or to officers and authorities thereof as to the exercise of
any such powers or the discharge of any such duties.

### 5. Delegation of powers.—

The Central Government may, by notified order, direct that the power to make
orders or issue notifications under section 3 shall, in relation to such
matters and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the
direction, be exercisable also by—(a)such officer or authority subordinate to
the Central Government; or(b)such State Government or such officer or
authority subordinate to a State Government,as may be specified in the
direction.

### 6. Effect of orders inconsistent with other enactments.—

Any order made under section 3 shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any enactment other than this Act or any
instrument having effect by virtue of any enactment other than this Act.

### 6A. Confiscation of essential commodity.—

(1)Where any essential commodity is seized in pursuance of an order made under
section 3 in relation thereto, a report of such seizure shall, without
unreasonable delay, be made to the Collector of the district or the Presidency
town in which such essential commodity is seized and whether or not a
prosecution is instituted for the contravention of such order, the Collector
may, if he thinks it expedient so to do, direct the essential commodity so
seized to be produced for inspection before him, and if he is satisfied that
there has been a contravention of the order may order confiscation of—(a)the
essential commodity so seized;(b)any package, covering or receptacle in which
such essential commodity is found; and(c)any animal, vehicle, vessel or other
conveyance used in carrying such essential commodity:Provided that without
prejudice to any action which may be taken under any other provision of this
Act, no foodgrains or edible oilseeds in pursuance of an order made under
section 3 in relation thereto from a producer shall, if the seized foodgrains
or edible oilseeds have been produced by him, be confiscated under this
section:Provided further that in the case of any animal, vehicle, vessel or
other conveyance used for the carriage of goods or passengers for hire, the
owner of such animal, vehicle, vessel or other conveyance shall be given an
option to pay, in lieu of its confiscation, a fine not exceeding the market
price at the date of seizure of the essential commodity sought to be carried
by such animal, vehicle, vessel or other conveyance.(2)Where the Collector, on
receiving a report of seizure or on inspection of any essential commodity
under sub-section (1), is of the opinion that the essential commodity is
subject to speedy and natural decay or it is otherwise expedient in the public
interest so to do, he may—(i)order the same to be sold at the controlled
price, if any, fixed for essential commodity under this Act or under any other
law for the time being in force; or(ii)where no such price is fixed, order the
same to be sold by public auction:Provided that in case of foodgrains, the
Collector may, for its equitable distribution and availability at fair prices,
order the same to be sold through fair price shops at the price fixed by the
Central Government or by the State Government, as the case may be, for the
retail sale of such foodgrains to the public.(3)Where any essential commodity
is sold, as aforesaid, the sale proceeds thereof, after deduction of the
expenses of any such sale or auction or other incidental expenses relating
thereto, shall—(a)where no order or confiscation is ultimately passed by the
Collector,(b)where an order passed on appeal under sub-section (1) of section
6C so requires, or(c)where in a prosecution instituted for the contravention
of the order in respect of which an order of confiscation has been made under
this section, the person concerned is acquitted, be paid to the owner or the
person from whom it is seized.

### 6B. Issue of show cause notice before confiscation of foodgrains, etc.—

(1)No order confiscating any essential commodity, package, covering or
receptacle, animal, vehicle, vessel or other conveyance shall be made under
section 6A unless the owner of such essential commodity, package, covering,
receptacle, animal, vehicle, vessel or other conveyance or the person from
whom it is seized—(a)is given a notice in writing informing him of the grounds
on which it is proposed to confiscate the essential commodity package,
covering or receptacle, animal, vehicle, vessel or other conveyance;(b)is
given an opportunity of making a presentation in writing within such
reasonable time as may be specified in the notice against the grounds of
confiscation; and(c)is given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the
matter.(2)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), no order
confiscating any animal, vehicle, vessel or other conveyance shall be made
under section 6A if the owner of the animal, vehicle, vessel or other
conveyance proves to the satisfaction of the Collector that it was used in
carrying the essential commodity without the knowledge or connivance of the
owner himself, his agent, if any, and the person in charge of the animal,
vehicle, vessel or other conveyance and that each of them had taken all
reasonable and necessary precautions against such use.(3)No order confiscating
any essential commodity package, covering, receptacle, animal, vehicle, vessel
or other conveyance shall be invalid merely by reason of any defect or
irregularity in the notice, given under clause (a) of sub-section (l), if, in
giving such notice, the provisions of that clause have been substantially
complied with.

### 6C. Appeal. —

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order of confiscation under section 6A may,
within one month from the date of the communication to him of such order,
appeal to any judicial authority appointed by the State Government concerned
and the judicial authority shall, after giving an opportunity to the appellant
to be heard, pass such order as it may think fit, confirming, modifying or
annulling the order appealed against.(2)Where an order under section 6A is
modified or annulled by [such judicial authority, or where in a prosecution
instituted for the contravention of the order in respect of which an order of
confiscation has been made under section 6A, the person concerned is
acquitted, and in either case it is not possible for any reason to return the
essential commodity seized, such persons shall, except as provided by sub-
section (3) of section 6A, be paid the price therefor as if the essential
commodity, had been sold to the Government with reasonable interest calculated
from the day of the seizure of 6 the essential commodity and such price shall
be determined—(i)in the case of foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils, in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3B) of section 3;(ii)in the
case of sugar, in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3C) of
section 3; and(iii)in the case of any other essential commodity, in accordance
with the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 3.]

### 6D. Award of confiscation not to interfere with other punishments—

The award of any confiscation under this Act by the Collector shall not
prevent the infliction of any punishment to which the person affected thereby
is liable under this Act.

### 6E. Bar of jurisdiction in certain cases.—

Whenever any essential commodity is seized in pursuance of an order made under
section 3 in relation thereto, or any package, covering or receptacle in which
such essential commodity is found, or any animal, vehicle, vessel or other
conveyance used in carrying such essential commodity is seized pending
confiscation under section 6A, the Collector, or, as the case may be, the
judicial authority appointed under section 6C shall have, and, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being in
force, any other court, tribunal or authority shall not have, jurisdiction to
make orders with regard to the possession, delivery, disposal, release or
distribution of such essential commodity, package, covering, receptacle,
animal, vehicle, vessel or other conveyance.

### 7. Penalties. —

(1)If any person contravenes any order made under section 3,—(a)he shall be
punishable,—(i)in the case of an order made with reference to clause (h) or
clause (i) of sub-section (2) of that section, with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to one year and shall also be liable to fine, and(ii)in the
case of any other order, with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less
than three months but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable
to fine:Provided that the court may, for any adequate and special reasons to
be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of imprisonment for a term of
less than three months;(b)any property in respect of which the order has been
contravened shall be forfeited to the Government;(c)any package, covering or
receptacle in which the property is found and any animal, vehicle, vessel or
other conveyance used in carrying the commodity shall, if the court so orders,
be forfeited to the Government.(2)If any person to whom a direction is given
under clause (b) of sub-section (4) of section 3 fails to comply with the
direction, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not
be less than three months but which may extend to seven years and shall also
be liable to fine:Provided that the court may, for any adequate and special
reasons to be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of imprisonment for
a term of less than three months.(2A)If any person convicted of an offence
under sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of sub-section (1) or under sub-section
(2) is again convicted of an offence under the same provision, he shall be
punishable with imprisonment for the second and for every subsequent offence
for a term which shall not be less than six months but which may extend to
seven years and shall also be liable to fine:Provided that the court may, for
any adequate and special reasons to be mentioned in the judgment impose a
sentence of imprisonment for a term of less than six months.(2B)For the
purposes of sub-sections (1), (2) and (2A), the fact that an offence under
sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of sub-section (1) or under sub-section (2) has
caused no substantial harm to the general public or to any individual, shall
be an adequate and special reason for awarding a sentence of imprisonment for
a term of less than three months, or six months, as the case may be.(3)Where a
person having been convicted of an offence under sub-section (1) is again
convicted of an offence under that sub-section for contravention of an order
in respect of an essential commodity, the court by which such person is
convicted shall, in addition to any penalty which may be imposed on him under
that sub-section, by order, direct that that person shall not carry on any
business in that essential commodity for such period, not being less than six
months, as may be specified by the court in the order.

### 7A. Power of Central Government to recover certain amounts as arrears of
land revenue.—

(1)Where any person, liable to—(a)pay any amount in pursuance of any order
made under section 3, or(b)deposit any amount to the credit of any Account or
Fund constituted by or in pursuance of any order made under that section,makes
any default in paying or depositing the whole or any part of such amount, the
amount in respect of which such default has been made shall whether such order
was made before or after the commencement of the Essential Commodities
(Amendment) Act, 1984 (34 of 1984), and whether the liability of such person
to pay or deposit such amount arose before or after such commencement be
recoverable by Government together with simple interest due thereon computed
at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum from the date of such default to
the date of recovery of such amount, as an arrear of land revenue or as a
public demand.(2)The amount recovered under sub-section (1) shall be dealt
with in accordance with the order under which the liability to pay or deposit
such amount arose.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for
the time being in force or any contract to the contrary, no court, tribunal or
other authority shall grant any injunction or make any order prohibiting or
restraining any Government from recovering any amount as an arrear of land
revenue or as a public demand in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section
(1).(4)If any order, in pursuance of which any amount has been recovered by
Government as an arrear of land revenue or as a public demand under sub-
section (1) is declared by a competent court, after giving to the Government a
reasonable opportunity of being heard, to be invalid, the Government shall
refund the amount so recovered by it to the person from whom it was recovered,
together with simple interest due thereon, computed at the rate of fifteen per
cent. per annum, from the date of recovery of such amount to the date on which
such refund is made.Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,
“Government" means the Government by which the concerned order under section 3
was made or where such order was made by an officer or authority subordinate
to any Government, that Government.

### 8. Attempts and abetment.—

Any person who attempts to contravene, or abets a contravention of, any order
made under section 3 shall be deemed to have contravened that order.

### 9. False statement.—

If any person,—(i)when required by any order made under section 3 to make any
statement or furnish any information, makes any statement or furnishes any
information which is false in any material particular and which he knows or
has reasonable cause to believe to be false, or does not believe to be true,
or(ii)makes any such statement as aforesaid in any book, account, record,
declaration, return or other document which he is required by any such order
to maintain or furnish, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to five years, or with fine, or with both.

### 10. Offences by companies.—

(1)If the person contravening an order made under section 3 is a company,
every person who, at the time the contravention was committed, was in charge
of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the
company as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the
contravention and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render
any such person liable to any punishment if he proves that the contravention
took place without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent such contravention.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company
and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or
connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of any director,
manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,—(a)“company" means
any body corporate, and includes a firm or other association of individuals;
and(b)“director" in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.

### 10A. Offences to be cognizable—

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2
of 1974) every offence punishable under this Act shall be cognizable

### 10B. Power of court to publish name, place of business, etc., of companies
convicted under the Act.—

(1)Where any company is convicted under this Act, it shall be competent for
the court convicting the company to cause the name and place of business of
the company, nature of the contravention, the fact that the company has been
so convicted and such other particulars as the court may consider to be
appropriate in the circumstances of the case, to be published at the expense
of the company in such newspapers or in such other manner as the court may
direct.(2)No publication under sub-section (1) shall be made until the period
for preferring an appeal against the orders of the court has expired without
any appeal having been preferred, or such an appeal, having been preferred,
has been disposed of.(3)The expenses of any publication under sub-section (1)
shall be recoverable from the company as if it were a fine imposed by the
court.Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “company” has the meaning
assigned to it in clause (a) of the Explanation of section 10.

### 10C. Presumption of culpable mental state.—

(1)In any prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the court shall presume the existence
of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the
fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an
offence in that prosecution.Explanation.—In this section, “culpable mental
state” includes intention, motive, knowledge of a fact and the belief in, or
reason to believe, a fact.(2)For the purposes of this section, a fact is said
to be proved only when the court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt
and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of
probability.

### 11. Cognizance of offences.—

No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act except
on a report in writing of the facts constituting such offence made by a person
who is a public servant as defined in section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45
of 1860) or any person aggrieved or any recognised consumer association,
whether such person is a member of that association or not.Explanation.—For
the purposes of this section and section 12AA, “recognised consumer
association” means a voluntary consumer association registered under the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or any other law for the time being in force.

### 12. Special provision regarding fine.—

Notwithstanding anything contained in section 29 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), it shall be lawful for any Metropolitan
Magistrate, or any Judicial Magistrate of the first class specially empowered
by the State Government in this behalf, to pass a sentence of fine exceeding
five thousand rupees on any person convicted of contravening any order made
under section 3.

### 12A. Power to try summarily.—

(1)If the Central Government is of opinion that a situation has arisen where,
in the interests of production, supply or distribution of [any essential
commodity not being an essential commodity referred to in clause (a) of sub-
section (2) or trade or commerce therein and other relevant considerations, it
is necessary that the contravention of any order made under section 3 in
relation to such essential commodity should be tried summarily, the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify such order to
be a special order for purposes of summary trial under this section, and every
such notification shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is issued, before
both Houses of Parliament:Provided that—(a)every such notification issued
after the commencement of the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 1971,
shall, unless sooner rescinded, cease to operate at the expiration of two
years after the publication of such notification in the Official
Gazette;(b)every such notification in force immediately before such
commencement shall, unless sooner rescinded, cease to operate at the
expiration of two years after such commencement:Provided further that nothing
in the foregoing proviso shall affect any case relating to the contravention
of a special order specified in any such notification if proceedings by way of
summary trial have commenced before that notification is rescinded or ceases
to operate and the provisions of this section shall continue to apply to that
case as if that notification had not been rescinded or had not ceased to
operate.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) all, offences relating to—(a)the contravention of
an order made under section 3 with respect to—(ii)foodstuffs, including edible
oilseeds and oil; or(iii)drugs; and(b)where any notification issued under sub-
section (1) in relation to a special order is in force, the contravention of
such special order, shall be tried in a summary way by a Judicial Magistrate
of the First Class specially empowered in this behalf by the State Government
or by a Metropolitan Magistrate and the provisions of sections 262 to 265
(both inclusive) of the said Code shall, as far as may be, apply to such
trial:Provided that, in the case of any conviction in a summary trial under
this section, it shall be lawful for the Magistrate to pass a sentence of
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year:Provided further that when at
the commencement of, or in the course of, a summary trial under this section,
it appears to the Magistrate that the nature of the case is such that a
sentence of imprisonment for a term exceeding one year may have to be passed
or that it is, for any other reason, undesirable to try the case summarily,
the Magistrate shall, after hearing the parties, record an order to that
effect and thereafter recall any witnesses who may have been examined and
proceed to hear or re-hear the case in the manner provided by the said
Code.(3)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), there shall be no appeal by a convicted
person in any case tried summarily under this section in which the Magistrate
passes a sentence of imprisonment not exceeding one month, and of fine not
exceeding two thousand rupees whether or not any order of forfeiture of
property or an order under section 452 of the said Code is made in addition to
such sentences, but an appeal shall lie where any sentence in excess of the
aforesaid limits is passed by the Magistrate.(4)All cases relating to the
contravention of an order referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (2), not
being a special order, and pending before a Magistrate immediately before the
commencement of the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 1974, and, where
any notification is issued under sub-section (1) in relation to a special
order, all cases relating to the contravention of such special order and
pending before a Magistrate immediately before the date of the issue of such
notification, shall, if no witnesses have been examined before such
commencement or the said date, as the case may be, be tried in a summary way
under this section, and if any such case is pending before a Magistrate who is
not competent to try the same in a summary way under this section, it shall be
forwarded to a Magistrate so competent.

### 12B. Grant of injunction, etc., by civil courts.—

No civil court shall grant injunction or make any order for any other relief,
against the Central Government or any State Government or a Public officer in
respect of any act done or purporting to be done by such Government, or such
officer in his official capacity, under this Act or any order made thereunder,
until after notice of the application for such injunction or other relief has
been given to such Government or officer.

### 13. Presumption as to orders.—

Where an order purports to have been made and signed by an authority in
exercise of any power conferred by or under this Act, a court shall presume
that such order was so made by that authority within the meaning of the Indian
Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872).

### 14. Burden of proof in certain cases.—

Where a person is prosecuted for contravening any order made under section 3
which prohibits him from doing any act or being in possession of a thing
without lawful authority or without a permit, licence or other document, the
burden of proving that he has such authority, permit, licence or other
document shall be on him.

### 15. Protection of action taken under Act.—

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance
of any order made under section 3.(2)No suit or other legal proceeding shall
lie against the Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused by
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of
any order made under section 3.

### 15A. Prosecution of public servants.—

Where any person who is a public servant is accused of any offence alleged to
have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge
of his duty in pursuance of an order made under section 3, no court shall take
cognizance of such offence except with the previous sanction—(a)of the Central
Government, in the case of a person who is employed or, as the case may be,
was at the time of commission of the alleged offence employed, in connection
with the affairs of the Union;(b)of the State Government, in the case of a
person who is employed or, as the case may be, was at the time of commission
of the alleged offence employed, in connection with the affairs of the State.

### 16. Repeals and savings.—

(1)The following laws are hereby repealed:—(a)the Essential Commodities
Ordinance, 1955 (1 of 1955);(b)any other law in force in any State immediately
before the commencement of this Act in so far as such law controls or
authorises the control of the production, supply and distribution of, and
trade and commerce in, any essential commodity.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal,
any order made or deemed to be made by any authority whatsoever, under any law
repealed hereby and in force immediately before the commencement of this Act,
shall, in so far as such order may be made under this Act, be deemed to be
made under this Act and continue in force, and accordingly any appointment
made, licence or permit granted or direction issued under any such order and
in force immediately before such commencement shall continue in force until
and unless it is superseded by any appointment made, licence or permit granted
or direction issued under this Act.(3)The provision of sub-section (2) shall
be without prejudice to the provision contained in section 6 of the General
Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), which shall also apply to the repeal of the
Ordinance or other law referred to in sub-section (1) as if such Ordinance or
other law had been an enactment.

## (See section 2A)

(1)drugs.Explanation .—For the purposes of this Schedule, “drugs” has the
meaning assigned to it in clause (b) of section 3 of the Drugs and Cosmetics
Act, 1940 (23 of 1940);(2)fertilizer, whether inorganic, organic or
mixed;(3)foodstuffs, including edible oilseeds and oils;(4)hank yarn made
wholly from cotton;(5)petroleum and petroleum products;(6)raw jute and jute
textiles;(7)(i)seeds of food-crops and seeds of fruits and
vegetables;(ii)seeds of cattle fodder; and(iii)jute seeds;(iv)cotton seed.

