## Union of India - Act

## The Extradition Act, 1962

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Extradition Act, 1962

## Act 34 of 1962

  * Published on 7 August 1961 
  * Commenced on 7 August 1961 
  * [This is the version of this document from 7 August 1961.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Extradition Act, 1962(34 of 1962)

### 128.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-At present, the law of extradition
applicable to India is to be found scattered in the United Kingdom Extradition
Act, 1870 to 1932, the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881, and the Indian
Extradition Act, 1903. The United Kingdom Extradition Act, 1870, in its
application to India, authorised the extradition of fugitive offenders between
India and "foreign States", a term which meant States to which that Act was
made applicable by Her Britannic Majesty's Order in Council. The Fugitive
Offenders Act, 1881, on the other hand, provided a method whereby extradition
of fugitive offenders could be effected between the British dominions and
possessions by a simplified form of procedure. The Indian Extradition Act,
1903, modified and supplemented the other laws by(a) prescribing the procedure
for the surrender of fugitive criminals in the case of "Foreign States";(b)
providing a special machinery for the surrender of fugitive criminals in case
of States other than "Foreign States"; and(c) specifying the officers in India
who may exercise the powers conferred by the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881.2\.
The Indian Extradition Act, 1903, was not extended to Part B States in 1951
when Part B States (Laws) Act, 1951, was enacted as it was felt even then that
this should be done by a separate law after a proper examination of the
position. The result is that the legal position relating to the surrender of
fugitive criminals to "foreign States" and Commonwealth countries under the
existing law from the erstwhile Part B States is somewhat doubtful. Further,
the Supreme Court in its judgment in the case of the State of Madras v. C.G.
Menon, reported in [A.I.R. 1954 S.C. 517 (Pr 11)]; (1955 S.C.R. 280) has held
that after India became a republic, the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881, has
ceased to apply to India. Moreover, the present law relating to extradition
contains certain lacunae on questions such as concurrent requests for the
surrender of a fugitive criminal from more than one State.3\. The purpose of
this Bill is to remove all such anomalies and fill in the lacunae that exist
at present in the law relating to extradition and enact a consolidated and
amended law for the extradition of fugitive criminals to all foreign States
and Commonwealth countries.4\. A Bill on the subject was introduced in the Lok
Sabha on the 7th August, 1961. The Bill was referred to a joint Committee and
the Committee presented the Report on 30th November, 1961. The Bill, as
reported by the Joint Committee, could not be taken up for consideration in
Parliament for want of time and it lapsed on the dissolution of the Lok Sabha.
The present Bill incorporates all the recommendations made by the Joint
Committee and the opportunity has been taken to make certain minor changes.5\.
The notes on clauses explain in detail the various provisions of the Bill.An
Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to the extradition of fugitive
criminals [and to provide formatters connected therewith or incidental
thereto] [Added by Act 66 of 1993, Section 2 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).] .Be it
enacted by Parliament in the Thirteenth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

Enforced on 5.1.1963.  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement

(1)This Act may be called The Extradition Act , 1962.(2)It extends to the
whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central
Governmentmay, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions

.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)[ composite offence
means an act or conduct of a person occurred, wholly or in part, in a foreign
State or in India but its effects or intended effects, taken as a whole, would
constitute an extradition offence in India or in a foreign State, as the case
may be;] [[Substituted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 4, for Clauses (a) and (c)
(w.e.f.18.12.1993).]](b)conviction and convicted do not include or refer to a
conviction which under foreign law is a conviction for contumacy, but the term
person accused includes a person so convicted for contumacy;(c)[ extradition
offence means(i)in relation to a foreign State, being a treaty State, an
offence provided for in the extradition treaty with that State;(ii)in relation
to a foreign State other than a treaty State an offence punishable with
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year under the laws
of India or of a foreign State and includes a compositeoffence;](d)extradition
treaty means a treaty [,agreement or arrangement] [[Substituted by Act 66 of
1993, Section 4, for "oragreement" (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]] madeby India with a
foreign State relating to the extradition of fugitive criminals, and includes
any treaty [, agreement or arrangement] [[Substituted by Act 66 of 1993,
Section 4, for "or agreement" (w.e.f.18.12.1993).]] relating to theextradition
of fugitive criminals made before the 15th day of August, 1947, which extends
to, and is binding on, India;(e)foreign State means any State outside India [*
**] [[The words "other than a commonwealthcountry," omitted by Act 66 of 1993,
Section 4 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993.)]] and includes every constituent part, colony
or dependency of such State;(f)[ fugitive criminal means a person who is
accused or convicted of an extradition offence within the jurisdiction of a
foreign State and includes a person who, while in India, conspires, attempts
to commit or incites or participates as an accomplice in the commission of an
extradition offence in a foreignState.] [[Substituted by Act 66 of 1993,
Section 4, for Clause (f) (w.e.f.18.12.1993).]](g)Magistrate means a
Magistrate of the First Class or a Presidency [Magistrate] [[Now
MetropolitanMagistrate, see Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974),
Sections 8 and

### 16.

]];(h)notified order means an order notified in the Official
Gazette;(i)prescribed means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
and(j)treaty State means a foreign State with which an extradition treaty is
in operation.

### 3. Application of Act

.[(1) The Central Government may, by notified order, direct that the
provisions of this Act, other than Chapter III, shall apply to such foreign
State or part thereof as may be specified in the order.] [[Substituted by Act
66 of 1993,Section 5, for sub-Section (1)(w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]](2)The Central
Government may, by the same notified order as is referred to in sub-section
(1) or any subsequent notified order, restrict such application to fugitive
criminals found, or suspected to be, in such part of India as may be specified
in the order.(3)Where the notified order relates to a treaty State,(a)it shall
set out in full the extradition treaty with that State;(b)it shall not remain
in force for any period longer than that treaty; and(c)the Central Government
may, by the same or any subsequent notified order, render the application of
this Act subject to such modifications, exceptions, conditions and
qualifications as may be deemed expedient for implementing the treaty with
that State.(4)[ Wherethere is no extradition treaty made by India with any
foreign State, the Central Government may, by notified order, treat any
Convention to which India and a foreign State are parties, as an extradition
treaty made by India with that foreign State providing for extradition in
respect of the offences specified in that Convention.] [Inserted by Act 66 of
1993, Section 5 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993)]

## Chapter II  
Extradition of fugitive criminals to foreign states [- - -] [[The words "AND
TO COMMONWEALTH COUNTRIES" omitted

by Act 66 of 1993, Section 6 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]] to which chapter III does
not apply

### 4. Requisition for surrender

.A requisition for the surrender of a fugitive criminal of a foreign State [-
- -] [[Thewords "or a commonwealth country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section
3 (w.e.f.18.12.1993).]] may be made to the Central Government(a)by a
diplomatic representative of the foreign State [* **] [[The words "or
commonwealthcountry" omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3 (w.e.f.
18.12.1993).]] at Delhi; or(b)by the Government of that foreign State [- - -]
[[The words "or commonwealth country"omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3
(w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]]communicating with the Central Government through its
diplomatic representative in that State [* **] [[The words "orcountry" omitted
by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993.)]];and if neither of these
modes is convenient, the requisition shall be made in such other mode as is
settled by arrangement made by the Government of the foreign State [- - -]
[The words "or commonwealth country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3
(w.e.f. 18.12.1993).] with the Government of India.

### 5. Order for Magisterial inquiry

.Where such requisition is made, the Central Government may, if it thinks fit,
issue an order to any Magistrate who would have had jurisdiction to inquire
into the offence if it had been an offence committed within the local limits
of his jurisdiction, directing him to inquire into the case.

### 6. Issue of warrant for arrest

.On receipt of an order of the Central Government under section 5, the
Magistrate shall issue a warrant for the arrest of the fugitive criminal.

### 7. Procedure before Magistrate

(1)When the fugitive criminal appears or is brought before the Magistrate, the
Magistrate shall inquire into the case in the same manner and shall have the
same jurisdiction and powers, as nearly as may be, as if the case were one
triable by a Court of Session or High Court.(2)Without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing provisions, the Magistrate shall, in particular,
take such evidence as may be produced in support of the requisition of the
foreign State[- - -] [[The words "or commonwealth country" omitted by Act 66
of 1993, Section 3(w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]] and on behalf of the fugitive
criminal, including any evidenceto show that the offence of which the fugitive
criminal is accused or has been convicted is an offence of political character
or is not an extradition offence.(3)If the Magistrate is of opinion that a
prima facie case is not made out in support of the requisition of the foreign
State [* * *] [The words "or commonwealth country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993,
Section 3 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).], he shall discharge the fugitive
criminal.(4)If the Magistrate is of opinion that a prima facie case is made
out in support of the requisition of the foreign State [* **] [[The words "or
commonwealthcountry" omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3 (w.e.f.
18.12.1993).]], he may commit the fugitive criminal to prison to await the
orders of the Central Government, and shall report the result of his inquiry
to the Central Government, and shall forward together with such report, any
written statement which the fugitive criminal may desire to submit for the
consideration of the Central Government.

### 8. Surrender of fugitive criminal

.If, upon receipt of the report and statement under sub-section (4) of section
7, the Central Government is of opinion that the fugitive criminal ought to be
surrendered to the foreign State [- - -] [[The words "or commonwealth country"
omittedby Act 66 of 1993, Section 3 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]], it mayissue a
warrant for the custody and removal of the fugitive criminal and for his
delivery at a place and to a person to be named in the warrant.

### 9. Power of Magistrate to issue warrant of arrest in certain cases

(1)Where it appears to any Magistrate that a person within the local limits of
his jurisdiction is a fugitive criminal of a foreign State [- - -] [[The words
"or commonwealth country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993,Section 3 (w.e.f.
18.12.1993).]], he may, if he thinks fit,issue a warrant for the arrest of
that person on such information and such evidence as would, in his opinion,
justify the issue of a warrant if the offence of which the person is accused
or has been convicted had been committed within the local limits of his
jurisdiction.(2)The Magistrate shall forthwith report the issue of a warrant
under sub-section (1) to the Central Government and shall forward the
information, and the evidence or certified copies thereof to that
Government.(3)A person arrested on a warrant issued under sub-section (1)
shall not be detained for more than three months unless within that period the
Magistrate receives from the Central Government an order made with reference
to such person under section 5.

### 10. Receipt in evidence of exhibits, depositions and other documents and
authentication thereof

(1)If any proceedings against a fugitive criminal of a foreign State [- - -]
[[The words "orcommonwealth country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3
(w.e.f.18.12.1993).]] under this Chapter, exhibits and depositions (whether
received or taken in the presence of the person against whom they are used or
not) and copies thereof and official certificates of facts and judicial
documents stating facts may, if duly authenticated, be received as
evidence.(2)Warrants, depositions or statements on oath, which purport to have
been issued or taken by any Court of justice outside India or copies thereof,
certificates of, or judicial documents stating the facts of, conviction before
any such Court shall be deemed to be duly authenticated if(a)the warrant
purports to be signed by a Judge, Magistrate or Officer of the State[- - -]
[[The words "or country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3
(w.e.f.18.12.1993).]] where the same was issued or acting in or for such State
[- - -] [[Thewords "or country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3
(w.e.f.18.12.1993).]](b)the depositions or statements or copies thereof
purport to be certified, under the hand of a Judge, Magistrate or Officer of
the State [* **] [[The words "or country"omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3
(w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]]where the same were taken, or acting in or for such
State [- - -] [[The words "or country" omitted by Act 66of 1993, Section 3
(w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]], to be theoriginal depositions or statements or to be
true copies thereof, as the case may require;(c)the certificate of, or
judicial document stating the fact of, a conviction purports to be certified
by a Judge, Magistrate or Officer of the State [* **] [[The words "orcountry"
omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]] where the
conviction took place or acting in or for such State;(d)the warrants,
depositions, statements, copies, certificates and judicial documents, as the
case may be, are authenticated by the oath of some witness or by the official
seal of a Minister of the State [- - -] [[The words "or country" omitted by
Act

### 66. of 1993, Section 3 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]] where the same

were [- - -] [[The word "respectively" omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 7
(w.e.f.18.12.1993).]] issued, taken or given.

### 11. Chapter not to apply to [foreign

States] [[Substituted by Act 66 of

### 1993.

, Section 3, for "commonwealth countries" (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]] to which
Chapter III applies.Nothing contained in this Chapter shall apply to fugitive
criminals [- - -] [[The words "of a commonwealth country" omitted by Act 66 of

### 1993\.

, Section 8 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]] to which Chapter IIIapplies.

## Chapter III  
Return of fugitive criminals to [foreign states] [Substituted by Act 66 of
1993, Section 9, for "COMMONWEALTH COUNTRIES" (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).] with
extradition

arrangements

### 12. Application of Chapter

(1)This Chapter shall apply only to any such [foreign State] [[Substituted by
Act 66 of 1993, Section 3,for "commonwealth country" (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]]
towhich, by reason of an extradition arrangement entered into with that
[State] [[Substituted by Act 66 of

### 1993\.

, Section 10, for "country" (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]], itmay seem expedient to
the Central Government to apply the same.(2)Every such application shall be by
notified order, and the Central Government may, by the same or any subsequent
notified order, direct that this Chapter and Chapters I, IV and V shall, in
relation to any such [foreign State] [[Substituted by Act 66 of 1993, Section
3, for[commonwealth country] (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]], applysubject to such
modifications, exceptions, conditions and qualifications as it may think fit
to specify in the order for the purpose of implementing the arrangement.

### 13. Liability of fugitive criminals from [foreign States] [[Substituted by

Act 66 of 1993, Section 3, for "commonwealth countries" (w.e.f.18.12.1993).]]
to be apprehended and returned.Where a fugitivecriminal of any [foreign State]
[[Substituted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3, for "commonwealth country"
(w.e.f.18.12.1993).]] to which this Chapter applies isfound in India, he shall
be liable to be apprehended and returned in the manner provided by this
Chapter to that [foreign State] [Substituted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3, for
"commonwealth country" (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).].

### 14. Endorsed and provisional warrants

.A fugitive criminal may be apprehended in India under an endorsed warrant or
a provisional warrant.

### 15. Endorsed warrant for apprehension of fugitive criminal

.Where a warrant for the apprehension of a fugitive criminal has been issued
in any [foreign State] [[Substituted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3,
for[commonwealth country] (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]] towhich this Chapter applies
and such fugitive criminal is, or is suspected to be, in India, the Central
Government may, if satisfied that the warrant was issued by a person having
lawful authority to issue the same, endorse such warrant in the manner
prescribed, and the warrant so endorsed shall be sufficient authority to
apprehend the person named in the warrant and to bring him before any
Magistrate in India.

### 16\. Provisional warrant for apprehension of fugitive criminal

(1)Any Magistrate may issue a provisional warrant for the apprehension of a
fugitive criminal from any [foreign State] [[Substituted byAct 66 of 1993,
Section 3, for "commonwealth country" (w.e.f.18.12.1993).]] to which this
Chapter applies who is, or is suspected to be, in or on his way to India, on
such information and under such circumstances as would, in his opinion,
justify the issue of a warrant, if the offence of which the fugitive criminal
is accused or has been convicted had been committed within his jurisdiction
and such warrant may be executed accordingly.(2)A Magistrate issuing a
provisional warrant shall forthwith send a report of the issue of the warrant
together with the information or a certified copy thereof to the Central
Government, and the Central Government may, if it thinks fit, discharge the
person apprehended under such warrant.(3)A fugitive criminal apprehended on a
provisional warrant may, from time to time, be remanded for such reasonable
time, not exceeding seven days at any one time, as under the circumstances
seems requisite for the production of an endorsed warrant.

### 17. Dealing with fugitive criminal when apprehended

(1)If the Magistrate, before whom a person apprehended under this Chapter is
brought, is satisfied on inquiry that the endorsed warrant for the
apprehension of the fugitive criminal is duly authenticated and that the
offence of which the person is accused or has been convicted is an extradition
offence, the Magistrate shall commit the fugitive criminal to prison to await
his return and shall forthwith send to the Central Government a certificate of
the committal.(2)If on such inquiry the Magistrate is of opinion that the
endorsed warrant is not duly authenticated or that the offence of which such
person is accused or has been convicted is not an extradition offence, the
Magistrate may, pending the receipt of the orders of the Central Government,
detain such person in custody or release him on bail.(3)The Magistrate shall
report the result of his inquiry to the Central Government and shall forward
together with such report any written statement which the fugitive criminal
may desire to submit for the consideration of that Government.

### 18\. Return of fugitive criminal by warrant

.The Central Government may, at any time after a fugitive criminal has been
committed to prison under this Chapter, issue a warrant for the custody and
removal to the [foreign State] [[Substituted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3, for
"commonwealthcountry" (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]] concerned of thefugitive criminal
and for his delivery at a place and to a person to be named in the warrant.

## Chapter IV  
Surrender Or Return Of Accused Or Convicted Persons From Foreign States [- -
-] [The Wors [Or Commonwealth Countries] Omitted By Ac 66 Of 1993, Section 3
(W.E.F. 18.12.1993).]

### 19. Mode of requisition or form of warrant for the surrender or return to
India of accused or convicted person who is in a foreign State [- - -] [[The
words "or commonwealth country" omitted by Act 66 of

### 1993\.

, Section 3 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]](1)A requisition for the surrender of a
person accused or convicted of an extradition offence committed in India and
who is or is suspected to be in any foreign State [- - -] [[The words "or
commonwealth country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993,Section 3 (w.e.f.
18.12.1993).]] to which Chapter III doesnot apply, may be made by the Central
GovernmentThe words "or country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3
(w.e.f.18.12.1993). (a) to a diplomatic representative of that State [- - -]
[[The words "or country" omitted byAct 66 of 1993, Section 3 (w.e.f.
18.12.1993).]] at Delhi; or(b)to the Government of that State [- - -] [The
words "or country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]
through the diplomatic representative of India in that State [- - -] [[The
words "or country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section

### 3\. (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]] ;

and if neither of these modes is convenient, the requisition shall be made in
such other mode as is settled by arrangement made by the Government of India
with that State [* * *] [The words "or country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993,
Section 3 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).] .(2)A warrant issued by a Magistrate in India
for the apprehension of any person who is, or is suspected to be, in any
[foreign State] [Substituted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3, for "commonwealth
country" (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).] to which Chapter III applies shall be in such
form as may be prescribed.

### 20. Conveyance of accused or convicted person surrendered or returned

.Any person accused or convicted of an extradition offence who is surrendered
or returned by a foreign State [- - -] [The words "or commonwealth country"
omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).] may under the
warrant of arrest for his surrender or return issued in such State [- - -]
[The words "or country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3 (w.e.f.
18.12.1993).], be broughtinto India and delivered to the proper authority to
be dealth with according to law.[21. Accused or convicted person surrendered
or returned by foreign State not to be tried for certain offences [Substituted
by Act 66 of 1993, Section 12, for Section 21 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).].Whenever
any person accused or convicted of an offence, which, if committed in India
would be an extradition offence, is surrendered or returned by a foreign
State, such person shall not, until he has been restored or has had an
opportunity of returning to that State, be tried in India for an offence other
than(a)the extradition offence in relation to which he was surrendered or
returned; or(b)any lesser offence disclosed by the facts proved for the
purposes of securing his surrender or return other than an offence in relation
to which an order for his surrender or return could not be lawfully made;
or(c)the offence in respect of which the foreign State has given itsconsent.]

## Chapter V  
Miscellaneous

### 22. Liability of fugitive criminals to be arrested and surrendered or
returned

.Every fugitive criminal of a foreign State [- - -] [[The words "or
commonwealth country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993,Section 3 (w.e.f.
18.12.1993).]] shall, subject to theprovisions of this Act, be liable to be
arrested and surrendered or returned, whether the offence in respect of which
the surrender or return is sought was committed before or after the
commencement of this Act, and whether or not a Court in India has jurisdiction
to try that offence.

### 23. Jurisdiction as to offences committed at sea or in air

.Where the offence in respect of which the surrender or return of a fugitive
criminal is sought was committed on board any vessel on the high seas or any
aircraft while in the air outside India or the Indian territorial waters which
comes into any port or aerodrome of India, the Central Government and any
Magistrate having jurisdiction in such port or aerodrome may exercise the
powers conferred by this Act.

### 24. Discharge of person apprehended if not surrendered or returned within
two months

.If a fugitive criminal who, in pursuance of this Act, has been committed to
prison to await his surrender or return to any foreign State [- - -] [[The
words "or commonwealth country"omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3 (w.e.f.
18.12.1993).]]is not conveyed out of India within two months after such
committal, the High Court, upon application made to it by or on behalf of the
fugitive criminal and upon proof that reasonable notice of the intention to
make such application has been given to the Central Government, may order such
prisoner to be discharged unless sufficient cause is shown to the contrary.

### 25. Release of persons arrested on bail

.In the case of a person who is a fugitive criminal arrested or detained under
this Act, the provisions of [the Codeof Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)]
[[Substituted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 13, for "theCode of Criminal
Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)" (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]], relating to bail shall
apply in the same manner as they would apply if such person were accused of
committing in India the offence of which he is accused or has been convicted,
and in relation to such bail, the Magistrate before whom the fugitive criminal
is brought shall have, as far as may be, the same powers and jurisdiction as a
Court of Session under that Code.

### 26. Abetment of extradition offences

.A fugitive criminal who is accused or convicted of abetting [, conspiring,
attempting to commit, inciting or participating as an accomplice in the
commission of] [[Inserted by Act 66of 1993, Section 14 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]]
any extradition offence shall be deemed for thepurposes of this Act to be
accused or convicted of having committed such offence and shall be liable to
be arrested and surrendered accordingly.

### 27. Lawfulness of, and retaking on escape from, custody under warrants

.It shall be lawful for any person to whom a warrant is directed for the
apprehension of a fugitive criminal to hold in custody and convey the person
mentioned in the warrant to the place named in the warrant, and if such person
escapes out of any custody to which he may be delivered in pursuance of such
warrant, he may be retaken as a person accused of an offence against the law
of India may be retaken upon an escape.

### 28. Property found on fugitive criminal

.Everything found in the possession of a fugitive criminal at the time of his
arrest which may be material as evidence in proving the extradition offence
may be delivered up with the fugitive criminal on his surrender or return,
subject to the rights, if any, of third parties with respect thereto.

### 29. Power of Central Government to discharge any fugitive criminal

.If it appears to the Central Government that by reason of the trivial nature
of the case or by reason of the application for the surrender or return of a
fugitive criminal not being made in good faith or in the interests of justice
or for political reasons or otherwise, it is unjust or inexpedient to
surrender or return the fugitive criminal, it may, by order, at any time stay
any proceedings under this Act and direct any warrant issued or endorsed under
this Act to be cancelled and the person for whose arrest the warrant has been
issued or endorsed to be discharged.

### 30. Simultaneous requisitions

.If requisitions for the surrender of a fugitive criminal are received from
more than one foreign State [- - -] [[The words[ or commonwealth country or
from any foreignState and any commonwealth country] omitted by Act 66 of 1993,
Section 15 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]], the Central Government may, havingregard to
the circumstances of the case, surrender the fugitive criminal to such State[-
- -] [[The words "or country" omitted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 3
(w.e.f.18.12.1993). ]] as that Government thinks fit.

### 31. Restrictions on surrender

.[(1)] [[Section 31 renumberedas sub-Section (1) thereof and sub-Section (2)
inserted by Act 66 of 1993,Section 16 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]] A fugitive
criminal shall not be surrendered or returned to a foreign State [- - -]
[[Thewords "or commonwealth country" omitted by Act 16 of 1993, Section 3
(w.e.f.18.12.1993).]](a)if the offence in respect of which his surrender is
sought is of a political character or if he proves to the satisfaction of the
Magistrate or Court before whom he may be produced or of the Central
Government that the requisition or warrant for his surrender has, in fact,
been made with a view to try or punish him for an offence of a political
character;(b)if prosecution for the offence in respect of which his surrender
is sought is according to the law of that State [- - -] [[The words "or
commonwealth country" omittedby Act 16 of 1993, Section 3 (w.e.f.
18.12.1993).]], barredby time;(c)[ unless provision is made by that law of the
foreign State or in the extradition treaty with the foreign State that the
fugitive criminal shall not be determined or tried in that State for an
offence other than(i)the extradition offence in relation to which he is to be
surrendered or returned;(ii)any lesser offence disclosed by the facts proved
for the purposes of securing his surrender or return other than an offence in
relation to which an order for his surrender or return could not be lawfully
made; or(iii)the offence in respect of which the Central Government has given
itsconsent;](d)if he has been accused of some offence in India, not being the
offence for which his surrender or return is sought, or is undergoing sentence
under any conviction in India until after he has been discharged, whether by
acquittal or on expiration of his sentence or otherwise;(e)until after the
expiration of fifteen days from the date of his being committed to prison by
the Magistrate.(2)[ For thepurposes of sub-section (1), the offences specified
in the Schedule shall not be regarded as offences of a political
character.(3)The Central Government having regard to the extradition treaty
made by India with any foreign State may, by notified order, add or omit any
offence from the list given in the

## ] [[Section 31 renumbered as sub-Section (1) thereof and sub-Section (2)

## inserted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 16 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]]

### 32. Sections 29 and 31 to apply without any modification thereof

.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in section 3 or section
12, the provisions of sections 29 and 31 shall apply without any modification
to every foreign State [* **] [[The words "or commonwealthcounty" omitted by
Act 66 of 1993, Section 3 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993).]] law.

### 33. Act not to affect the Foreigners Act, 1946

.Nothing in this Act shall affect the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946
(31 of 1946), or any order made thereunder.

### 34. [ Extra-territorial jurisdiction [Substituted by Act 66 of 1993,
Section 17, for Section 34 (w.e.f. 18.12.1993.)]

.An extradition offence committed by any person in a foreign State shall be
deemed to have been committed in India and such person shall be liable to be
prosecuted in India for such offence.

### 34\.

-A. Prosecution on refusal to extradition.Where the Central Government is of the opinion that a fugitive criminal cannot be surrendered or returned pursuant to a request for extradition from a foreign State, it may, as it thinks fit, take steps to prosecute such fugitive criminal in India.

### 34\.

-B. Provisional arrest(1)On receipt of an urgent request from a foreign State for the immediate arrest of a fugitive criminal, the Central Government may request the Magistrate having competent jurisdiction to issue a provisional warrant for the arrest of such fugitive criminal.(2)A fugitive criminal arrested under sub-section (1) shall be discharged upon the expiration of sixty days from the date of his arrest if no request for his surrender or return is received within the said period.

### 34\.

-C. Provision of life imprisonment for death penalty.Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, where a fugitive criminal, who has committed an extradition offence punishable with death in India, is surrendered or returned by a foreign State on the request of the Central Government and the laws of that foreign State do not provide for a death penalty for such an offence, such fugitive criminal shall be liable for punishment of imprisonment for life only for that offence.] [[Substituted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 16, for Clause (c) (w.e.f.18.12.1993).]]

### 35. Notified orders and notifications to be laid before Parliament

.Every notified order made or notification issued under this Act shall, as
soon as may be after it is made or issued, be laid before each House of
Parliament.

### 36. Power to make rules

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely:(a)the form in which a requisition
for the surrender of a fugitive criminal may be made;(b)the form in which a
warrant for the apprehension of any person in a [foreign State] [[Substituted
byAct 66 of 1993, Section 3, for "commonwealth country" (w.e.f.18.12.1993).]]
to which Chapter III applies may be made;(c)the manner in which any warrant
may be endorsed or authenticated under this Act;(d)the removal of fugitive
criminals accused or in custody under this Act and their control and
maintenance until such time as they are handed over to the persons named in
the warrant as entitled to receive them;(e)the seizure and disposition of any
property which is the subject of, or required for proof of, any alleged
offence to which this Act applies;(f)the form and manner in which or the
channel through which a Magistrate may be required to make his report to the
Central Government under this Act;(g)any other matter which has to be, or may
be, prescribed.(3)Every rule made under this section shall be laid, as soon as
may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in
session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or [in two or more successivesessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid] [[Substituted by Act 4 of 1986, Section 2 andSch., for certain
words (w.e.f. 15.5.1986).]] both Houses agree in making anymodification in the
rule, or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 37. Repeals and savings

(1)The Indian Extradition Act, 1903 (15 of 1903), and any law corresponding
thereto in force at the commencement of this Act in the territories which,
immediately before the 1st day of November, 1956, were comprised in Part B
States and the North-East Frontier Agency and Tuensang District (Extradition)
Regulation, 1961, are hereby repealed.(2)The Extradition Acts, 1870 to 1932
and the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881 (33 of 1881), in so far as they apply to
and operate as part of the law of India, are hereby repealed.[The Schedule
[Substituted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 18, for Sch.I and II (w.e.f.
18.12.1993).][See section 31(2)Offences which are not to be regarded as
offences of a political characterThe following list of offences is to be
construed according to the law in force in India on the date of the alleged
offence. Wherever the names of the relevant Acts are not given, the sections
referred to are the selection of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860):

### 1\. Offences under the Anti-Hijacking Act, 1982 (65 of 1982).

### 2\. Offences under the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against Safety of
Civil Aviation Act, 1982 (66 of 1982).

### 3\. An offence within the scope of the Convention on the punishment of
crimes against internationally protected persons including diplomatic agents,
opened for signature at New York on 14th December, 1973.

### 4\. An offence within the scope of the International Convention against
the taking of hostages opened for signature at New York on 18th December,
1979.

### 5\. Culpable homicide, murder (sections 299 to 304).

### 6\. Voluntarily causing hurt or grievous hurt by a dangerous weapon or
means (sections 321 to 333).

### 7\. Offences under the Explosive Substances Act, 1908 (6 of 1908).

### 8\. Possession of a fire-arm or ammunition with intention to endanger life
[section 27 of the Arms Act, 1959 (54 of 1959).

### 9\. The use of a fire-arm with intention to resist or prevent the arrest
or detention [section 28 of the Arms Act, 1959 (54 of 1959).

### 10\. Causing of loss or damage to property used for public utilities or
otherwise with intention to endanger life (section 425 read with section 440).

### 11\. Wrongful restraint and wrongful confinement (sections 339 to 348).

### 12\. Kidnapping and abduction including taking of hostages (sections 359
to 369).

### 13\. Offences relating to terrorism and terrorist acts [Terrorists and
Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 (28 of 1987).

### 14\. Abetting, conspiring or attempting to commit, inciting, participating
as an accomplice in the commission of any of the offences listed above.]

[[Substituted by Act 66 of 1993, Section 4, for Clauses (a) and (c)
(w.e.f.18.12.1993).]]

