## Union of India - Act

## The Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1981

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1981

## Act 40 of 1981

  * Published on 1 January 1981 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1981 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1981.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1981(40 of 1981)

### 125.

An Act to provide for the maintenance of certain essential services and the
normal life of the community .Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-second
Year of the Republic of India as follows:

### 1. Short title, extent, commencement and duration

(1)This Act may be called The Essential Services Maintenance Act , 1981.(2)It
extends to the whole of India:Provided that it shall not apply to the State of
Jammu and Kashmir insofar as it relates to any essential service connected
with matters with respect to which Parliament has no power to make laws for
that State.(3)Sections 8 and 9 shall come into force at once and the remaining
provisions of this Act shall be deemed to have come into force on the 26th day
of July, 1981.(4)It shall cease to have effect on the expiry of [nine years]
[[Substituted by Act 49 of 1985,Section 2, for "four years" (w.e.f.
2.9.1985).]] fromthe date on which this Act receives the assent of the
President except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such
cesser of operation of this Act, and section 6 of the General Clauses Act,
1897 (10 of 1897), shall apply upon such cesser of operation of this Act as if
it had then been repealed by a Central Act.

### 2. Definitions

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)essential service
means(i)any postal, telegraph or telephone service, including any service
connected therewith;(ii)any railway service or any transport service for the
carriage of passengers or goods by air or any other transport service for the
carriage of passengers or goods by land or water with respect to which
Parliament has power to make laws;(iii)any service connected with the
operation or maintenance of aerodromes, or with the operation, repair or
maintenance of aircraft, or any service in the International Airports
Authority of India constituted under section 3 of the International Airports
Authority Act, 1971 (43 of 1971);(iv)any service in, or in connection with the
working of, any major port, including any service connected with the loading,
unloading, movement or storage of goods in any such port;(v)any service
connected with the clearance of goods or passengers through the customs or
with the prevention of smuggling;(vi)any service in any establishment of, or
connected with, the armed forces of the Union or in any other establishments
or installations connected with defence;(vii)any service in any establishment
or undertaking dealing with the production of goods required for any purpose
connected with defence;(viii)any service in any section of any industrial
undertaking pertaining to a scheduled industry on the working of which the
safety of such undertaking or the employees employed therein
depends.Explanation. For the purposes of this sub-clause, the expressions
industrial undertaking and scheduled industry shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in clauses (d) and (i) of section 3 of the
Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951);(ix)any service
in, or in connection with, the working of any undertaking owned or controlled
by the Central Government being an undertaking engaged in the purchase,
procurement, storage, supply or distribution of foodgrains,(x)any service in,
or in connection with the working of, any system of public conservancy,
sanitation or water supply, hospitals or dispensaries, in any Union territory,
cantonment area or undertaking owned or controlled by the Central
Government;(xi)any service in connection with or in relation to
banking;(xii)any service in any establishment or undertaking dealing with the
production, supply or distribution of coal, power, steel or
fertilizers;(xiii)any service in any oilfield or refinery or in any
establishment or undertaking dealing with the production, supply or
distribution of petroleum and petroleum products;(xiv)any service in any mint
or security press;(xv)any service in connection with elections to Parliament
or to the Legislatures of the States;(xvi)any service in connection with the
affairs of the Union, not being a service specified in any of the foregoing
sub-clauses;(xvii)any other service connected with matters with respect to
which Parliament has power to make laws and which the Central Government being
of opinion that strikes therein would prejudicially affect the maintenance of
any public utility service, the public safety or the maintenance of supplies
and services necessary for the life of the community or would result in the
infliction of grave hardship on the community, may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, declare to be an essential service for the purposes of this
Act;(b)strike means the cessation of work by a body of persons while employed
in any essential service acting in combination or a concerted refusal or a
refusal under a common understanding of any number of persons who are or have
been so employed to continue to work or to accept work assigned, and
includes(i)refusal to work overtime where such work is necessary for the
maintenance of any essential service;(ii)any other conduct which is likely to
result in, or results in, cessation or substantial retardation of work in any
essential service;(c)words and expressions used in sections 8 and 9 and not
defined, but defined in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), shall
have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.(2)Every
notification issued under sub-clause (xvii) of clause (a) of sub-section (1)
shall be laid before each House of Parliament immediately after it is made if
it is in session and on the first day of the commencement of the next session
of the House if it is not in session, and shall cease to operate at the
expiration of forty days from the date of its being so laid or from the re-
assembly of Parliament, as the case may be, unless before the expiration of
that period a resolution approving the issue of the notification is passed by
both Houses of Parliament.Explanation. Where the Houses of Parliament are
summoned to re-assemble on different dates, the period of forty days shall be
reckoned from the later of those dates.(3)Any reference in this Act to any law
which is not in force in any area and to any authority under such law shall,
in relation to that area, be construed as a reference to the corresponding law
in force in that area and to the corresponding authority under such
corresponding law.

### 3. Power to prohibit strikes in certain employments

(1)If the Central Government is satisfied that in the public interest it is
necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by general or special Order, prohibit
strikes in any essential service specified in the Order.(2)An Order made under
sub-section (1) shall be published in such manner as the Central Government
considers best calculated to bring it to the notice of the persons affected by
the Order.(3)An Order made under sub-section (1) shall be in force for six
months only, but the Central Government may, by a like Order, extend it for
any period not exceeding six months if it is satisfied that in the public
interest it is necessary or expedient so to do.(4)Upon the issue of an Order
under sub-section (1),(a)no person employed in any essential service to which
the Order relates shall go or remain or strike;(b)any strike declared or
commenced whether before or after the issue of the Order, by persons employed
in any such service shall be illegal.

### 4. Dismissal of employees participating in illegal strikes

.Any person,(a)who commences a strike which is illegal under this Act or goes
or remains on, or otherwise takes part in, any such strike; or(b)who
instigates or incites other persons to commence, or go or remain on, or
otherwise take part in, any such strike, shall be liable to disciplinary
action (including dismissal) in accordance with the same provisions as are
applicable for the purpose of taking such disciplinary action (including
dismissal) on any other ground under the terms and conditions of service
applicable to him in relation to his employment.

### 5. Penalty for illegal strikes

.Any person who commences a strike which is illegal under this Act or goes or
remains on, or otherwise takes part in, any such strike shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine
which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.

### 6. Penalty for instigation, etc

.Any person who instigates or incites other persons to take part in, or
otherwise acts in furtherance of, a strike which is illegal under this Act
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year,
or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with both.

### 7. Penalty for giving financial aid to illegal strikes

.Any person who knowingly expends or supplies any money in furtherance or
support of a strike which is illegal under this Act shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which may
extend to two thousand rupees, or with both.

### 8. Power to prohibit lock-outs in certain establishments

(1)If the Central Government is satisfied that in the public interest it is
necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by general or special Order, prohibit
lock-outs in any establishment pertaining to any essential service specified
in the Order.(2)An Order made under sub-section (1) shall be published in such
manner as the Central Government considers best calculated to bring it to the
notice of the persons affected by the Order.(3)An Order made under sub-section
(1) shall be in force for six months only, but the Central Government may, by
a like Order, extend it for any period not exceeding six months if it is
satisfied that in the public interest it is necessary so to do.(4)Upon the
issue of an Order under sub-section (1),(a)no employer in relation to an
establishment to which the Order applies shall commence any lock-out;(b)any
lock-out declared or commenced whether before or after the issue of the Order
by any employer in relation to an establishment to which the Order applies
shall be illegal.(5)Any employer in relation to an establishment who
commences, continues or otherwise acts in furtherance of a lock-out which is
illegal under this section, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees, or with both.

### 9. Power to prohibit lay-off in certain establishments

(1)If the Central Government is satisfied that in the public interest it is
necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by general or special Order, prohibit
lay-off, on any ground other than shortage of power or natural calamity, of
any workman (other than a badli workman or a casual workman) whose name is
borne on the muster rolls of any establishment pertaining to any essential
service specified in the Order.(2)An Order made under sub-section (1) shall be
published in such manner as the Central Government considers best calculated
to bring it to the notice of the persons affected by the Order.(3)An Order
made under sub-section (1) shall be in force for six months only, but the
Central Government may, by a like Order, extend it for any period not
exceeding six months if it is satisfied that in the public interest it is
necessary or expedient so to do.(4)Upon the issue of an Order under sub-
section (1),(a)no employer in relation to an establishment to which the Order
applies shall lay-off or continue the lay-off of any workman (other than a
badli workman or a casual workman) whose name is borne on the muster-rolls of
such establishment unless such lay-off is due to shortage of power or to
natural calamity and any laying-off or continuation of laying-off shall,
unless such laying-off or continuation of laying-off is due to shortage of
power or to natural calamity, be illegal;(b)a workman whose laying-off is
illegal under clause (a) shall be entitled to all the benefits under any law
for the time being in force as if he had not been laid-off.(5)Any employer in
relation to an establishment who lays-off or continues the laying-off of any
workman shall, if such laying-off or continuation of laying-off is illegal
under this section, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or
with both.

### 10. Power to arrest without warrant

.Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2
of 1974), any police officer may arrest without warrant any person who is
reasonably suspected of having committed any offence under this Act.

### 11. Offences to be tried summarily

.Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2
of 1974), all offences under this Act shall be tried in a summary way by any
Metropolitan Magistrate, or any Judicial Magistrate of the First Class
specially empowered in this behalf by the State Government and the provisions
of sections 262 to 265 (both inclusive) of the said Code shall, as far as may
be, apply to such trial:Provided that in a case of conviction for any offence
in a summary trial under this section, it shall be lawful for the Magistrate
to pass a sentence of imprisonment for any term for which such offence is
punishable under this Act.

### 12. Act to override other laws

.The provisions of this Act and of any Order issued thereunder shall have
effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in the
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), or in any other law for the time
being in force.

### 13. Amendment of Act 41 of 1980

.During the continuance in force of this Act, the Essential Services
Maintenance (Assam) Act, 1980, shall have effect as if,(a)in section 2,(1)in
sub-section (1),(i)clause (a) had been omitted;(ii)for clause (b), the
following clauses had been substituted, namely:(b)essential service
means(i)any transport service for the carriage of passengers or goods, by land
or water, with respect to which the Legislative Assembly of the State of Assam
has power to make laws;(ii)any service connected with the production, storage,
supply or distribution, as the case may be, of gas or water;(iii)any service
connected with the maintenance of public health and sanitation, including
hospitals and dispensaries;(iv)any public services and posts in connection
with the affairs of the State, and also persons appointed to the secretarial
staff of the Legislative Assembly of the State of Assam;(v)any other service
or employment or class thereof, connected with matters with respect to which
the Legislative Assembly of the State of Assam has power to make laws and
which the State Government, being of opinion that strikes therein would
prejudicially affect the maintenance of any public utility service, the public
safety or the maintenance of the supplies and services necessary for the life
of the community or would result in the infliction of grave hardship on the
community, may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare to be an
essential service for the purposes of this Act;(bb)State Government means the
State Government of Assam;;(2)in sub-section (2), for the words, brackets and
figures under sub-clause (xiv), the words, brackets and figure under sub-
clause (v) had been substituted;(b)in sections 3 and 9, for the words
appropriate Government, wherever they occur, the words State Government had
been substituted.

### 14. Repeal and saving

(1)The Essential Service Maintenance Ordinance, 1981 (10 of 1981), is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken
under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the
corresponding provisions of this Act.

