## Union of India - Act

## The Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1968

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1968

## Act 59 of 1968

  * Published on 28 December 1968 
  * Commenced on 28 December 1968 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 December 1968.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1968Act No. 59 of 1968[28th December,
1968]An Act to provide for the maintenance of certain essential services and
the normal life of the community.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Nineteenth
Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title extend and duration.

(1)This Act may be called the Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1968.(2)It
extends to the whole of India:Provided that it shall not apply to the State of
Jammu and Kashmir except to the extent to which the provisions of this Act
relate to Union employees.(3)It shall cease to have effect on the expiry of
three years from the date of commencement of this Act except as respects
things done or omitted to be done before such cesser of operation of this Act,
and section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897,(10 of 1897), shall apply upon
such cesser of operation of this Act as if it had then been repealed by a
Central Act.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In this Act,-(a)"essential service" means-(i)any postal, telegraph or
telephone service;(ii)any railway service or any other transport service for
the carriage of passengers or goods by land, water or air with respect to
which Parliament has power to make laws;(iii)any service connected with the
operation or maintenance of aerodromes, or with the operation, repair or
maintenance of aircraft ;(iv)any service connected with the loading,
unloading, movement or storage of goods in any port;(v)any service connected
with the clearance of goods or passengers through the customs or with the
prevention of smuggling;(vi)any service in any mint or security press;(vii)any
service in any defence establishment of the Government of India;(viii)any
service in connection with the affairs of the Union, not being a service
specified in any of the foregoing sub-clauses ;(ix)any other service connected
with matters with respect to which Parliament has power to make laws and which
the Central Government being of opinion that strikes therein would
prejudicially affect the maintenance of any public utility service, the public
safety or the maintenance of supplies and services necessary for the life of
the community or would result in the infliction of grave hardship on the
community, may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare to be an
essential service for the purposes of this Act ;(b)"strike" means the
cessation of work by a body of persons employed in any essential service
acting in combination or a concerted refusal or a refusal under a common
understanding of any number of persons who are or have been so employed to
continue to work or to accept employment, and includes-(i)refusal to work
overtime where such work is necessary for the maintenance of any essential
service ;(ii)any other conduct which is likely to, result in, or results in,
cessation or substantial retardation of work in any essential service.(2)Every
notification issued under sub-clause (ix) of clause (a) of sub-section (1)
shall be laid before each House of Parliament immediately after it is made if
it is in session and on the first day of the commencement of the next session
of the House if it is not in session, and shall cease, to operate at the
expiration of forty days from the date of its being so laid or from the re-
assembly of Parliament, as the case may be, unless before the expiration of
that period a resolution approving the issue of the notification is passed by
both Houses of Parliament.Explanation.-Where the Houses of Parliament are
summoned to re-assemble on different dates, the period of forty days shall be
reckoned from the later of those dates.

### 3. Power to prohibit strikes in certain employments.

(1)If the Central Government is satisfied that in the public interest it is
necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by general or special Order,
prohibit' strikes in any essential service specified in the Order.(2)An Order
made under sub-section (1) shall be published in such manner as the Central
Government considers best calculated to bring it to, the notice of the persons
affected by the Order.(3)An Order made under sub-section (1) shall be in force
for six months only, but the Central Government may, by a like Order, extend
it for any period not exceeding six months if it is satisfied that in the
public interest it is necessary or expedient so to do.(4)Upon the issue of an
Order under sub-section (I),-(a)no person employed in any essential service to
which the Order relates shall go or remain on strike ;(b)any strike declared
or commenced, whether before or after the issue of the Order, by persons
employed in any such service shall be illegal.

### 4. Penalty for illegal strikes.

Any person who commences a strike which is illegal under this Act or goes or
remains on, or otherwise takes part in, any such strike shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine
which may extend to two hundred rupees, or with both.

### 5. Penalty for instigation, etc.

Any person who instigates, or incites other persons to take part in, or
otherwise acts in furtherance of, a strike which is illegal under this Act
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year,
or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.

### 6. Penalty for giving financial aid to illegal strikes.

Any person who knowingly expends or supplies any money in furtherance or
support of a strike which is illegal under this Act shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.

### 7. Power to arrest without warrant.

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898,(5
of 1898), any police officer may arrest without warrant any person who is
reasonably suspected of having committed any offence under this Act.

### 8. Act to override other laws.

The provisions of this Act and of any Order issued thereunder shall have
effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent there with contained in the
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (14 of 1947),or in any other law for the time
being in force.

### 9.

(1)Repeal and saving.The Essential Services Maintenance Ordinance, 1968,(9 of
1968), hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any
action taken under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or
taken under this Act, as if this Act had come into force on the 13th day of
September, 1968.

