## Union of India - Act

## The Esso (Acquisition Of Undertakings In India) Act, 1974

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Esso (Acquisition Of Undertakings In India) Act, 1974

## Act 4 of 1974

  * Published on 13 March 1974 
  * Commenced on 13 March 1974 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 March 1974.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Esso (Acquisition Of Undertakings In India) Act, 1974ACT NO. 4 OF 1974

### 1267.

[13th March, 1974]An Act to provide for the acquisition and transfer of the
right, title and interest of Esso Eastern Inc. in relation to its undertakings
in India with a view to ensuring co-ordinated distribution and utilisation of
petroleum products distributed and marketed in India by Esso Eastern Inc. and
for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title.

This Act may be called the Esso (Acquisition of Undertakings in India) Act,
1974.

### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--(a)"appointed day" means
the date of commencement of this Act;(b)"Esso" means Esso Eastern Inc., a
foreign company within the meaning of section 591 of the Companies Act, 1956
(1 of 1956), incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in the
United States of America, and having its principal office at 2401 South
Gessner, City of Houston, State of Texas, in the United States of
America;(c)"Esso Standard" means Esso Standard Refining Company of India
Limited, being a company as defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956),
and having its registered office at Administration Building, Mahul, Bombay 400
074;(d)"Government company" means a company as defined in section 617 of the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);(e)"Lube India" means Lube India Limited,
being a company as defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), and having
its registered office at Administration Building, Corridor Road, Mahul, Bombay
400 074;(f)"notification" means a notification published in the Official
Gazette;(g)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act.

## Chapter II  
Acquisition Of The Undertakings In India Of Esso

### 3. Transfer and vesting in the Central Government of the undertakings of
Esso in India.

On the appointed day, the right, title and interest of Esso, in relation to
its undertakings in India, shall stand transferred to, and shall vest in, the
Central Government.

### 4. General effect of vesting.

(1)The undertakings referred to in section 3 shall be deemed, save as
otherwise provided in sub-section (2), to include all assets, rights, powers,
authorities and privileges and all property, movable and immovable, cash
balances, reserve funds, investments and all other rights and interests in, or
arising out of, such property as were, immediately before the appointed day,
in the ownership, possession, power or control of Esso, in relation to its
undertakings in India, and all books of account, registers, records and all
other documents of whatever nature relating thereto and shall also be deemed
to include all borrowings, liabilities and obligations of whatever kind then
subsisting of Esso in relation to its undertakings in India.(2)The
undertakings referred to in sub-section (1) shall not include the following,
namely:--(a)any share held by Esso in the equity capital of Esso Standard or
Lube India;(b)any trade mark, and any right of Esso to use any trade mark in
India, specified in the First Schedule;(c)all patents and designs registered
in India in the name of Esso.(3)Unless otherwise expressly provided by this
Act, all deeds, bonds, agreements, powers of attorney, grants of legal
representation and other instruments of whatever nature in relation to the
undertakings of Esso in India, subsisting or having effect immediately before
the appointed day, and to which Esso is a party or which are in favour of Esso
shall be of as full force and effect against or in favour of the Central
Government and may be enforced or acted upon as fully and effectually as if in
the place of Esso the Central Government had been a party thereto or as if
they had been issued in favour of the Central Government.(4)If, on the
appointed day, any suit, appeal or other proceeding of whatever nature, in
relation to the undertakings of Esso in India, which have been transferred to
and vested in the Central Government under section 3, is pending by or against
Esso, the same shall not abate, be discontinued or be, in any way,
prejudicially affected by reason of the transfer of the undertakings of Esso
or of anything contained in this Act, but the suit, appeal or other proceeding
may be continued, prosecuted and enforced by or against the Central
Government, or, where any undertaking is directed under section 7 to vest in
any Government company, [by or against the concerned Government company]
[Substituted by Act 38 of 1978, Section 3 and Sch. II, for "against the
concerned Government company" ].

### 5. Central Government to be lessee or tenant under certain circumstances.

(1)Where any property is held in India by Esso under any lease or under any
right of tenancy, the Central Government shall, on and from the appointed day,
be deemed to have become the lessee or tenant, as the case may be, in respect
of such property as if the lease or tenancy in relation to such property had
been granted to the Central Government, and thereupon all the rights under
such lease or tenancy shall be deemed to have been transferred to and vested
in the Central Government.(2)On the expiry of the term of any lease or tenancy
referred to in sub-section (1), such lease or tenancy shall, if so desired by
the Central Government, be renewed on the same terms and conditions on which
the lease or tenancy was held by Esso immediately before the appointed day.

### 6. Removal of doubts.

(1)For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the provisions of
sections 3, 4 and 5 shall apply to the extent to which any property appertains
to the business carried on by Esso in India; and to the rights and powers
acquired, and to debts, liabilities and obligations incurred, and to
contracts, agreements and other instruments made, by Esso in India, and to
legal proceedings relating to those matters pending in any court or tribunal
in India.(2)If any question arises as to whether any property appertains, on
the appointed day, to any business of Esso in India, or, whether any rights,
powers, liabilities or obligations were acquired or incurred or any contract,
agreement or other instrument was made by Esso for the purposes of its
business in India, or whether any documents relate to those purposes, the
question shall be referred to the Central Government which shall, after giving
an opportunity of being heard to the persons interested in the matter, decide
it in such manner as it may think fit.

### 7. Power of Central Government to direct vesting of the undertakings of
Esso in a Government company.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 3, 4 and 5, the Central
Government may, if it is satisfied that a Government company is willing to
comply, or has complied, with such terms and conditions as that Government may
think fit to impose, direct, by notification, that the right, title and
interest and the liabilities of Esso in relation to any undertaking in India
shall, instead of continuing to vest in the Central Government, vest in the
Government company either on the date of the notification or on such earlier
or later date (not being a date earlier than the appointed day) as may be
specified in the notification.(2)Where the right, title and interest and the
liabilities of Esso in relation to its undertakings in India vest in a
Government company under sub-section (1), the Government company shall, on and
from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have become the owner, tenant or
lessee, as the case may be, in relation to such undertakings, and all the
rights and liabilities of the Central Government in relation to such
undertakings shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have
become the rights and liabilities, respectively, of the Government
company.(3)The provisions of sub-section (2) of section 5 shall apply to a
lease or tenancy, which vests in a Government company, as they apply to a
lease or tenancy vested in the Central Government and reference therein to the
"Central Government" shall be construed as a reference to the Government
company.

### 8. Payment of amount.

(1)For the transfer and vesting in the Central Government, under sections 3
and 4, of the right, title and interest of Esso in relation to its
undertakings in India, and for the vesting in the Central Government, under
section 5, of the rights specified therein, there shall be paid by the Central
Government to Esso an amount of rupees two crores and fifty-nine lakhs in such
instalments and in such manner as is specified in the Second Schedule.(2)The
amount specified in sub-section (1) shall carry interest, free of income-tax,
at the rate of six and a half per cent. per annum from the appointed day till
the date of payment in the manner specified in the Second Schedule.

## Chapter III  
Provisions Relating To Employees Of Esso

### 9. Transfer of service of existing employees of Esso.

(1)Every whole-time officer or other employee of Esso who was, immediately
before the appointed day, employed by Esso in connection with its undertakings
in India, and every whole-time officer or other employee of Esso who was,
immediately before the appointed day, temporarily holding any assignment
outside India, shall, on the appointed day, become an officer or other
employee, as the case may be, of the Central Government or, as the case may
be, the Government company in which the right, title and interest of Esso, in
relation to its undertakings in India have vested under this Act and shall
hold office or service under the Central Government or the Government company,
as the case may be, on the same terms and conditions and with the same rights
to pension, gratuity and other matters as would have been admissible to him if
there had been no such vesting and shall continue to do so unless and until
his employment under the Central Government or the Government company, as the
case may be, is duly terminated or until his remuneration and conditions of
service are duly altered by the Central Government or the Government company,
as the case may be.(2)If any question arises as to whether any person was a
wholetime officer or other employee or as to whether any officer or other
employee was employed wholly or mainly in connection with the undertakings of
Esso in India immediately before the appointed day, or whether any whole-time
officer or other employee of Esso was temporarily holding any assignment
outside India, the question shall be referred, within a period of two years
from the appointed day and not thereafter, to the Central Government which
shall, after giving an opportunity of being heard to the person concerned in
the matter, decide it in such manner as it thinks fit and such decision shall
be final.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial Disputes Act,
1947 (14 of 1947), the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (39 of 1972), or in any
other law for the time being in force, the transfer of the services of any
officer or other employee under sub-section (1) shall not entitle any such
officer or other employee to any compensation or gratuity under those Acts or
such other law, and no such claim shall be entertained by any court, tribunal
or other authority.

### 10. Provident, superannuation, welfare fund, etc.

(1)Where a provident, superannuation, welfare or other fund has been
established by Esso for the benefit of the persons employed by it in
connection with its undertakings in India, the moneys relatable to the
employees, whose services are transferred by or under this Act to the Central
Government or a Government company, shall, out of the moneys standing, on the
appointed day, to the credit of such provident, superannuation, welfare or
other fund, stand transferred to and vest in the Central Government or the
Government company, as the case may be, free from any trust that may have been
constituted by Esso in respect thereof.(2)The moneys which stand transferred,
under sub-section (1), to the Central Government or a Government company shall
be dealt with by the Central Government or that company, as the case may be,
in such manner as may be prescribed.(3)The Government company in which the
undertakings of Esso in India are directed to be vested shall, as soon as may
be after the date of vesting, constitute, in respect of the moneys and other
assets which are transferred to and vested in it under this section, one or
more trusts having objects as similar to the objects of the existing trusts as
in the circumstances may be practicable, so, however, that the rights and
interests of the beneficiaries of the trust referred to in sub-section (1) are
not, in any way, prejudiced or diminished.(4)Where all the moneys and other
assets belonging to an existing trust are transferred to and vested in the
Central Government or a Government company under this section, the trustees of
such trust shall, as from the date of such vesting, stand discharged from the
trust except as respects things done or omitted to be done before the date of
such vesting.

## Chapter IV  
Miscellaneous

### 11. Effect of Act on other laws.

The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force
or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act or
in any decree or order of any court, tribunal or other authority.

### 12. Duty to deliver possession of properties, etc.

(1)Where any property, appertaining to any undertaking of Esso in India has
been transferred to, and vested in, the Central Government or a Government
company under this Act:--(a)every person in whose possession, custody or
control any such property may be, shall, on a demand by the Central Government
or the Government company, as the case may be, deliver the property to the
Central Government or the Government company, as the case may be,
forthwith;(b)any person who, immediately before such vesting, has in his
possession, custody or control any books, documents or other papers relating
to the undertakings of Esso in India, shall be liable to account for the said
books, documents and papers to the Central Government or the Government
company, as the case may be, and shall deliver them up to the Central
Government or that company or to such person as the Central Government or that
company may authorise in this behalf.(2)Without prejudice to the other
provisions contained in this section, it shall be lawful for the Central
Government or the Government company to take all necessary steps for taking
possession of all properties which have been transferred to and vested in it
under this Act.

### 13. Contracts to continuee unless terminated by Central Government.

(1)Every contract entered into by Esso for any service, sale or supply in
India, and in force immediately before the appointed day, shall, unless
terminated, under sub-section (2), within [one year] [ Substituted by Act 40
of 1974, Section 2, for "one hundred and eighty days"] from the appointed day,
continue to be of full force and effect against or in favour of the Central
Government or the Government company in which the undertakings of Esso in
India have vested under this Act.(2)The Central Government may, if it is
satisfied that any contract referred to in sub-section (1) is unduly onerous
or has been entered into in bad faith or is detrimental to the interests of
that Government or the Government company, by order in writing, either
terminate such contract or make such alterations or modifications therein as
it may think fit:Provided that the Central Government shall not terminate any
contract or make any alteration or modification therein except after giving to
the parties to the contract a reasonable opportunity of being heard and except
after recording, in writing, its reasons for such termination, alteration or
modification, as the case may be.

### 14. Penalties.

Any person who,--(a)having in his possession, custody or control any property
forming part of any undertaking of Esso in India, wrongfully withholds such
property from the Central Government or the Government company;
or(b)wrongfully obtains possession of or retains any property forming part of
any undertaking of Esso in India; or(c)wilfully withholds or fails to furnish
to the Central Government or the Government company or any person specified by
the Central Government or that company, any books, documents or other papers
relating to any undertaking of Esso in India which may be in his possession,
custody or control; or(d)fails to deliver to the Central Government or the
Government company any assets, books of account, registers or other documents
in his possession, iustody or control relating to any undertaking of Esso in
India; or(e)wrongfully removes or destroys any property pertaining to any
undertaking of Esso in India; or(f)wrongfully uses any property forming part
of the undertakings of Esso in India, shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to ten
thousand rupees, or with both.

### 15. Officer by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to, any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation.--For the purposes of
this section,--(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or
other association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a firm,
means a partner in the firm.

### 16. Protection of action taken in good faith.

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government or the Government company or any of its officers or other employees
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this
Act.

### 17. Cognizance of offences.

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5
of 1898), no court shall take cognizance of any offence against this Act
except on a complaint, in writing, made by the Central Government or any
officer authorised in this behalf by that Government.

### 18. Indemnity.

Every officer of the Central Government and every officer or other employees
of the Government company shall be indemnified by the Central Government or
the Government company, as the case may be, against all losses and expenses
incurred by him in, or in relation to, the discharge of his duties under this
Act except such as have been caused by his own wilful act or default.

### 19. Power to remove difficulties.

If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the
Central Government may, by order, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, remove the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the
expiry of a period of two years from the appointed day.

### 20. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the
provisions of this Act.(2)Every rule made by the Central Government under this
Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may
be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule.THE FIRST SCHEDULE[See section 4 (2)]Trade Marks Which Esso Is Entitled
To Use In India And Which Shall Not Vest In The Central Government Or The
Government Company(a)The right of Esso to use in India the Trade Marks
registered under the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (43 of 1958), by
Exxon Corporation, a Corporation incorporated in the State of New Jersey,
United States of America, and having its principal office in New York, United
States of America.(b)All Trade Marks registered in India by Esso under the
Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (43 of 1958).THE SECOND SCHEDULE(See
section 8)

### 1\. The amount specified in section 8 shall be deemed to correspond to
thirty lakhs, eighty-four thousand, six hundred and ninety dollars (hereafter
in this Schedule referred to as the principal amount).

### 2\. The amount referred to in the foregoing paragraph and the interest due
thereon shall be remitted by the Central Government to Esso at its principal
office at 2401 South Gessner, City of Houston, State of Texas, in the United
States of America, on the dates and in instalments specified in the
corresponding entries in the Table below, namely:--

THE TABLEDate of payment Instalments(i)First anniversary of the appointed day.
200,504.85 dollars towards interest on the principal amount.(ii)Second
anniversary of the appointed day. (i) 2,691,660.00 dollars towards the
principal amount, and (ii) 398,030.00 dollars towards interest.(iii)Third
anniversary of the appointed day. (i) 393,030.00 dollars towards the principal
amount, and (ii) 25,546.95 dollars towards interest.Explanation.--In this
Schedule, "dollar" means the units of currency in the United States of
America.

