## Union of India - Act

## The Evacuee Interest (Separation) Act, 1951

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Evacuee Interest (Separation) Act, 1951

## Act 64 of 1951

  * Published on 1 January 1951 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1951 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1951.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act to make special provisions for the separation of the interests of
evacuees from those of other persons in property in which such other persons
are also interested and for matters connected therewith.WHEREAS it is
expedient to make special provisions for the separation of the interests of
evacuees from those of other persons in property in which such other persons
are also interested and for matters connected therewith;AND WHEREAS some of
the aforesaid provisions may relate to certain matters in the State List and
Parliament is empowered, in pursuance of a Resolution passed under Article 249
of the Constitution, to make such laws;BE it therefore enacted by Parliament
as follows:-

## Chapter I  
PRELIMINARY

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the Evacuee Interest (Separation) Act, 1951 .(2)It
extends to the whole of India except the territories which, immediately before
the 1st November, 1956 , were comprised in the States] of Assam, West Bengal,
Tripura, Manipur and Jammu and Kashmir.

### 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)" appellate officer" means an officer appointed as such by the State
Government under section 13;(b)" claim" means the assertion by any person, not
being an evacuee, of any right, title or interest in any property--(i)as a co-
sharer or partner of an evacuee in the property; or(ii)as a mortgagee of the
interest of an evacuee in the property; or Supplemented in:-(a)Am., in Panjab
by Punjab Act 15 of 1960 .(b)Kerala in Kerala Act 15 of 1960 .(c)Andhra
Pradesh by Andhra Pradesh Act 28 of 1960 .(d)U. P by U. P. Act 5 of 1961
.(e)Bihar by Bihar Act 20 of 1960 .(f)Madras by Madras 3 of 1961 . (g)
Rajasthan by Rajasthan Act 1 of 1961 .(h)Mysore by Mysore Act 3 of 1961
.(iii)as a mortgagor having mortgaged the property or any interest therein in
favour of an evacuee; and includes any other interest which such person may
have jointly with an evacuee and which is notified in this behalf by the
Central Government in the Official Gazette;(c)" competent officer" means an
officer appointed as such by the State Government under section 4;(d)"
composite property" means any property which, or any property in which an
interest, has been declared to be evacuee property or has vested in the
Custodian under the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (31 of 1956
), and--(i)in which the interest of the evacuee consists of an undivided share
in the property held by him as a co- sharer or partner of any other person,
not being an evacuee; or(ii)in which the interest of the evacuee is subject to
mortgage in any form in favour of a person, not being an evacuee; or(iii)in
which the interest of a person, not being an evacuee, is subject to mortgage
in any form in favour of an evacuee; or(iv)in which an evacuee has such other
interest jointly with any other person, not being an evacuee, as may be
notified in this behalf by the Central Government, in the Official
Gazette;(e)" evacuee interest", in relation to a composite property, means the
right, title and interest of an evacuee in that property;(f)" mortgage debt"
means any liability in respect of a property due under any form of mortgage
(including any usufructuary mortgage or mortgage by conditional sale) whether
such liability is payable presently or in future, or under any decree or order
of a Court or otherwise, or whether ascertained or not, which--(i)in any case
where it is incurred by an evacuee, is secured by the mortgage of the interest
of the evacuee in the property in favour of a person, not being an
evacuee;(ii)in any case where it is incurred by a person not being an evacuee,
is secured by the mortgage of the interest of such person in the property in
favour of an evacuee; but does not include any such liability of an evacuee
arising out of any transaction entered into after the 14th day of August, 1947
unless such transaction has been confirmed by the Custodian under the
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (31 of 1950 );(g)" prescribed"
means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(h)" principal money", in
relation to a mortgage deed executed by an evacuee, means--(i)in the case of a
mortgage deed which has not been executed by way of renewal of a prior
mortgage deed, the sum of money advanced by way of loan at the time of the
execution of the mortgage deed;(ii) in the case of a mortgage deed which has
been executed at any time before the 1st day of January, 1940 , by way of
renewal of a prior mortgage deed, the consideration for which the renewed
mortgage deed was executed;(iii)in the case of a mortgage deed which has been
executed at any time after the 1st day of January, 1940 , by way of renewal of
a prior mortgage deed executed before that date, the sum of money which became
due on the 1st day of January, 1940 , on account of the money advanced on the
prior mortgage deed and interest thereon up to the said date;(iv)in the case
of a mortgage deed which was executed at any time after the 1st day of
January, 1940 , by way of renewal of a prior mortgage deed which was also
executed after that date, the sum of money advanced by way of loan at the time
of the execution of the prior mortgage deed; Explanation.-- For the purpose of
calculating the principal money in relation to any mortgage deed which has
been executed by way of renewal of a prior mortgage deed, any sum of money
advanced at the time of such renewal in addition to the sum of money whichwas
due on the prior mortgage deed shall also be taken into account.(i)all words
and expressions used, but not defined in this Act and defined in the
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (31 of 1950 ), shall have the
meanings assigned to them in that Act.

### 3. Act to override other laws.

Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the provisions of this Act
and of the rules and orders made thereunder shall have effect notwithstanding
anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being
in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any such law.

## Chapter II  
SEPARATION OF EVACUEE INTEREST IN COMPOSITE PROPERTY

### 4. Power to appoint competent officers.

(1)The State Government may, with the approval of the Central Government, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint as many competent officers as
may be necessary for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to them
by or under this Act, and a competent officer may perform his functions in
such local area or areas as may be specified in the notification.(2)No person
shall be qualified to be appointed as a competent officer under this Act
unless he has held a judicial office for at least five years, or has been an
advocate or a pleader for at least seven years.

### 5. Jurisdiction of competent officers.

A competent officer shall have jurisdiction to decide any claim relating to
any composite property situate within the limits of the local area of his
jurisdiction and such cases or classes of cases as may, by general or special
order, be transferred to him under section 19 by the Central Government or the
appellate officer.

### 6. Notice to submit claims.

(1)For the purpose of determining or separating the evacuee interest in a
composite property, any competent officer having jurisdiction over such
property may, either on information received in this behalf from the Custodian
or on an application from a claimant, issue, in such form and manner as may be
prescribed,--(a)a general notice requiring all persons who claim interest in
such property, and(b)also a notice on every person who, in the opinion of the
competent officer, may have a claim in such property, to submit claims, if
any, in respect of that property.(2)An application under sub- section (1)
shall be in such form and manner as may be prescribed.(3)No application under
this section shall be entertained if filed after the expiry of one year from
the commencement of the Evacuee Interest (Separation) Amendment Act, 1960 (27
of 1960 ).]

### 7. Submission of claims.

(1)Any person claiming an interest in a composite property may, within sixty
days of the date of the issue of the general notice or service of individual
notice under section 6, whichever is later, submit to the competent officer a
statement of his claim in writing and signed and verified in the prescribed
manner.(2)A statement of claim under sub- section (1) shall be drawn up, as
far as may be, in the form of pleadings under the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908 (5 of 1908 ) and shall include the following particulars, namely:-(a)the
nature of the interest of the claimant in the composite property;(b)the
estimated money value of the composite property;(c)where the claim is made by
a co- sharer or partner, the extent of the share of the claimant and the money
value of such share;(d)where the claim is made by a mortgagee,--(i)the
principal money and the rate of interest chargeable under the mortgage
deed;(ii)payments made towards the mortgage debt after the principal money was
advanced or deemed to have been advanced;(iii)the history of the mortgage debt
in so far as it is relevant to the determination of the principal
money;(iv)particulars of the property mortgaged and the estimated value of
such property;(v)particulars of any property the possession of which has been
taken by the mortgagee as security for, or in lieu of payment of, the mortgage
debt;(vi)the total amount claimed under the mortgage debt in accordance with
the provisions of this Act;(e)where the claim is made by a mortgagor, the
total amount due under the mortgage debt and the particulars necessary to
determine the same;(f)the order of preference in which the claimant desires to
have his interest separated from that of the evacuee under section 10;(g)any
other particulars which may be prescribed.(3)The claimant shall, along with
the submission of claim under sub- section (1), file true copies of all
documents in his possession or power on which the claim is based and a list of
any other documents (whether in his possession or power or not) on which he
intends to rely as evidence in support of his claim; and the claimant shall,
whenever required to do so by the competent officer, produce all the documents
of which true copies have been filed and also the documents in his possession
or power which have been entered in the list.(4)No document which should have
been but has not been filed in accordance with the requirements of sub-
section (3), shall be received at any stage of the proceedings without the
leave of the competent officer.

### 8. Decision by competent officer.

(1)On receipt of a statement of claim under section 7, the competent officer
shall, subject to the provisions of sub- sections (2) and (3), hold an inquiry
into the claim in accordance with the procedure laid down in section 17 and
pass an order determining the interest of the evacuee and the claimant in the
property in question and the order shall contain all or any of the following
particulars, namely:-(a)the money value of the property;(b)in any case where
the evacuee and the claimant are co- sharers or partners, their respective
shares in the property and the money value of such shares;(c)in any case where
the claim is made by a mortgagor, the amount due to the evacuee;(d)in any case
where the claim is made by a mortgagee, the amount due under the claim in
accordance with the provisions of section 9.(2)Where the Custodian under the
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (31 of 1950 ), has determined
that the property in question or any interest therein is evacuee property, the
decision of the Custodian shall be binding on the competent officer: Provided
that nothing contained in this sub- section shall debar the competent officer
from determining the mortgage debt in respect of such property or any interest
therein or from separating the interest of the evacuee from that of the
claimant under section 10.(3)If there is any dispute as to whether a liability
is a mortgage debt or not or whether any claim submitted under section 7
exists, the competent officer shall decide such dispute: Provided that a
decree of a Civil Court (other than an ex- parte decree passed after the 14th
day of August, 1947 ) shall, subject to the provisions of sections 9 and 10,
be binding on the competent officer in respect of any matter which has been
finally decided by such decree; and where any matter was decided by an ex-
parte decree passed by a Civil Court after the 14th day of August, 1947 , the
competent officer may decide such matter afresh and on such decision being
made, the ex- parte decree shall be deemed to have no effect.

### 9. Certain reliefs in respect of mortgaged property of evacuees.

(1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law or contract or any
decree or order of a Civil Court or other authority, where the claim is made
by a mortgagee, no mortgaged property of an evacuee shall, subject to the
provisions of sub- section (2), be liable for the payment of interest at a
rate exceeding five per cent. per annum simple on the principal money advanced
or deemed to have been advanced.(2)Where a mortgagee has taken possession on
any terms whatsoever of any agricultural land and is entitled to receive
profits accruing from the land and to appropriate the same, every such
mortgage shall be deemed to have taken effect as a complete usufructuary
mortgage period mentioned in the mortgage deed or twenty years, whichever is
less, from the date of the execution of the mortgage deed; and if the
aforesaid period has not expired and the mortgage debt has not been
extinguished, the competent officer shall determine the mortgage debt due
having regard to the proportion which the unexpired portion of that period
bears to the total of that period.

### 10. Separation of the interests of evacuees from those of claimants in
composite property.

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law or contract or any decree
or order of a Civil Court or other authority, the competent officer may,
subject to any rules that may be made in this behalf, take all such measures
as he may consider necessary for thepurpose of separating the interests of the
evacuees from those of the claimants in any composite property, and in
particular may,--(a) in the case of any claim of a co- sharer or
partner,--(i)direct the Custodian to pay to the claimant the amount of money
assessed in respect of his share in the composite property or deposit the same
in a Civil Court having jurisdiction over such property and deliver possession
of the property to the Custodian and the claimant may withdraw the amount in
deposit in the Civil Court; or(ii)transfer the property to the claimant on
payment by him of the amount of money assessed in respect of the share of the
evacuee in the property; or(iii)sell the property and distribute the sale
proceeds thereof between the Custodian and the claimant in proportion to the
share of the evacuee and of the claimant in the property; or(iv)partition the
property according to shares of the evacuee and the claimant and deliver
possession of the shares allotted to the evacuee and the claimant to the
Custodian and the claimant respectively;(b)in the case of any claim of a
mortgagor or a mortgagee,--(i)pay to the Custodian or the claimant the amount
payable under the mortgage debt and redeem the mortgaged property; or(ii)sell
the mortgaged property for satisfaction of the mortgage debt and distribute
the sale proceeds thereof; or(iii)partition the property between the mortgagor
and the mortgagee having regard to the share to which the mortgagee would be
entitled in lieu of his claim;(c)adopt a combination of all or some of the
aforesaid measures: Provided that before taking any measure under this
section, the competent officer shall take into account the order of preference
filed by the claimant under clause (f) of sub- section (2) of section 7; and
in any case where the claimant is a mortgagor and tenders the amount due, the
competent officer shall accept the same in full satisfaction of the mortgage
debt.

### 11. Vesting of evacuee interest in the Custodian free from encumbrances
and payments, etc., to be valid discharge from all claims.

(1)Where in respect of any property, notice under section 6 is issued but no
claim is filed or found to exist or where any claim inrespect of such property
is found to exist and the competent officer separates the evacuee interest
therein under section 10, the whole property, or, as the case may be, the
evacuee interest in the property thus separated shall vest in the Custodian
free from all encumbrances and liabilities and any payment, transfer or
partition made or effected under section 10, in satisfaction of any claim in
respect of the property shall be a full and valid discharge of all claims in
respect of the property.(2)The Custodian may take possession of any such
property by evicting the claimant and other persons who may be in occupation
thereof and may, for that purpose, use or cause to be used such force as may
be necessary:Provided that the Custodian shall not disturb the possession of
any person (other than the claimant) who was in lawful possession of the
property at the commencement of this Act and has continued in such possession.

### 12. Rights of claimants inter se and by other persons against claimants
not to be affected.

Nothing in this Chapter shall prejudice any rights in respect of the property
transferred or delivered, or payment made, to a claimant under the provisions
of this Act which any other claimant or other person may be entitled by due
process of law to enforce against the claimant to whom the property is
delivered or transferred or the payment is made.

## Chapter III  
APPEAL, REVISION AND POWERS AND PROCEDURE OF COMPETENT OFFICERS AND APPELLATE
OFFICERS

### 13. Power to appoint appellate officers.

(1)The State Government with the approval of the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint as many appellate officers as
may be necessary for the purpose of hearing appeals against the orders of the
competent officers and an appellate officer shall have jurisdiction over such
local area or areas as may be specified in the notification.(2)No person shall
be qualified to be appointed as an appellate officer under this Act unless
such person--(a)is, or has been, or is qualified for appointment as, a Judge
of a High Court; or(b)is, or has been, a District Judge.

### 14. Appeals.

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order of the competent officer made under
section 8 or section 10 may, within sixty days from the date of the order,
prefer an appeal to the appellate officer in such form and manner as may be
prescribed:Provided that the appellate officer may entertain the appeal after
the expiry of the said period of sixty days if he is satisfied that the
appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in
time.(2)The appellate officer may, after hearing the appeal, confirm, vary or
reverse the order appealed from and may pass such orders as he deems fit.

### 15. Power of revision of the appellate officer.

The appellate officer may at any time call for the record of any proceeding in
which the competent officer has passed an order for the purpose of satisfying
himself as to the legality or propriety of any such order and may pass such
order in relation thereto as he thinks fit:Provided that the appellate officer
shall not pass an order under this section prejudicially to any person without
giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 16. Amendment of orders.

Clerical or arithmetical mistakes in orders passed by a competent officer or
an appellate officer or errors arising therein from any accidental slip or
omission, may, at any time, be corrected by the competent officer or the
appellate officer either of his own motion or on an application received in
this behalf from any of the parties.

### 17. Powers and procedure of competent officers and appellate officers.

(1)A competent officer or an appellate officer shall, for the purpose of
holding any inquiry or hearing any appeal under this Act, have the same powers
as are vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908 ), when trying a suit in respect of the following matters,
namely:-(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining
him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production of documents;(c)issuing
commissions for the examination of witnesses;(d)any other matter which may be
prescribed; and any proceeding before the competent officer or the appellate
officer shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of
section 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860 ), and the
competentofficer or the appellate officer shall be deemed to be a Civil Court
within the meaning of sections 480 and 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898 (5 of 1898 ).(2)An appellate officer shall, subject to the provisions of
this Act, have such further powers as are vested in a Court under the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908 ), when hearing an appeal.(3)Subject to any
rules made in this behalf, the competent officer and appellate officer shall
follow the same procedure as a Civil Court does in regard to civil suits
including recording of evidence and the provisions of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908 ) shall, as far as may be, apply to such
proceedings.

### 18. Finality of orders.

Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, every order made by any
appellate officer or competent officer shall be final and shall not be called
in question in any Court by way of an appeal or revision or in any original
suit, application or execution proceedings.

## Chapter IV  
MISCELLANEOUS

### 19. Power to transfer cases.

(1)The Central Government or the appellate officer may, by order in writing at
any time, transfer any case pending before a competent officer to another
competent officer for holding the inquiry and the competent officer to whom
the case is so transferred may proceed either de novo or from the stage at
which it was transferred.(2)The Central Government or the State Government
may, by order in writing at any time, transfer any appeal pending before an
appellate officer to another appellate officer for hearing the appeal and the
appellate officer to whom the appeal is so transferred may proceed either de
novo or from the stage at which it was transferred.

### 20. Jurisdiction of Civil Courts barred in certain matters.

(1)Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, no Civil or Revenue Court
shall entertain any suit or proceeding in so far as it relates to any claim to
composite property which the competent officer is empowered by or under this
Act to decide, and no injunction in respect of any action taken or to be taken
by the competent officer in respect of the composite property shall be granted
by any Civil Court or other authority.(2)All suits and proceedings pending
before a Civil or Revenue Court at the commencement of this Act shall, in so
far as they relateto any claim filed before a competent officer under section
7, be stayed during the pendency of any proceeding under this Act.(3)Nothing
in sub- section (1) shall prevent any Civil or Revenue Court from entertaining
any suit or proceeding relating to any right in respect of any payment made,
or property transferred or delivered, to a claimant under the provisions of
this Act which any other claimant or other person may be entitled by due
process of law to enforce against the claimant to whom the payment is made or
the property is delivered or transferred.

### 21. Competent officer and appellate officer to be a public servant.

Every competent officer and appellate officer shall be deemed to be a public
servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860
).

### 22. Protection of action taken in good faith.

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the appellate
officer or the competent officer in respect of anything which is in good faith
done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or of any rules or orders
made thereunder.

### 23. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely:-(a) the form of any notice and
the manner of its service;(b)the form and manner in which an application may
be filed under section 6;(c)the form and manner in which claims may be
submitted and the particulars which a statement of claim may contain;(d)the
manner in which inquiries under this Act may be held and the procedure to be
followed by competent officers in such proceedings;(e)the form and manner in
which appeals may be preferred against the order of competent officers and the
procedure to be followed by appellate officers;(f)the powers vested in a Civil
Court which may be exercised by the competent officers and appellate officers
while holding an inquiry or hearing an appeal, as the case may be, under this
Act;(g)the manner of separating the interests of the evacuees from those of
claimants in any composite property;(h)any other matter which has to be, or
may be, prescribed under this Act.

