## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Electricity Rules, 2005

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Electricity Rules, 2005

## Rule THE-ELECTRICITY-RULES-2005 of 2005

  * Published on 8 June 2005 
  * Commenced on 8 June 2005 
  * [This is the version of this document from 8 June 2005.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Electricity Rules, 2005Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 379(E),
dated 8th June, 2005In exercise of powers conferred by Section 176 of the
Electricity Act, 2003 (Act 36 of 2003), the Central Government hereby makes
the following rules, namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules shall be called the Electricity Rules, 2005.(2)These Rules
shall [come into force on the date] [Enforced from 8th June, 2005.] of their
publication in the official gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise, requires:-(a)"Act" means the
Electricity Act, 2003 ;(b)the words and expressions used and not defined
herein but defined in the Act shall have the meaning assigned to them in the
Act.

### 3. Requirements of Captive Generating Plant.

(1)No power plant shall qualify as a 'captive generating plant' linear Section
9 read with Clause (8) of Section 2 of the Act unless:-(a)in case of a power
plant:(i)not less than twenty six percent of the ownership is held by the
captive user(s), and(ii)not less than fifty one percent of the aggregate
electricity - generated in such plant, determined on an annual basis, is
consumed for the captive use :Provided that in case of power plant set up by
registered co-operative society, the conditions mentioned under paragraphs at
(i) and (ii) above shall be satisfied collectively by the members of the co-
operative society :Provided further that in case of association of persons,
the captive user(s) shall hold not less than twenty six percent of the
ownership of the plant in aggregate and such captive user(s) shall consume not
less than fifty one percent of the electricity generated, determined on an
annual basis, in proportion to their hares in ownership of the power plant
within a variation not exceeding ten percent;(b)in case of a generating
station owned by a company formed as special purpose vehicle for such
generating station, a unit or units of such generating station identified for
captive use and not the entire generating station satisfy(s) the conditions
contained in paragraphs (i) and (ii) of sub-clause (a) above including
:-Explanation. - (1) The electricity required to be consumed by captive users
shall be determined with reference to such generating unit or units in
aggregate identified for captive use and not with reference to generating
station as a whole; and(2)the equity shares to be held by the captive user(s)
in the generating station shall not be less than twenty six percent of the
proportionate of the equity of the company related to the generating unit or
units identified as the captive generating plant.IllustrationIn a generating
station with two units of 50 MW each namely Units A and B, one unit of 50 MW
namely Unit A may be identified as the Captive Generating Plant. The captive
users shall hold not less than thirteen percent of the equity shares in the
company (being the twenty six percent proportionate to Unit A of 50 MW) and
not less than fifty one percent of the electricity generated in Unit A
determined on an annual basis is to be consumed by the captive users.(2)It
shall be the obligation of the captive users to ensure that the consumption by
the Captive Users at the percentages mentioned in sub-clauses (a) and (b) of
sub-rule (1) above is maintained and in case the minimum percentage of captive
use is not complied with in any year, the entire electricity generated shall
be treated as if it is a supply of electricity by a generating
company.Explanation. - (1) For the purpose of this rule :(a)"Annual Basis"
shall be determined based on a financial year;(b)"Captive User" shall mean the
end user of the electricity generated in a Captive Generating Plant and the
term "Captive Use" shall be construed accordingly ;(c)"Ownership" in relation
to a generating station or power plant set up by a company or any other body
corporate shall mean the equity share capital with voting rights. In other
cases ownership shall mean proprietary interest and control over the
generating station or power plant;(d)"Special Purpose Vehicle" shall mean a
legal entity owning, operating and maintaining a generating station and with
no other business or activity to be engaged in by the legal entity.

### 4. Distribution System.

\- The distribution system of a distribution licensee in terms of sub-section
(19) of Section 2 of the Act shall also include electric line, sub-station and
electrical plant that are primarily maintained for the purpose of distributing
electricity in the area of supply of such distribution licensee
notwithstanding that such line, sub-station or electrical plant are high
pressure cables or overhead lines or associated with such high pressure cables
or overhead lines ; or used incidentally for the purposes of transmitting
electricity for others.

### 5. Compliance with the directions by Transmission Licensee.

(1)The National Load Despatch Centre, Regional Load Despatch Centre, as the
case may be, or the State Load Despatch Centre, may, under Section 26, sub-
section (3) of Section 28, sub-section (1) of Section 29, sub-section (2) of
Section 32 and sub-section (1) of Section 33 read with Clause (b) of Section
40 of the Act, give such directions, as it may consider appropriate for
maintaining the availability of the transmission system of a Transmission
Licensee and the Transmission Licensee shall duly comply with all such
directions.(2)The Appropriate Commission, on an application filed by the
National Load Despatch Centre, the Regional Load Despatch Centre or the State
Load Despatch Centre and after hearing the Transmission Licensee, if satisfied
that the Transmission Licensee has persistently failed to maintain the
availability of the transmission system, may issue such directions to the
National Load Despatch Centre, the Regional Load Despatch Centre or the State
Load Despatch Centre to take control of the operations of the transmission
system of such Transmission Licensee for such period and on such terms, as the
Commission may decide.(3)The direction under sub-rules (1) and (2) above shall
be without prejudice to any other action which may be taken against the
Transmission Licensee under other provision of the Act.

### 6. The surcharge under Section 38.

\- The surcharge on transmission charges under Section 38, the manner of
progressive reduction of such surcharge and the manner of payment and
utilization of such surcharge to be specified by the Central Commission under
sub-clause (ii) of Clause (d) of sub-section (2) of Section 38 shall be in
accordance with surcharge on the charges for wheeling, the manner of
progressive reduction of such surcharge and the manner of payment and
utilization of such surcharge as may be specified by the Appropriate
Commission of the State in which the consumer is located under sub-section (2)
of Section 42 of the Act.

### 7. Consumer Redressal Forum and Ombudsman.

\- [(1) The distribution licensee shall establish a Forum for Redressal of
Grievances of Consumers under sub-section (5) of Section 42 which shall
consist of officers of the licensee. The Appropriate Commission shall nominate
one independent member who is familiar with the consumer affairs:Provided that
the manner of appointment and the qualification and experience of the persons
to be appointed as member of the Forum and other similar matters would be as
per the guidelines specified by the State Commission.] [Substituted by GSR
667(E), dated 26.10.2006, w.e.f. 26.10.2006.](2)The Ombudsman to be appointed
or designated by the State Commission under sub-section (6) of Section 42 of
the Act shall be such person as the State Commission may decide from time to
lime.(3)The Ombudsman shall consider the representation of the consumers
consistent with the provisions of the Act, the Rules and Regulations made
hereunder or general orders or directions given by the Appropriate Government
or the Appropriate Commission in this regard before settling their
grievances.(4)(a)The Ombudsman shall prepare a report on a six monthly basis
giving details of the nature of the grievances of the consumer dealt by the
ombudsman, the response of the Licensees in the redressal of the grievances
and the opinion of the ombudsman on the Licensee's compliance of the standards
of performance as specified by the Commission under Section 57 of the Act
during the preceding six months.(b)The report under sub-clause (a) above shall
be forwarded to the State Commission and the State Government within 45 days
after the end of the relevant period of six months.

### 8. Tariffs of generating companies under Section 79.

\- The tariff determined by the Central Commission for generating companies
under Clauses (a) or (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 79 of the Act shall not
be subject to re-determination by the State Commission in exercise of
functions under Clauses (a) or (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 86 of the Act
and subject to the above the State Commission may determine whether a
Distribution Licensee in the State should enter into Power Purchase Agreement
or Procurement process with such generating companies based on the Tariff
determined by the Central Commission.

### 9. Inter-State trading Licence.

\- A licence issued by the Central Commission under Section 14 read with
Clause (e) of sub-section (1) of Section 79 of the Act to an electricity
trader for Inter-State Operations shall also entitle such electricity trader
to undertake purchase of electricity from a seller in a State and resell such
electricity to a buyer in the same State, without the need to take a separate
licence for intra-state trading from the State Commission of such State.

### 10. Appeal to the Appellate Tribunal.

\- In terms of sub-section (2) of Section 111 of the Act, the appeal against
the orders passed by the adjudicating officer or the appropriate commission
after the coming into force of the Act may be filed within forty-five days
from the date, as notified by the Central Government, on which the Appellate
Tribunal comes into operation.

### 11. Jurisdiction of the Courts.

\- The jurisdiction of Courts other than the special courts shall not be
barred under sub-section (1) of Section 154 till such time the special Court
is constituted under sub-section (1) of Section 153 of the Act.

### 12. Cognizance of the offence.

(1)The police shall take cognizance of the offence punishable under the Act on
a complaint in writing made to the police by the Appropriate Government or the
Appropriate Commission or any of their officer authorized by them in this
regard or a Chief Electrical Inspector or an Electrical Inspector or an
authorized officer of Licensee or a Generating Company, as the case may
be.(2)The police shall investigate the complaint in accordance with the
general law applicable to the investigation of any complaint. For the purposes
of investigation of the complaint the police shall have all the powers as
available under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.(3)The police shall,
after investigation, forward the report along with the complaint filed under
sub-clause (1) to the Court for trial under the Act.(4)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-clauses (1), (2) and (3) above, the complaint for
taking cognizance of an offence punishable under the Act may also be filed by
the Appropriate Government or the Appropriate Commission or any of their
officer authorized by them or a Chief Electrical Inspector or an Electrical
Inspector or an authorized officer of Licensee or a Generating Company, as the
case may be directly in the appropriate Court.(5)Notwithstanding anything
contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973, every special Court may take
cognizance of an offence referred to in Sections 135 to 139 of the Act without
the accused being committed to it for trial.(6)The cognizance of the offence
under the Act shall not in any way prejudice the actions under the provisions
of the Indian Penal Code.

### 13. Issue of Orders and Practice Directions.

\- The Central Government may from time to time issue orders and practice
directions in regard to the implementation of these rules and matters
incidental or ancillary thereto as the Central Government may consider
appropriate.

