## Union of India - Act

## The Employees’ Provident Funds And Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Employees’ Provident Funds And Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952

## Act 19 of 1952

  * Published in Gazette 19 on 4 March 1952 
  * Assented to on 4 March 1952 
  * Commenced on 4 March 1952 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 March 1952.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Employees’ Provident Funds And Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952Act No.
19 of 1952[4th March, 1952]An Act to provide for the institution of provident
funds, pension fund and deposit-linked insurance fund for employees in
factories and other establishments.BE it enacted by Parliament as follows:—

### 1. Short title, extent and application.—

(1)This Act may be called the Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous
Provisions Act, 1952.(2)It extends to the whole of India except the State of
Jammu and Kashmir.(3)Subject to the provisions contained in section 16, it
applies—(a)to every establishment which is a factory engaged in any industry
specified in Schedule I and in which twenty or more persons are employed,
and(b)to any other establishment employing twenty or more persons or class of
such establishments which the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify in this behalf:Provided that the Central Government
may, after giving not less than two months’ notice of its intention so to do,
by notification in the Official Gazette, apply the provisions of this Act to
any establishment employing such number of persons less than twenty as may be
specified in the notification.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (3) of this section or sub-section (1) of section 16, where it appears
to the Central Provident Fund Commissioner, whether on an application made to
him in this behalf or otherwise, that the employer and the majority of
employees in relation to any establishment have agreed that the provisions of
this Act should be made applicable to the establishment, he may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, apply the provisions of this Act to that
establishment on and from the date of such agreement or from any subsequent
date specified in such agreement.(5)An establishment to which this Act applies
shall continue to be governed by this Act notwithstanding that the number of
persons employed therein at any time falls below twenty:

### 2. Definitions.—

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)“appropriate
Government” means—(i)in relation to an establishment belonging to, or under
the control of, the Central Government or in relation to an establishment
connected with a railway company, a major port, a mine or an oilfield or a
controlled industry, or in relation to an establishment having departments or
branches in more than one State, the Central Government; and(ii)in relation to
any other establishment, the State Government;(aa)“authorised officer” means
the Central Provident Fund Commissioner, Additional Central Provident Fund
Commissioner, Deputy Provident Fund Commissioner, Regional Provident Fund
Commissioner or such other officer as may be authorised by the Central
Government, by notification in the Official Gazette;(b)“basic wages” means all
emoluments which are earned by an employee while on duty or on leave or on
holidays with wages in either case in accordance with the terms of the
contract of employment and which are paid or payable in cash to him, but does
not include—(i)the cash value of any food concession;(ii)any dearness
allowance (that is to say, all cash payments by whatever name called paid to
an employee on account of a rise in the cost of living), house-rent allowance,
overtime allowance, bonus commission or any other similar allowance payable to
the employee in respect of his employment or of work done in such
employment;(iii)any presents made by the employer;(c)“contribution” means a
contribution payable in respect of a member under a Scheme or the contribution
payable in respect of an employee to whom the Insurance Scheme
applies;(d)“controlled industry” means any industry the control of which by
the Union has been declared by a Central Act to be expedient in the public
interest;(e)“employer” means—(i)in relation to an establishment which is a
factory, the owner or occupier of the factory, including the agent of such
owner or occupier, the legal representative of a deceased owner or occupier
and, where a person has been named as a manager of the factory under clause
(f) of sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Factories Act, 1948 (63 of 1948),
the person so named; and(ii)in relation to any other establishment, the person
who, or the authority which, has the ultimate control over the affairs of the
establishment, and where the said affairs are entrusted to a manager, managing
director or managing agent, such manager, managing director or managing
agent;(f)“employee” means any person who is employed for wages in any kind of
work, manual or otherwise, in or in connection with the work of an
establishment, and who gets, his wages directly or indirectly from the
employer, and includes any person,—(i)employed by or through a contractor in
or in connection with the work of the establishment;(ii)engaged as an
apprentice, not being an apprentice engaged under the Apprentices Act, 1961
(52 of 1961), or under the standing orders of the establishment;(ff)“exempted
employee” means an employee to whom a Scheme or the Insurance Scheme, as the
case may be, would, but for the exemption granted under section 17, have
applied;(fff)“exempted establishment” means an establishment in respect of
which an exemption has been granted under section 17 from the operation of all
or any of the provisions of any Scheme or the Insurance Scheme, as the case
may be, whether such exemption has been granted to the establishment as such
or to any person or class of persons employed therein;(g)“factory” means any
premises, including the precincts thereof, in any part of which a
manufacturing process is being carried on or is ordinarily so carried on,
whether with the aid of power or without the aid of power;(h)“Fund” means the
provident fund established under a Scheme;(i)“Industry” means any industry
specified in Schedule I, and includes any other industry added to the Schedule
by notification under section 4;(ia)“Insurance Fund” means the Deposit-linked
Insurance Fund established under sub-section (2) of section 6C;(ib)“Insurance
Scheme” means the Employees’ Deposit-linked Insurance Scheme framed under sub-
section (1) of section 6C;(ic)“manufacture” or “manufacturing process” means
any process for making, altering, repairing, ornamenting, finishing, packing
oiling, washing, cleaning, breaking up, demolishing or otherwise treating or
adapting any article or substance with a view to its use, sale, transport,
delivery or disposal;(j)“member” means a member of the Fund;(k)“occupier of a
factory” means the person who has ultimate control over the affairs of the
factory, and, where the said affairs are entrusted to a managing agent, such
agent shall be deemed to be the occupier of the factory;(kA)“Pension Fund”
means the Employees’ Pension Fund established under sub-section (2) of section
6A;(kB)“Pension Scheme” means the Employees’ Pension Scheme framed under sub-
section (I) of section 6A;(ka)“prescribed” means prescribed by rules made
under this Act;(kb)“Recovery Officer” means any officer of the Central
Government, State Government or the Board of Trustees constituted under
section 5A, who may be authorised by the Central Government, by notification
in the Official Gazette, to exercise the powers of a Recovery Officer under
this Act;(l)“Scheme” means the Employees Provident Fund Scheme framed under
section 5;(ll)“superannuation”, in relation to an employee, who is the member
of the Pension Scheme means the attainment, by the said employee, of the age
of fifty-eight years;(m)“Tribunal” means the Employees’ Provident Funds
Appellate Tribunal constituted under section 7D.

### 2A. Establishment to include all departments and branches.—

For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that where an establishment
consists of different departments or has branches, whether situate in the same
place or in different places, all such departments or branches shall be
treated as parts of the same establishment.

### 3. Power to apply Act to an establishment which has a common provident
fund with another establishment.—

Where immediately before this Act becomes applicable to an establishment there
is in existence a provident fund which is common to the employees employed in
that establishment and employees in any other establishment, the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that the
provisions of this Act shall also apply to such other establishment.

### 4. Power to add to Schedule I.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, add to
Schedule I any other industry in respect of the employees whereof it is of
opinion that a provident fund scheme should be framed under this Act, and
thereupon the industry so added shall be deemed to be an industry specified in
Schedule I for the purposes of this Act.(2)All notifications under sub-section
(1) shall be laid before Parliament, as soon as may be, after they are issued.

### 5. Employees’ Provident Fund Schemes.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, frame
a Scheme to be called the Employees’ Provident Fund Scheme for the
establishment of provident funds under this Act for employees or for any class
of employees and specify the establishments or class of establishments to
which the said Scheme shall apply and there shall be established, as soon as
may be after the framing of the Scheme, a Fund in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and the Scheme.(IA)The Fund shall vest in, and be
administered by, the Central Board constituted under section 5A.(IB)Subject to
the provisions of this Act, a scheme framed under sub-section (I) may provide
for all or any of the matters specified in Schedule II.(2)A Scheme framed
under sub-section (1) may provide that any of its provisions shall take effect
either prospectively or retrospectively on such date as may be specified in
this behalf in the Scheme.

### 5A. Central Board.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute, with effect from such date as may be specified therein, a Board of
Trustees for the territories to which this Act extends (hereinafter in this
Act referred to as the Central Board) consisting of the following persons as
members, namely:—(a)a Chairman and a Vice-Chairman to be appointed by the
Central Government;(aa)the Central Provident Fund Commissioner, ex
officio;(b)not more than five persons appointed by the Central Government from
amongst its officials;(c)not more than fifteen persons representing
Governments of such states as the Central Government may specify in this
behalf, appointed by the Central Government;(d)ten persons representing
employers of the establishments to which the Scheme applies, appointed by the
Central Government after consultation with such organisations of employers as
may be recognised by the Central Government in this behalf; and(e)ten persons
representing employees in the establishments to which the Scheme applies,
appointed by the Central Government after consultation with such organisations
of employees as may be recognised by the Central Government in this
behalf.(2)The terms and conditions subject to which a member of the Central
Board may be appointed and the time, place and procedure of the meetings of
the Central Board shall be such as may be provided for in the Scheme.(3)The
Central Board shall, subject to the provisions of section 6 and section 6C
administer the Fund vested in it in such manner as may be specified in the
Scheme.(4)The Central Board shall perform such other functions as it may be
required to perform by or under any provisions of the Scheme, the Pension
Scheme and the Insurance Scheme.(5)The Central Board shall maintain proper
accounts of its income and expenditure in such form and in such manner as the
Central Government may, after consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor
General of India, specify in the Scheme.(6)The accounts of the Central Board
shall be audited annually by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India and
any expenditure incurred by him in connection with such audit shall be payable
by the Central Board to the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.(7)The
Comptroller and Auditor General of India and any person appointed by him in
connection with the audit of the accounts of the Central Board shall have the
same rights and privileges and authority in connection with such audit as the
Comptroller and Auditor-General has, in connection with the audit of
Government accounts and, in particular, shall have the right to demand the
production of books, accounts, connected vouchers, documents and papers and
inspect any of the offices of the Central Board.(8)The accounts of the Central
Board as certified by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India or any
other person appointed by him in this behalf together with the audit report
thereon shall be forwarded to the Central Board which shall forward the same
to the Central Government along with its comments on the report of the
Comptroller and Auditor General.(9)It shall be the duty of the Central Board
to submit also to the Central Government an annual report of its work and
activities and the Central Government shall cause a copy of the annual report,
the audited accounts together with the report of the Comptroller and Auditor
General of India and the comments of the Central Board thereon to be laid
before each House of Parliament.

### 5AA. Executive Committee.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute, with effect from such date as may be specified therein, an
Executive Committee to assist the Central Board in the performance of its
functions.(2)The Executive Committee shall consist of the following persons as
members, namely:—(a)a Chairman appointed by the Central Government from
amongst the members of the Central Board;(b)two persons appointed by the
Central Government from amongst the persons referred to in clause (b) of sub-
section (1) of section 5A;(c)three persons appointed by the Central Government
from amongst the persons referred to in clause (c) of sub-section (1) of
section 5A;(d)three persons representing the employers elected by the Central
Board from amongst the persons referred to in clause (d) of sub-section (1) of
section 5A;(e)three persons representing the employees elected by the Central
Board from amongst the persons referred to in clause (e) of sub-section (1) of
section 5A;(f)the Central Provident Fund Commissioner, ex officio.(3)The terms
and conditions subject to which a member of the Central Board may be appointed
or elected to the Executive Committee and the time, place and procedure of the
meetings of the Executive Committee shall be such as may be provided for in
the Scheme.

### 5B. State Board.—

(1)The Central Government may, after consultation with the Government of any
State, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute for that State a
Board of Trustees (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the State Board) in
such manner as may be provided for in the Scheme.(2)A State Board shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties as the Central Government may
assign to it from time to time.(3)The terms and conditions subject to which a
member of a State Board may be appointed and the time, place and procedure of
the meetings of a State Board shall be such as may be provided for in the
Scheme.

### 5C. Board of Trustees to be body corporate.—

Every Board of Trustees constituted under section 5A or section 5B shall be a
body corporate under the name specified in the notification constituting it,
having perpetual succession and a common seal and shall by the said name sue
and be sued.

### 5D. Appointment of officers.—

(1)The Central Government shall appoint a Central Provident Fund Commissioner
who shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Central Board and shall be
subject to the general control and superintendence of that Board.(2)The
Central Government may also appoint a Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts
Officer to assist the Central Provident Fund Commissioner in the discharge of
his duties.(3)The Central Board may appoint subject to the maximum scale of
pay, as may be specified in the Scheme, as many Additional Central Provident
Fund Commissioners, Deputy Provident Fund Commissioners, Regional Provident
Fund Commissioners, Assistant Provident Fund Commissioners and such other
officers and employees as it may consider necessary for the efficient
administration of the Scheme, the Pension Scheme and the Insurance
Scheme.(4)No appointment to the post of the Central Provident Fund
Commissioner or an Additional Central Provident Fund Commissioner or a
Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer or any other post under the
Central Board carrying a scale of pay equivalent to the scale of pay of any
Group ‘A’ or Group ‘B’ post under the Central Government shall be made except
after consultation with the Union Public Service Commission:Provided that no
such consultation shall be necessary in regard to any such appointment—(a)for
a period not exceeding one year; or(b)if the person to be appointed is at the
time of his appointment—(i)a member of the Indian Administrative Service,
or(ii)in the service of the Central Government or a State Government or the
Central Board in a Group ‘A’ or Group ‘B’ post.(5)A State Board may, with the
approval of the State Government concerned, appoint such staff as it may
consider necessary.(6)The method of recruitment, salary and allowances,
discipline and other conditions of service of the Central Provident Fund
Commissioner, and the Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer shall be
such as may be specified by the Central Government and such salary and
allowances shall be paid out of the Fund.(7)(a)The method of recruitment,
salary and allowances, discipline and other conditions of service of the
Additional Central Provident Fund Commissioner, Deputy Provident Fund
Commissioner, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Assistant Provident Fund
Commissioner and other officers and employees of the Central Board shall be
such as may be specified by the Central Board in accordance with the rules and
orders applicable to the officers and employees of the Central Government
drawing corresponding scales of pay:Provided that where the Central Board is
of the opinion that it is necessary to make a departure from the said rules or
orders in respect of any of the matters aforesaid, it shall obtain the prior
approval of the Central Government.(b)In determining the corresponding scales
of pay of officers and employees under clause (a), the Central Board shall
have regard to the educational qualifications, method of recruitment, duties
and responsibilities of such officers and employees under the Central
Government and in case of any doubt, the Central Board shall refer the matter
to the Central Government whose decision thereon shall be final.(8)The method
of recruitment, salary and allowances, discipline and other conditions of
service of officers and employees of a State Board shall be such as may be
specified by that Board, with the approval of the State Government concerned.

### 5DD. Acts and proceedings of the Central Board or its Executive Committee
or the State Board not to be invalidated on certain grounds.—

No act done or proceeding taken by the Central Board or the Executive
Committee constituted under section 5AA or the State Board shall be questioned
on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in, or any defect in the
constitution of, the Central Board or the Executive Committee or the State
Board, as the case may be.

### 5DD. Acts and proceedings of the Central Board or its Executive Committee
or the State Board not to be invalidated on certain grounds.—

No act done or proceeding taken by the Central Board or the Executive
Committee constituted under section 5AA or the State Board shall be questioned
on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in, or any defect in the
constitution of, the Central Board or the Executive Committee or the State
Board, as the case may be.

### 5E. Delegation.—

The Central Board may delegate to the Executive Committee or to the Chairman
of the Board or to any of its officers and a State Board may delegate to its
Chairman or to any of its officers, subject to such conditions and
limitations, if any, as it may specify, such of its powers and functions under
this Act as it may deem necessary for the efficient administration of the
scheme the Pension Scheme and the Insurance Scheme.

### 6. Contributions and matters which may be provided for in Schemes.—

The contribution which shall be paid by the employer to the Fund shall be ten
per cent of the basic wages, dearness allowance and retaining allowance (if
any) for the time being payable to each of the employees (whether employed by
him directly or by or through a contractor), and the employees’ contribution
shall be equal to the contribution payable by the employer in respect of him
and may, if any employee so desires, be an amount exceedings ten per cent. of
his basic wages, dearness allowance and retaining allowance (if any), subject
to the condition that the employer shall not be under an obligation to pay any
contribution over and above his contribution payable under this
section:Provided that in its application to any establishment or class of
establishments which the Central Government, after making such inquiry as it
deems fit, may, by notification in the Official Gazette specify, this section
shall be subject to the modification that for the words “ten per cent.”, at
both the places where they occur, the words “twelve per cent.” shall be
substituted:Provided further that where the amount of any contribution payable
under this Act involves a fraction of a rupees, the Scheme may provide for the
rounding off of such fraction to the nearest rupee, half of a rupee or quarter
of a rupee.Explanation 1.— For the purposes of this section, dearness
allowance shall be deemed to include also the cash value of any food
concession allowed to the employee.Explanation 2.— For the purposes of this
section, “retaining allowance” means an allowance payable for the time being
to an employee of any factory or other establishment during any period in
which the establishment is not working, for retaining his services.

### 6A. Employees’ Pension Scheme.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, frame
a scheme to be called the Employees’ Pension Scheme for the purpose of
providing for—(a)superannuation pension, retiring pension or permanent total
disablement pension to the employees of any establishment or class of
establishments to which this Act applies; and(b)widow or widower’s pension,
children pension or orphan pension payable to the beneficiaries of such
employees.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 6, there shall be
established, as soon as may be after framing of the Pension Scheme, a Pension
Fund into which there shall be paid, from time to time, in respect of every
employee who is a member of the Pension Scheme,—(a)such sums from the
employer’s contribution under section 6, not exceeding eight and one-third per
cent, of the basic wages, dearness allowance and retaining allowance, if any,
of the concerned employees, as may be specified in the Pension Scheme;(b)such
sums as are payable by the employers of exempted establishments under sub-
section (6) of section 17;(c)the net assets of the Employees’ Family Pension
Fund as on the date of the establishment of the Pension Fund;(d)such sums as
the Central Government may, after due appropriation by Parliament by law in
this behalf, specify.(3)On the establishment of the Pension Fund, the Family
Pension Scheme (hereinafter referred to as the ceased scheme) shall cease to
operate and all assets of the ceased scheme shall vest in and shall stand
transferred to, and all liabilities under the ceased scheme shall be
enforceable against the Pension Fund and the beneficiaries under the ceased
scheme shall be entitled to draw the benefits, not less than the benefits they
were entitled to under the ceased scheme, from the Pension Fund.(4)The Pension
Fund shall vest in and be administered by the Central Board in such manner as
may be specified in the Pension Scheme.(5)Subject to the provisions of this
Act, the Pension Scheme may provide for all or any of the matters specified in
Schedule III.(6)The Pension Scheme may provide that all or any of its
provisions shall take effect either prospectively or retrospectively on such
date as may be specified in that behalf in that Scheme.(7)A Pension Scheme,
framed under sub-section (1), shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is
made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree
in making any modification in the scheme or both Houses agree that the scheme
should not be made, the scheme shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the may be; so however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that Scheme.

### 6C. Employees’ Deposit-linked Insurance Scheme.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, frame
a scheme to be called the Employees’ Deposit-linked Insurance Scheme for the
purpose of providing life insurance benefits to the employees of any
establishment or class of establishments to which this Act applies.(2)There
shall be established, as soon as may be after the framing of the Insurance
Scheme, a Deposit-linked Insurance Fund into which shall be paid by the
employer from time to time in respect of every such employee in relation to
whom he is the employer, such amount, not being more than one per cent of the
aggregate of the basic wages, dearness allowance and retaining allowance (if
any) for the time being payable in relation to such employee as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify.Explanation.—
For the purposes of this sub-section, the expressions, “dearness allowance”
and “retaining allowance” have the same meanings as in section
6.(3)***(4)(a)The employer shall pay into the Insurance Fund such further sums
of money, not exceeding one-fourth of the contribution which he is required to
make under sub-section (2), as the Central Government may, from time to time,
determine to meet all the expenses in connection with the administration of
the Insurance Scheme other than the expenses towards the cost of any benefits
provided by or under that Scheme.(b)***(5)The Insurance Fund shall vest in the
Central Board and be administered by it in such manner as may be specified in
the Insurance Scheme.(6)The Insurance Scheme may provide for all or any of the
matters specified in Schedule IV.(7)The Insurance Scheme may provide that any
of its provisions shall take effect either prospectively or retrospectively on
such date as may be specified in this behalf in that Scheme.

### 6D. Laying of schemes before Parliament.—

Every scheme framed under section 5, section 6A and section 6C shall be laid,
as soon as may be after it is framed, before each House of Parliament, while
it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in
one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry
of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the scheme, or both
Houses agree that the scheme should not be framed, the scheme shall thereafter
have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be;
so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without
prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that Scheme.

### 7. Modification of Scheme.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, add to
amend or vary, either prospectively or retrospectively, the Scheme, the
Pension Scheme or the Insurance Scheme, as the case may be.(2)Every
notification issued under sub-section (1) shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is issued, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session,
for a total period of thirty days, which may be comprised in one session or in
two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the notification, or both Houses
agree that the notification should not be issued, the notification shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
notification.

### 7A. Determination of moneys due from employers.—

(1)The Central Provident Fund Commissioner, any Additional Central Provident
Fund Commissioner, any Deputy Provident Fund Commissioner, any Regional
Provident Fund Commissioner, or any Assistant Provident Fund Commissioner may,
by order,—(a)in a case where a dispute arises regarding the applicability of
this Act to an establishment, decide such dispute; and(b)determine the amount
due from any employer under any provision of this Act, the Scheme or the
Pension. Scheme or the Insurance Scheme, as the case may be, and for any of
the aforesaid purposes may conduct such inquiry as he may deem
necessary.(2)The officer conducting the inquiry under sub-section (1) shall,
for the purposes of such inquiry, have the same powers as are vested in a
court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), for trying a suit
in respect of the following matters, namely:—(a)enforcing the attendance of
any person or examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production
of documents;(c)receiving evidence on affidavit;(d)issuing commissions for the
examination of witnesses,and any such inquiry shall be deemed to be a judicial
proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228, and for the purpose of
section 196, of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).(3)No order shall be made
under sub-section (1), unless the employer concerned is given a reasonable
opportunity of representing his case.(3A)Where the employer, employee or any
other person required to attend the inquiry under sub-section (1) fails to
attend such inquiry without assigning any valid reason or fails to produce any
document or to file any report or return when called upon to do so, the
officer conducting the inquiry may decide the applicability of the Act or
determine the amount due from any employer, as the case may be, on the basis
of the evidence adduced during such inquiry and other documents available on
record.(4)Where an order under sub-section (1) is passed against an employer
ex parte, he may, within three months from the date of communication of such
order, apply to the officer for setting aside such order and if he satisfies
the officer that the show-cause notice was not duly served or that he was
prevented by any sufficient cause from appearing when the inquiry was held,
the officer shall make an order setting aside his earlier order and shall
appoint a date for proceeding with the inquiry:Provided that no such order
shall be set aside merely on the ground that there has been an irregularity in
the service of the show-cause notice if the officer is satisfied that the
employer had notice of the date of hearing and had sufficient time to appear
before the officer.Explanation.— Where an appeal has been preferred under this
Act against an order passed ex parte and such appeal has been disposed of
otherwise than on the ground that the appellant has withdrawn the appeal, no
application shall lie under this sub-section for setting aside the ex parte
order.(5)No order passed under this section shall be set aside on any
application under sub-section (4) unless notice thereof has been served on the
opposite party.

### 7B. Review of orders passed under section 7A.—

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order made under sub-section (1) of section 7A,
but from which no appeal has been preferred under this Act, and who, from the
discovery of new and important matter or evidence which, after the exercise of
due diligence was not within his knowledge or could not be produced by him at
the time when the order was made, or on account of some mistake or error
apparent on the face of the record or for any other sufficient reason, desires
to obtain a review of such order may apply for a review of that order to the
Officer who passed the order:Provided that such officer may also on his own
motion review his order if he is satisfied that it is necessary so to do on
any such ground.(2)Every application for review under sub-section (1) shall be
filed in such form and manner and within such time as may be specified in the
Scheme.(3)Where it appears to the officer receiving an application for review
that there is no sufficient ground for a review, he shall reject the
application.(4)Where the officer is of opinion that the application for review
should be granted, he shall grant the same:Provided that,—(a)no such
application shall be granted without previous notice to all the parties before
him to enable them to appear and be heard in support of the order in respect
of which a review is applied for, and(b)no such application shall be granted
on the ground of discovery of new matter or evidence which the applicant
alleges was not within his knowledge or could not be produced by him when the
order was made, without proof of such allegation.(5)No appeal shall lie
against the order of the officer rejecting an application for review, but an
appeal under this Act shall lie against an order passed under review as if the
order passed under review were the original order passed by him under section
7A.

### 7C. Determination of escaped amount.—

Where an order determining the amount due from an employer under section 7A or
section 7B has been passed and if the officer who passed the order—(a)has
reason to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of the
employer to make any document or report available, or to disclose, fully and
truly, all material facts necessary for determining the correct amount due
from the employer, any amount so due from such employer for any period has
escaped his notice;(b)has, in consequence of information in his possession,
reason to believe that any amount to be determined under section 7A or section
7B has escaped from his determination for any period notwithstanding that
there has been no omission or failure as mentioned in clause (a) on the part
of the employer,he may, within a period of five years from the date of
communication of the order passed under section 7A or section 7B, re-open the
case and pass appropriate orders re-determining the amount due from the
employer in accordance with the provisions of this Act:Provided that no order
re-determining the amount due from the employer shall be passed under this
section unless the employer is given a reasonable opportunity of representing
his case.

### 7D. Employees’ Provident Funds Appellate Tribunal.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute one or more Appellate Tribunals to be known as the Employees’
Provident Funds Appellate Tribunal to exercise the powers and discharge the
functions conferred on such Tribunal by this Act and every such Tribunal shall
have jurisdiction in respect of establishments situated in such area as may be
specified in the notification constituting the Tribunal.(2)A Tribunal shall
consist of one person only to be appointed by the Central Government.(3)A
person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Presiding Officer of a
Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as the Presiding Officer) unless he is, or
has been, or is qualified to be,—(i)a Judge of a High Court; or(ii)a District
judge.

### 7E. Term of office.—

The Presiding Officer of a Tribunal shall hold office for a term of five years
from the date on which he enters upon his office or until the attains the age
of sixty-two years, whichever is earlier.

### 7F. Resignation.—

(1)The Presiding Officer may by notice in writing under his hand addressed to
the Central Government, resign his office:Provided that the Presiding Officer
shall, unless he is permitted by the Central Government to relinquish his
office sooner, continue to hold office until the expiry of three months from
the date of receipt of such notice or until a person duly appointed as his
successor enters upon his office or until the expiry of his term of office,
whichever is the earliest.(2)The Presiding Officer shall not be removed from
his office except by an order made by the President on the ground of proved
misbehaviour or incapacity after an inquiry made by a Judge of the High Court
in which such Presiding Officer had been informed of the charges against him
and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of those
charges.(3)The Central Government may, by rules, regulate the procedure for
the investigation of misbehaviour or incapacity of the Presiding Officer.

### 7G. Salary and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of
Presiding Officer.—

The salary and allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions of
service (including pension, gratuity and other retirement benefits) of, the
Presiding Officer shall be such as may be prescribed:Provided that neither the
salary and allowances nor the other terms and conditions of service of the
Presiding Officer shall be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment.

### 7H. Staff of Tribunal.—

(1)The Central Government shall determine the nature and categories of the
officers and other employees required to assist a Tribunal in the discharge of
its functions and provide the Tribunal with such officers and other employees
as it may think fit.(2)The officers and other employees of a Tribunal shall
discharge their functions under the general superintendence of the Presiding
Officer.(3)The salaries and allowances and other conditions of service of the
officers and other employees of a Tribunal shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 7I. Appeals to Tribunal.—

(1)Any person aggrieved by a notification issued by the Central Government, or
an order passed by the Central Government or any authority, under the proviso
to sub-section (3), or sub-section (4) of section 1, or section 3, or sub-
section (1) of section 7A, or section 7B except an order rejecting an
application for review referred to in sub-section (5) thereof, or section 7C,
or section 14B, may prefer an appeal to a Tribunal against such notification
or order.(2)Every appeal under sub-section (1) shall be filed in such form and
manner, within such time and be accompanied by such fees, as may be
prescribed.

### 7J. Procedure of Tribunals.—

(1)A Tribunal shall have power to regulate its own procedure in all matters
arising out of the exercise of its powers or of the discharge of its functions
including the places at which the Tribunal shall have its sittings.(2)A
Tribunal shall, for the purpose of discharging its functions, have all the
powers which are vested in the officers referred to in section 7A and any
proceeding before the Tribunal shall be deemed to be a judicial proceedings
within the meaning of sections 193 and 228, and for the purpose of section
196, of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and the Tribunal shall be deemed to
be a civil court for all the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).

### 7K. Right of appellant to take assistance of legal practitioner and of
Government, etc., to appoint presenting officers.—

(1)A person preferring an appeal to a Tribunal under this Act may either
appear in person or take the assistance of a legal practitioner of his choice
to present his case before the Tribunal.(2)The Central Government or a State
Government or any other authority under this Act may authorise one or more
legal practitioners or any of its officers to act as presenting officers and
every person so authorised may present the case with respect to any appeal
before a Tribunal.

### 7K. Right of appellant to take assistance of legal practitioner and of
Government, etc., to appoint presenting officers.—

(1)A person preferring an appeal to a Tribunal under this Act may either
appear in person or take the assistance of a legal practitioner of his choice
to present his case before the Tribunal.(2)The Central Government or a State
Government or any other authority under this Act may authorise one or more
legal practitioners or any of its officers to act as presenting officers and
every person so authorised may present the case with respect to any appeal
before a Tribunal.

### 7L. Orders of Tribunal.—

(1)A Tribunal may, after giving the parties to the appeal, an opportunity of
being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit, confirming, modifying
or annulling the order appealed against or may refer the case back to the
authority which passed such order with such directions as the Tribunal may
think fit, for a fresh adjudication or order, as the case may be, after taking
additional evidence, if necessary.(2)A Tribunal may, at any time within five
years from the date of its order, with a view to rectifying any mistake
apparent from the record, amend any order passed by it under sub-section (1)
and shall make such amendment in the order if the mistake is brought to its
notice by the parties to the appeal:Provided that an amendment which has the
effect of enhancing the amount due from, or otherwise increasing the liability
of, the employer shall not be made under this sub-section, unless the Tribunal
has given notice to him of its intention to do so and has allowed him a
reasonable opportunity of being heard.(3)A Tribunal shall send a copy of every
order passed under this section to the parties to the appeal.(4)Any order made
by a Tribunal finally disposing of an appeal shall not be questioned in any
court of law.

### 7M. Filling up of vacancies.—

If, for any reason, a vacancy occurs in the office of the Presiding Officer,
the Central Government shall appoint another person in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, to fill the vacancy and the proceedings may be
continued before a Tribunal from the stage at which the vacancy is filled.

### 7N. Finality of orders constituting a Tribunal.—

No order of the Central Government appointing any person as the Presiding
Officer shall be called in question in any manner, and no act or proceeding
before a Tribunal shall be called in question in any manner on the ground
merely of any defect in the constitution of such Tribunal.

### 7P. Transfer of certain applications to Tribunals.—

All applications which are pending before the Central Government under section
19A before its repeal, shall stand transferred to a Tribunal exercising
jurisdiction in respect of establishments in relation to which such
applications had been made as if such applications were appeals preferred to
the Tribunal.

### 7Q. Interest payable by the employer.—

The employer shall be liable to pay simple interest at the rate of twelve per
cent. per annum or at such higher rate as may be specified in the Scheme on
any amount due from him under this Act from the date on which the amount has
become so due till the date of its actual payment:Provided that higher rate of
interest specified in the Scheme shall not exceed the lending rate of interest
charged by any scheduled bank.

### 8. Mode of recovery of moneys due from employers.—

Any amount due—(a)from the employer in relation to an establishment to which
any Scheme or the Insurance Scheme applies in respect of any contribution
payable to the Fund or, as the case may be, the Insurance Fund damages
recoverable under section 14B, accumulations required to be transferred under
sub-section (2) of section 15 or under sub-section (5) of section 17, or any
charges payable by him under any other provision of this Act or of any
provision of the Scheme or the Insurance Scheme; or(b)from the employer in
relation to an exempted establishment in respect of any damages recoverable
under section 14B or any charges payable by him to the appropriate Government
under any provision of this Act or under any of the conditions specified under
section 17 or in respect of the contribution payable by him towards the
Pension. Scheme under the said section 17, may, if the amount is in arrear, be
recovered in the manner specified in sections 8B to 8G.

### 8A. Recovery of moneys by employers and contractors.—

(1)The amount of contribution (that is to say the employer’s contribution as
well as the employee’s contribution in pursuance of any Scheme and the
employer’s contribution in pursuance of the Insurance Scheme), and any charges
3[*** for meeting the cost of administering the Fund paid or payable by an
employer in respect of any employee employed by or through a contractor may be
recovered by such employer from the contractor, either by deduction from any
amount payable to the contractor under any contract or as a debt payable by
the contractor.(2)A contractor from whom the amounts mentioned in sub-section
(1) may be recovered in respect of any employee employed by or through him,
may recover from such employee the employee’s contribution under any Scheme by
deduction from the basic wages, dearness allowance and retaining allowance (if
any) payable to such employee.(3)Notwithstanding any contract to the contrary,
no contractor shall be entitled to deduct the employer’s contribution or the
charges referred to in sub-section (1) from the basic wages, dearness
allowance, and retaining allowance (if any) payable to an employee employed by
or through him or otherwise to recover such contribution or charges from such
employee.Explanation.— In this section, the expressions, “dearness allowance”
and “retaining allowance” shall have the same meanings as in section 6.

### 8B. Issue of certificate to the Recovery Officer.—

(1)Where any amount is in arrear under section 8, the authorised officer may
issue, to the Recovery Officer, a certificate under his signature specifying
the amount of arrears and the Recovery Officer, on receipt of such
certificate, shall proceed to recover the amount specified therein from the
establishment or, as the case may be, the employer by one or more of the modes
mentioned below:(a)attachment and sale of the movable or immovable property of
the establishment or, as the case may be, the employer;(b)arrest of the
employer and his detention in prison;(c)appointing a receiver for the
management of the movable or immovable properties of the establishment or, as
the case may be, the employer:Provided that the attachment and sale of any
property under this section shall first be effected against the properties of
the establishment and where such attachment and sale is insufficient for
recovering the whole of the amount of arrears specified in the certificate,
the Recovery Officer may take such proceedings against the property of the
employer for recovery of the whole or any part of such arrears.(2)The
authorised officer may issue a certificate under sub-section (1),
notwithstanding that proceedings for recovery of the arrears by any other mode
have been taken.

### 8C. Recovery Officer to whom certificate is to be forwarded.—

(1)The authorised officer may forward the certificate referred to in section
8B to the Recovery Officer within whose jurisdiction the employer—(a)carries
on his business or profession or within whose jurisdiction the principal place
of his establishment is situate; or(b)resides or any movable or immovable
property of the establishment or the employer is situate.(2)Where an
establishment or the employer has property within the jurisdiction of more
than one Recovery Officers and the Recovery Officer to whom a certificate is
sent by the authorised officer—(a)is not able to recover the entire amount by
the sale of the property, movable or immovable, within his jurisdiction;
or(b)is of the opinion that, for the purpose of expediting or securing the
recovery of the whole or any part of the amount, it is necessary so to do,he
may send the certificate or, where only a part of the amount is to be
recovered, a copy of the certificate certified in the prescribed manner and
specifying the amount to be recovered to the Recovery Officer within whose
jurisdiction the establishment or the employer has property or the employer
resides, and thereupon that Recovery Officer shall also proceed to recover the
amount due under this section as if the certificate or the copy thereof had
been the certificate sent to him by the authorised officer.

### 8D. Validity of certificate and amendment thereof.—

(1)When the authorised officer issues a certificate to a Recovery Officer
under section 8B, it shall not be open to the employer to dispute before the
Recovery Officer the correctness of the amount, and no objection to the
certificate on any other ground shall also be entertained by the Recovery
Officer.(2)Notwithstanding the issue of a certificate to a Recovery Officer,
the authorised officer shall have power to withdraw the certificate or correct
any clerical or arithmetical mistake in the certificate by sending an
intimation to the Recovery Officer.(3)The authorised officer shall intimate to
the Recovery Officer any orders withdrawing or cancelling a certificate or any
correction made by him under sub-section (2) or any amendment made under sub-
section (4) of section 8E.

### 8E. Stay of proceedings under certificate and amendment or withdrawal
thereof.—

(1)Notwithstanding that a certificate has been issued to the Recovery Officer
for the recovery of any amount, the authorised officer may grant time for the
payment of the amount, and thereupon the Recovery Officer shall stay the
proceedings until the expiry of the time so granted.(2)Where a certificate for
the recovery of amount has been issued, the authorised officer shall keep the
Recovery Officer informed of any amount paid or time granted for payment,
subsequent to the issue of such certificate.(3)Where the order giving rise to
a demand of amount for which a certificate for recovery has been issued has
been modified in appeal or other proceeding under this Act, and, as a
consequence thereof, the demand is reduced but the order is the subject-matter
of a further proceeding under this Act, the authorised officer shall stay the
recovery of such part of the amount of the certificate as pertains to the said
reduction for the period for which the appeal or other proceeding remains
pending.(4)Where a certificate for the recovery of amount has been issued and
subsequently the amount of the outstanding demand is reduced as a result of an
appeal or other proceedings under this Act, the authorised officer, shall,
when the order which was the subject-matter of such appeal or other proceeding
has become final and conclusive, amend the certificate or withdraw it, as the
case may be.

### 8F. Other modes of recovery.—

(1)Notwithstanding the issue of a certificate to the Recovery Officer under
section 8B, the Central Provident Fund Commissioner or any other officer
authorised by the Central Board may recover the amount by any one or more of
the modes provided in this section.(2)If any amount is due from any person to
any employer who is in arrears, the Central Provident Fund Commissioner or any
other officer authorised by the Central Board in this behalf may require such
person to deduct from the said amount the arrears due from such employer under
this Act and such person shall comply with any such requisition and shall pay
the sum so deducted to the credit of the Central Provident Fund Commissioner
or the officer so authorised, as the case may be:Provided that nothing in this
sub-section shall apply to any part of the amount exempt from attachment in
execution of a decree of a civil court under section 60 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).(3)(i)The Central Provident Fund Commissioner or
any other officer authorised by the Central Board in this behalf may, at any
time or from time to time, by notice in writing, require any person from whom
money is due or may become due to the employer or, as the case may be, the
establishment or any person who holds or may subsequently hold money for or on
account of the employer or as the case may be, the establishment, to pay to
the Central Provident Fund Commissioner either forthwith upon the money
becoming due or being held or at or within the time specified in the notice
(not being before the money becomes due or is held) so much of the money as is
sufficient to pay the amount due from the employer in respect of arrears or
the whole of the money when it is equal to or less than that amount.(ii)A
notice under this sub-section may be issued to any person who holds or may
subsequently hold any money for or on account of the employer jointly with any
other person and for the purposes of this sub-section, the shares of the
joint-holders in such account shall be presumed. until the contrary is proved,
to be equal.(iii)A copy of the notice shall be forwarded to the employer at
his last address known to the Central Provident Fund Commissioner or, as the
case may be, the officer so authorised and in the case of a joint account to
all the joint-holders at their last addresses known to the Central Provident
Fund Commissioner or the officer so authorised.(iv)Save as otherwise provided
in this sub-section, every person to whom a notice is issued under this sub-
section shall be bound to comply with such notice, and, in particular, where
any such notice is issued to a post office, bank or an insurer, it shall not
be necessary for any pass book, deposit receipt, policy or any other document
to be produced for the purpose of any entry, endorsement or the like being
made before payment is made notwithstanding any rule, practice or requirement
to the contrary.(v)Any claim respecting any property in relation to which a
notice under this sub-section has been issued arising after the date of the
notice shall be void as against any demand contained in the notice.(vi)Where a
person to whom a notice under this sub-section is sent objects to it by a
statement on oath that the sum demanded or any part thereof is not due to the
employer or that he does not hold any money for or on account of the employer,
then, nothing contained in this sub-section shall be deemed to require such
person to pay any such sum or part thereof, as the case may be, but if it is
discovered that such statement was false is any material particular, such
person shall be personally liable to the Central Provident Fund Commissioner
or the officer so authorised to the extent of his own liability to the
employer on the date of the notice, or to the extent of the employer’s
liability for any sum due under this Act, whichever is less.(vii)The Central
Provident Fund Commissioner or the officer so authorised may, at any time or
from time to time, amend or revoke any notice issued under this sub-section or
extend the time for making any payment in pursuance of such notice.(viii)The
Central Provident Fund Commissioner or the officer so authorised shall grant a
receipt for any amount paid in compliance with a notice issued under this sub-
section, and the person so paying shall be fully discharged from his liability
to the employer to the extent of the amount so paid.(ix)Any person discharging
any liability to the employer after the receipt of a notice under this sub-
section shall be personally liable to the Central Provident Fund Commissioner
or the officer so authorised to the extent of his own liability to the
employer so discharged or to the extent of the employer’s liability for any
sum due under this Act, whichever is less.(x)If the person to whom a notice
under this sub-section is sent fails to make payment in pursuance thereof to
the Central Provident Fund Commissioner or the officer so authorised he shall
be deemed to be an employer in default in respect of the amount specified in
the notice and further proceedings may be taken against him for the
realisation of the amount as if it were an arrear due from him, in the manner
provided in sections 8B to 8E and the notice shall have the same effect as an
attachment of a debt by the Recovery Officer in exercise of his powers under
section 8B.(4)The Central Provident Fund Commissioner or the officer
authorised by the Central Board in this behalf may apply to the court in whose
custody there is money belonging to the employer for payment to him of the
entire amount of such money, or if it is more than the amount due, an amount
sufficient to discharge the amount due.(5)The Central Provident Fund
Commissioner or any officer not below the rank of Assistant Provident Fund
Commissioner may, if so authorised by the Central Government by general or
special order, recover any arrears of amount due from an employer or, as the
case may be, from the establishment by distraint and sale of his or its
movable property in the manner laid down in the Third Schedule to the Income-
tax Act, 1961 (43 to 1961).

### 9. Fund to be recognised under Act 11 of 1922.—

For the purposes of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, the Fund shall be deemed
to be a recognised provident fund within the meaning of Chapter IXA of that
Act:Provided that nothing contained in the said Chapter shall operate to
render ineffective any provision of the Scheme (under which the Fund is
established) which is repugnant to any of the provisions of that Chapter or of
the rules made thereunder.

### 10. Protection against attachment.—

(1)The amount standing to the credit of any member in the Fund or of any
exempted employee in a provident fund shall not in any way be capable of being
assigned or charged and shall not be liable to attachment under any decree or
order of any court in respect of any debt or liability incurred by the member
or the exempted employee, and neither the official assignee appointed under
the Presidency-towns Insolvency Act, 1909 (3 of 1909), nor any receiver
appointed under the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 (5 of 1920), shall be
entitled to, or have any claim on, any such amount.(2)Any amount standing to
the credit of a member in the Fund or of an exempted employee in a provident
fund at the time of his death and payable to his nominee under the Scheme or
the rules of the provident fund shall, subject to any deduction authorised by
the said Scheme or rules, vest in the nominee and shall be free from any debt
or other liability incurred by the deceased or the nominee before the death of
the member of the exempted employee and shall also not be liable to attachment
under any decree or order of any court.(3)The provisions of sub-section (1)
and sub-section (2) shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the pension
or any other amount payable under the Pension Scheme and also in relation to
any amount payable under the Insurance Scheme as they apply in relation to any
amount payable out of the Fund.

### 11. Priority of payment of contributions over other debts.—

(1)Where any employer is adjudicated insolvent or, being a company, an order
for winding up is made, the amount due—(a)from the employer in relation to an
establishment to which any Scheme or the Insurance Scheme applies in respect
of any contribution payable to the Fund or, as the case may be, the Insurance
Fund, damages recoverable under section 14B, accumulations required to be
transferred under sub-section (2) of section 15 or any charges payable by him
under any other provision of this Act or of any provision of the Scheme or the
Insurance Scheme; or(b)from the employer in relation to an exempted
establishment in report of any contribution to the provident fund or any
insurance fund in so far it relates to exempted employees, under the rules of
the provident fund or any insurance fund, any contribution payable by him
towards the Pension Fund under sub-section (6) of section 17, damages
recoverable under section 14B or any charges payable by him to the appropriate
Government under any provision of this Act or under any of the conditions
specified under section 17,shall, where the liability therefor has accrued
before the order of adjudication or winding up is made, be deemed to be
included among the debts which under section 49 of the Presidency-towns
Insolvency Act, 1909 (3 of 1909), or under section 61 of the Provincial
Insolvency Act, 1920 (5 of 1920), or under section 530 of the Companies Act,
1956 (1 of 1956) are to be paid in priority to all other debts in the
distribution of the property of the insolvent or the assets of the company
being wound up, as the case may be.Explanation.— In this sub-section and in
section 17, “insurance fund” means any fund established by an employer under
any scheme for providing benefits in the nature of life insurance to
employees, whether linked to their deposits in provident fund or not, without
payment by the employees of any separate contribution or premium in that
behalf.(2)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), if any
amount is due from an employer whether. in respect of the employee’s
contribution (deducted from the wages of the employee) or the employer’s
contribution, the amount so due shall be deemed to be the first charge on the
assets of the establishment, and shall, notwithstanding anything contained in
any other law for the time being force, be paid in priority to all other
debts.

### 12. Employer not to reduce wages, etc.—

No employer in relation to an establishment to which any Scheme or the
Insurance Scheme applies shall, by reason only of his liability for the
payment of any contribution to the Fund or the Insurance Fund or any charges
under this Act or the Scheme or the Insurance Scheme, reduce, whether directly
or indirectly, the wages of any employee to whom the Scheme or the Insurance
Scheme applies or the total quantum of benefits in the nature of old age
pension, gratuity, provident fund or life insurance to which the employee is
entitled under the terms of his employment, express or implied.

### 13. Inspectors. —

(1)The appropriate Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint such persons as thinks fit to be Inspectors for the purposes of this
Act , the Scheme , the [Pension Scheme or the Insurance Scheme], and may
define their jurisdiction.(2)Any Inspector appointed under sub-section (1)
may, for the purpose of inquiring into the correctness of any information
furnished in connection with this Act or with any Scheme or the Insurance
Scheme or for the purpose of ascertaining whether any of the provisions of
this Act or of any Scheme or the Insurance Scheme have been complied with in
respect of [an establishment to which any Scheme or the Insurance Scheme
applies or for the purpose of ascertaining whether the provisions of this Act
or any Scheme or the Insurance Scheme are applicable to any establishment to
which the Scheme or the Insurance Scheme has not been applied or for the
purpose of determining whether the conditions subject to which exemption was
granted under section 17 are being complied with by the employer in relation
to an exempted establishment]—(a)require an employer or any contractor from
whom any amount is recoverable under section 8A to furnish such information as
he may consider necessary;(b)at any reasonable time and with such assistance,
if any, as he may think fit, enter and search any establishment or any
premises connected therewith and require any one found in charge thereof to
produce before him for examination any accounts, books, registers and other
documents relating to the employment of persons or the payment of wages in the
establishment;(c)examine, with respect to any matter relevant to any of the
purposes aforesaid, the employer or any contractor from whom any amount is
recoverable under section 8A, his agent or servant or any other person found
in charge of the establishment of any premises connected therewith or whom the
Inspector has reasonable cause to believe to be or to have been, an employee
in the establishment;(d)make copies of, take extracts from, any book, register
or other document maintained in relation to the establishment and, where he
has reason to believe that any offence under this Act has been committed by an
employ, seize with such assistance as he may think fit, such book, register or
other document or portions thereof as he may consider relevant in respect of
that offence;(e)exercise such other powers as the Scheme or the Insurance
Scheme may provide.(2A)Any Inspector appointed under sub-section (1) may, for
the purpose of inquiring into the correctness of any information furnished in
connection with the Pension Scheme or for the purpose of ascertaining whether
any of the provisions of this Act or of the Pension Scheme have been complied
with in respect of an establishment to which the Pension Scheme applies,
exercise all or any of the powers conferred on him under clause (a), clause
(b), clause (c) or clause (d) of sub-section (2).(2B)The provisions of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898) shall, so far as may be, apply to
any search or seizure under sub-section (2) [or under sub-section (2A), as the
case may be, as they apply to any search or seizure made under the authority
of a warrant issued under section 98 of the said Code.(3)***

### 14. Penalties. —

(1)Whoever, for the purpose of avoiding any payment to be made by himself
under this Act ,the Scheme [the [Pension Scheme or the Insurance Scheme]] or
of enabling any other person to avoid such payment, knowingly makes or causes
to be made any false statement or false representation shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine of
five thousand rupees, or with both.(1A)An employer who contravenes, or makes
default in complying with, the provisions of section 6 or clause (a) of sub-
section (3) of section 17 in so far as it relates to the payment of inspection
charges, or paragraph 38 of the Scheme in so far as it relates to the payment
of administrative charges, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to three years, but—(a)which shall not be less than [one year
and fine of ten thousand rupees in case of default in payment of the
employees' contribution which has been deducted by the employer from the
employees' wages;(b)which shall not be less than six months and a fine of five
thousand rupees, in any other case:Provided that the court may, for any
adequate and special reasons to be recorded in the judgment, impose a sentence
of imprisonment for a lesser term.(1B)An employer who contravenes, or makes
default in complying with, the provisions of section 6C, or clause (a) of sub-
section (3A) of section 17 in so far as it relates to the payment of
inspection charges, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one year but which shall not be less than [six months and shall also
be liable to fine which may extend to five thousand rupees:Provided that the
court may, for any adequate and special reasons to be recorded in the
judgment, impose a sentence of imprisonment for a lesser term.(2)Subject to
the provisions of this Act, the Scheme , the [Pension Scheme or the Insurance
Scheme] may provide that any person who contravenes, or makes default in
complying with, any of the provisions thereof shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which may
extend to four thousand rupees, or with both.(2A)Whoever, contravenes or makes
default in complying with any provision of this Act or of any condition
subject to which exemption was granted under section 17 shall, if no other
penalty is elsewhere provided by or under this Act for such contravention or
non-compliance, be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six
months, but which shall not be less than one month, and shall be liable to
fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.

### 14A. Offences by companies.—

(1)If the person committing an offence under this Act ,the Scheme or [the
[Pension Scheme or the Insurance Scheme] is a company, every person, who at
the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was responsible to,
the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the
company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly: Provided that nothing contained in
this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment, if he
proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he
exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an
offence under the Act , the Scheme or [the [Pension Scheme or the Insurance
Scheme]] has been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has
been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to, any
neglect on the part of, any director or manager, secretary or other officer of
the company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall be
deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.Explanation.— For the purposes of this
section,—(a)“company” means any body corporate and includes a firm and other
association of individuals; and(b)“director”, in relation to a firm, means a
partner in the firm.]

### 14AA. Enhanced punishment in certain cases after previous conviction.—

Whoever, having been convicted by a court of an offence punishable under this
Act, the Scheme or the Pension Scheme or the Insurance Scheme, commits the
same offence shall be subject for every such subsequent offence to
imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years, but which shall not be
less than two years, and shall also be liable to a fine of twenty-five
thousand rupees.

### 14AB. Certain offences to be cognizable.—

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5
of 1898) an offence relating to default in payment of contribution by the
employer punishable under this Act shall be cognizable.

### 14AC. Cognizance and trial of offences.—

(1)No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act,
the Scheme or the Pension. Scheme or the Insurance Scheme except on a report
in writing of the facts constituting such offence made with the previous
sanction of the Central Provident Fund Commissioner or such other officer as
may be authorised by the Central Government, by notification in the Official
Gazette, in this behalf, by an Inspector appointed under section 13.(2)No
court inferior to that of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first
class shall try any offence under this Act or Scheme or the Pension Scheme or
the Insurance Scheme.

### 14B. Power to recover damages.—

Where an employer makes default in the payment of any contribution to the Fund
, the [Pension Fund or the Insurance Fund or in the transfer of accumulations
required to be transferred by him under sub-section (2) of section 15 or sub-
section (5) of section 17 or in the payment of any charges payable under any
other provision of this Act or of any Scheme or Insurance Scheme or under any
of the conditions specified under section 17, the Central Provident Fund
Commissioner or such other officer as may be authorised by the Central
Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, in this behalf may
recover from the employer by way of penalty such damages, not exceeding the
amount of arrears, as may be specified in the Scheme:Provided that before
levying and recovering such damages, the employer shall be given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard:Provided further that the Central Board may reduce
or waive the damages levied under this section in relation to an establishment
which is a sick industrial company and in respect of which a scheme for
rehabilitation has been sanctioned by the Board for Industrial and Financial
Reconstruction established under section 4 of the Sick Industrial Companies
(Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (1 of 1986), subject to such terms and
conditions as may be specified in the Scheme.

### 14C. Power of court to make orders.—

(1)Where an employer is convicted of an offence of making default in the
payment of any contribution to the Fund, the Pension. Fund or the Insurance
Fund or in the transfer of accumulations required to be transferred by him
under sub-section (2) of section 15 or sub-section (5) of section 17, the
court may, in addition to awarding any punishment, by order in writing require
him within a period specified in the order (which the court may, if it think
fit and on application in that behalf, from time to time, extend), to pay the
amount of contribution or transfer the accumulations, as the case may be, in
respect of which the offence was committed.(2)Where an order is made under
sub-section (1), the employer shall not be liable under this Act in respect of
the continuation of the offence during the period or extended period, if any,
allowed by the court, but if, on the expiry of such period or extended period,
as the case may be, the order of the court has not been fully complied with,
the employer shall be deemed to have committed a further offence and shall be
punished with imprisonment in respect thereof under section 14 and shall also
be liable to pay fine which may extend to one hundred rupees for every day
after such expiry on which the order has not been complied with.

### 15. Special provisions relating to existing provident funds.—

(1)Subject to the provisions of section 17, every employee who is a subscriber
to any provident fund of An establishment to which this Act applies shall,
pending the application of a Scheme to the establishment in which he is
employed, continue to be entitled to the benefits accruing to him under the
provident fund, and the provident fund shall continue to be maintained in the
same manner and subject to the same conditions as it would have been if this
Act has not been passed.(2)On the application of any Scheme to an
establishment, the accumulations in any provident fund of the establishment
standing to the credit of the employees who become members of the Fund
established under the Scheme shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in any law for the time being in force or in any deed or other
instrument establishing the provident fund but subject to the provisions, if
any, contained in the Scheme, be transferred to the Fund established under the
Scheme, and shall be credited to the accounts of the employees entitled
thereto in the Fund.

### 16. Act not to apply to certain establishments.—

(1)This Act shall not apply—(a)to any establishment registered under the Co-
operative Societies Act, 1912 (2 of 1912), or under any other law for the time
being in force in any State relating to co-operative societies, employing less
than fifty persons and working without the aid of power; or(b)to any other
establishment belonging to or under the control of the Central Government or a
State Government and whose employees are entitled to the benefit of
contributory provident fund or old age pension in accordance with any scheme
or rule framed by the Central Government or the State Government governing
such benefits;(c)to any other establishment set up under any Central,
Provincial or State Act and whose employees are entitled to the benefits of
contributory provident fund or old age pension in accordance with any scheme
or rule framed under that Act governing such benefits;(2)If the Central
Government is of opinion that having regard to the financial position of any
class of 6[establishments or other circumstances of the case, it is necessary
or expedient so to do, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, and
subject to such conditions as may be specified in the notification, exempt
whether prospectively or retrospectively, that class of establishments from
the operation of this Act for such period as may be specified in the
notification.

### 16A. Authorising certain employers to maintain provident fund accounts.—

(1)The Central Government may, on an application made to it in this behalf by
the employer and the majority of employees in relation to an establishment
employing one hundred or more persons, authorise the employer, by an order in
writing, to maintain a provident fund account in relation to the
establishment, subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified in the
Scheme:Provided that no authorisation shall be made under this sub-section if
the employer of such establishment had committed any default in the payment of
provident fund contribution or had committed any other offence under this Act
during the three years immediately preceding the date of such
authorisation.(2)Where an establishment is authorised to maintain a provident
fund account under sub-section (1), the employer in relation to such
establishment shall maintain such account, submit such return, deposit the
contribution in such manner, provide for such facilities for inspection, pay
such administrative charges, and abide by such other terms and conditions, as
may be specified in the Scheme.(3)Any authorisation made under this section
may be cancelled by the Central Government by order in writing if the employer
fails to comply with any of the terms and conditions of the authorisation or
where he commits any offence under any provision of this Act:Provided that
before cancelling the authorisation, the Central Government shall give the
employer a reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 17. Power to exempt.—

(1)The appropriate Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
and subject to such conditions as may be specified in the notification,exempt,
whether prospectively or retrospectively, from the operation of all or any of
the provisions of any Scheme—(a)any establishment to which this Act applies
if, in the opinion of the appropriate Government, the rules of its provident
fund with respect to the rates of contribution are not less favourable than
those specified in section 6 and the employees are also in enjoyment of other
provident fund benefits which on the whole are not less favourable to the
employees than the benefits provided under this Act or any Scheme in relation
to the employees in any other establishment of a similar character; or(b)any
establishment if the employees of such establishment are in enjoyment of
benefits in the nature of provident fund, pension or gratuity and the
appropriate Government is of opinion that such benefits, separately or
jointly, are on the whole not less favourable to such employees than the
benefits provided under this Act or any Scheme in relation to employees in any
other establishment of a similar character:Provided that no such exemption
shall be made except after consultation with the Central Board which on such
consultation shall forward its views on exemption to the appropriate
Government within such time limit as may be specified in the Scheme.(1A)Where
an exemption has been granted to an establishment under clause (a) of sub-
section (1),—(a)the provisions of sections 6, 7A, 8 and 14B shall, so far as
may be, apply to the employer of the exempted establishment in addition to
such other conditions as may be specified in the notification granting such
exemption, and where such employer contravenes, or makes default in complying
with any of the said provisions or conditions or any other provision of this
Act, he shall be punishable under section 14 as if the said establishment had
not been exempted under the said clause (a);(b)the employer shall establish a
Board of Trustees for the administration of the provident fund consisting of
such number of members as may be specified in the Scheme;(c)the terms and
conditions of service of members of the Board of Trustees shall be such as may
be specified in the Scheme;(d)the Board of Trustees constituted under clause
(b) shall—(i)maintain detailed accounts to show the contributions credited,
withdrawals made and interest accrued in respect of each employee;(ii)submit
such returns to the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner or any other officer
as the Central Government may direct from time to time;(iii)invest the
provident fund monies in accordance with the directions issued by the Central
Government from time to time;(iv)transfer, where necessary, the provident fund
account of any employee; and(v)perform such other duties as may be specified
in the Scheme.(1B)Where the Board of Trustees established under clause (b) of
sub-section (1A) contravenes, or makes default in complying with, any
provisions of clause (d) of that sub-section, the Trustees of the said Board
shall be deemed to have committed an offence under sub-section (2A) of section
14 and shall be punishable with the penalties provided in that sub-
section.(1C)The appropriate Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, and subject to the condition on the pattern of investment of pension
fund and such other conditions as may be specified therein, exempt any
establishment or class of establishments from the operation of the Pension
Scheme if the employees of such establishment or class of establishments are
either members of any other pension scheme or propose to be members of such
pension scheme, where the pensionary benefits are at par or more favourable
than the Pension Scheme under this Act.(2)Any Scheme may make provision for
exemption of any person or class of persons employed in any establishment to
which the Scheme applies from the operation of all or any of the provisions of
the Scheme, if such person or class of persons is entitled to benefits in the
nature of provident fund, gratuity or old age pension and such benefits
separately or jointly, are on the whole not less favourable than the benefits
provided under this Act or the Scheme:Provided that no such exemption shall be
granted in respect of a class of persons unless the appropriate Government is
of opinion that the majority of persons constituting such class desire to
continue to be entitled to such benefits.(2A)The Central Provident Fund
Commissioner may, if requested so to do by the employer, by notification in
the Official Gazette, and subject to such conditions as may be specified in
the notification, exempt, whether prospectively or retrospectively, any
establishment from the operation of all or any of the provisions of the
Insurance Scheme, if he is satisfied that the employees of such establishment
are, without making any separate contribution or payment of premium, in
enjoyment of benefits in the nature of life insurance, whether linked to their
deposits in provident fund or not, and such benefits are more favourable to
such employees than the benefits admissible under the Insurance
Scheme.(2B)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (2A), the
Insurance Scheme may provide for the exemption of any person or class of
persons employed in any establishment and covered by that Scheme from the
operation of all or any of the provisions thereof, if the benefits in the
nature of life insurance admissible to such person or class of persons are
more favourable than the benefits provided under the Insurance Scheme.(3)Where
in respect of any person or class of persons employed in an establishment an
exemption is granted under this section from the operation of all or any of
the provisions of any Scheme (whether such exemption has been granted to the
establishment wherein such person or class of persons is employed or to the
person or class of persons as such), the employer in relation to such
establishment—(a)shall, in relation to the provident fund, pension and
gratuity to which any such person or class of persons is entitled, maintain
such accounts, submit such returns, make such investment, provide for such
facilities for inspection and pay such inspection charges, as the Central
Government may direct;(b)shall not, at any time after the exemption, without
the leave of the Central Government, reduce the total quantum of benefits in
the nature of pension, gratuity or provident fund to which any such person or
class of persons was entitled at the time of the exemption; and(c)shall, where
any such person leaves his employment and obtains re-employment in another
establishment to which this Act applies, transfer within such time as may be
specified in this behalf by the Central Government, the amount of
accumulations to the credit of that person in the provident fund of the
establishment left by him to the credit of that person’s account in the
provident fund of the establishment in which he is re-employed or, as the case
may be, in the Fund established under the Scheme applicable to the
establishment.(3A)Where, in respect of any person or class of persons employed
in any establishment, an exemption is granted under sub-section (2A) or sub-
section (2B) from the operation of all or any of the provisions of the
Insurance Scheme (whether such exemption is granted to the establishment
wherein such person or class of persons is employed or to the person or class
of persons as such), the employer in relation to such establishment—(a)shall,
in relation to the benefits in the nature of life insurance, to which any such
person or class of persons is entitled, or any insurance fund, maintain such
accounts, submit such returns, make such investments, provide for such
facilities for inspection and pay such inspection charges, as the Central
Government may direct;(b)shall not, at any time after the exemption without
the leave of the Central Government, reduce the total quantum of benefits in
the nature of life insurance to which any such person or class of persons was
entitled immediately before the date of the exemption,(c)***(4)Any exemption
granted under this section may be cancelled by the authority which granted it,
by order in writing, if an employer fails to comply,—(a)in the case of an
exemption granted under sub-section (1) with any of the conditions imposed
under that sub-section or sub-section (1A) or with any of the provisions of
sub-section (3);(aa)in the case of an exemption granted under sub-section (1C)
with any of the conditions imposed under that sub-section; and(b)in the case
of an exemption granted under sub-section (2), with any of the provisions of
sub-section (3);(c)in the case of an exemption granted under sub-section (2A),
with any of the conditions imposed under that sub-section or with any of the
provisions of sub-section (3A); (c) in the case of an exemption granted under
sub-section (2A), with any of the conditions imposed under that sub-section or
with any of the provisions of sub-section (3A);"(d)in the case of an exemption
granted under sub-section (2B), with any of the provisions of sub-section
(3A).(5)Where any exemption granted under sub-section (1), sub-section [(1C),
sub-section (2), sub-section (2A) or sub-section (2B) is cancelled, the amount
of accumulations to the credit of every employee to whom such exemption
applied, in the Provident Fund, the Pension Fund or the Insurance Fund of the
establishment in which he is employed together with any amount forfeited from
the employer’s share of contribution to the credit of the employee who leaves
the employment before the completion of the full period of service shall be
transferred within such time and in such manner as may be specified in the
Scheme or the Pension Scheme or the Insurance Scheme to the credit of his
account in the Fund or the Pension Fund or the Insurance Fund, as the case may
be.(6)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1C) the employer of an
exempted establishment or of an exempted employee of an establishment to which
the provisions of the Pension Scheme apply, shall, notwithstanding any
exemption granted under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), pay to the Pension
Fund such portion of the employer’s contribution to its provident fund within
such time and in such manner as may be specified in the Pension Scheme.

### 17A. Transfer of accounts.—

(1)Where an employee employed in an establishment to which this Act applies
leaves his employment and obtains re-employment in another establishment to
which this Act does not apply, the amount of accumulations to the credit of
such employee in the Fund, or as the case may be, in the provident fund of the
establishment left by him shall be transferred, within such time as may be
specified by the Central Government in this behalf, to the credit of his
account in the provident fund of the establishment in which he is re-employed,
if the employee so desires and the rules in relation to that provident fund
permit such transfer.(2)Where an employee employed in an establishment to
which this Act does not apply leaves his employment and obtains re-employment
in another establishment to which this Act applies, the amount of
accumulations to the credit of such employee in the provident fund of the
establishment left by him may, if the employee so desires and the rules in
relation to such provident fund permit, be transferred to the credit of his
account in the Fund or as the case may be, in the provident fund of the
establishment in which he is re-employed.

### 17B. Liability in case of transfer of establishment.—

Where an employer, in relation to an establishment, transfers that
establishment in whole or in part, by sale, gift, lease or licence or in any
other manner whatsoever, the employer and the person to whom the establishment
is so transferred shall jointly and severally be liable to pay the
contribution and other sums due from the employer under any provision of this
Act or the Scheme or the Pension. Scheme or the Insurance Scheme, as the case
may be, in respect of the period up to the date of such transfer:Provided that
the liability of the transferee shall be limited to the value of the assets
obtained by him by such transfer.

### 18. Protection of action taken in good faith.—

No suit prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government, a State Government, the Presiding Officer of a Tribunal, any
authority referred to in section 7A, an Inspector or any other person for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of
this Act, the Scheme, the Pension Scheme or the Insurance Scheme.

### 18A. Presiding Officer and other officers to be public servants.—

The Presiding Officer of a Tribunal, its officers and other employees, the
authorities referred to in section 7A and every Inspector shall be deemed to
be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code
(45 of 1860).

### 19. Delegation of powers.—

The appropriate Government may direct that any power or authority or
jurisdiction exercisable by it under this Act , the Scheme, the Pension Scheme
or the Insurance Scheme shall, in relation to such matters and subject to such
conditions, if any, as may be specified in the direction, be exercisable
also—(a)where the appropriate Government is the Central Government, by such
officer or authority subordinate to the Central Government or by the State
Government or by such officer or authority subordinate to the State
Government, as may be specified in the notification; and(b)where the
appropriate Government is a State Government, by such officer or authority
subordinate to the State Government as may be specified in the notification.

### 20. Power of Central Government to give directions.—

The Central Government may, from time to time, give such directions to the
Central Board as it may think fit for the efficient administration of this Act
and when any such direction is given, the Central Board shall comply with such
direction.

### 21. Power to make rules.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.(2)Without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:—(a)the salary and allowances and other terms
and conditions of service of the Presiding Officer and the employees of a
Tribunal;(b)the form and the manner in which, and the time within which, an
appeal shall be filed before a Tribunal and the fees payable for filing such
appeal;(c)the manner of certifying the copy of the certificate, to be
forwarded to the Recovery Officer under sub-section (2) of section 8C;
and(d)any other matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed by rules under
this Act.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule.

### 22. Power to remove difficulties.—

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, as
amended by the Employees' Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions
(Amendment) Act, 1988, the Central Government may, by order published in the
Official Gazette, make such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for the removal of
the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a
period of three years from the date on which the said amendment Act receives
the assent of the President.(2)Every order made under this section shall, as
soon as may be after it is made, be laid before each House of Parliament.THE
EMPLOYEES’ PROVIDENT FUNDS AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ACT, 1952

## [See sections 2(i) and 4]

Any industry engaged in the manufacture of any of the following,
namely:—Cement.Cigarettes.Electrical, mechanical or general engineering
products.Iron and steel.Paper.Textiles (made wholly on in part of cotton or
wool or jute or silk, whether natural or artificial).(1)Matches.(2)Edible oils
and fats.(3)Sugar.(4)Rubber and rubber products(5)Electricity including the
generation, transmission and distribution thereof.(6)Tea.(7)Printing other
than printing industry relating to newspaper establishments as defined in the
Working Journalists (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act,
1955 (45 of 1955), including the process of composing types for printing,
printing by letter press, lithography, photogravure or other similar process
or book-binding.(8)Glass.(9)Stone-ware pipes.(10)Sanitary wares.(11)Electrical
porcelain insulators of high and low
tension.(12)Refractories.(13)Tiles.(1)Heavy and fine chemicals,
including:—(i)Fertilizers.(ii)Turpentine.(iii)Rosin.(iv)Medical and
pharmaceutical preparations.(v)Toilet
preparations.(vi)Soaps.(vii)Inks.(viii)Intermediates, dyes, colour lakhs and
toners.(ix)Fatty acids, and(x)Oxygen, acetylene and carbon-dioxide gases
industry.(2)Indigo.(3)Lac including shellac.(4)Non-edible vegetable and animal
oils and fats.Mineral oil refining industry.(i)Industrial and Power Alcohol
industry; and(ii)Asbestos Cement Sheets industry.Biscuit making industry
including composite units making biscuits and products such as bread,
confectionery and milk and milk powder.Mica industry.Plywood
industry.Automobile repairing and servicing industry.(1)Rice milling.(2)Flour
milling.(3)Dal milling.Starch industry.(1)Petroleum or natural gas
exploration, prospecting, drilling or production.(2)Petroleum or natural gas
refining.Leather and leather products industry.(1)Stone-ware jars.Crockery.The
fruit and vegetable preservation industry, that is to say, any industry which
is engaged in the preparation or production of any of the following articles,
namely:—(i)canned and bottled fruits, juices and pulps.(ii)canned and bottled
vegetables.(iii)frozen fruits and vegetables.(iv)jams, jellies and
marmalades.(v)tomato products, ketchups and sauces.(vi)squashes, crushes,
cordials and ready-to-serve beverages or any other beverages containing fruit
juice or fruit pulp.(vii)preserved, candied and crystallised fruits and
peals.(viii)chutneys.(ix)any other unspecified item relating to the
preservation or canning of fruits and vegetables.Cashewnut
Industry.Confectionery Industry.(1)Buttons.(2)Brushes.(3)Plastic and Plastic
products.(4)Stationery products.The aerated water industry, that is to say,
any industry engaged in the manufacture of aerated water, soft drinks or
carbonated water.The distilling and rectifying of spirits (not falling under
industrial and power alcohol) and blending of spirits industry.The paint and
varnish Industry.Bone crushing Industry.Pickers Industry.Milk and milk
products Industry.Non-ferrous metals and alloys in the form of ingots
industry.Bread Industry.Stemming or redrying of tobacco leaf industry, that is
to say, any industry engaged in the stemming, redrying, handling, sorting,
grading or packing of tobacco leaf.Agarbatee (including dhoop and dhoopbatee)
industry.Coir (excluding the spinning sector) Industry.Tobacco industry, that
is to say, any industry engaged in the manufacture of cigars, zarda, snuff,
qivam and guraku from tobacco.Paper products Industry.Licensed salt industry,
i.e. any industry engaged in the manufacture of salt for which a licence is
necessary and which has land not less than 34.05 hectares.Linoleum Industry
and Indoleum Industry.Explosive Industry.Jute bailing or pressing
Industry.Fireworks and percussion cap works Industry.Tent making
Industry.Ferro-manganese Industry.Ice or ice cream Industry.Winding of thread
and yarn reeling Industry.Cotton Ginning, Bailing and Pressing Industry.Katha
making Industry.Beer manufacturing Industry, that is to say, any industry
engaged in the manufacture of the product of alcoholic fermentation of a mash
in potable water of malted barley and hops, or of hops concentrated with or
without the addition of other malted or unmalted cereals or other carbohydrate
preparations.Beedi Industry, i.e. any industry engaged in manufacture of
beedis.Ferro-chrome Industry.Diamond Cutting Industry.Industries engaged in
the manufacture of Myrobalan Extract Power, Myrobalan Extract Solid and
Vegetable Tanin Blended Extract.Brick Industry.All industries based on
asbestos as principal raw material.Industries manufacturing iron ore
pellets.Explanation.— In this Scheme, without prejudice to the ordinary
meaning of the expressions used therein,—(a)the expression “Electrical,
mechanical or general engineering products” includes—(1)machinery and
equipment for the generation, transmission, distribution or measurement of
electrical energy and motors including cables and wires,(2)telephones,
telegraph and wireless communication apparatus,(3)electric lamps (not
including glass bulbs),(4)electric fans and electrical domestic
appliances,(5)storage and dry batteries,(6)radio receivers and sound
reproducing instruments,(7)machinery used in industry (including textile
machinery) other than electrical machinery and machine tools.(8)boilers and
prime movers, including internal combustion engines, marine engines and
locomotives,(9)machine tools, that is to say, metal and wood working
machinery,(10)grinding wheels,(11)ships,(12)automobiles and
tractors,(13)bolts, nuts and rivets,(14)power driven
pumps,(15)bicycles,(16)hurricanes lanterns,(17)sewing and knitting
machines,(18)mathematical and scientific instruments,(19)products of metal
rolling and re-rolling,(20)wires, pipers, tubes and fittings,(21)ferrous and
non-ferrous castings,(22)safes, vaults and furniture made of iron or steel or
steel alloys,(23)cutlery and surgical instruments,(24)drum and
containers,(25)parts and accessories of products specified in items 1 to
24;(b)the expression “Iron and Steel” includes pig iron, ingots, blooms,
billets and rolled or re-rolled products into basic forms and tool and alloy
steel;(c)the expression “Paper” includes pulp, paperboard and straw-
board;(d)the expression “textiles” includes the products of carding, spinning,
weaving, finishing and dyeing yarn and fabrics, printing, knitting and
embroidering.

## [See section 5(1B)]

MATTERS FOR WHICH PROVISION MAY BE MADE IN A SCHEME(1)The employees or class
of employees who shall join the Fund, and the conditions under which employees
may be exempted from joining the Fund or from making any contribution.(2)The
time and manner in which contributions shall be made to the Fund by employers
and by, or on behalf of, employees, (whether employed by him directly or by or
through a contractor), the contributions which an employee may, if he so
desires, make under section 6, and the manner in which such contributions may
be recovered.(2A)The manner in which employees’ contributions may be recovered
by contractors from employees employed by or through such contractors.(3)The
payment by the employer of such sums of money as may be necessary to meet the
cost of administering the Fund and the rate at which and the manner in which
the payment shall be made.(4)The constitution of any committee for assisting
any board of trustees.(5)The opening of regional and other offices of any
board of trustees.(6)The manner in which accounts shall be kept, the
investment of moneys belonging to the Fund in accordance with any directions
issued or conditions specified by the Central Government, the preparation of
the budget, the audit of accounts and the submission of reports to the Central
Government, or to any specified State Government.(7)The conditions under which
withdrawals from the Fund may be permitted and any deduction or forfeiture may
be made and the maximum amount of such deduction or forfeiture.(8)The fixation
by the Central Government in consultation with the boards of trustees
concerned of the rate of interest payable to members.(9)The form in which an
employee shall furnish particulars about himself and his family whenever
required.(10)The nomination of a person to receive the amount standing to the
credit of a member after his death and the cancellation or variation of such
nomination.(11)The registers and records to be maintained with respect to
employees and the returns to be furnished by employers or contractors.(12)The
form or design of any identity card, token or disc for the purpose of
identifying any employee, and for the issue, custody and replacement
thereof.(13)The fees to be levied for any of the purposes specified in this
Schedule.(14)The contraventions or defaults which shall be punishable under
sub-section (2) of section 14.(15)The further powers, if any, which may be
exercised by Inspectors.(16)The manner in which accumulations in any existing
provident fund shall be transferred to the Fund under section 15, and the mode
of valuation of any assets which may be transferred by the employers in this
behalf.(17)The conditions under which a member may be permitted to pay premia
on life insurance, from the Fund.(18)Any other matter which is to be provided
for in the Scheme or which may be necessary or proper for the purpose of
implementing the Scheme.

## [See section 6A (5)]

MATTERS FOR WHICH PROVISION MAY BE MADE IN THE PENSION SCHEME(1)The employees
or class of employees to whom the Pension Scheme shall apply.(2)The time
within which the employees who are not members of the Family Pension Scheme
under section 6A as it stood before the commencement of the Employees’
Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Act, 1996 (hereafter
in this Schedule referred to as the amending Act) shall opt for the Pension
Scheme.(3)The portion of employers’ contribution to the Provident Fund which
shall be credited to the Pension Fund and the manner in which it is
credited.(4)The minimum qualifying service for being eligible for pension and
the manner in which the employees may be granted the benefits of their past
service under section 6A as it stood before the commencement of the amending
Act.(5)The regulation of the manner in which and the period of service for
which, no contribution is received.(6)The manner in which employees’ interest
will be protected against default in payment of contribution by the
employer.(7)The manner in which the accounts of the Pension Fund shall be kept
and investment of moneys belonging to Pension Fund to be made subject to such
pattern of investment as may be determined by the Central Government.(8)The
form in which an employee shall furnish particulars about himself and the
members of his family whenever required.(9)The forms, registers and records to
be maintained in respect of employees, required for the administration of the
Pension Scheme.(10)The scale of pension and pensionary benefits and the
conditions relating to grant of such benefits to the employees.(11)The manner
in which the exempted establishments have to pay contribution towards the
Pension Scheme and the submission of returns relating thereto.(12)The mode of
disbursement of pension and arrangements to be entered into with such
disbursing agencies as may be specified for the purpose.(13)The manner in
which the expenses for administering the Pension Scheme will be met from the
income of the Pension Fund.(14)Any other matter which is to be provided for in
the Pension Scheme or which may be necessary or proper for the purpose of
implementation of the Pension Scheme.

## [See section 6C (6)]

MATTERS TO BE PROVIDED FOR IN THE EMPLOYEES’ DEPOSIT-LINKED INSURANCE
SCHEME(1)The employees or class of employees who shall be covered by the
Insurance Scheme.(2)The manner in which the accounts of the Insurance Fund
shall be kept and the investment of moneys belonging to the Insurance Fund
subject to such pattern of investment as may be determined, by order, by the
Central Government.(3)The form in which an employee shall furnish particulars
about himself and the members of his family whenever required.(4)The
nomination of a person to receive the insurance amount due to the employee
after his death and the cancellation or variation of such nomination.(5)The
registers and records to be maintained in respect of employees; the form or
design of any identity card, token or disc for the purpose of identifying any
employee or his nominee or member of his family entitled to receive the
insurance amount.(6)The scales of insurance benefits and conditions relating
to the grant of such benefits to the employees.(8)The manner in which the
amount due to the nominee or the member of the family of the employee under
the scheme is to be paid including a provision that the amount shall not be
paid otherwise than in the form of a deposit in a savings bank account, in the
name of such nominee or member of family, in any corresponding new bank
specified in the First Schedule to the Banking Companies (Acquisition and
Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970).(9)Any other matter which is
to be provided for in the Employees’ Deposit-linked Insurance Scheme or which
may be necessary or proper for the purpose of implementing that Scheme.

