## Union of India - Act

## The Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Rules, 1976

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Rules, 1976

## Rule THE-FOREIGN-CONTRIBUTION-REGULATION-RULES-1976 of 1976

  * Published on 1 January 1991 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1991 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1991.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Rules, 1976

### 11.

/553In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 of the Foreign
Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976 (49 of 1976), the Central Government
hereby makes the following rules, namely:--

### 1. Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called The
Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Rules, 1976.

(2)They shall come into force on the 5th day of August, 1976.

### 2. Definitions .-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,--

(a)"Act" means the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976;(b)"Form" means
a form appended to these rules;(c)"section" means a section of the Act;(d)[
"year" means the accounting year commencing from the 1st day of April and
ending on 31st day of March of the next calendar year.]

### 3. Application for obtaining prior permission to receive foreign
contribution or foreign hospitality .-An application for obtaining prior
permission of the Central Government to--

(a)receive foreign contribution under sub-section (1) of section 5, or clause
(a) of sub-section (2) of that section, shall be made in Form FC 1;(aa)[
receive foreign contribution under proviso to sub-section (1) of section 6, or
under sub-section (1-A) of that section or clause (b) of section 10, shall be
made in Form FC 1-A;](b)accept foreign hospitality under section 9 [or clause
(d) of section 10] [ Inserted by G.S.R. 755(E), dated 5.11.1984 (w.e.f.
5.11.1984).], shall be made in Form FC 2.[3-A. Application for
registration.-An application for registration of an association referred to in
sub-section (1) of section 6 for acceptance of foreign contribution shall be
made in Form FC 8.]

### 4. Intimation regarding receipt of foreign contribution or scholarship or
stipend or any payment of a like nature of foreign hospitality .-(1) An
intimation as to the receipt of--

(a)[ foreign contribution by an association referred to in sub-sections (1)
and (1-A) of section 6 shall be given for every year beginning on the 1st day
of April in Form FC 3 in duplicate, [within nine months][of the closure of the
year:- [Substituted by G.S.R. 179(E), dated 25.3.1991 (w.e.f. 1.4.1991).
]Provided that a NIL report shall also be furnished. The intimation to be
furnished for the year beginning on the 1st day of April, 1991 shall also
include the receipt and utilisation of foreign contribution during the period
commencing from 1st January, 1991 and ending on 31st March, 1991;](b)foreign
contribution by a candidate for election, referred to in sub-section (2) of
section 6 shall be given in Form FC 4, within fifteen days from the date on
which he is duly nominated as a candidate for election;(c)any scholarship,
stipend or any payment of a like nature, from any foreign source in relation
to which an intimation is required to be given under sub-section (1) of
section 7, shall be given in Form FC 5, within thirty days of receipt of such
scholarship, stipend or other payment of a like nature:Provided that where the
person receiving the scholarship, stipend or any payment of a like nature is
residing outside India, the intimation shall be given within sixty days from
the date of receipt of such scholarship, stipend or other payment of a like
nature;(d)foreign hospitality, referred to in the proviso to section 9, shall
be given on plain paper within thirty days from the date of receipt of such
hospitality specifying the particulars as to the receipt of such hospitality
and the source from which and the manner in which such hospitality was
received.

### 5. Intimation of receipt of scholarship, stipend or any payment of a like
nature, when not necessary .-It shall not be necessary for a citizen of India
to give any intimation under section 7 regarding receipt of scholarship,
stipend or any payment of a like nature from any foreign source, if the value
of such scholarship, stipend or other payment does not exceed, during an
academic year, rupees thirty-six thousand.

Explanation .-In calculating the value,--(a)the amount received by the citizen
for the purchase of books, clothing and equipment and for sight-seeing in a
foreign country or territory shall be taken into account; but(b)the amount
spent in travel by air in economy class from India to a foreign country or
territory and back to India from such foreign country or territory, and the
amount spent by the foreign source in respect of such citizen towards tuition
and other fees, shall not be taken into account.

### 6. Authority to whom an application or intimation to be sent .-Any
application or intimation referred to [in rule 3, rule 3-A or rule 4], as the
case may be, shall be made or given to the Secretary to the Government of
India in the Ministry of Home Affairs, New Delhi and such application or
intimation shall be sent by registered post.

### 7. Manner of service of prohibitory order or any other order or direction
.-A prohibitory order under section 12 or any other order or direction made or
issued under the Act, shall be served on the person concerned in the following
manner, that is to say,--

(a)by delivering or tendering it to that person or to his duly authorised
agent; or(b)by sending it to him by registered post acknowledgment due to the
address of his last known place of residence or the place where he carries on,
or is known to have last carried on, business or the place where he personally
works for gain or is known to have last worked for gain, and in case the
person is an organisation or an association, to the last known address of the
office of such organisation or association;(c)if it cannot be served in any of
the manners aforesaid, by affixing it on the outer door or some other
conspicuous part of the premises in which that person resides, or carries on,
or is known to have last carried on, business, or personally works for gain,
or is known to have last worked personally for gain, and in case the person is
an organisation or an association, on the outer door or some other conspicuous
part of the premises in which the officer of the organisation or association
is located, or is known to have been last located, and the written report
whereof should be witnessed by at least two persons.

### 8. Maintenance of accounts .-(1) A separate set of accounts and records
shall be maintained, exclusively for foreign contribution received and
utilised,--

(a)in Form FC 6, where the foreign contribution relates only to articles as
referred to in item (i) of sub-clause (c) of clause (1) of section 2;(b)in the
cash book and ledger account on double entry basis, where the foreign
contribution relates to currency received and utilised, and a separate bank
account shall be maintained in respect of such contribution;(c)in Form FC 7,
where the foreign contribution relates to foreign securities.(2)[ Every
account specified in sub-rule (1) shall be maintained on an yearly basis,
commencing on the 1st day of [April][each year and every such yearly account,
duly certified by a chartered accountant [in Form FC 3 along with a balance
sheet and statement of receipts and payments] [Substituted by S.O. 860(E),
dated 29.12.1977 (w.e.f. 29.12.1977). ][, shall be furnished, in duplicate, to
the Secretary to the Government of India, in the Ministry of Home Affairs, New
Delhi, [within nine months] [Substituted by S.O. 860(E), dated 29.12.1977
(w.e.f. 29.12.1977). ][of the closure of the year.] [Substituted by S.O.
860(E), dated 29.12.1977 (w.e.f. 29.12.1977). ]Explanation .-In this rule,
"Chartered Accountant" has the meaning assigned to it in the Chartered
Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949).

### 9. Limits up to which an officer, not below the rank of an Assistant
Sessions Judge may make adjudication of confiscation .-An officer referred to
in clause (b) of section 19 may adjudge confiscation in relation to any
article or currency seized under section 16, if the value of such article or
the amount of such currency exceeds one thousand rupees but does not exceed
fifty thousand rupees.

FORM FC - 1[See rule 3(a)]Application For Seeking Prior Permission Of The
Central Government For Accepting Foreign Contribution By Or On Behalf Of An
Organisation Of Political Nature Not Being A Political Party[Section 5 (1) and
5 (2) (a) of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976]

### 1\. (a) Particulars of the Organisation

(Full name in block letters, and address)(b)Address of the Principal/Head
Office of the Organisation

### 2\. Full particulars of the person applying on behalf of the Organisation

(a)Name is full (in block letters)(b)Name of father(c)Occupation(d)Residential
address(e)If an office-bearer, the office held in the Organisation.

### 3\. Reference of the order published by the Central Government in the
Official Gazette specifying the Organisation as an "Organisation of Political
Nature, not being a political party".

### 4\. Nature and full details of contribution including value, to be
received.

### 5\. The mode/channel of receipt.

### 6\. Purpose for which foreign contribution is proposed is to be received.

### 7\. Particulars of the foreign source from which contribution is to be
received :

(a)If an individual, his personal particulars including name, present addrss,
permanent address, nationality, profession.(b)If an
Organisation/Institution/Association/Trust/Foundation/Trade Union, etc., full
particulars thereof including-(i)Full name and complete address(ii)Address of
Head Office/Principal Office(iii)Aims and objects(iv)Particulars of important
office-bearers

### 8\. Nature of connection/dealings with the foreign source

### 9\. Any other information of significance which the applicant may like to
furnish

DECLARATIONI hereby declare that the above particulars furnished by me are
true and correct....................Signature of the
ApplicantPlace.................Date..................Note. - In the case of
application by an Organisation, it should be signed by the chief
functionary.[FORM FC 1 - A][See rule 3 (aa)]Form Of Application For Seeking
Prior Permission From The Central Government Under The Foreign Contribution
(Regulation) Ac, 1976 (Hereinafter Referred To As The Act) For The Acceptance
Of Foreign Contribution By An Association Having A Definite Cultural,
Economic, Educational, Religious Or Social ProgrammeNo..............
Date...........ToThe Secretary to the Government of India,Ministry of Home
Affairs, Lok Nayak Bhavan, Khan Market,New Delhi - 110003Subject:- Application
for seeking the prior permission of the Central Government under the Foreign
Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976 for acceptance of foreign
contribution.Sir,I,............., on behalf of the Association named
hereafter, apply for seeking prior permission of the Central Government for
the acceptance of foreign contribution under proviso to sub-section (1) of
section 6 or under sub-section (1-A) of that section or clause (b) of section
10 of the Act.

### 1\. (i). Name of the Association and its complete postal address

NameAddressTown/CityStateDistrictPin Code(ii)If the Association is a
registered trust or Society please indicate its -(a)registration
number(b)place of registration(c)date of registration certified copy of the
registration certificate to be attached).(iii)Nature of Association
-(a)religious, (b) cultural, (c) economic, (d) educational, (e) social.Note. -
If a religious Association, then state whether -(a)Hindu, (b) Sikh, (c)
Muslim, (d) Christian, (e) Buddhist, (f) Others.(iv)Please indicate the main
aim(s) and object(s) of the Association (enclose copy of the Memorandum of
Association and/or the Articles of Association, if applicable).(v)Please
furnish the names and address of the members of the Executive
committee/Governing Council, etc., of the Association, including the Chief
Functionary, in the following manner:

Sl.No. | Name | Name of Father/Husband | Nationality | Occupation | Office held in the Association, if any | Relationship with other office bearers, if any | Address  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
### 2\. Please indicate whether any member of the Executive Committee
/Governing Council, etc., of the Association, including the Chief Functionary
has, in the discharge of his/her official functions -

(a)been convicted by any court of law,(b)a prosecution for any offence pending
against him/her,(c)been found guilty of diversion or misutilisation of funds
of the Association or any other association in the past.

### 3\. Please indicate whether the applicant Association -

(a)is a branch/unit/associate of foreign based organisation or another
association already registered under the Act. If so, name and address of the
parent organisation should be furnished;(b)has been directed by the Central
Government in terms of the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Act
to seek prior permission. If so, the number and date of the relevant order
should be furnished.(c)has been directed by the Central Government in terms of
section 10 of the Act to seek prior permission. If so, the number and date of
the relevant order should be furnished.

### 4\. Please indicate -

(i)whether the Association ever applied for registration under the Act in the
past, if so,-(a)the date of submission of application for registration,(b)the
number and date of last reference, if any, received from the
Ministry,(c)whether registration was refused,(d)whether the application for
registration is still pending.(ii)whether the Association has close links with
another association, or its unit or branch which has been -(a)refused
registration under the Act,(b)prohibited from accepting foreign contribution.

### 5\. Please indicate -

(i)whether the Association was, -(a)granted prior permission to receive
foreign contribution under the Act in the past. If so, the number and date of
the letter granting prior permission should be furnished;(b)whether the
account of the receipt and utilisation of the foreign contribution received
above was sent to the Central Government in the prescribed form. If so, the
date of submission of the accounts should be furnished;(c)If the prior
permission was granted in the current year, details of the foreign
contribution received and utilised, purpose-wise, showing the unspent balance
should be annexed.(ii)whether the Association has received foreign
contribution without the prior permission of the Central Government, in the
past. If so, -(a)full particulars of the foreign contribution received,
address of the branch of the bank and account number in which deposited should
be furnished;(b)whether the said violation has been condoned by the Central
Government;(c)whether the Association has been prohibited from accepting
foreign contribution under the Act.

### 6\. Please indicate whether the Association is owner / printer /
publisher, editor of a publication which is a "registered newspaper" under the
Press and Registration of Books Act, 1867.

### 7\. Please furnish -

(i)Details of the activities of the Association during the past three
years;(ii)Copies of the audited statement of accounts of the Association for
the past three years.

### 8\. (i) Please indicate -

(a)the nature and value of the foreign contribution to be received (a copy of
the latest commitment letter from the donor should be furnished);(b)the
purpose for which the foreign contribution is proposed to be received and
utilised indicating also the geographical area(s) to be covered.(ii)a copy of
the proposal/project which has been approved by the foreign source for
funding, including projected outlays / budget breakup, should be
enclosed.(iii)a copy of the proposal/project which has been approved for
funding out of the foreign contribution should be enclosed (This column
applies only to subsequent recipients).

### 9\. Please indicate -

(i)the name of the bank and address of the branch through which the foreign
contribution is proposed to be received;(ii)the account number in the said
branch of the bank.

### 10. Please indicate the particulars of the foreign source or the sources
from which the foreign contribution is proposed to be received -

(a)If an individual, his personal particulars including name, present address,
permanent address, nationality, profession;(b)If an organisation / institution
/ association / trust / trade union etc., full particulars thereof, including
-(i)Full name and complete address.(ii)Address of the Head office / principal
office.(iii)Particulars of Chief Functionary and important office
bearers.(c)Please indicate whether the foreign source is a Government of a
foreign country or agency thereof.[10-A. Whether a recommendation certificate
from the competent authority is attached(Yes/No)]*

### 11\. Any other information which the Association may like to furnish.

Yours faithfully,..........................Signature of the Applicant[Name of
the Chief Functionary or authorised office bearer (with seal of the
Association)]DECLARATIONI hereby declare that the above particulars furnished
by me are true and correct...........................Signature of the
Applicant[Name of the Chief Functionary or authorised office bearer (with seal
of the Association)]Place................Date.................*If the foreign
contribution, whether currency or article is to be received from any person or
association who has received the same as first, second or subsequent
recipient, particulars of such person or association should be given against
column 10 above.Note. -

### 1\. An incomplete application i.e., without necessary
documents/details/explanations is likely to be rejected summarily.

### 2\. In case the space against any column is insufficient, separate
annexure should be attached.

### 3\. Please use CAPITAL LETTERS.

### 4\. The application should be signed by the Chief Functionary or
authorised office bearer of the Association.]

[CERTIFICATE [Inserted by G.S.R. 63(E), dated 24-1-2000 (w.e.f. 25-1-2000)](To
be submitted along with the application)This is to certify that
the............(name of the association) have its registered office
at................(address) has been formed for undertaking activities in its
chosen...................(economic, educational, cultural, religious and
social)* field of activity. The antecedents of the organisation have been
verified and there is nothing adverse against them.

### 2\. Its proposed project would be undertaken in the ........ (District) of
.......... (State). The said project will be beneficial to the people living
in the area.

### 3\. The grant of prior permission to the aforementioned association to
accept foreign contribution amounting to .......... (currency/amount) from
............(name and address of foreign donor) under the foreign Contribution
(Regulation) Act, 1976 for the said project is recommended.

(Recommending Authority)**(With Seal)*Strike out whichever is not
applicable.**Any concerned -

### 1\.

) Collector of District.

### 2\.

) Department of the State Government.

### 3\.

) Ministry or Department of the Government of India.][FORM FC 2] [Substituted
by G.S.R. 755(E), dated 5-11-1984 (w.e.f. 5-11-1984)][See rule
3(b)]Application For Seeking Prior Permission Of The Central Government To
Accept Foreign Hospitality[Section 9 read with section 10(d) and 11(1) of the
Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976]

### 1\. Name in full (in block letters)

### 2\. Date of birth:

### 3\. Name of father/husband

### 4\. Present address

### 5\. Permanent address

### 6\. Passport particulars (if already in possession)

### 7\. Status:

(a)Member of Legislature(b)Office-bearer of a political party(c)Judge of
Supreme Court/High Court(d)Government servant(e)Employee of a
Company/Corporation(f)Any person or class of persons not specified in section
9

### 8\. Names of countries/places to be visited with duration of stay

### 9\. The countries and places where foreign hospitality is to be accepted

### 10\. Duration and purpose of visit to the country(ies)/Place(s) mentioned
in column 9 with specific dates.

### 11\. Particulars of host(s): -

(a)If an individual, his personal particulars including name, present address,
permanent address, nationality, profession.(b)If an
Organisation/Institution/Association/Trust/ Foundation/Trade Union etc., full
particulars thereof including -(i)Full name and complete address(ii)Address of
Head office/Principal office(iii)Aims and Objects(iv)Particulars of important
office-bearers.

### 12. *Full particulars, as in serial 11(a) and (b) of the foreign source in
case the actual source extending the hospitality** is located in a country
other than actually proposed to be visited.

### 13. Nature and duration of foreign hospitality proposed to be accepted
with specific dates and with specific details.

### 14. Nature of connection/dealing with the host and / or foreign source
extending the hospitality.

### 15. Approximate expenditure to be incurred on hospitality.

### 16. Any other information of significance which the applicant may like to
furnish.

DECLARATIONI hereby declare that the above particulars furnished by me are
true and correct.......................Signature of
ApplicantPlace.................Date..................*Delete if not
applicable.** "Foreign hospitality" means any offer, not being a purely casual
one, made by a foreign source for providing a person with the cost of travel
to any foreign country or territory or with free board, lodging, transport or
medical treatment.[FORM FC 3] [Substituted by G.S.R. 8(E), dated 4-1-1999
(w.e.f. 4-1-1999)][See rule 4(a)]Account of Foreign Contribution of the year
ending on 31st March.........

### 1\. Association's details

(i) Name and address (in Capital Letters) | : | ......................................  
---|---|---  
(ii) Registration number and date | : | ......................................  
[under the Foreign Contribution(Regulation) Act, 1976]: |  |   
(iii) Prior permission number and date, if not registered | : | ......................................  
(iv) Nature of association | : | ............................  
|  | (1) Cultural (2) Economic (3) Educational (4) Religious (5) Social  
(v) Denomination in case of religious association | : |  (a) Hindu (b) Sikh (c) Muslim (d) Christian(e)Buddhist  
|  | (f) Others  
  
[1-A (i) Total amount of foreign contribution received during the
year:...............(ii)Interest earned on the foreign contribution during the
year, -(a)In the designated bank account:(b)On investments made (Fixed Deposit
Receipt, etc.) during the year or in the preceding years:] [Inserted by G.S.R.
557(E), dated 26-7-2001 (w.e.f. 26-7-2001)]

### 2\. Purpose(s) for which foreign contribution has been received and
utilised:

(in Rupees)

Sl. No | Purpose | Previous balance | Receipt during the year | Total | Utilised | Balance  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
In Cash | In kind (value) | As first recipient | As second /Subsequent recipient | In cash | In kind (value) | In cash | In kind (value)  
In cash | In kind (value) | In cash | In kind (value)  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 |  9(5+6+7+8) | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13  
  
### 1\. [ Celebration of national events (Independence / Republic day) /
festivals, etc.

### 2\. Theatre / Films.

### 3\. Maintenance of places of historical and cultural importance.

### 4\. Preservation of ancient / tribal art forms.

### 5\. Research.

### 6\. Cultural shows.

### 7\. Setting-up and running handicraft centre / cottage and Khadi industry
/ social forestry projects.

### 8\. Animal husbandry projects.

### 9\. Income generation projects / schemes.

### 10\. Micro-finance projects, including setting-up banking co-operatives
and self-help groups.

### 11\. Agricultural activity.

### 12\. Rural Development.

### 13\. Construction and maintenance of school / college.

### 14\. Construction and running of hostel for poor students.

### 15\. Grant of stipend / scholarship / assistance in cash and kind to poor
/ deserving children.

### 16\. Purchase and supply of educational material - books, notebooks, etc.

### 17. Conducting adult literacy programs.

### 18. Education / Schools for the mentally challenged.

### 19. Non-formal education projects / coaching classes.

### 20. Construction / Repair / Maintenance of places of worship.

### 21. Religious schools / education of priests and preachers.

### 22. Publication and distribution of religious literature.

### 23. Religious functions.

### 24. Maintenance of priests / preachers / other religious functionaries.

### 25. Construction / Running of hospital / dispensary / clinic.

### 26. Construction of community halls, etc.

### 27. Construction and Management of old age home.

### 28. Welfare of the aged / widows.

### 29. Construction and Management of Orphanage.

### 30. Welfare of the orphans.

### 31. Construction and Management of dharamshala / shelter.

### 32. Holding of free medical / health / family welfare / immunisation
camps.

### 33. Supply of free medicine, and medical aid, including hearing aids,
visual aids, family planning aids etc.

### 34. Provision of aids such as Tricycles, calipers, etc., to the
handicapped.

### 35. Treatment / Rehabilitation of persons suffering from leprosy.

### 36. Treatment / Rehabilitation of drug addicts.

### 37. Welfare / Empowerment of women.

### 38. Welfare of children.

### 39. Provision of free clothing / food to the poor, needy and destitute.

### 40. Relief / Rehabilitation of victims of natural calamities.

### 41. Help to the victims of riots / other disturbances.

### 42. Digging of bore wells.

### 43. Sanitation including community toilets, etc.

### 44. Vocational training - tailoring, motor repairs, computers, etc.

### 45. Awareness Camp / Seminar / Workshop / Meeting / Conference.

### 46. Providing free legal aid / Running legal aid centre.

### 47. Holding sports meet.

### 48. Awareness about Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) / Treatment
and rehabilitation of persons affected by AIDS.

### 49. Welfare of the physically and mentally challenged.

### 50. Welfare of the Scheduled Castes.

### 51. Welfare of the Scheduled Tribes.

### 52. Welfare of the Other Backward Classes.

### 53. Environmental programs.

### 54. Survey for socio-economic and other welfare programs.

### 55. Establishment expenses, -

(i)Asset building;(a)Establishment of Corpus Fund, and(b)Purchase of
land;(ii)Construction / Extension / Maintenance of office, administrative and
other buildings;(iii)Payment of salaries / honorarium;(iv)Publication of
newsletter / literature / books etc.;(v)Other expenses.

### 56. Activities other than those mentioned above (Furnish details).]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 557(E), dated 26-7-2001 (w.e.f. 26-7-2001)]

### 3\. Name and address of the designated branch of the bank and account
number (as specified in the application for registration / prior permission or
permitted by the Central Government).

A/c
No................Bank:.................Branch................Address...............Pin...................

### 4\. Donorwise receipts of foreign contribution

(in Rupees)

Sl. No. | Institutional/individual/other donors | Names(s) and address(es) | Purpose(s) | Date and month of receipt | Amount  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
(i) Institutional donors: |  |  |  |  |   
(ii) Individual donors above Rupees one lakh |  |  |  |  |   
(iii) Individual donors below Rupees one lakh (Only Column 4 and 6 need to be filled) |  |  |  |  |   
Total  
  
5\. Country wise receipt of foreign contribution: | (in rupees)  
---|---  
Sl.No. | Name of the country | Amount  
1 | 2 | 3  
Total  
  
DECLARATIONI hereby declare that the above particulars furnished by me are
true and correct. I also affirm that the foreign contribution has been
utilised for the purpose(s) for which the association has been registered /
prior permission obtained. To the best of my knowledge, I have not concealed
or suppressed any fact...................................Signature of the
Chief Functionary(Name of the Chief Functionary and Seal of the
Association)Place................Date................(Certificate to be given
by Chartered Accountant)I/We have audited the account of
............................. (name of association and its full address
including State, District and Pin Code, if registered society, its
registration number and State of registration, for the year ending 31st March,
......... and examined all relevant books and vouchers and certify that
according to the audited account-(i)the brought forward foreign contribution
at the beginning of the year was Rs ..........(ii)foreign contribution
of/worth Rs........ was received by the Association during the year ..........
was Rs............(iii)the balance of unutilised foreign contribution with the
association at the end of year .......... was Rs............(iv)Certified that
the association has maintained the account of foreign contribution and records
relating thereto in the manner specified in section 13 of the Foreign
Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976 read with sub-rule (1) of rule 8 of the
Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Rules, 1976.(v)The information furnished in
this certificate and in the enclosed balance sheet and statement of Receipt
and Payment is correct and checked by
me/us.Place..............Date......................................Signature
of Chartered Accountant With Seal, Address and Registration number.]FORM FC
4[See rule 4(b)]Intimation To The Central Government Of Receipt Of Foreign
Contribution Received By A Candidate For Election[Section 6(2) of the Foreign
Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976]

### 1\. Name in full (in block letters)

### 2\. Date of birth

### 3\. Name of father

### 4\. Present Address

### 5\. Permanent Address

### 6\. Date which duly nominated as a candidate for election to a Legislature
and particulars of Legislature. [See section 2(1)(b) and 2(1)(f) of the Act]

### 7\. Full particulars of foreign contribution received within 180 days
immediately preceding the date on which duly nominated as a candidate for
election to the Legislature.

### 8\. Nature and full details of the contribution including value.

### 9\. The mode/channel of receipt.

### 10\. Purpose for which contribution was received.

### 11\. Particulars of the foreign source from which contribution received:

(a)If an individual, his personal particulars including name, present address,
permanent address, nationality, profession.(b)If an Organisation / Institution
/ Association / Trust / Foundation / Trade Union etc. full particulars thereof
including:-(i)Full name and complete address(ii)Address of Head
Office/Principal Office(iii)Aims and objects(iv)Particulars of important
office-bearers

### 12\. Nature of connection/dealings with the foreign sources.

### 13\. Details of actual utilisation of the contribution-

(a)Specific purposes for which utilised.(b)Full description of the manner in
which utilised.

### 14\. Any other information of significance which the applicant may like to
furnish.

DECLARATIONI hereby declare that the above particulars furnished by me are
true and correct...........................Signature of the
CandidatePlace................Date.................Certified that the above
declaration was signed by Shri...........S/o....................resident
of................ a candidate for election to (*)...................before me
on this..............day of 20........................Signature(Name in block
letters)Designation................(To be signed by a Class I Gazetted
Officer** or a 1st Class Magistrate).* Here specify 'Legislature' as defined
in Section 2(1)(f) of the Act.** Of the State/Central Government.FORM FC 5[See
Rule 4(C)]Intimation To The Central Government Of Receipt Of Scholarship,
Stipend Or Any Payment Of A Like Nature From A Foreign Source[Section 7(1) and
7(2) of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976]

### 1\. Name in full (in block letters)

### 2\. Date of birth

### 3\. Name of father

### 4\. Present address

### 5\. Permanent address

### 6\. Passport particulars

### 7\. Specific details of occupation/profession

### 8\. Particulars of the foreign source from whom Scholarship, Stipend or
payment of like nature was received -

(a)If an individual, his personal particulars, including name, present
address, permanent address, nationality, profession(b)If an organization /
Institution / Association / Trust / Foundation / Trade Union etc., full
particulars thereof including:-(i)Full name and complete address.(ii)Address
of Head Office / Principal Office.(iii)Aims and objects.(iv)Particulars of
important Office-bearers.

### 9\. Nature and full details of scholarship, stipend or any payment of a
like nature received from foreign source, indicating (a) total amount and its
break-up under various heads like cost of journey, equipment, clothing,
maintenance, tuition fees, residence fees, books, etc., and (b) mode / channel
of receipt.

### 10\. Purpose of the scholarship, stipend or any payment of a like nature
with specific details of courses attended/to be attended

### 11\. Duration of stay abroad with dates.

### 12\. Any other information of significance, which the applicant may like
to furnish.

DECLARATIONI hereby declare that the above particulars furnished by me are
true and correct.....................Signature of the
applicantPlace..............Date...............FORM FC 6[See rule 8
(a)]Foreign Contribution (Articles) AccountsDescription of the ArticleRECEIPT

Date | Name and address of the person from whom received | Mode of receipt | Purpose of receipt | Quantity received |  Approx.value of articles received | Date of intimation sent to the Central Government  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Utilisation/disposal Quantity

Date | Name and address of the person to whom issued, sold or otherwise transferred | Purpose for which issued or otherwise transferred | Utilized by the organization | Sold | Otherwise transferred | If sold the amount for which sold | Reference to entry in the Foreign Contribution (Currency) Account | Balance in stock  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
DECLARATIONI hereby declare that the above particulars furnished by me are
true and correct...........SignaturePlace............Date.............FORM FC
7[See rule 8 (c)]Foreign Contribution (Securities) Account(1)Nature of
securities(2)Nominal value of each security

Date | Name and address of the person from whom received | Distinguishing number of each security | Total of securities | Total nominal value of securities | Particulars of permission of the Reserve Bank ofIndiato acquire or to hold foreign securities | Particulars of intimation sent to the Central Government | Date | Dividendor interest received | Date up to which dividend or interest has been received  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Details of Dividends/ Interest received

Reference to the credit entry in the Foreign Contribution (Currency) Account | Date | Name and address of the person to whom sold/transferred | Total No. of securities sold/transferred | Distinguishing number of each security transferred | Total amount for which sold/transferred | Particulars of permission of the Reserve Bank ofIndiato sell/transfer securities | Particulars of intimation sent to the Central Government | Reference to the entry in the Foreign Contribution (Currency) Account  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16 | 17 | 18 | 19  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
DECLARATIONI hereby declare that the above particulars furnished by me are
true and
correct.Place...........Date............................Signature[FORM FC 8]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 8(E), dated 4-1-1999 (w.e.f. 4-1-1999)](see rule 3-A)Form
Of Application For Seeking Registration With The Central Government Under The
Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976 For The Acceptance Of Foreign
Contribution By An Association Having A Definite Cultutal, Economic,
Educational, Religious Or Social ProgrammeDate
...........No..............ToThe Secretary to the Government of India,Ministry
of Home Affairs, Lok Nayak Bhavan, Khan Market,New Delhi - 110003.Subject:-
Application for registration under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act,
1976 for the acceptance of foreign contribution.Sir,I ..............., on
behalf of the Association named hereafter apply for registration of the
Association under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Act for
the acceptance of foreign contribution.

### 1\. (i). Name of the Association and its complet e postal address

NameAddressTown/CityDistrictStatePin Code(ii)If the Association is a
registered trust or Society indicate its -(a)registration number(b)place of
registration(c)date of registration (certified copy of the registration
certificate to be attached)(iii)Nature of Association-(a)religious, (b)
cultural, (c) economic, (d) educational, (e) social.Note. - If a religious
Association, then state whether-(a)Hindu, (b) Sikh, (c) Muslim, (d) Christian,
(e) Buddhist, (f) Others.(iv)Please indicate -(a)the main aim(s) and object(s)
of the Association (enclose a copy of the Memorandum of Association and/or the
Articles of Association, if applicable);(b)the main object(s) and definite
programme(s) for which the foreign contribution is to be
accepted/utilised(v)Please furnish the names and addresses of the members of
the Executive Committee/ Governing Council, etc., of the Association,
including the Chief Functionary, in the following manner:

Sl.No. | Name | Name of Father/Husband | Nationality | Occupation | Office held in the Association, if any | Relationship with office bearers, if any | Address  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
### 2\. Please indicate whether any member of the Executive Committee
/Governing Council, etc., of the Association, including the Chief Functionary
has in the discharge of his/her official functions -

(a)been convicted by any court of law;(b)a prosecution for any offence pending
against him/her;(c)been found guilty of diversion or misutilisation of funds
of the Association or any other association in the past.

### 3\. Please indicate whether the applicant Association is a
branch/unit/associate of foreign based organisation or another association
already registered under the Act. If so, the name and address of the parent
organisation.

### 4\. Please indicate -

(i)whether the Association was, -(a)granted prior permission to receive
foreign contribution under the Act in the past. If so, the number and date of
the letter granting prior permission should be furnished;(b)whether the
account of the receipt and utilisation of the foreign contribution received
above was sent to the Central Government in the prescribed form. If so, the
date of submission of the accounts should be furnished;(ii)whether the
Association has received foreign contribution without the prior permission
under Act in the past. If so,-(a)full particulars of the foreign contribution
received along with complete address of the bank branch and bank account
number in which deposited should be furnished;(b)said violation has been
condoned by the Central Government;(c)Association has been prohibited from
accepting foreign contribution under the Act.

### 5\. Please indicate whether the Association is functioning as editor,
owner, printer or publisher of a publication required to be registered as
"newspaper" under the Press and Registration of Books Act, 1867. If so, the
details thereof.

### 6\. Please indicate, -

(i)whether the Association ever applied for registration under the Foreign
Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976, if so, -(a)the date of submission of
application for registration;(b)the number and date of the last communication,
if any, received from the Ministry;(c)whether registration was
refused;(d)whether application for registration is still pending;(ii)whether
the Association has close links with another association, or its unit or
branch which has been -(a)refused registration under the Act;(b)prohibited
from accepting foreign contribution;

### 7\. Please furnish, -

(i)details of the activities of the Association during the past three
years.(ii)copies of the audited statement of accounts of the Association for
the past three years.(iii)details of the area(s) of operation.

### 8\. Please indicate whether the Association has been specified as an
organisation of a political nature, not being a political party, under section
5 of the Act. If so, the details of the notification should be furnished.

### 9\. Please indicate -

(i)the name and address of the branch of the bank through which the foreign
contribution shall be received;(ii)Please specify the account number in the
said branch of the bank.[9-A. Whether a recommendation certificate from the
competent authority is attached.(Yes/No)]

### 10\. Any other information which the Association may like to furnish.

Yours faithfully..................Chief Functionary for and on behalf of the
Association(Name of Association)DECLARATION AND UNDERTAKINGThe Association
named here-in-above affirms that the information furnished above is correct
and undertakes -(i)to inform the Central Government (Ministry of Home Affairs)
within thirty days, if any, change takes place in regard to the name of the
Association, its address, its registration, its nature, its aims and objects
with documentary evidence effecting the change;(ii)to obtain prior permission
for change of office bearer(s), if, at any point of time such change causes
replacement of 50% or more of the office bearers as were mentioned in the
application for registration under the Foreign Contribution(Regulation)Act,
1976 and undertakes further not to accept any foreign contribution except with
prior permission till the permission to replace the office-bearer(s) has been
granted;(iii)not to change the bank or branch of the bank without prior
permission of the Central Government. The reasons for change of bank or branch
of the bank shall have to be relevant and justifiable; and(iv)not to accept
any foreign contribution unless it has obtained either the registration
number, as applied for hereinabove, or prior permission of the Central
Government under sub-section (1-A) of section 6 of the Foreign Contribution
(Regulation) Act, 1976.(Chief Functionary) for and on behalf of the
Association(Name of the Association)Note. - (i) The receipt of application for
registration is not a commitment for grant of registration by the Central
Government;(ii)An incomplete application, i.e., without the required documents
/ details / explanations is likely to be rejected summarily;(iii)In case the
space provided against any column is insufficient separate sheets should be
attached; and Please use CAPITAL letters.][CERTIFICATE [Inserted by G.S.R.
63(E), dated 24-1-2000](To be submitted along with the application)This is to
certify that the.............(Name of the association) having its registered
office at ...............(Address) has been engaged in economic, educational,
cultural, religious, social* activities in the ............(District) of
............. (State) for the last ............ years.

### 2\. It has undertaken welfare activities in the area and has incurred
expenditure (excluding administrative expenditure) amounting to
..............(Amount in rupees) during the last three years on its chosen
.............(Economic, Educational, Cultural, Religious and Social) field of
activity.

### 3\. The antecedents of the organisation have been verified and there is
nothing adverse against them.

### 4\. The grant of registration to the aforesaid association to accept
foreign contribution under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976, is
recommended.

(Recommending Authority)**(With Seal)*Strike out whatever is not applicable.**
Any concerned -

### 1\.

) Collector of District.

### 2\.

) Department of the State Government.

### 3\.

) Ministry /Department of the Government of India.] [Inserted by G.S.R. 63(E),
dated 24-1-2000 (w.e.f. 25-1-2000)][Inserted by G.S.R. 63(E), dated 24-1-2000
(w.e.f. 25-1-2000)]

