## Union of India - Act

## The Forest (Conservation) Amendment Act, 2023

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Forest (Conservation) Amendment Act, 2023

## Act 15 of 2023

  * Published in Gazette of India on 4 August 2023 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 August 2023.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980.BE it enacted by
Parliament in the Seventy-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1.Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Forest (Conservation) Amendment Act, 2023.(2)It
shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2.Insertion of preamble.

In the Forest (Conservation)Act, 1980 (hereinafter referred to as the
principalAct), after the long title and before the enacting formula, the
following preamble shall be inserted, namely:—"WHEREAS, the importance of
forests is to be realised to enable achievement of national targets of Net
Zero Emission by 2070 and maintain or enhance the forest carbon stocks through
ecologically balanced sustainable development;AND WHEREAS, Nationality
Determined Contribution targets of the country envisage creating carbon sink
of additional 2.5 to 3.0 billion tons of CO2 equivalent by 2030;AND WHEREAS,
the country envisages an increase in the forest and tree cover to one-third of
its land area, which is to be given impetus with an enhanced growth
trajectory;AND WHEREAS, India has a rich tradition of preserving forests and
their bio-diversity, and, therefore, enhancing forest based economic, social
and environmental benefits, including improvement of livelihoods for forest
dependent communities is envisaged;AND WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for
provisions relating to conservation management and restoration of forests,
maintaining ecological security, sustaining cultural and traditional values of
forests and facilitating economic needs and carbon neutrality.".

### 3. Insertion of new section 1.

In section 1 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), for the words and
brackets"Forest (Conservation)Act", the words and brackets "Van (Sanrakshan
Evam Samvardhan) Adhiniyam" shall be substituted.

### 4.Insertion of new section 1A.

After section 1 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted,
namely:—1A. Act to cover certain land.(1)The following land shall be covered
under the provisions of this Act, namely:—(a)the land that has been declared
or notified as a forest in accordance with the provisions of the Indian
ForestAct, 1927 or under any other law for the time being in force;(b)the land
that is not covered under clause (a), but has been recorded in Government
record as forest, as on or after the 25th October, 1980:Provided that the
provisions of this clause shall not apply to such land, which has been changed
from forest use to use for non-forest purpose on or before the 12th December,
1996 in pursuance of an order, issued by any authority authorised by a State
Government or an Union territoryAdministration in that behalf.Explanation.—For
the purposes of this sub-section, the expression"Government record" means
record held by Revenue Department or Forest Department of the State Government
or Union territory Administration, or any authority, local body, community or
council recognised by the State Government or Union territory
Administration.(2)The following categories of land shall not be covered under
the provisions of thisAct, namely:—(a)such forest land situated alongside a
rail line or a public road maintained by the Government, which provides access
to a habitation, or to a rail, and roadside amenity up to a maximum size of
0.10 hectare in each case;(b)such tree, tree plantation or reafforestation
raised on lands that are not specified in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-
section (1); and(c)such forest land,—(i)as is situated within a distance of
one hundred kilometres along international borders or Line of Control or Line
ofActual Control, as the Amendment of section 1.Act to cover certain
land.(ii)up to ten hectares, proposed to be used for construction of security
related infrastructure; or(iii)as is proposed to be used for construction of
defence related project or a camp for paramilitary forces or public utility
projects, as may be specified by the Central Government, the extent of which
does not exceed five hectares in a Left Wing Extremism affected area as may be
notified by the Central Government.(3)The exemption provided under sub-section
(2) shall be subject to such terms and conditions, including the conditions of
planting trees to compensate felling of trees undertaken on the lands, as the
Central Government may, by guidelines, specify.’.

### 5.Amendment of section 2.

In the principal Act, section 2 shall be renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof
and—(a)in sub-section (1) as so renumbered,—(I)in clause (iii), for the words
"not owned, managed or controlled by Government", the words ", subject to such
terms and conditions, as the Central Government may, by order, specify" shall
be substituted;(II)in the Explanation, for the long line occurring after
clause (b), the following shall be substituted, namely:—"but does not include
any work relating to or ancillary to conservation, development and management
of forests and wildlife, such as—(i)silvicultural operations including
regeneration operations;(ii)establishment of check-posts and infrastructure
for the front line forest staff;(iii)establishment and maintenance of fire
lines;(iv)wireless communications;(v)construction of fencing, boundary marks
or pillars, bridges and culverts, check dams, waterholes, trenches and
pipelines;(vi)establishment of zoo and safaris referred to in the Wild Life
(Protection) Act, 1972, owned by the Government or any authority, in forest
areas other than protected areas;(vii)eco-tourism facilities included in the
Forest Working Plan or Wildlife Management Plan or Tiger Conservation Plan or
Working Scheme of that area; and(viii)any other like purposes, which the
Central Government may, by order, specify.";(b)after sub-section (1) as so
renumbered, the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—"(2) The
Central Government may, by order, specify the terms and conditions subject to
which any survey, such as, reconnaissance, prospecting, investigation or
exploration including seismic survey, shall not be treated as non-forest
purpose.".

### 6. Insertion of new section 3C

In the principal Act, after section 3B, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:—3C. Power of Central Government to issue directionsThe
Central Government may, from time to time, issue such directions, to any
authority under the Central Government, State Government or Union territory
Administration, or to any organisation, entity or body recognised by the
Central Government, State Government or Union territoryAdministration, as may
be necessary for the implementation of this Act.".

