## Union of India - Act

## The Foreign Marriage Rules, 1970

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Foreign Marriage Rules, 1970

## Rule THE-FOREIGN-MARRIAGE-RULES-1970 of 1970

  * Published on 19 August 1970 
  * Commenced on 19 August 1970 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 August 1970.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Foreign Marriage Rules, 1970Published vide G.S.R. 1274, dated 19.8.1970,
published in the Gazette of India, dated 19.8.1970.

### 11.

/587In exercise of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Foreign Marriage
Act, 1969 (33 of 1969) and in supersession of the Special Marriage (Diplomatic
and Consular Officers) Rules, 1955, published with the notification of the
Government of India in the Ministry of External Affairs No. S.R.O. 1679, dated
29th July, 1955, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules,
namely-:-

### 1. Short title .-These rules may be called The Foreign Marriage Rules,
1970.

### 2. Definitions .-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,--

(a)"Act" means the Foreign Marriage Act, 1969 (33 of 1969);(b)"form" means a
form appended to these rules;(c)"Marriage Officer" means a person appointed
under section 3 of the Act to be a Marriage Officer;(d)"section" means a
section of the Act.

### 3. Particulars regarding name, etc., of Marriage Officer to be displayed
in his office building .-Every Marriage Officer shall arrange to have his
name, designation and the working hours of his office to be written in
English, Hindi and the language of the country, place or area in which he
functions as such, and displayed in a conspicuous part of the building in
which his office is situated.

### 4. Notice of intended marriage .-(1) When a marriage is intended to be
solemnised under the Act by or before a Marriage Officer, the parties to the
intended marriage shall give notice thereof in writing in the form specified
in the First Schedule to the Act to such Officer either in person or by
registered post.

(2)The notices shall be accompanied by a statement containing the following
particulars,--(i)Present addresses of the parents of the parties to the
intended marriage;(ii)Name or names of the country or countries in which the
parties are ordinarily resident;(iii)State or States in India to which the
parties or, as the case may be, the Indian party, to the marriage belong or
belongs.

### 5. Payment of fee .-(1) Where the notice is delivered in person, the fee
prescribed therefore in rule 15 shall be paid in cash to the Marriage Officer.

(2)Where the notice is sent by registered post, the fee shall be remitted by
money order at the remitter's expense and the receipt issued to the remitter
by the post office through which the remittance is made shall be attached to
the notice.

### 6. Procedure after notice .-(1) As soon as the notice is received by the
Marriage Officer, a distinctive serial number shall be entered on it and such
number and the date of receipt of the notice shall be attested by the
signature of the Marriage Officer.

(2)If the notice is in conformity with the requirements of the Act, it shall
be entered in the Marriage Notice Book which shall be a bound volume, the
pages of which are machine numbered consecutively with a normal index
attached.(3)If the notice is not in conformity with the requirements of the
Act, it shall be rectified by the parties if they are present, or returned to
them by post for rectification and retransmission within a date to be fixed
for this purpose, if they are not present.(4)The Marriage Officer shall have
every item of rectification attested by both the parties.

### 7. Publication of notice .-The Marriage Officer shall cause the notice to
be published,--

(a)by affixing a true copy thereof under his seal and signature to some
conspicuous place in his office;(b)[ by serving, personally, or by registered
post acknowledgment due true copies thereof under his seal and signature on
the parents of the parties to the marriage; and](c)by publishing it in a
newspaper having circulation,--(i)in the State or States in India to which the
parties or, as the case may be, the Indian party, to the marriage belong or
belongs; and(ii)in the country or countries in which the parties are
ordinarily resident.

### 8. Procedure for inquiry into objection .-(1) If any objection to the
solemnisation of the intended marriage (together with the fee prescribed
therefore in rule 15) is received by the Marriage Officer, he shall record the
nature of the objection in his Marriage Notice Book and fix the date and time
for inquiry into the objection [and cause notice thereof to be served,
personally or by registered post acknowledgment due, in Form I on the person]
who has made the objection and also the parties to the intended marriage.

(2)On the date so fixed or on any other date to which the inquiry may be
adjourned, the Marriage Officer shall make an inquiry into the objection and
record in his own hand in the manner prescribed in the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), the evidence given.[8-A. Acknowledgment in case
of personal service.-Where a notice is personally served under rule 7 or rule,
8, the person on whom such notice is served shall sign an acknowledgment of
service of the notice.]

### 9. Time and place of solemnisation .-The intended marriage may be
solemnised at any time during office hours of the Marriage Officer or at any
other time convenient to him,--

(a)at the official house of residence of the Marriage Officer, or(b)at the
office in which the business of the Marriage Officer is transacted, or(c)at
such other place within a reasonable distance from such official house or
office as the Marriage Officer may in his discretion approve:Provided that
additional fees as specified in rule 15 shall be payable for the solemnisation
of any marriage at a place referred to in clause (c).

### 10. Manner of registration of marriages .-Registration of a marriage under
section 17 shall be effected by the Marriage Officer by entering a certificate
of the marriage in Form II in the Marriage Certificate Book.

### 11\. Appeals to the Central Government .-An appeal to the Central
Government under sub-section (3) of section 11 or sub-section (4) of section
17 shall be in the form of a memorandum which shall be accompanied by a
certified copy of:--

(i)the notice of the intended marriage or, as the case may be, of the
application for registration of the marriage;(ii)the statement of the reasons
for which the Marriage Officer refused to solemnise or, as the case may be,
register the marriage.

### 12. Language for purposes of section 24.-The language for purposes of sub
--clause (ii) of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 24 shall be English,
Hindi or any other language, approved by the Marriage Officer.

### 13. Transmission of copies of entries in marriage records .-The Marriage
Officer shall send to the Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of
External Affairs, New Delhi, three true copies certified in Form III of all
entries or corrections made by him in the Marriage Certificate Book at
intervals of three months on, or as early as possible after, the 1st day of
January, April, July and October in each year and one such copy shall be
transmitted by the said Secretary to the Registrar-General or to each of the
Registrars-General of Births, Deaths and Marriages of the State or States in
India to which the parties to the marriage belong.

### 14. Form of Marriage Certificate Book .-(1) The Marriage Certificate Book
shall be a bound volume. The pages of which are machine-numbered consecutively
with a nominal index attached. Every marriage certificate entered therein
during each calendar year shall be consecutively numbered and every
authenticated copy of a certificate issued to the parties shall bear the
number and date, month and year in which the certificate was entered.

(2)For the removal of doubts it is hereby provided that the Marriage
Certificate Book maintained under the Special Marriage (Diplomatic and
Consular Officer) Rules, 1955 may be continued to be used with necessary
adaptations as the Marriage Certificate Book for the purposes of these rules
and the Act.

### 15. [ Scale of fees

.-The matters in respect of which fee is leviable and the amount of fee
payable therefore shall be as specified in the Table below-:-TABLE

| Matter in respect of which a fee is leviable | Amount of fee (in Rupees)  
---|---|---  
| 1 | 2  
(i) | For every notice of an intended marriage | 120,00  
(ii) | For publication on notice | Actual charges  
Note. - A suitable amount will be taken as an advance towards cost of
publication of notice in newspapers.  
(iii) | For receiving and processing or dealing with an objection | 300.00  
(iv) | For solemnizing a marriage | 240.00  
(v) | For solemnizing a marriage at a place referred to in rule 9(c) | 90.00  
Note. - This will be in addition to the fee referred to in item(iv)above  
(vi) | For receiving notice of a caveat | 240.00  
(vii) | For certificate by Marriage Officer of notice having been given and posted up | 45.00  
(viii) | For a certified copy of reasons recorded under section 11 or section 17 for refusal to solemnize or, as the case may be for refusal to register, a marriage | 25.00  
(ix) | For certified copy of an entry :- |   
| (a)in the marriage Notice Book | 25.00  
| (b)in the Marriage Certificate Book | 25.00  
(x) |  For certification of a document referred to in sub-section(1) section 24 | 10.00  
(xi) | For making a search:- |   
| (a)if the entry is of the current year | 25.00  
| (b)if the entry relates to any previous year or years | 45.00  
  
]

