## Union of India - Act

## The Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952

## Regulation THE-FORWARD-CONTRACTS-REGULATION-ACT-1952 of 1952

  * Published on 1 January 1952 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1952 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1952.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Central Government ActThe Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952The Forward
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.—(1) This Act may be called the
Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 19521.

(2)It extends to the whole of India 2[***].(3)Chapter I shall come into force
at once and the remaining provisions shall come into force on such date3 or
dates as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint, and different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this
Act, for different States or areas, and for different goods or classes of
goods.

### 2. Definitions.—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)
“association” means any body of individuals, whether incorporated or not,
constituted for the purpose of regulating and controlling the business of the
sale or purchase of any goods:

(b)“Commission” means the Forward Markets Commission established under section
3; tc" (b) “Commission” means the Forward Markets Commission established under
section 3;"(c)“forward contract” means a contract for the delivery of goods
1[***] and which is not a ready delivery contract; tc" (c) “forward contract”
means a contract for the delivery of goods 4[** *] and which is not a ready
delivery contract;"(d)“goods” means every kind of movable property other than
actionable claims, money and securities; tc" (d) “goods” means every kind of
movable property other than actionable claims, money and
securities;"(e)“Government security” means a Government security as defined in
the Public Debt Act, 1944 (18 of 1944); tc" (e) “Government security” means a
Government security as defined in the Public Debt Act, 1944 (18 of
1944);"(f)“non-transferable specific delivery contract” means a specific
delivery contract, the rights or liabilities under which or under any delivery
order, railway receipt, bill of lading, warehouse receipt or any other
document of title relating thereto are not transferable; tc" (f) “non-
transferable specific delivery contract” means a specific delivery contract,
the rights or liabilities under which or under any delivery order, railway
receipt, bill of lading, warehouse receipt or any other document of title
relating thereto are not transferable;"(g)“option in goods” means an
agreement, by whatever name called, for the purchase or sale of a right to buy
or sell, or a right to buy and sell, goods in future, and includes a teji, a
mandi, a teji-mandi, a galli, a put, a call or a put and call in goods; tc"
(g) “option in goods” means an agreement, by whatever name called, for the
purchase or sale of a right to buy or sell, or a right to buy and sell, goods
in future, and includes a teji, a mandi, a teji-mandi, a galli, a put, a call
or a put and call in goods;"(h)“prescribed” means prescribed by rules made
under this Act; tc" (h) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;"(i)“ready delivery contract” means a contract which provides for the
delivery of goods and the payment of a price therefor, either immediately or
within such period not exceeding eleven days after the date of the contract
and subject to such conditions as the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, specify in respect of any goods, the period under
such contract not being capable of extension by the mutual consent of the
parties thereto or otherwise: tc" (i) “ready delivery contract” means a
contract which provides for the delivery of goods and the payment of a price
therefor, either immediately or within such period not exceeding eleven days
after the date of the contract and subject to such conditions as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in respect of
any goods, the period under such contract not being capable of extension by
the mutual consent of the parties thereto or otherwise:" 2[Provided that where
any such contract is performed either wholly or in part,—(1) by tendering of
the documents of title to the goods covered by the contract by any party
thereto (not being a commission agent or a bank) who has acquired ownership of
the said documents by purchase, exchange or otherwise, to any other person
(including a commission agent but not including a bank); or tc" (1) by
tendering of the documents of title to the goods covered by the contract by
any party thereto (not being a commission agent or a bank) who has acquired
ownership of the said documents by purchase, exchange or otherwise, to any
other person (including a commission agent but not including a bank); or"(2)by
the realisation of any sum of money, being the difference between the contract
rate and the settlement rate or clearing rate or the rate of any offsetting
contract; or tc" (2) by the realisation of any sum of money, being the
difference between the contract rate and the settlement rate or clearing rate
or the rate of any offsetting contract; or"(3)by any other means whatsoever,
tc" (3) by any other means whatsoever," and as a result of which the actual
tendering of the goods covered by the contract or the payment of the full
price therefor is dispensed with, then, such contract shall not be deemed to
be a ready delivery contract. tc" and as a result of which the actual
tendering of the goods covered by the contract or the payment of the full
price therefor is dispensed with, then, such contract shall not be deemed to
be a ready delivery contract." Explanation.—For the purposes of this
clause,—(i) “bank includes any banking company as defined in the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), a co-oporative bank as defined in the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) the State Bank of India and any of
its subsidiaries and any corresponding new bank constituted under section 3 of
the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5
of 1970); tc" (i) “bank includes any banking company as defined in the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), a co-oporative bank as defined in the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) the State Bank of India and any of
its subsidiaries and any corresponding new bank constituted under section 3 of
the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5
of 1970);"(ii)“commission agent” means a person who, in the ordinary course of
business, makes contract for the sale or purchase of goods for others for a
remuneration (whether known as commissioner or otherwise) which is determined
in the contract itself or determinable from the terms of the contract, in
either case, only with reference to the quantity of goods or to the price
therefor as stipulated in the contract.] tc" (ii) “commission agent” means a
person who, in the ordinary course of business, makes contract for the sale or
purchase of goods for others for a remuneration (whether known as commissioner
or otherwise) which is determined in the contract itself or determinable from
the terms of the contract, in either case, only with reference to the quantity
of goods or to the price therefor as stipulated in the contract.]" 3[(j)
“recognised association” means an association to which recognition for the
time being has been granted by the Central Government under section 6 in
respect of goods or classes of goods specified in such
recognition;(jj)“registered association” means an association to which for the
time being a certificate of registration has been granted by the Commission
under section 14B;] tc" (jj) “registered association” means an association to
which for the time being a certificate of registration has been granted by the
Commission under section 14B;]"(k)“rules”, with reference to the rules
relating in general to the constitution and management of an association,
includes in the case of an incorporated association its memorandum and
articles of association; tc" (k) “rules”, with reference to the rules relating
in general to the constitution and management of an association, includes in
the case of an incorporated association its memorandum and articles of
association;"(l)“securities” includes shares, scrips, stocks, bonds,
debentures, debenture-stocks, or other marketable securities of a like nature
in or of any incorporated company or other body corporate and also Government
securities; tc" (l) “securities” includes shares, scrips, stocks, bonds,
debentures, debenture-stocks, or other marketable securities of a like nature
in or of any incorporated company or other body corporate and also Government
securities;"(m)“specific delivery contract” means a forward contract which
provides for the actual delivery of specific qualities or types of goods
during a specified future period at a price fixed thereby or to be fixed in
the manner thereby agreed and in which the names of both the buyer and the
seller are mentioned; tc" (m) “specific delivery contract” means a forward
contract which provides for the actual delivery of specific qualities or types
of goods during a specified future period at a price fixed thereby or to be
fixed in the manner thereby agreed and in which the names of both the buyer
and the seller are mentioned;"(n)“transferable specific delivery contract”
means a specific delivery contract which is not a non-transferable specific
delivery contract 4[and which is subject to such conditions relating to its
transferability as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify in this behalf]. tc" (n) “transferable specific delivery
contract” means a specific delivery contract which is not a non-transferable
specific delivery contract 2[and which is subject to such conditions relating
to its transferability as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify in this behalf]."

### 3. Establishment and constitution of the Forward Markets Commission.—(1)
The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, establish
a Commission to be called the Forward Markets Commission for the purpose of
exercising such functions and discharging such duties as may be assigned to
the Commission by or under this Act.

(2)The Commission shall consist of not less than two, 1[but not exceeding
four], members appointed by the Central Government 2[one of them being
nominated by the Central Government to be the Chairman thereof; and the
Chairman and the other member or members shall be either whole-time or part-
time as the Central Government may direct]: 3[Provided that the members to be
so appointed shall be persons of ability, integrity and standing who have
shown capacity in dealing with problems relating to commerce or commodity
markets, or in administration or who have special knowledge or practical
experience in any matter which renders them suitable for appointment of the
Commission.](3)No person shall be qualified for appointment as, or for
continuing to be; a member of the Commission if he has, directly or
indirectly, any such financial or other interest as is likely to affect
prejudicially his functions as a member of the Commission, and every member
shall, whenever required by the Central Government so to do, furnish to it
such information as it may require for the purpose of securing compliance with
the provisions of this sub-section.(4)No member of the Commission shall hold
office for a period of more than three years from the date of his appointment,
and a member relinquishing his office on the expiry of his term shall be
eligible for reappointment.(5)The other terms and conditions of service of
members of the Commission shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 1\. [ 3A Management of Commission. —(1) The Commission shall consist of
the following members, namely:—(a) a Chairman;

(b)two members from amongst the officials of the Ministries or Departments of
the Central Government dealing with Consumer Affairs, Commodity Derivatives,
Food and Public Distribution, Agriculture or Finance;(c)one member from
amongst the officials of the Reserve Bank;(d)five other members of whom at
least three shall be the whole-time members.(2)The general superintendence,
direction and management of the affairs of the Commission shall vest in a
board of members, which may exercise all powers and do all acts and things
which may be exercised or done by the Commission.(3)Save as otherwise
determined, by regulations, the Chairman shall have powers of general
superintendence and direction of the affairs of the Commission and may also
exercise all powers and do all acts and things which may be exercised or done
by the Commission.(4)The Chairman and members referred to in clauses (a) and
(d) of sub-section (1) shall be appointed by the Central Government and the
members referred to in clauses (b) and (c) of the sub-section shall be
nominated by the Central Government and the Reserve Bank, respectively.(5)The
Chairman and other members referred to in clauses (a) and (d) of sub-section
(1) shall be persons of ability, integrity and standing who have shown
capacity in dealing with problems relating to commodity markets or who have
special knowledge or experience of commerce or economics or law or finance or
in administration or have practical experience in any matter which renders
them suitable for appointment on the Commission: Provided that every person
appointed as Chairman and every other person appointed as member of the
Commission and holding office as such immediately before the commencement of
the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Amendment Ordinance, 2008, shall,
notwithstanding any order for their appointment made under sub-section (2) of
section 3 as it stood before the commencement of the Forward Contracts
(Regulation) Amendment Ordinance, 2008, shall hold office till the Chairman or
other member has been appointed in accordance with this section after such
commencement and no person shall be entitled to claim any compensation for the
premature termination of the term of his office or of any contract of service.

### 3B. Term of office and conditions of service of Chairman and members of
Commission. —(1) The term of office and other conditions of service of the
Chairman and the members referred to in clause (d) of sub-section (1) of
section 3A shall be such as may be prescribed.

(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the Central
Government shall have the right to terminate the services of the Chairman or a
member appointed under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 3A, at any
time before the expiry of the period prescribed under sub-section (1), by
giving him notice of not less than three months in writing or three months'
salary and allowances in lieu thereof, and the Chairman or a member, as the
case may be, shall also have the right to relinquish his office, at any time
before the expiry of the period prescribed under sub-section (1), by giving to
the Central Government notice of not less than three months in writing.

### 3C. Removal of member from office. —The Central Government shall remove a
member from office if he—(a) is, or at any time has been, adjudicated as
insolvent;

(b)is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent court;(c)has been
convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of the Central Government,
involves a moral turpitude;(d)has, in the opinion of the Central Government,
so abused his position as to render his continuation in office detrimental to
the public interest:Provided that no member shall be removed under this clause
unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the
matter.

### 3D. Meetings of Commission. —(1) The Commission shall meet at such times
and places, and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the
transaction of business at its meetings including quorum at such meetings as
may be provided by regulations.

(2)The Chairman or, if for any reason he is unable to attend the meeting of
the Commission, any other member chosen by the members present from amongst
themselves at the meeting shall preside at the meeting.(3)All questions which
come up before any meeting of the Commission shall be decided by a majority of
votes of the members of the Commission present and voting, and in the event of
an equality of votes, the Chairman or in his absence the member presiding,
shall have a second or casting vote.

### 3E. Vacancies etc. not to invalidate proceedings of Commissions. —No act
or proceeding of the Commission shall be invalid merely by reason of—(a) any
vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the Commission; or

(b)any defect in the appointment of a person acting as a member of the
Commission; or(c)any irregularity in the procedure of the Commission not
affecting the merits of the case.

### 3F. Member not to participate in meetings in certain cases. —Any member,
who is a director of a company and who as such director has any direct or
indirect pecuniary interest in any matter coming up for consideration at a
meeting of the Commission, shall, as soon as possible after relevant
circumstances have come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest
at such meeting and such disclosure shall be recorded in the proceedings of
the Commission, and the member shall not take any part in any deliberation or
decision of the Commission with respect to that matter..

### 3G. Bar on future employment of members. —The Chairman and the whole-time
members shall not, for a period of two years from the date on which they cease
to hold office as such, except with the previous approval of the Central
Government, accept any employment with any person dealing with the commodities
derivatives or with any intermediary.

### 3H. Officers and employees of Commission. —(1) The Commission may appoint
such officers and other employees as it considers necessary for the efficient
discharge of its functions under this Act.

(2)The terms and conditions of service of the officers and employees of the
Commission appointed under sub-section (1) shall be such as may be determined
by regulations: Provided that every officer and other employee holding any
office under the Commission, before the commencement of the Forward Contracts
(Regulation) Amendment Ordinance, 2008, shall continue to hold his office as
such after such commencement for the same tenure and upon the same terms and
conditions of service as respects remuneration, leave, provident fund,
retirement and other terminal benefits as he would have held such office if
the said Ordinance had not come into force and shall continue to do so as an
officer or other employee of the Commission until the regulations are made
under this sub-section or the expiry of one year from the date of such
commencement or till the date on which such officer or other employee opts not
to be the officer or other employee of the Commission, whichever is earlier.]

### 4\. Functions of the Commission.—The functions of the Commission shall
be—(a) to advise the Central Government in respect of the recognition of, or
the withdrawal of recognition from, any association or in respect of any other
matter arising out of the administration of this Act; tc" (a) to advise the
Central Government in respect of the recognition of, or the withdrawal of
recognition from, any association or in respect of any other matter arising
out of the administration of this Act;" 1[(b) to keep forward markets under
observation and to take such action in relation to them as it may consider
necessary, in exercise of the powers assigned to it by or under this Act;]

(c)to collect and whenever the Commission thinks it necessary publish
information regarding the trading conditions in respect of goods to which any
of the provisions of this Act is made applicable, including information
regarding supply, demand and prices, and to submit to the Central Government
periodical reports on the operation of this Act and on the working of forward
markets relating to such goods; tc" (c) to collect and whenever the Commission
thinks it necessary publish information regarding the trading conditions in
respect of goods to which any of the provisions of this Act is made
applicable, including information regarding supply, demand and prices, and to
submit to the Central Government periodical reports on the operation of this
Act and on the working of forward markets relating to such goods;"(d)to make
recommendations generally with a view to improving the organisation and
working of forward markets; tc" (d) to make recommendations generally with a
view to improving the organisation and working of forward markets;"(e)to
undertake the inspection of the accounts and other documents of 2[any
recognised association or registered association or any member of such
association] whenever it considers it necessary; and tc" (e) to undertake the
inspection of the accounts and other documents of 3[any recognised association
or registered association or any member of such association] whenever it
considers it necessary; and"(f)to perform such other duties and exercise such
other powers as may be assigned to the Commission by or under this Act, or as
may be prescribed. tc" (f) to perform such other duties and exercise such
other powers as may be assigned to the Commission by or under this Act, or as
may be prescribed."

### 1\.

[4A. Powers of the Commission.—(1) The Commission shall, in the performance of
its functions, have all the powers of a civil court under the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit in respect of the following
matters, namely:(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and
examining him on oath; tc" (a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any
person and examining him on oath;"(b)requiring the discovery and production of
any document; tc" (b) requiring the discovery and production of any
document;"(c)receiving evidence on affidavits; tc" (c) receiving evidence on
affidavits;"(d)requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any
office; tc" (d) requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any
office;"(e)any other matter which may be prescribed. tc" (e) any other matter
which may be prescribed."(2)The Commission shall have the power to require any
person, subject to any privilege which may be claimed by that person under any
law for the time being in force, to furnish information on such points or
matters as, in the opinion of the Commission, may be useful for, or relevant
to, any matter under the consideration of the Commission and any person so
required shall be deemed to be legally bound to furnish such information
within the meaning of section 176 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).(3)The
Commission shall be deemed to be a civil court and when any offence described
in section 175, section 178, section 179, section 180 or section 228 of the
Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) is committed in the view or presence of the
Commission, the Commission may, after recording the facts constituting the
offence and the statement of the accused as provided for in the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)2, forward the case to a magistrate having
jurisdiction to try the same and the magistrate to whom any such case is
forwarded shall proceed to hear the complaint against the accused as if the
case had been forwarded to him under section 4823 of the said Code.(4)Any
proceeding before the Commission shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding
within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of
1860). Explanation.—For the purposes of enforcing the attendance of witnesses,
the local limits of the Commission’s jurisdiction shall be the limits of the
territory of India.]

### 4\. [ 4B Power to issue directions by Commission. —Save as otherwise
provided in section 4, if after making or causing to be made an inquiry, the
Commission is satisfied that it is necessary, in the interest of trade and
orderly development of commodity derivatives market, it may issue directions
to any intermediary or association.

### 4C. Cease and desist proceedings. —If the Commission finds, after causing
an inquiry to be made, that any person has violated, or is likely to violate
any provisions of this Act or any rules or regulations made thereunder, the
Commission may pass an order requiring such person to cease and desist from
committing or causing such violations.]

### 5\. [ 4D Grants by Central Government. —The Central Government may, after
due appropriation made by Parliament by law in this behalf, make to the
Commission grants of such sums of money as that Government may think fit for
being utilised for the purposes of this Act.]

### 6. [ 4E Fund. —(1) There shall be constituted a Fund to be called the
Forward Markets Commission General Fund and there shall be credited
thereto—(i) all grants and fees received by the Commission under this Act;

(ii)all sums received by the Commission from such other sources as may be
decided upon by the Central Government.(2)The Fund shall be applied for
meeting—(i) the salaries, allowances and other remuneration of the members,
officers and other employees of the Commission;(ii)the expenses of the
Commission in the discharge of its functions under section 4;(iii)the expenses
on objects and for purposes authorised by this Act:Provided that the sums
authorised to be paid and applied from and out of the Consolidated Fund of
India and appropriated by law made by Parliament for the services and purposes
of the Commission shall continue to be paid and applied for such services and
purposes of the Commission till the Fund is constituted under this section.

### 7. [ 4F Accounts and audit.— (1) The Commission shall maintain proper
accounts and other relevant records and prepare an annual statement of
accounts in such form and manner as may be prescribed by the Central
Government in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.

(2)The accounts of the Commission shall be audited by the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India at such intervals as may be specified by him and any
expenditure incurred in connection with such audit shall be payable by the
Commission to the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.(3)The Comptroller
and Auditor-General of India and any other person appointed by him in
connection with the audit of the accounts of the Commission shall have the
same rights and privileges and authority in connection with such audit as the
Comptroller and Auditor-General generally has in connection with the audit of
the Government accounts, and in particular, shall have the right to demand the
production of books, accounts, connected vouchers and other documents and
papers and to inspect any of the offices of the Commission.(4)The accounts of
the Commission as certified by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India or
any other person appointed by him in this behalf together with the audit
report thereon shall be forwarded annually to the Central Government and that
Government shall cause the same to be laid before each House of Parliament.]

### 5\. Application for recognition of associations.—(1) Any association
concerned with the regulation and control of forward contracts which is
desirous of being recognised for the purposes of this Act may make an
application in the prescribed manner to the Central Government.

(2)Every application made under sub-section (1) shall contain such particulars
as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by a copy of the bye-laws for
the regulation and control of forward contracts and also a copy of the rules
relating in general to the constitution of the association, and, in
particular, to—(a) the governing body of such association, its constitution
and powers of management and the manner in which its business is to be
transacted; tc" (a) the governing body of such association, its constitution
and powers of management and the manner in which its business is to be
transacted;"(b)the powers and duties of the office bearers of the association;
tc" (b) the powers and duties of the office bearers of the association;"(c)the
admission into the association of various classes of members, the
qualifications of members, and the exclusion, suspension, expulsion and
readmission of members therefrom or thereinto; tc" (c) the admission into the
association of various classes of members, the qualifications of members, and
the exclusion, suspension, expulsion and readmission of members therefrom or
thereinto;"(d)the procedure for registration of partnerships as members of the
association and the nomination and appointment of authorised representatives
and clerks. tc" (d) the procedure for registration of partnerships as members
of the association and the nomination and appointment of authorised
representatives and clerks."

### 6\. Grant of recognition to association.—(1) If the Central Government,
after making such inquiry as may be necessary in this behalf and after
obtaining such further information, if any, as it may require, is satisfied
that it would be in the interest of the trade and also in the public interest
to grant recognition to the association which has made an application under
section 5, it may grant recognition to the association in such form and
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed or specified, and shall
specify in such recognition the goods or classes of goods with respect to
which forward contracts may be entered into between members of such
association or through or with any such member.

(2)Before granting recognition under sub-section (1) the Central Government
may, by order, direct,—(a) that there shall be no limitation on the number of
members of the association or that there shall be such limitation on the
number of members as may be specified; tc" (a) that there shall be no
limitation on the number of members of the association or that there shall be
such limitation on the number of members as may be specified;"(b)that the
association shall provide for the appointment by the Central Government of a
person, whether a member of the association or not, as its representative on,
and of not more than three persons representing interests not directly
represented through membership of the association as member or members of, the
governing body of such association, and may require the association to
incorporate in its rules any such direction and the conditions, if any,
accompanying it. tc" (b) that the association shall provide for the
appointment by the Central Government of a person, whether a member of the
association or not, as its representative on, and of not more than three
persons representing interests not directly represented through membership of
the association as member or members of, the governing body of such
association, and may require the association to incorporate in its rules any
such direction and the conditions, if any, accompanying it."(3)No rules of a
recognised association shall be amended except with the approval of the
Central Government.(4)Every grant of recognition under this section shall be
published in the Gazette of India and also in the Official Gazette of the
State in which the principal office of the recognised association is situate,
and such recognition shall have effect as from the date of its publication in
the Gazette of India.

### 7\. Withdrawal of recognition.—If the Central Government is of opinion
that any recognition granted to an association under the provisions of this
Act should, in the interest of the trade or in the public interest, be
withdrawn, the Central Government may, after giving a reasonable opportunity
to the association to be heard in the matter, withdraw by notification in the
Official Gazette, the recognition granted to the said association: Provided
that no such withdrawal shall affect the validity of any contract entered into
or made before the date of the notification, and the Central Government may
make such provision as it deems fit in the notification of withdrawal or in
any subsequent notification similarly published for the due performance of any
contracts outstanding on that date.

### 7A. Corporation and demutualisation of associations. —On and from the
appointed date, all recognized associations (if not corporatised and
demutualised before the appointed date) shall be corporatised and demutualised
in accordance with the provisions contained in section 7B: Provided that
different appointed dates may be appointed for different recognized
associations: Provided further that the Commission may, if it is satisfied
that any recognized association was prevented by sufficient, cause from being
corporatised and demutualised on or after the appointed date, extend the
appointed date specified in respect of that recognized association and such
recognized association may continue as such before such appointed date.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “appointed date” means the date
which the Commission may, by notification, appoint.

### 7B. Procedure for corporation and demutualisation. —All recognized
associations referred to in section 7A shall, within such time as may be
specified by the Commission, submit a scheme for corporatisation and
demutualisation for its approval: Provided that the Commission may, by
notification, specify name of the recognised association, which had already
been corporatised and demutualised, and such association shall not be required
to submit the scheme under this section.(2) On receipt of the scheme referred
to in sub-section (1), the Commission may, after making such inquiry as may be
necessary in this behalf and obtaining such further information, if any, as it
may require and if it is satisfied that it would be in the interest of the
trade in goods or commodity derivatives and also in the public interest,
approve the scheme with or without modification.

(3)No scheme under sub-section (2) shall be approved by the Commission if the
issue of shares for a lawful consideration or provision of trading rights in
lieu of membership card of the members of a recognised association or payment
of dividends to members have been proposed out of any reserves or assets of
that association.(4)Where the scheme is approved under sub-section (2), the
scheme so approved shall be published immediately by—(a) the Commission in the
Official Gazette;(b)the recognised association in such two daily newspapers
circulating in India, as may be specified by the Commission, and upon such
publication, notwithstanding anything contained contrary to any other
provision of this Act or in any other law for the time being in force or any
agreement, award, judgment, decree or other instrument for the time being in
force, the scheme shall have effect and be binding on all persons and
authorities including all members, creditors, depositors and employees of the
recognised association and on all persons having any contract, right, power,
obligation or liability with, against, over, to, or in connection with, the
recognised association or its members.(5)Where the Commission is satisfied
that it would not be in the interest of the trade in goods or commodity
derivatives and also in the public interest to approve the scheme under sub-
section (2), it may, by an order, reject the scheme and such order of
rejection shall be published by it in the Official Gazette: Provided that the
Commission shall give a reasonable opportunity of being heard to all the
persons concerned and the recognised association concerned before passing an
order rejecting the scheme.(6)The Commission may, while approving the scheme
under sub-section (2), by an order in writing, restrict—(a) the voting rights
of the shareholders who are also members of the recognised association;(b)the
right of shareholders or a member of the recognised association to appoint the
representatives on the governing board of the association;(c)the maximum
number of representatives of the members of the recognized association to be
appointed on the governing board of the association, which shall not exceed
one-fourth of the total strength of the governing board.(7)The order made
under sub-section (6) shall be published in the Official Gazette and on the
publication thereof, the order shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or in any other law for the
time being in force, have full effect.(8)Every recognised association, in
respect of which the scheme for corporatisation or demutualisation has been
approved under sub-section (2) shall, either by fresh issue of equity shares
to the public or in any other manner as may be specified by the regulations
made by the Commission, ensure that at least fifty-one per cent. of its equity
share capital is held, within twelve months from the date of publication of
the order under sub-section (7), by the public other than shareholders having
trading rights: Provided that the Commission may, on sufficient cause being
shown to it and in the public interest, extend the said period by another
twelve months.]

### 8. Power of Central Government to call for periodical returns or direct
inquiries to be made.—1[(1) Every recognised association and every member
thereof shall furnish to the Central Government such periodical returns
relating to its affairs, or the affairs of its members, or his affairs, as the
case may be, as may be prescribed.]

(2)Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-section (1) where the
Central Government considers it expedient so to do, it may, by order in
writing,—(a) call upon a recognised association 2[or a member thereof] to
furnish in writing such information or explanation relating to its affairs or
the affairs of any of its members 2[or his affairs, as the case may be,] as
the Central Government may require, or tc" (a) call upon a recognised
association 2[or a member thereof] to furnish in writing such information or
explanation relating to its affairs or the affairs of any of its members 2[or
his affairs, as the case may be,] as the Central Government may require,
or"(b)appoint one or more persons to make an inquiry in relation to the
affairs of such association or the affairs of any of its members and submit a
report of the result of such inquiry to the Central Government within such
time as may be specified in the order or, in the alternative, direct the
inquiry to be made, and the report to be submitted, by the governing body of
such association acting jointly with one or more representatives of the
Central Government; and tc" (b) appoint one or more persons to make an inquiry
in relation to the affairs of such association or the affairs of any of its
members and submit a report of the result of such inquiry to the Central
Government within such time as may be specified in the order or, in the
alternative, direct the inquiry to be made, and the report to be submitted, by
the governing body of such association acting jointly with one or more
representatives of the Central Government; and"(c)direct the Commission to
inspect the accounts and other documents of any recognised association or of
any of its members and submit its report thereon to the Central Government.
tc" (c) direct the Commission to inspect the accounts and other documents of
any recognised association or of any of its members and submit its report
thereon to the Central Government."(3)Where an inquiry in relation to the
affairs of a recognised association or the affairs of any of its members has
been undertaken under sub-section (2)—(a) every director, manager, secretary
or other officer of such association; tc" (a) every director, manager,
secretary or other officer of such association;"(b)every member of such
association; tc" (b) every member of such association;"(c)if the member of the
association is a firm, every partner, manager, secretary or other officer of
the firm; and tc" (c) if the member of the association is a firm, every
partner, manager, secretary or other officer of the firm; and"(d)every other
person or body of persons who has had dealings in the course of business with
any of the persons mentioned in clauses (a), (b) and (c), tc" (d) every other
person or body of persons who has had dealings in the course of business with
any of the persons mentioned in clauses (a), (b) and (c)," shall be bound to
produce before the authority making the inquiry, all such books, accounts,
correspondence and other documents in his custody or power relating to, or
having a bearing on the subject-matter of, such inquiry and also to furnish
the authority with any such statement or information relating thereto as may
be required of him, within such time as may be specified. 2[(4) Every
recognised association and every member thereof shall maintain such books of
account and other documents as the Commission may specify and the books of
account and other documents so specified shall be preserved for such period
not exceeding three years as the Commission may specify and shall be subject
to inspection at all reasonable times by the Commission.]

### 9. Furnishing of annual reports to the Commission by recognised
associations.—1[(1) Every recognised association shall furnish to the
Commission three copies of its annual report.]

(2)Such annual report shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed.

### 1\.

[9A. Power of recognised association to make rules respecting grouping of
members, restricting voting rights, etc., in special cases.—(1) A recognised
association may make rules or amend any rules made by it to provide for all or
any of the following matters, namely:— 2[(a) the admission of a firm or a
Hindu undivided family as a member;] 3[(b)] the grouping of the members of the
association according to functional or local interests, the reservation of
seats on its governing body for members belonging to each group and
appointment of members to such reserved seats—(i) by election exclusively by
the members of the association from among persons chosen by the members
belonging to the group concerned; tc" (i) by election exclusively by the
members of the association from among persons chosen by the members belonging
to the group concerned;"(ii)by election by all the members of the association;
tc" (ii) by election by all the members of the association;"(iii)by election
by all the members belonging to the group concerned for the purpose; tc" (iii)
by election by all the members belonging to the group concerned for the
purpose;" 3[(c)] the restriction of voting rights in respect of any matter
placed before the association at any meeting to those members only who, by
reason of their functional or local interests, are actually interested in such
matter; 3[(d)] the regulation of voting rights in respect of any matter placed
before the association at any meeeting so that each member may be entitled to
have one vote only, irrespective of his share of the paid-up equity capital of
the association; 3[(e)] The restriction on the right of a member to appoint
another person as his proxy to attend and vote at a meeting of the
association; 4[(f)] the retirement at every annual general meeting of all
directors or such number or proportion of their total number as may be
specified in the rules;] 3[(g)] such incidental, consequential and
supplementary matters as may be necessary to give effect to any of the matters
specified in 5[clauses (a) to (f)].(2)No rules of a recognised association
made or amended in relation to any matter referred to in 6[clauses (a) to (g)]
of sub-section (1) shall have effect until they have been approved by the
Central Government and published by that Government in the Official Gazette
and, in approving the rules so made or amended, the Central Government may
make such modifications therein as it thinks fit, and on such publication, the
rules as approved by the Central Government shall be deemed to have been
validly made, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).(3)Where, before the commencement of the
Forward Contracts (Regulation) Amendment Act, 1957 (32 of 1957), any rules
have been made or amended in relation to any matter referred to in 6[clauses
(b) to (e) and (g)] of sub-section (1), the rules so made or amended shall not
be deemed to be invalid or ever to have been invalid merely by reason of the
fact that the rules so made or amended are repugnant to any of the provisions
of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).

### 10. Power of Central Government to direct rules to be made or to make
rules.—(1) Whenever the Central Government considers it expedient so to do, it
may, by order in writing, direct any recognised association to make any rules
or to amend any rules made by the recognised association within such period as
it may specify in this behalf.

(2)If any recognised association, against whom an order is issued by the
Central Government under sub-section (1), fails or neglects to comply with
such order within the specified period, the Central Government may make the
rules or amend the rules made by the recognised association, as the case may
be, either in the form specified in the order or with such modification
thereof as the Central Government may think fit. 1[(3) Where, in pursuance of
sub-section (2), any rules have been made or amended, the rules so made or
amended shall be published in the Gazette of India, and shall, thereupon, have
effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Companies
Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or any other law for the time being in force, as if
they had been made or amended by the recognised association concerned.]

### 10A. Clearing corporation .—(1) A recognized association may, with the
prior approval of the Commission, transfer the duties and functions of a
clearing house to a clearing corporation, being a company incorporated under
the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), for the purposes of—(a) the periodical
settlement of contracts and differences thereunder;

(b)the delivery of, and payment for, goods;(c)any other matter incidental to,
or connected with, such transfer.(2)Every clearing corporation shall, for the
purpose of transfer of the duties and functions of a clearing house to a
clearing corporation referred to in sub-section (1), make bye-laws and submit
the same to the Commission for its approval.(3)The Commission may, on being
satisfied that it is in the interest of the trade and also in the public
interest to transfer the duties and functions of a clearing house to a
clearing corporation, grant approval to the bye-laws submitted to it under
sub-section (2) and approve transfer of the duties and functions of clearing
house to a clearing corporation referred to in sub-section (1).(4)The
provisions of sections 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 12A, 12B, and 13(1)
shall, as far as may be, apply to a clearing corporation referred to in sub-
section as they apply in relation to a recognised association.]

### 11. Power of recognised association to make bye-laws. —(1) Any recognised
association may, subject to the previous approval of the Central Government,
make bye-laws for the regulation and control of forward contracts.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such bye-laws may provide for—(a) the opening and closing of markets
and the regulation of the hours of trade;(b)a clearing house for the
periodical settlement of contracts and differences thereunder, the delivery
of, and payment for goods, the passing on of delivery orders and for the
regulation and maintenance of such clearing house;(c)the number and classes of
contracts in respect of which settlements shall be made or differences paid
through the clearing house;(d)fixing, altering or postponing days for
settlement;(e)determining and declaring market rates, including opening,
closing, highest and lowest rates for goods;(f)the terms, conditions and
incidents of contracts including the prescription of margin requirements, if
any, and conditions relating thereto, and the forms of contracts in
writing;(g)regulating the entering into, making, performance, rescission and
termination of contracts, including contracts between members or between a
commission agent and his constituent, or between a broker and his constituent,
or between a member of the recognised association and a person who is not a
member, and the consequences of default or insolvency on the part of a seller
or buyer or intermediary, the consequences of a breach or omission by a seller
or buyer and the responsibility of commission agents and brokers who are not
parties to such contracts;(h)the admission and prohibition of specified
classes or types of goods or of dealings in goods by a member of the
recognised association;(i)the method and procedure for the settlement of
claims or disputes including the settlement thereof by arbitration;(j)the levy
and recovery fees, fines and penalties;(k)the regulation of the course of
business between parties to contracts in any capacity;(l)the fixing of a scale
of brokerage and other charges;(m)the making, comparing, settling and closing
of bargains;(n)the regulation of fluctuations in rates and prices;(o)the
emergencies in trade which may arise and the exercise of powers in such
emergencies including the power to fix maximum and minimum prices;(p)the
regulation of dealings by members for their own account;(q)the limitations on
the volume of trade done by any individual member;(r)the obligation of members
to supply such information or explanation and to produce such books relating
to their business as the governing body may require.(3)The bye-laws made under
this section may—(a) specify the bye-laws the contravention of any of which
shall make a contract entered into otherwise than in accordance with the bye-
laws void under sub-section (2) of section 15;[(aa) specify the bye-laws the
contravention of any of which shall make a forward contract entered into
otherwise than in accordance with the bye-laws illegal under sub-section (3A)
of section 15;](b)provide that the contravention of any of the bye-laws
shall—(i) render the member concerned liable to fine; or(ii)render the member
concerned liable to expulsion or suspension from the recognised association or
to any other penalty of a like nature not involving the payment of
money.(4)Any bye-laws made under this section shall be subject to such
conditions in regard to previous publication as may be prescribed, and when
approved by the Central Government, shall be published in the Gazette of India
12 [***]: Provided that the Central Government may, in the interest of the
trade or in the public interest, by order in writing, dispense with the
condition of previous publication, in any case.

### 12. Power of Central Government to make or amend bye-laws of recognised
associations.—(1) The Central Government may, either on a request in writing
received by it in this behalf from the governing body of a recognised
association, or if in its opinion it is expedient so to do, make bye-laws for
all or any of the matters specified in section 11 or amend any bye-laws made
by such association under that section.

(2)Where, in pursuance of this section, any bye-laws have been made or
amended, the bye-laws so made or amended shall be published in the Gazette of
India 1[and shall thereupon have effect] as if they had been made or amended
by the recognised association.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in this
section, where the Governing body of a recognised association objects to any
bye-laws made or amended under this section by the Central Government on its
own motion, it may, within six months of the publication thereof under sub-
section (2), apply to the Central Government for a revision thereof, and the
Central Government may, after giving a reasonable opportunity to the governing
body of the association to be heard in the matter, revise the bye-laws so made
or amended and where any bye-laws so made or amended are revised as a result
of any action taken under this sub-section, the bye-laws so revised shall be
published and shall become effective as provided in sub-section (2).(4)The
making or the amendment or revision of any bye-laws under this section shall
in all cases be 2[subject to such conditions in regard to previous publication
as may be prescribed]: Provided that the Central Government may, in the
interest of the trade or in the public interest, by order in writing, dispense
with the condition of previous publication.

### 1\.

[12A. Application of amendment of bye-laws to existing forward contracts.—Any
amendment of a bye-law under section 11 other than an amendment made in
pursuance of clause(a) or clause (aa) of sub-section (3) of that section or
under section 12 shall also apply to all forward contracts entered into before
the date of its approval by the Central Government or before the date of its
publication in the Gazette of India, as the case may be, and remaining to be
performed on or after the said date.]

### 1\.

[12B. Power of Commission to suspend member of recognised association or to
prohibit him from trading.—(1) If, in the interest of trade or in the public
interest, the Commission considers it necessary to suspend a member from his
membership of any recognised association or to prohibit such members from
entering into any forward contract for the sale or purchase in his own name or
through another member of a recognised association of any goods or class of
goods, then, notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being
in force or in the rules or bye-laws of a recognised association, the
Commission may, after giving an opportunity to the member concerned of being
heard, by order suspend his membership of any association or prohibit him from
entering into any such contract.(2)An order made under sub-section (1) shall
specify the period for which the suspension or prohibition is to have effect
and such period may be extended from time to time but so as not to exceed
three years in the aggregate.(3)No order made under sub-section (1) in respect
of any member of a recognised association shall affect the validity of any
forward contract entered into or made by, with or through such member on or
before the date of such order and remaining to be performed on or after the
said date; but the Commission may make such provision as it deems fit in such
order or in any subsequent order for the closing out of any such forward
contract.]

### 13. Power of Central Government to supersede governing body of recognised
association.—(1) Without prejudice to any other powers vested in the Central
Government under this Act, where the Central Government is of opinion that the
governing body of any recognised association should be superseded, then,
notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the
time being in force, the Central Government may, after giving a reasonable
opportunity to the governing body of the recognised association concerned to
show cause why it should not be superseded, by notification in the Official
Gazette, declare the governing body of such association to be superseded for
such period not exceeding six months as may be specified in the notification,
and may appoint any person or persons to exercise and perform all the powers
and duties of the governing body, and where more persons than one are
appointed may appoint one of such persons to be the chairman and another of
such persons to be the vice-chairman.

(2)On the publication of a notification in the Official Gazette under sub-
section (1) the following consequences shall ensue, namely:—(a) the members of
the governing body which has been superseded shall, as from the date of the
notification of supersession cease to hold office as such members; tc" (a) the
members of the governing body which has been superseded shall, as from the
date of the notification of supersession cease to hold office as such
members;"(b)the person or persons appointed under sub-section (1) may exercise
and perform all the powers and duties of the governing body which has been
superseded; tc" (b) the person or persons appointed under sub-section (1) may
exercise and perform all the powers and duties of the governing body which has
been superseded;"(c)all such property of the recognised association as the
person or persons appointed under sub-section (1) may, by order in writing,
specify in this behalf as being necessary for the purpose of enabling him or
them to carry out the purposes of this Act, shall vest in such person or
persons. tc" (c) all such property of the recognised association as the person
or persons appointed under sub-section (1) may, by order in writing, specify
in this behalf as being necessary for the purpose of enabling him or them to
carry out the purposes of this Act, shall vest in such person or
persons."(3)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law or
the rules or bye-laws of the association whose governing body is superseded
under sub-section (1), the person or persons appointed under that sub-section
shall hold office for such period as may be specified in the notification
published under that sub-section, and the Central Government may, from time to
time, by like notification vary such period.(4)On the determination of the
period of office of any person or persons appointed under this section the
recognised association shall forthwith reconstitute a governing body in
accordance with its rules: Provided that until a governing body is so
reconstituted, the person or persons appointed under sub-section (1) shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), continue to exercise
and perform their powers and duties.(5)On the reconstitution of a governing
body under sub-section (4), all the property of the recognised association
which had vested in, or was in the possession of, the person or persons
appointed under sub-section (1) shall vest or revest, as the case may be, in
the governing body so reconstituted.

### 14. Power to suspend business of recognised associations.—If in the
interest of the trade or in the public interest the Central Government
considers it expedient so to do, it may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, direct a recognised association to suspend such of its business for
such period not exceeding seven days and subject to such conditions as may be
specified in the notification, and may if, in the opinion of the Central
Government, the interest of the trade or the public interest so requires by
like notification extend the said period from time to time: Provided that
where the period of suspension is likely to exceed one month, no notification
extending the suspension beyond such period shall be issued, unless the
governing body of the recognised association has been given an opportunity of
being heard in the matter.

17 [14A. Certificate of registration to be obtained by all associations.—(1)
No association concerned with the regulation and control of business relating
to forward contracts shall, after the commencent of the Forward Contracts
(Regulation) Amendment Act, 1960 (62 of 1960) (hereinafter referred to as such
commencement), carry on such business except under, and in accordance with,
the conditions of a certificate of registration granted under this Act by the
Commission.(2)Every association referred to in sub-section (1) which is in
existence at such commencement, before the expiry of six months from such
commencement, and every association referred to in sub-section (1) which is
not in existence at such commencement, before commencing such business, shall
make an application for a certificate of registration to the Commission in
such form and containing such particulars as may be prescribed: Provided that
the Commission may in its discretion extend from time to time the period of
six months aforesaid up to one year in the aggregate.(3)Nothing in this
section shall be deemed—(a) to prohibit an association in existence at such
commencement from carrying on its business until the disposal of the
application made by it under sub-section (2); or tc" (a) to prohibit an
association in existence at such commencement from carrying on its business
until the disposal of the application made by it under sub-section (2);
or"(b)to require a recognised association in existence at such commencement to
make an application under sub-section (2); and every such association shall,
as soon as may be after such commencement, be granted free of cost by the
Commission a certificate of registration.] tc" (b) to require a recognised
association in existence at such commencement to make an application under
sub-section (2); and every such association shall, as soon as may be after
such commencement, be granted free of cost by the Commission a certificate of
registration." 18 [14B. Grant or refusal of certificate of registration.—On
receipt of an application under section 14A, the Commission, after making such
enquiry as it considers necessary in this behalf, may by order in writing
grant a certificate of registration or refuse to grant it: Provided that
before refusing to grant such certificate, the association shall be given an
opportunity of being heard in the matter.]

### 15. Forward contracts in notified goods illegal or void in certain
circumstances.—(1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, declare this section to apply to such goods or class of goods and in
such areas as may be specified in the notification, and thereupon, subject to
the provisions contained in section 18, every forward contract for the sale or
purchase of any goods specified in the notification which is entered into in
the area specified therein otherwise than between members of a recognised
association or through or with any such member shall be illegal.

(2)Any forward contract in goods entered into in pursuance of sub-section (1)
which is in contravention of any of the bye-laws specified in this behalf
under clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 11 shall be void—(i) as
respects the rights of any member of the recognised association who has
entered into such contract in contravention of any such bye-law, and
also(ii)as respects the rights of any other person who has knowingly
participated in the transaction entailing such contravention.(3)Nothing in
sub-section (2) shall affect the right of any person other than a member of
the recognised association to enforce any such contract or to recover any sum
under or in respect of such contract: Provided that such person had no
knowledge that such transaction was in contravention of any of the bye-laws
specified under clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 11. 1[(3A) Any
forward contract in goods entered into in pursuance of sub-section (1) which
at the date of the contract is in contravention of any of the bye-laws
specified in this behalf under clause (aa) of sub-section (3) of section 11
shall be illegal.](4)No member of a recognised association shall, in respect
of any goods specified in the notification under sub-section (1), enter into
any contract on his own account with any person other than a member of the
recognised association, unless he has secured the consent or authority of such
person and discloses in the note, memorandum or agreement of sale or purchase
that he has bought or sold the goods, as the case may be, on his own account:
Provided that where the member has secured the consent or authority of such
person otherwise than in writing he shall secure written confirmation by such
person of such consent or authority within three days from the date of such
contract: Provided further that in respect of any outstanding contract entered
into by a member with a person other than a member of the recognised
association, no consent or authority of such person shall be necessary for
closing out in accordance with the bye-laws the outstanding contract, if the
member discloses in the note, memorandum or agreement of sale or purchase in
respect of such closing out that he has bought or sold the goods, as the case
may be, on his own account.

### 16. Consequences of notification under section 15.—Where a notification
has been issued under section 15, then notwithstanding anything contained in
any other law for the time being in force or in any custom, usage or practice
of the trade or the terms of any contract or the bye-laws of any association
concerned relating to any contract,—(a) every forward contract for the sale or
purchase of any goods specified in the notification 1[entered into on or
before the date of the notification] and remaining to be performed after the
said date and which is not in conformity with the provisions of section 15,
shall be deemed to be closed out at such rate as the Central Government may
fix in this behalf, and different rates may be fixed for different classes of
such contracts; tc" (a) every forward contract for the sale or purchase of any
goods specified in the notification 2[entered into on or before the date of
the notification] and remaining to be performed after the said date and which
is not in conformity with the provisions of section 15, shall be deemed to be
closed out at such rate as the Central Government may fix in this behalf, and
different rates may be fixed for different classes of such contracts;"

(b)all differences arising out of any contract so deemed to be closed out
shall be payable on the basis of the rate fixed under clause (a) and the
seller shall not be bound to give and the buyer shall not be bound to take
delivery of the goods. tc" (b) all differences arising out of any contract so
deemed to be closed out shall be payable on the basis of the rate fixed under
clause (a) and the seller shall not be bound to give and the buyer shall not
be bound to take delivery of the goods."

### 17. Power to prohibit forward contracts in certain cases.—(1) The Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that no
person shall, save with the permission of the Central Government, enter into
any forward contract for the sale or purchase of any goods or class of goods
specified in the notification and to which the provisions of section 15 have
not been made applicable, except to the extent and in the manner, if any, as
may be specified in the notification.

(2)All forward contracts in contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1)
entered into after the date of publication of the notification thereunder
shall be illegal.(3)Where a notification has been issued under sub-section
(1), the provisions of section 16 shall, in the absence of anything to the
contrary in the notification, apply to all forward contracts for the sale or
purchase of any goods specified in the notification 1[entered into on or
before the date of the notification] and remaining to be performed after the
said date as they apply to all forward contracts for the sale or purchase of
any goods specified in the notification under section 15.

### 18. Special provisions respecting certain kinds of forward contracts.—(1)
Nothing contained in Chapter III or Chapter IV shall apply to non-transferable
specific delivery contracts for the sale or purchase of any goods: Provided
that no person shall organise or assist in organising or be a member of any
association in any area to which the provisions of section 15 have been made
applicable (other than a recognised association) which provides facilities for
the performance of any non-transferable specific delivery contract by any
party thereto without having to make or to receive actual delivery to or from
the other party to the contract or to or from any other party named in the
contract.

(2)Where in respect of any area the provisions of section 15 have been made
applicable in relation to forward contracts for the sale or purchase of any
goods or class of goods, the Central Government may, by a like notification,
declare that in the said area or any part thereof as may be specified in the
notification all or any of the provisions of Chapter III or Chapter IV shall
not apply to transferable specific delivery contracts for the sale or purchase
of the said goods or class of goods either generally, or to any class of such
contracts in particular.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(1), if the Central Government is of opinion that in the interest of the trade
or in the public interest it is expedient to regulate and control non-
transferable specific delivery contracts in any area, it may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, declare that all or any of the provisions of Chapters
III and IV shall apply to such class or classes of non-transferable specific
delivery contracts in such area and in respect of such goods or class of goods
as may be specified in the notification, and may also specify the manner in
which and the extent to which all or any of the said provisions shall so
apply.

### 19. Prohibition of options in goods.—(1) Notwithstanding anything
contained in this Act or in any other law for the time being in force, all
options in goods entered into after the date on which this section comes into
force shall be illegal.

(2)Any option in goods which has been entered into before the date on which
this section comes into force and which remains to be performed, whether
wholly or in part, after the said date shall, to that extent, become void.

### 1\.

[20. Penalties.—Any person who—(a) (i) in any return, statement or other
document required by or under this Act, makes a statement which is false in
any material particular, knowing it to be false, or wilfully omits to make a
material statement; or tc" (a) (i) in any return, statement or other document
required by or under this Act, makes a statement which is false in any
material particular, knowing it to be false, or wilfully omits to make a
material statement; or"(ii) without reasonable excuse (the burden of proving
which shall be on him) fails to furnish any return, statement or other
document or any information or to answer any question or to comply with any
requisition made under this Act or any rules made thereunder; or tc" (ii)
without reasonable excuse (the burden of proving which shall be on him) fails
to furnish any return, statement or other document or any information or to
answer any question or to comply with any requisition made under this Act or
any rules made thereunder; or"(iii)enters into any forward contract during the
period of suspension of business of a recognised association in pursuance of a
notification under section 14; or tc" (iii) enters into any forward contract
during the period of suspension of business of a recognised association in
pursuance of a notification under section 14; or"(b)is a member of any
association, other than a recognised association, to which a certificate of
registration has not been granted under this Act; or tc" (b) is a member of
any association, other than a recognised association, to which a certificate
of registration has not been granted under this Act; or"(c)publishes or
circulates information relating to the rate at which any forward contract has
been entered into in contravention of any of the bye-laws of a recognised
association; or tc" (c) publishes or circulates information relating to the
rate at which any forward contract has been entered into in contravention of
any of the bye-laws of a recognised association; or"(d)organises or assists in
organising, or is a member of, any association in contravention of the
provisions contained in the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 18; or tc"
(d) organises or assists in organising, or is a member of, any association in
contravention of the provisions contained in the proviso to sub-section (1) of
section 18; or"(e)enters into any forward contract or any option in goods in
contravention of any of the provisions contained in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (3A) or sub-section (4) of section 15, section 17 or section 19,
shall, on conviction, be punishable— tc" shall, on conviction, be
punishable—"(i) for a first offence, with imprisonment which may extend to one
year, or with a fine of not less than one thousand rupees, or with both; tc"
(i) for a first offence, with imprisonment which may extend to one year, or
with a fine of not less than one thousand rupees, or with both;"(ii)for a
second or subsequent offence under clause (d) or under clause (e) [other than
an offence in respect of a contravention of the provisions of sub-section (4)
of section 15], with imprisonment which may extend to one year and also with
fine: provided that in the absence of special and adequate reasons to the
contrary to be mentioned in the judgment of the court, the imprisonment shall
be not less than one month and the fine shall be not less than one thousand
rupees.] tc" (ii) for a second or subsequent offence under clause (d) or under
clause (e) [other than an offence in respect of a contravention of the
provisions of sub-section (4) of section 15], with imprisonment which may
extend to one year and also with fine: provided that in the absence of special
and adequate reasons to the contrary to be mentioned in the judgment of the
court, the imprisonment shall be not less than one month and the fine shall be
not less than one thousand rupees.]"

### 21. Penalty for owning or keeping place used for entering into forward
contracts in goods.—Any person who—(a) owns or keeps a place other than that
of a recognised association, which is used for the purpose of entering into or
making or performing, whether wholly or in part, any forward contracts in
contravention of any of the provisions of this Act and knowingly permits such
place to be used for such purposes, or tc" (a) owns or keeps a place other
than that of a recognised association, which is used for the purpose of
entering into or making or performing, whether wholly or in part, any forward
contracts in contravention of any of the provisions of this Act and knowingly
permits such place to be used for such purposes, or"

(b)without the permission of the Central Government, organises, or assists in
organising, or becomes a member of, any association, other than a recognised
association, for the purpose of assisting in, entering into or making or
performing, whether wholly or in part, any forward contracts in contravention
of any of the provisions of this Act, or tc" (b) without the permission of the
Central Government, organises, or assists in organising, or becomes a member
of, any association, other than a recognised association, for the purpose of
assisting in, entering into or making or performing, whether wholly or in
part, any forward contracts in contravention of any of the provisions of this
Act, or"(c)manages, controls or assists in keeping any place other than that
of a recognised association, which is used for the purpose of entering into or
making or performing, whether wholly or in part, any forward contracts in
contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or at which such forward
contracts are recorded or adjusted, or rights or liabilities arising out of
such forward contracts are adjusted, regulated or enforced in any manner
whatsoever, or tc" (c) manages, controls or assists in keeping any place other
than that of a recognised association, which is used for the purpose of
entering into or making or performing, whether wholly or in part, any forward
contracts in contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or at which
such forward contracts are recorded or adjusted, or rights or liabilities
arising out of such forward contracts are adjusted, regulated or enforced in
any manner whatsoever, or"(d)not being a member of a recognised association,
wilfully represents to, or induces, any person to believe that he is a member
of a recognised association or that forward contracts can be entered into or
made or performed, whether wholly or in part, under this Act through him, or
tc" (d) not being a member of a recognised association, wilfully represents
to, or induces, any person to believe that he is a member of a recognised
association or that forward contracts can be entered into or made or
performed, whether wholly or in part, under this Act through him, or"(e)not
being a member of a recognised association or his agent authorised as such
under the rules or bye-laws of such association, canvasses, advertises or
touts in any manner, either for himself or on behalf of any other person, for
any business connected with forward contracts in contravention of any of the
provisions of this Act, or tc" (e) not being a member of a recognised
association or his agent authorised as such under the rules or bye-laws of
such association, canvasses, advertises or touts in any manner, either for
himself or on behalf of any other person, for any business connected with
forward contracts in contravention of any of the provisions of this Act,
or"(f)joins, gathers, or assists in gathering at any place, other than the
place of business specified in the bye-laws of a recognised association, any
person or persons for making bids or offers or for entering into or making or
performing, whether wholly or in part, any forward contracts in contravention
of any of the provisions of this Act, or tc" (f) joins, gathers, or assists in
gathering at any place, other than the place of business specified in the bye-
laws of a recognised association, any person or persons for making bids or
offers or for entering into or making or performing, whether wholly or in
part, any forward contracts in contravention of any of the provisions of this
Act, or"(g)makes, publishes or circulates any statement or information which
is false and which he either knows or believes to be false, affecting or
tending to affect the course of business in forward contracts in respect of
goods to which the provisions of section 15 have been made applicable, 1[or]
tc" (g) makes, publishes or circulates any statement or information which is
false and which he either knows or believes to be false, affecting or tending
to affect the course of business in forward contracts in respect of goods to
which the provisions of section 15 have been made applicable, 1[or]" 1[(h)
manipulates or attempts to manipulate prices in respect of forward contracts
for the sale or purchase of any goods specified in any notification under
section 15, in any area specified in that notification.] 2[shall, on
conviction, be punishable—(i) for a first offence, with imprisonment which may
extend to two years, or with a fine of not less than one thousand rupees, or
with both; tc" (i) for a first offence, with imprisonment which may extend to
two years, or with a fine of not less than one thousand rupees, or with
both;"(ii)for a second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment which may
extend to two years and also with fine: provided that in the absence of
special and adequate reasons to the contrary to be mentioned in the judgment
of the court, the imprisonment shall be not less than one month and the fine
shall be not less than one thousand rupees.] tc" (ii) for a second or
subsequent offence, with imprisonment which may extend to two years and also
with fine: provided that in the absence of special and adequate reasons to the
contrary to be mentioned in the judgment of the court, the imprisonment shall
be not less than one month and the fine shall be not less than one thousand
rupees.]"

### 25. [ 21A Penalty for failure to furnish information, return, etc. —If any
person, who is required under this Act or any rules or regulations made
thereunder,—(a) to furnish any document, return or report to the Commission,
fails to furnish the same, he shall be liable to a penalty of twenty thousand
rupees for each day during which such failure continues or five lakh rupees,
whichever is less;

(b)to file any return or furnish any information, books or other documents
within the time specified therefore in the regulations, fails to file or
furnish the same within the time specified therefore in the regulations, he
shall be liable to pay a penalty not exceeding five thousand rupees for each
day during which such failure continues or five lakh rupees, whichever is
less;(c)to maintain books of account or records, fails to maintain the same,
he shall be liable to a penalty of ten thousand rupees for each day during
which such failure continues or five lakh rupees, whichever is less;(d)or who
was in charge of, and was responsible to, an association for the conduct of
the business of the association, obstructs any officer of the Commission or
any other person authorised by it to conduct inspection or to discharge any
other function assigned by the Commission, such person as well as the
association shall be liable to pay a fine of rupees one lakh for every
occasion of such obstruction.

### 21B. Penalty for failure by any person to enter into an agreement with
clients. —If any person, who is registered as a member or an intermediary and
is required under this Act or any rules or regulations made thereunder to
enter into an agreement with his client, fails to enter into such agreement,
he shall be liable to a penalty of twenty thousand rupees for each such
failure during which such failure continues or five lakh rupees, whichever is
less.

### 21C. Penalty for failure to redress clients grievances. —If any person,
who is registered as a member or an intermediary, after having been called
upon by the Commission in writing to redress the grievances of clients, fails
to redress such grievances within the time specified by the Commission, he
shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding two thousand rupees for each day
during which such failure continues or five lakh rupees, whichever is less.

### 21D. Penalty for insider trading. —If any insider who,—(i) either on his
own behalf or on behalf of any other person, deals in forward contract or
option in goods or option in commodity derivative on any association on the
basis of any unpublished price sensitive information; or

(ii)communicates any unpublished price sensitive information to any person,
with or without his request for such information except as required in the
ordinary course of business or under any law; or(iii)counsels, or procures for
any other person to deal in any forward contract or option in goods or option
in commodity derivative on the basis of unpublished price sensitive
information,shall be liable to a penalty of twenty-five lakh rupees or three
times the amount of profits made out of insider trading, whichever is higher.

### 21E. Penalty for fraudulent and unfair trade practices. —If any person
indulges in fraudulent and unfair trade practices relating to forward contract
or option in goods or option in commodity derivative, he shall be liable to
penalty of twenty-five lakh rupees or three time the amount of profits made
out of such practices, whichever is higher.

### 21F. Penalty for default in case of an Intermediary. —If any person, who
is registered as an intermediary under this Act or any regulations made
thereunder,—(a) fails to issue contract notes in the form and manner specified
by the association of which such intermediary is a member, he shall be liable
to a penalty not exceeding five times the amount for which the contract note
was required to be issued by that intermediary;

(b)fails to deliver any goods or fails to make payment of the amount due to
the client or in the manner or within the period specified in the regulations,
he shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding five thousand rupees for each
day during which such failure continues;(c)charges an amount of brokerage
which is in excess of the brokerage specified by the association, he shall be
liable to a penalty of five thousand rupees or five times the amount of
brokerage charged in excess of the specified brokerage, whichever is higher.

### 21G. Penalty for failure to comply with directions of Commission. —Any
person, who fails to comply with the directions issued by the Commission under
section 4B, shall be liable to pay a penalty not exceeding two lakh rupees for
each day during which such failure continues which may extend to five lakh
rupees.

### 21H. Consequences of failure to pay penalty. —(1) Without prejudice to any
award of penalty by the adjudicating officer under this Act, if any person
contravenes or attempts to contravene or abets the contravention any of the
provisions of this Act or of any rules or regulations made thereunder, he
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
years, or with fine, or with both.

(2)If any person fails to pay the penalty imposed by the adjudicating officer
or fails to comply with any of his directions or orders, he shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one month
but which may extend to three years or with fine or with both.

### 21\.

-I Power to adjudicate. —(1) For the purposes of adjudging under sections 21A to 21G, the Commission shall appoint any of its officers not below the rank of a Division Chief to be an adjudicating officer for holding an inquiry in the prescribed manner after giving any person concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard for the purpose of imposing any penalty.(2)While holding an inquiry, the adjudicating officer shall have power to summon and enforce the attendance of any person acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case to give evidence or to produce any document which, in the opinion of the adjudicating officer, may be useful for or relevant to the subject-matter of the inquiry and if, on such inquiry, he is satisfied that the person has filed to comply with the provisions of any of the sections specified in sub-section (1), he may impose such penalty as he thinks fit in accordance with the provisions of any of those sections.

### 21J. Factors to be taken into account by adjudicating officer. —While
adjudging the quantum of penalty under section 21-I, the adjudicating officer
shall have due regard to the following factors, namely:—(a) the amount of
disproportionate gain or unfair advantage, wherever quantifiable, made as a
result of the default;

(b)the amount of loss caused to a client or group of clients as a result of
the default;(c)the repetitive nature of the default.

### 21K. Crediting sums realised by way of penalties to Consolidated Fund of
India. —All sums realised by way of penalties under this Act shall be credited
to the Consolidated Fund of India.

### 21L. Power of court to order forfeiture of property. —Any court trying an
offence punishable under this Act, may, if it thinks fit and in addition to
any sentence which it may impose for such offence, direct that any money,
goods or other property in respect of which the offence has been committed,
shall be forfeited to the Central Government. Explanation.—For the purposes of
this section, property in respect of which an offence has been committed,
shall include deposits in a bank where the said property is converted into
such deposits.]

### 22. Offences by companies.—(1) Where an offence has been committed by a
company, every person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in
charge of, and was responsible to the company for the conduct of, the business
of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such
person liable to any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the
offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due
diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence
under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that the
offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any gross negligence on the part of, any director, manager,
secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary
or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall
be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. Explanation.—For
the purposes of this section,—(a) “company” means any body corporate and
includes a firm or other association of individuals; and tc" (a) “company”
means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of
individuals; and"(b)“director”, in relation to a firm, means a partner in the
firm. tc" (b) “director”, in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm."

### 1\.

[22A. Power to search and seize books of account or other documents.—(1) Any
presidency magistrate or a magistrate of the first class may, by warrant,
authorise any police officer not below the rank of sub-inspector to enter upon
and search any place where books of account or other documents relating to
forward contracts or options in goods entered into in contravention of the
provisions of this Act, may be or may be reasonably suspected to be, and such
police officer may seize any such book or document, if in his opinion, it
relates to any such forward contract or option in goods.(2)The provisions of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), shall, so far as may be,
apply to any search or seizure made under sub-section (1) as they apply to any
search or seizure made under the authority of a warrant issued under section
98 of the said Code.]

### 27. [ 22B Presumptions to be drawn in certain cases. —(1) Where any books
of account or other documents are seized from any place and there are entries
therein making reference to quantity, quotations, rates, months of delivery,
receipt or payment of differences or sale or purchase of goods or option in
goods, such books of account or other documents shall be admitted in evidence
without witnesses having to appear to prove the same; and such entries shall
be prima facie evidence of the matters, transactions and accounts purported to
be therein recorded.

(2)In any trial for an offence punishable under section 21, it shall be
presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the place in which the books of
account or other documents referred to in sub-section (1) were seized, was
used, and that the persons found therein were present, for the purpose of
committing the said offence.]

### 28. [ 22C Investigation.— (1) Where the Commission has reasonable grounds
to believe that—(a) the transactions in forward contracts or option in goods
or option in commodity derivative are being dealt with in a manner detrimental
to the commodity market or person associated with the commodity market; or

(b)any intermediary or any person associated with the commodities market has
violated any of the provisions of this Act or the rules or regulations made or
directions issued by the Commission thereunder, it may, at any time by order
in writing, direct any person (hereafter in this section referred to as the
Investigating Authority) specified in the order to investigate the affairs of
such intermediary or person associated with the commodities market and to
report thereon to the Commission.(2)Without prejudice to the provisions of
sections 235 to 241 of the Companies Act, 1956 it shall be the duty of every
manager, managing director, officer and other employee of the company and
every intermediary referred to in section 14A, every person associated with
the commodities market to preserve and to produce to the Investigating
Authority or any person authorised by him in this behalf, all the books,
registers, other documents and record of, or relating to, the company or, as
the case may be, of or relating to, the intermediary or such person, which are
in their custody or power.(3)The Investigating Authority may require any
intermediary or any person associated with commodities market in any manner to
furnish such information to, or produce such books, or registers, or other
documents, or record before him or any person authorised by him in this behalf
as he may consider necessary if the furnishing of such information or the
production of such books, or registers, or other documents, or record is
relevant or necessary for the purposes of its investigation.(4)The
Investigating Authority may keep in its custody any books, registers, other
documents and record produced under sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) for six
months and thereafter shall return the same to any intermediary or any person
associated with commodities market by whom or on whose behalf the books,
registers, other documents and record are produced: Provided that the
Investigation Authority may call for any books, registers, other documents and
record if they are needed again: Provided further that if the person on whose
behalf the books, registers, other documents and record are produced requires
certified copies of the books, registers, other documents and record produced
before the Investigating Authority, it shall give certified copies of such
books, registers, other documents and record to such person or on whose behalf
the books, registers, other documents and record where produced.(5)Any person,
directed to make an investigation under sub-section (1), may examine on oath,
any manager, managing director, officer and other employee of any intermediary
or any person associated with commodities market in any manner, in relation to
the affairs of his business and may administer an oath accordingly and for
that purpose may require any of those persons to appear before him
personally.(6)If any person fails without reasonable cause or refuses—(a) to
produce to the Investigating Authority or any person authorised by it in this
behalf any book, register, other document and record which is his duty under
sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) to produce; or(b)to furnish any information
which is his duty under sub-section (3) to furnish; or(c)to appear before the
Investigating Authority personally when required to do so under sub-section
(5) or to answer any question which is put to him by the Investigating
Authority in pursuance of that sub-section; or(d)to sign the notes of any
examination referred to in sub-section (7), he shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, which may
extend to one lakh rupees, or with both, and also with a further fine which
may extend to twenty thousand rupees for every day after the first during
which the failure or refusal continues.(7)Notes of any examination under sub-
section (5) shall be taken down in writing and shall be read over to, or by,
and signed by, the person examined, and may thereafter be used in evidence
against him.(8)Where in the course of investigation, the Investigating
Authority has reasonable ground to believe that the books, registers, other
documents and record of, or relating to, intermediary or any person associated
with commodities market in any manner, may be destroyed, mutilated, altered,
falsified or secreted, the Investigating Authority may make an application to
the Judicial magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction for an order
for the seizure of such books, registers, other documents and record.(9)After
considering the application and hearing the Investigating Authority, if
necessary, the Magistrate may, by order, authorise the Investigating
Authority—(a) to enter, with such assistance, as may be required, the place or
places where such books, registers, other documents and record are kept;(b)to
search that place or those places in the manner specified in the order;
and(c)to seize books, registers, other documents and record, as it considers
necessary for the purposes of the investigation.(10)The Investigating
Authority shall keep in its custody the books, registers, other documents and
record seized under this section for such period not later than the conclusion
of the investigation as it considers necessary and thereafter shall return the
same to the company or the other body corporate, or, as the case may be, to
the managing director or the manager or any other person, from whose custody
or power they were seized and inform the Magistrate of such return: Provided
that the Investigating Authority may, before returning such books, registers,
other documents and record as aforesaid, place identification marks on them or
any part thereof.(11)Save as otherwise provided in this section, every search
or seizure made under this section shall be carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, relating to searches or
seizures made under that Code.]

### 23. Certain offences to be cognizable.—Notwithstanding anything contained
in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), 1[the following offences
shall be deemed to be cognizable within the meaning of that Code namely:—(a)
an offence falling under sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of section 20 in so far
as it relates to the failure to comply with any requisition made under sub-
section (3) of section 8; tc" (a) an offence falling under sub-clause (ii) of
clause (a) of section 20 in so far as it relates to the failure to comply with
any requisition made under sub-section (3) of section 8;"

(b)an offence falling under clause (d) of section 20; tc" (b) an offence
falling under clause (d) of section 20;"(c)an offence falling under clause (e)
of section 20 other than a contravention of the provisions of sub-section (3A)
or sub-section (4) of section 15; tc" (c) an offence falling under clause (e)
of section 20 other than a contravention of the provisions of sub-section (3A)
or sub-section (4) of section 15;"(d)an offence falling under section 21.] tc"
(d) an offence falling under section 21.]"

### 24. Jurisdiction to try offences under this Act.—No court inferior to that
of a presidency magistrate or a magistrate of the first class shall take
cognizance of or try any offence punishable under this Act.

### 30. [ 24A Civil court not to have jurisdiction. —No civil court shall have
jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in respect of any matter
which an adjudicating officer appointed under this Act or the Appellate
Tribunal is empowered by or under this Act to determine and no injunction
shall be granted by any court or other authority in respect of any action
taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this
Act.]

### 24B. Appeal to Appellate Tribunal. —(1) Save as provided in sub-section
(2) any person aggrieved on or after the commencement of the Forward Contracts
(Regulation) Amendment Ordinance, 2008, or by an order of the Commission made,
or the rules or regulations made thereunder or by an order made by an
adjudicating officer under this Act may prefer an appeal to the Appellate
Tribunal having jurisdiction in the matter.

(2)The Central Government shall specify, by notification, the matters and
places in relation to which the Appellate Tribunal may exercise
jurisdiction.(3)No appeal shall lie to the Appellate Tribunal from an order
made by the Commission or an adjudicating officer with the consent of the
parties.(4)Every appeal under sub-section (1) shall be filed within a period
of forty-five days from the date on which a copy of the order made by the
Chairman of the Commission is received by the aggrieved person and it shall be
in such form and be accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed: Provided
that the Appellate Tribunal may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the
said period if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filling
it within that period.(5)On receipt of an appeal under sub-section (1), the
Appellate Tribunal may, after giving the parties to the appeal, an opportunity
or being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit, confirming,
modifying or setting aside the order appealed against.(6)The Appellate
Tribunal shall send a copy of every order made by it to the parties to the
appeal and to the concerned authority whose order has been appealed
against.(7)The appeal filed before the Appellate Tribunal under sub-section
(1) shall be dealt with by it as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall
be made by it to dispose of the appeal finally within six months from the date
of receipt of the appeal.

### 24C. Right to legal representation. —The appellant may either appear in
person or authorise one or more chartered accountants or company secretaries
or cost accountants or legal practitioners or any of its officers to present
his or its case before the Appellate Tribunal. Explanation.—For the purposes
of this section,—(a) “chartered accountant” means a chartered accountant as
defined in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Chartered
Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949) and who has obtained a certificate of
practice under sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Act;

(b)“company secretary” means a company secretary as defined in clause (c) of
sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Company Secretaries Act, 1980 (56 of 1980)
and who has obtained a certificate of practice under sub-section (1) of
section 6 of that Act;(c)“cost accountant” means a cost accountant as defined
in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Cost and Works
Accountants Act, 1959 (23 of 1959) and who has obtained a certificate of
practice under sub-section (1) of section 6 of that Act;(d)“legal
practitioner” means an advocate, vakil or an attorney of any High Court, and
includes a pleader in practice.

### 24D. Limitation. —The provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963)
shall, as far as may be, apply to an appeal made to the Appellate Tribunal.

### 24E. Appeal to Supreme Court. —Any person aggrieved by any decision or
order of the Appellate Tribunal may file an appeal to the Supreme Court within
sixty days from the date of communication of the decision or order of the
Appellate Tribunal to him on any question of law arising out of such order:
Provided that the Supreme Court may, if it is satisfied that the applicant was
prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal within the said period,
allow it to be filed within a further period not exceeding sixty days.]

### 25\. Advisory committee.—For the purpose of advising the Central
Government in relation to any matter concerning the operation of this Act, the
Central Government may establish an advisory committee consisting of such
number of persons as may be prescribed.

### 26. Power to delegate.—The Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, direct that any power exercisable by it under this Act may,
in such circumstances and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be
specified, be exercised by such officer or authority, including any State
Government or officers or authorities thereof as may be specified in the
direction.

### 31. [ 26A Power of Central Government to issue directions. —(1) Without
prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this Act, the Commission shall, in
exercise of its powers or performance of its functions under this Act, be
bound by such directions on questions of policy as the Central Government may
give in writing to it from time to time: Provided that the Commission shall,
as far as practicable, be given an opportunity to express its views before any
direction is given under this sub-section.

(2)The decision of the Central Government, whether a question is one of policy
or not, shall be final.

### 26B. Power of Central Government to supersede Commission. —If at any time
the Central Government is of the opinion—(a) that on account of grave
emergency, the Commission is unable to discharge the functions and perform the
duties imposed on it by or under the provisions of this Act; or

(b)that the Commission has persistently made wilful default in complying with
any direction issued by the Central Government under this Act or in the
discharge of the functions and perform the duties imposed on it by or under
the provisions of this Act and as a result of such default the financial
position of the Commission or the administration of the Commission has
deteriorated; or(c)that circumstances exist which render it necessary in the
public interest so to do, the Central Government may, by notification,
supersede the Commission for such period, not exceeding six months, as may be
specified in the notification.(2)Upon the publication of a notification under
sub-section (1) superseding the Commission,—(a) all the members shall, as from
the date of supersession, vacate their offices as such;(b)all the powers,
functions and duties which may, by or under the provisions of this Act, be
exercised or discharged by or on behalf of the Commission shall, until the
Commission is reconstituted under sub-section (3), be exercised and discharged
by such person or persons as the Central Government may direct; and(c)all
property owned or controlled by the Commission shall, until the Commission is
reconstituted, vest in the Central Government.(3)On the expiration of the
period of supersession specified in the notification issued under sub-section
(1), the Central Government may reconstitute the Commission by fresh
appointment and in such case any person or persons who vacated their offices
under clause (a) of sub-section (2), shall not be deemed disqualified for such
appointment: Provided that the Central Government may, at any time before the
expiration of the period of supersession, take action under this sub-
section.(4)The Central Government shall cause a notification issued under sub-
section (1) and a full report of any action taken under this section and the
circumstances leading to such action to be laid before each House of
Parliament at the earliest.

### 26C. Returns and reports. —(1) The Commission shall furnish to the Central
Government at such time and in such form and manner as may be prescribed or as
the Central Government may direct, such returns and statements and such
particulars in regard to any proposed or existing programme for the promotion
and development of the commodities market, as the Central Government may, from
time to time, require.

(2)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), the Commission
shall, within ninety days, after the end of each financial year, submit to the
Central Government report in such form, as may be prescribed, giving a true
and full account of its activities, policy and programmes during the previous
financial year.(3)A copy of the report received under sub-section (2) shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is received, before each House of Parliament.

### 26D. Delegation. —The Commission may, by general or special order in
writing, delegate to any member or officer of the Commission or any other
person subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the order,
such of its powers and functions under this Act (except the powers under
section 28) as it may deem necessary.

### 26E. Bar of jurisdiction. —No order passed by the Commission or
adjudicating officer under this Act shall be appealable except as provided in
section 24B and no civil court shall have jurisdiction in respect of any
matter which the Commission or the adjudication officer is empowered by, or
under, this Act to pass any order and no injunction shall be granted by any
court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in
pursuance of any order passed by the Commission or the adjudicating officer
by, or under, this Act.

### 26F. Members, officers and employees of Commission to be public servants.
—All members, officers and other employees of the Commission shall be deemed,
when acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the provisions of this
Act, to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian
Penal Code (45 of 1860).]

### 27\. Power to exempt.—The Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, exempt, subject to such conditions and in such circumstances
and in such areas as may be specified in the notification, any contract or
class of contracts from the operation of all or any of the provisions of this
Act.

### 1\.

[27A. Protection of action taken in good faith.—(1) No suit or other legal
proceeding shall lie in any court against the Central Government or any
member, officer or servant of the Commission for anything which is in good
faith done or intended to be done under this Act, or any rule or bye-law made
thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie in any court against
the governing body or any member, office-bearer or servant of any recognised
association or against any person appointed under sub-section (1) of section
13 for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done with the
approval, or at the instance, of the Commission and in pursuance of this Act,
or of any rule or bye-law made thereunder.]

### 33. [ 27B Exemption from tax on wealth and income. —Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Wealth-tax Act, 1957 (27 of 1957), the Income-tax
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), or any other enactment for the time being in force
relating to tax on wealth, income, profits or gains, the Commission shall not
be liable to pay wealth-tax, income-tax or any other tax in respect of their
wealth, income, profits or gains derived.]

### 28\. Power to make rules.—(1) The Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect,
the objects of this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for—(a) the terms and conditions of service of
members of the Commission; tc" (a) the terms and conditions of service of
members of the Commission;"(b)the manner in which applications for recognition
may be made under section 5 and the levy of fees in respect thereof;(c)the
manner in which any inquiry for the purpose of recognising any association may
be made and the form in which recognition shall be granted; 1[(cc) the manner
in which applications for certificates of registration may be made under
section 14A and the levy of fees in respect of such applications;](d)the
particulars to be contained in the annual reports of recognised
associations;(e)the manner in which the bye-laws to be made, amended or
revised under this Act shall, before being so made amended or revised, be
published for criticism;(f)the constitution of the advisory committee
established under section 25, the terms of office of and the manner of filling
vacancies among members of the committee; the interval within which meetings
of the advisory committee may be held and the procedure to be followed at such
meetings; and the matters which may be referred by the Central Government to
the advisory committee for advice;(g)any other matter which is to be or may be
prescribed. 2[(3) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may
be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session,
for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in
two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or this successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of any thing previously done under that rule.]

### 36. [ 28A Power to make regulations. —(1) The Commission may, by
notification, make regulations consistent with this Act and rules made
thereunder to carry out the purposes of this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:—(a) the time and places of meetings of the Commission and the
procedure to be followed at such meetings under section 3D including quorum
necessary for the transaction of business;(b)the terms and other conditions of
service of officers and employees of the Commission under sub-section (2) of
section 3H;(c)the manner in which the fresh issue of equity shares shall be
made to the public under sub-section (8) of section 7B;(d)the conditions of
certificate of registration to act as a member or intermediary to deal with
forward contract or option in goods or options in commodityderivative under
sub-section (1) of section 14A;(e)the fee for a class or classes of member or
intermediary under the second proviso to sub-section (2) of section 14A;(f)the
terms and conditions subject to which registration may be granted under sub-
section (4) of section 14A;(g)the manner in which the certificate of
registration may be suspended or cancelled under section 14B;(h)any other
matter relating to trading, clearing, settlement, and delivery of goods,
forward contract, option in goods or option in commodity derivative.(3)Every
regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is
made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree
in making any modification in the regulation or both Houses agree that the
regulation should not be made, the regulation shall thereafter have effect
only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that regulation.

### 28B. Application of other laws not barred. —The provisions of this Act
shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the provisions of any other
law for the time being in force.]

### 1\.

[29. Repeals and savings.—If immediately before the date on which this Act or
any provision contained therein is made applicable to any goods or classes of
goods in any State, there is in force in that State any law corresponding to
this Act or, as the case may be, to any provision contained therein which is
applicable to those goods or classes of goods, that law shall stand repealed
on the said date: Provided that the repeal shall not affect—(a) the previous
operation of any law so repealed or anything duly done or suffered thereunder;
or tc" (a) the previous operation of any law so repealed or anything duly done
or suffered thereunder; or"(b)any right, privilege, obligation or liability
acquired, accrued or incurred under any law so repealed; or tc" (b) any right,
privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under any law
so repealed; or"(c)any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect
of any offence committed against any law so repealed; or tc" (c) any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against
any law so repealed; or"(d)any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in
respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty,
forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid, tc" (d) any investigation, legal
proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation,
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid," and any such
investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or
enforced, and any such penalty, forefeiture or punishment may be imposed as if
this Act had not been passed: Provided further that, subject to the preceding
proviso, anything done or any action taken (including any appointment made,
notification or order issued, rule, regulation, form or bye-law framed, or
recognition granted) under any such law shall be deemed to have been done or
taken under the corresponding provision of this Act, and shall continue to be
in force accordingly unless and until superseded by anything done or any
action taken under this Act.]

### 1\. Ins. by Ord. 3 of 2008, sec. 5 (w.e.f. 31-1-2008).

### 2\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 5, for clause (b) (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 3\. Ins. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 6 (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 4\. Ins. by Ord. 3 of 2008, sec. 8 (w.e.f. 31-1-2008).

### 5\. Ins. by Ord. 3 of 2008, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 31-1-2008).

### 6\. Ins. by Ord. 3 of 2008, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 31-1-2008).

### 7\. Ins. by Ord. 3 of 2008, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 31-1-2008).

### 8\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
28-12-1960).

### 9\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 8, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
28-12-1960).

### 10\. Ins. by Act 32 of 1957, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 17-9-1957). tc" 2. Ins. by Act
32 of 1957, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 17-9-1957)."

### 11\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 10, for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
28-12-1960).

### 12\. Certain words omitted by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 11 (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 13\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 12, for certain words (w.e.f.
28-12-1960).

### 14\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 12, for “subject to the condition of
previous publication” (w.e.f.28-12-1960).

### 15\. Ins. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 13 (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 16\. Ins. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 13 (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 17\. Ins. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 14 (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 18\. Ins. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 14 (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 19\. Ins. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 15 (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 20. Subs. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 16, for “entered into before the date of
the notification” (w.e.f. 28-12-1960). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 62 of 1960, sec.
16, for “entered into before the date of the notification” (w.e.f.
28-12-1960)."

### 21\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 16, for “entered into before the date
of the notification” (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 22\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 17, for section 20 (w.e.f 28-12-1960).

### 23\. Ins. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 18 (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 24\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 18, for certain words (w.e.f.
28-12-1960).

### 25\. Subs. by Ord. 3 of 2008, sec. 25(v), for clause (e) (w.e.f.
31-1-2008). Clause (e), before substitution, stood as under:

### 26\. Ins. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 20 (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 27\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1960, sec. 20 (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 28\. Ins. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 20 (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 29. Subs. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 21, for certain words (w.e.f.
28-12-1960).

### 30\. Ins. by Ord. 3 of 2008, sec. 32 (w.e.f. 31-1-2008).

### 31\. Ins. by Ord. 3 of 2008, sec. 34 (w.e.f. 31-1-2008).

### 32. Ins. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 22 (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 33\. Ins. by Ord. 3 of 2008, sec. 35 (w.e.f. 31-1-2008).

### 34. Ins. by Act 62 of 1960, sec. 23 (w.e.f. 28-12-1960).

### 35. Ins. by Act 4 of 1986, sec. 2 and Sch. (w.e.f. 15-5-1986).

### 36\. Ins. by Ord. 3 of 2008, sec. 37 (w.e.f. 31-1-2008).

### 37. Ins. by Act 46 of 1953, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 23-12-1953).

