## Union of India - Act

## The Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992

## Act 22 of 1992

  * Published in Gazette 22 on 7 August 1992 
  * Assented to on 7 August 1992 
  * Commenced on 7 August 1992 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 August 2010.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2010 (Act 25 of 2010) on 19 August 2010] 

The Foreign Trade (Development And Regulation) Act, 1992[7th August, 1992.]ACT
NO. 22 of 1992An Act to provide for the development and regulation of foreign
trade by facilitating imports into, and augmenting exports from, India and for
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Forty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement.—

(1)This Act may be called the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act,
1992.(2)Sections 11 to 14 shall come into force at once and the remaining
provisions of this Act shall be deemed to have come into force on the 19th day
of June, 1992.

### 2. Definitions.—

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)“Adjudicating
Authority” means the authority specified in, or under, section
13;(b)“Appellate Authority” means the authority specified in, or under, sub-
section (1) of section 15;(c)“conveyance” means any vehicle, vessel, aircraft
or any other means of transport including any animal;(d)“Director General”
means the Director General of Foreign Trade appointed under section
6;(e)“import” and “export” means,—(I)in relation to goods, bringing into, or
taking out of, India any goods by land, sea or air;(i)supplying, services or
technology—(A)from the territory of another country into the territory of
India;(B)in the territory of another country to an Indian service
consumer;(C)by a service supplier of another country, through commercial
presence in India;(D)by a service supplier of another country, through
presence of their natural persons in India;(ii)supplying, services or
technology—(A)from India into the territory of any other country;(II)in
relation to services or technology,—(B)in India to the service consumer of any
other country;(C)by a service supplier of India, through commercial presence
in the territory of any other country;(D)by a service supplier of India,
through presence of Indian natural persons in the territory of any other
country:Provided that “import” and “export” in relation to the goods, services
and technology regarding Special Economic Zone or between two Special Economic
Zones shall be governed in accordance with the provisions contained in the
Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 (28 of 2005).(f)“Importer-exporter Code
Number” means the Code Number granted under section 7;(g)“licence” means a
licence to import or export and includes a customs clearance permit and any
other permission issued or granted under this Act;(h)“Order” means any Order
made by the Central Government under section 3; and(i)“prescribed” means
prescribed by rules made under this Act.(j)“services” means service of any
description which is made available to potential users and includes all the
tradable services specified under the General Agreement on Trade in Services
entered into amongst India and other countries who are party to the said
Agreement:Provided that, this definition shall not apply to the domain of
taxation;(k)“service supplier” means any person who supplies a service and who
intends to take benefit under the foreign trade policy;(l)“specified goods or
services or technology” means the goods or services or technology, the export,
import, transfer, re-transfer, transit and transshipment of which is
prohibited or restricted because of imposition of conditions on the grounds of
their being pertinent or relevant to India as a Nuclear Weapon State, or to
the national security of India, or to the furtherance of its foreign policy or
its international obligations under any bilateral, multilateral or
international treaty, covenant, convention or arrangement relating to weapons
of mass destruction or their means of delivery to which India is a party or
its agreement with a foreign country under the foreign trade policy formulated
and notified under section 5 of the Act;(m)“technology” means any information
(including information embodied in software), other than information in the
public domain, that is capable of being used in—(i)the development, production
or use of any goods or software;(ii)the development of, or the carrying out
of, an industrial or commercial activity or the provision of service of any
kind.Explanation.—For the purpose of this clause—(a)when technology is
described wholly or partly by reference to the uses to which it (or the goods
to which it relates) may be put, it shall include services which are provided
or used, or which are capable of being used in the development, production or
use of such technology or goods;(b)“public domain” shall have the same meaning
as assigned to it in clause (i) of section 4 of the Weapons of Mass
Destruction and their Delivery System (Prohibition of Unlawful Activities)
Act, 2005 (21 of 2005).

## Chapter II  
Power of Central Government to make order and announce foreign trade policy

### 3. Powers to make provisions relating to imports and exports.—

(1)The Central Government may, by Order published in the Official Gazette,
make provision for the development and regulation of foreign trade by
facilitating imports and increasing exports.(2)The Central Government may
also, by Order published in the Official Gazette, make provision for
prohibiting, restricting or otherwise regulating, in all cases or in specified
classes of cases and subject to such exceptions, if any, as may be made by or
under the Order, the import or export of goods or services or
technology:Provided that the provisions of this sub-section shall be
applicable, in case of import or export of services or technology, only when
the service or technology provider is availing benefits under the foreign
trade policy or is dealing with specified services or specified
technologies.(3)All goods to which any Order under sub-section (2) applies
shall be deemed to be goods the import or export of which has been prohibited
under section 11 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) and all the provisions
of that Act shall have effect accordingly.(4)Without prejudice to anything
contained in any other law, rule, regulation, notification or order, no permit
or licence shall be necessary for import or export of any goods, nor any goods
shall be prohibited for import or export except, as may be required under this
Act, or rules or orders made thereunder.

### 4. Continuance of existing orders.—

All Orders made under the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 (18 of
1947), and in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall, so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continue to
be in force and shall be deemed to have been made under this Act.

### 5. Foreign Trade Policy.—

The Central Government may, from time to time, formulate and announce, by
notification in the Official Gazette, the foreign trade policy and may also,
in like manner, amend that policy:Provided that the Central Government may
direct that, in respect of the Special Economic Zones, the foreign trade
policy shall apply to the goods, services and technology with such exceptions,
modifications and adaptations, as may be specified by it by notification in
the Official Gazette.

### 6. Appointment of Director General and his functions.—

(1)The Central Government may appoint any person to be the Director General of
Foreign Trade for the purposes of this Act.(2)The Director General shall
advise the Central Government in the formulation of the foreign trade policy
and shall be responsible for carrying out that policy.(3)The Central
Government may, by Order published in the Official Gazette, direct that any
power exercisable by it under this Act (other than the powers under sections
3, 5, 15, 16 and 19) may also be exercised, in such cases and subject to such
conditions, by the Director General or such other officer subordinate to the
Director General, as may be specified in the Order.

## Chapter III  
Importer-exporter code number and licence

### 7. Importer-exporter Code Number.—

No person shall make any import or export except under an Importer-exporter
Code Number granted by the Director General or the officer authorised by the
Director General in this behalf, in accordance with the procedure specified in
this behalf by the Director General:Provided that in case of import or export
of services or technology, the Importer-exporter Code Number shall be
necessary only when the service or technology provider is taking benefits
under the foreign trade policy or is dealing with specified services or
specified technologies.

### 8. Suspension and cancellation of Importer-exporter Code Number.—

(1)Where—(a)any person has contravened any of the provisions of this Act or
any rules or orders made thereunder or the foreign trade policy or any other
law for the time being in force relating to Central excise or customs or
foreign exchange or has committed any other economic offence under any other
law for the time being in force as may be specified by the Central Government
by notification in the Official Gazette; or(b)the Director General or any
other officer authorised by him has reason to believe that any person has made
an export or import in a manner prejudicial to the trade relations of India
with any foreign country or to the interests of other persons engaged in
imports or exports or has brought disrepute to the credit or the goods of, or
services or technology provided from, the country; or(c)any person who imports
or exports specified goods or services or technology, in contravention of any
provision of this Act or any rules or orders made thereunder or the foreign
trade policy,the Director General or any other officer authorised by him may
call for the record or any other information from that person and may, after
giving to that person a notice in writing informing him of the grounds on
which it is proposed to suspend or cancel the Importer-exporter Code Number
and after giving him a reasonable opportunity of making a representation in
writing within such reasonable time as may be specified in the notice and, if
that person so desires, of being heard, suspend for a period, as may be
specified in the order, or cancel the Importer-exporter Code Number granted to
that person.(2)Where any Importer-exporter Code Number granted to a person has
been suspended or cancelled under sub-section (1), that person shall not be
entitled to import or export any goods or services or technology except under
a special licence, granted, in such manner and subject to such conditions as
may be prescribed, by the Director General to that person.

### 9. Issue, suspension and cancellation of licence.—

(1)The Central Government may levy fees, subject to such exceptions, in
respect of such person or class of persons making an application for licence,
certificate, scrip or any instrument bestowing financial or fiscal benefits of
in respect of any licence, certificate, scrip or any instrument bestowing
financial or fiscal benefits granted or renewed in such manner as may be
prescribed.(2)The Director General or an officer authorised by him may, on an
application and after making such inquiry as he may think fit, grant or renew
or refuse to grant or renew a licence to import or export such class or
classes of goods or services or technology as may be prescribed and, grant or
renew or refuse to grant or renew a certificate, scrip or any instrument
bestowing financial or fiscal benefit, after recording in writing his reasons
for such refusal.(3)A licence, certificate, scrip or any instrument bestowing
financial or fiscal benefits granted or renewed under this section shall—(a)be
in such form as may be prescribed;(b)be valid for such period as may be
specified therein; and(c)be subject to such terms, conditions and restrictions
as may be prescribed or as specified in the licence, certificate, scrip or any
instrument bestowing financial or fiscal benefits with reference to the terms,
conditions and restrictions so prescribed.(4)The Director General or the
officer authorised under sub-section (2) may, subject to such conditions as
may be prescribed, for good and sufficient reasons, to be recorded in writing,
suspend or cancel any licence, certificate, scrip or any instrument bestowing
financial or fiscal benefits granted under this Act:Provided that no such
suspension or cancellation shall be made except after giving the holder of the
licence, certificate, scrip or any instrument bestowing financial or fiscal
benefits a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(5)An appeal against an order
refusing to grant, or renew or suspending or cancelling, a licence,
certificate, scrip or any instrument bestowing financial or fiscal benefits
shall lie in like manner as an appeal against an order would lie under section
15.

## Chapter IIIA  
Quantitative restrictions

### 9A. Power of Central Government to impose quantitative restrictions.—

(1)If the Central Government, after conducting such enquiry as it deems fit,
is satisfied that any goods are imported into India in such increased
quantities and under such conditions as to cause or threaten to cause serious
injury to domestic industry, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
impose such quantitative restrictions on the import of such goods as it may
deem fit:Provided that no such quantitative restrictions shall be imposed on
any goods originating from a developing country so long as the share of
imports of such goods from that country does not exceed three per cent. or
where such goods originate from more than one developing country, then, so
long as the aggregate of the imports from all such countries taken together
does not exceed nine per cent. of the total imports of such goods into
India.(2)The quantitative restrictions imposed under this section shall,
unless revoked earlier, cease to have effect on the expiry of four years from
the date of such imposition:Provided that if the Central Government is of the
opinion that the domestic industry has taken measures to adjust to such injury
or threat thereof and it is necessary that the quantitative restrictions
should continue to be imposed to prevent such injury or threat and to
facilitate the adjustments, it may extend the said period beyond four
years:Provided further that in no case the quantitative restrictions shall
continue to be imposed beyond a period of ten years from the date on which
such restrictions were first imposed.(3)The Central Government may, by rules
provide for the manner in which goods, the import of which shall be subject to
quantitative restrictions under this section, may be identified and the manner
in which the causes of serious injury or causes of threat of serious injury in
relation to such goods may be determined.(4)For the purposes of this
section—(a)“developing country” means a country notified by the Central
Government in the Official Gazette, in this regard;(b)“domestic industry”
means the producers of goods (including producers of agricultural goods)—(i)as
a whole of the like goods or directly competitive goods in India; or(ii)whose
collective output of the like goods or directly competitive goods in India
constitutes a major share of the total production of the said goods in
India;(c)“serious injury” means an injury causing significant overall
impairment in the position of a domestic industry;(d)“threat of serious
injury” means a clear and imminent danger of serious injury.

## Chapter IV  
Search, seizure, penalty and confiscation

### 10. Power relating to search and seizure.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
authorise any person for the purposes of exercising such powers with respect
to,—(a)entering such premises where the goods are kept, stored or processed,
manufactured, traded or supplied or received for the purposes of import or
export and searching, inspecting and seizing of such goods, documents, things
and conveyances connected with such import and export of goods;(b)entering
such premises from which the services or technology are being provided,
supplied, received, consumed or utilised and searching, inspecting and seizing
of such goods, documents, things and conveyances connected with such import
and export of services and technology,subject to such requirements and
conditions and with the approval of such officer, as may be
prescribed:Provided that the provisions of clause (b) shall be applicable, in
case of import or export of services or technology, only when the service or
technology provider is availing benefit under the foreign trade policy or is
dealing with specified services or specified technologies.(2)The provisions of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) relating to searches and
seizures shall, so far as may be, apply to every search and seizure made under
this section.

### 11. Contravention of provisions of this Act, rules, orders and foreign
trade policy.—

(1)No export or import shall be made by any person except in accordance with
the provisions of this Act, the rules and orders made thereunder and the
foreign trade policy for the time being in force.(2)Where any person makes or
abets or attempts to make any export or import in contravention of any
provision of this Act or any rules or orders made thereunder or the foreign
trade policy, he shall be liable to a penalty of not less than ten thousand
rupees and not more than five times the value of the goods or services or
technology in respect of which any contravention is made or attempted to be
made, whichever is more.(3)Where any person signs or uses, or causes to be
made, signed or used, any declaration, statement or document submitted to the
Director General or any officer authorised by him under this Act, knowing or
having reason to believe that such declaration, statement or document is
forged or tampered with or false in any material particular, he shall be
liable to a penalty of not less than ten thousand rupees or more than five
times the value of the goods or services or technology in respect of which
such declaration, statement or document had been submitted, whichever is
more.(4)Where any person, on a notice to him by the Adjudicating Authority,
admits any contravention, the Adjudicating Authority may, in such class or
classes or cases and in such manner as may be prescribed, determine, by way of
settlement, an amount to be paid by that person.(5)A penalty imposed under
this Act may, if it is not paid by any person, be recovered by any one or more
of the following modes, namely:—(a)the Director General may deduct or require
any officer subordinate to him to deduct the amount payable under this Act
from any money owing to such person which may be under the control of such
officer; or(b)the Director General may require any officer of customs to
deduct the amount payable under this Act from any money owing to such person
which may be under the control of such officer of customs, as if the said
amount is payable under the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962); or(c)the Director
General may require the Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs or any other officer of Customs to recover the amount
so payable by detaining or selling any goods (including the goods connected
with services or technology) belonging to such person which are under the
control of the Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner or
Customs or any other officer of Customs, as if the said amount is payable
under the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962); or(d)if the amount cannot be
recovered from such person in the manner provided in clauses (a), (b) and
(c),—(i)the Director General or any officer authorised by him may prepare a
certificate signed by him specifying the amount due from such person and send
it to the Collector of the District in which such person owns any property or
resides or carries on business and the said Collector on receipt of such
certificate shall proceed to recover from such person the amount specified
thereunder as if it were an arrear of land revenue; or(ii)the Director General
or any officer authorised by him (including an officer of Customs who shall
then exercise his powers under the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962)) and in
accordance with the rules made in this behalf, detain any movable or immovable
property belonging to or under the control of such person, and detain the same
until the amount payable is paid, as if the said amount is payable under the
Customs Act, 1962; and in case, any part of the said amount payable or of the
cost of the distress or keeping of the property, remains unpaid for a period
of thirty days next after any such distress, may cause the said property to be
sold and with the proceeds of such sale, may satisfy the amount payable and
costs including cost of sale remaining unpaid and shall render the surplus, if
any to such person.(6)Where the terms of any bond or other instrument executed
under this Act or any rules made thereunder provide that any amount due under
such instrument may be recovered in the manner laid down in sub-section (5),
the amount may, without prejudice to any other mode of recovery, be recovered
in accordance with the provisions of that sub-section.(7)Without prejudice to
the provisions contained in this section, the Importer-Exporter Code Number of
any person who fails to pay any penalty imposed under this Act, may be
suspended by the Adjudicating Authority till the penalty is paid or recovered,
as the case may be.(8)Where any contravention of any provision of this Act or
any rules or orders made thereunder or the foreign trade policy has been, is
being, or is attempted to be, made, the goods (including the goods connected
with services or technology) together with any package, covering or receptacle
and any conveyances shall, subject to such conditions and requirement as may
be prescribed, be liable to confiscation by the Adjudicating Authority.(9)The
goods (including the goods connected with services or technology) or the
conveyance confiscated under sub-section (8) may be released by the
Adjudicating Authority, in such manner and subject to such conditions as may
be prescribed, on payment by the person concerned of the redemption charges
equivalent to the market value of the goods or conveyance, as the case may be.

### 11A. Crediting sums realised by way of penalties in Consolidated Fund of
India.—

All sums realised by way of penalties under this Act shall be credited to the
Consolidated Fund of India.

### 11B. Empowering Settlement Commission for regularisation of export
obligation default.—

Settlement of customs duty and interest thereon as ordered by the Settlement
Commission as constituted under section 32 of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1
of 1944), shall be deemed to be a settlement under this Act.

### 12. Penalty or confiscation not to interfere with other punishments.—

No penalty imposed or confiscation made under this Act shall prevent the
imposition of any other punishment to which the person affected thereby is
liable under any other law for the time being in force.

### 13. Adjudicating Authority.—

Any penalty may be imposed or any confiscation may be adjudged under this Act
by the Director General or, subject to such limits as may be specified, by
such other officer as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, authorise in this behalf.

### 14. Giving of opportunity to the owner of the goods (including the goods
connected with services or technology), etc.—

No order imposing a penalty or of adjudication of confiscation shall be made
unless the owner of the goods (including the goods connected with services or
technology) or conveyance, or other person concerned, has been given a notice
in writing—(a)informing him of the grounds on which it is proposed to impose a
penalty or to confiscate such goods (including the goods connected with
services or technology) or conveyance; and(b)to make a representation in
writing within such reasonable time as may be specified in the notice against
the imposition of penalty or confiscation mentioned therein, and, if he so
desires, of being heard in the matter.

## Chapter IVA  
Controls on export of specified goods, services and technology

### 14A. Controls on export of specified goods, services and technology.—

(1)In regard to controls on export of specified goods, services and technology
referred to in this Chapter, the Weapons of Mass Destruction and their
Delivery Systems (Prohibition of Unlawful Activities) Act, 2005 (21 of 2005)
shall apply to exports, transfers, re-transfers, brought in transit, trans-
shipment of, and brokering in specified goods, technology or services.(2)All
terms, expressions or provisions of the Weapons of Mass Destruction and their
Delivery Systems (Prohibition of Unlawful Activities) Act, 2005 (21 of 2005)
shall apply to the specified goods, services or technology with such
exceptions, modifications and adaptations as may be specified by the Central
Government by notification in the Official Gazette.(3)The Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that any of the
provisions of this Chapter—(a)shall not apply to any goods, services or
technologies, or(b)shall apply to any goods, services or technologies with
such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as may be specified in the
notification.

### 14B. Transfer controls.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules in conformity with the provisions of the Weapons of Mass Destruction and
their Delivery Systems (Prohibition of Unlawful Activities) Act, 2005 (21 of
2005) for, or, in connection with, the imposition of controls in relation to
transfer of specified goods, services or technology.(2)No goods, services or
technology notified under this Chapter shall be exported, transferred, re-
transferred, brought in transit or transshipped except in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, the Weapons of Mass Destruction and their Delivery
Systems (Prohibition of Unlawful Activities) Act, 2005 (21 of 2005) or any
other relevant Act.

### 14C. Catch-all controls.—

No person shall export any material, equipment or technology knowing that such
material, equipment or technology is intended to be used in the design or
manufacture of a biological weapon, chemical weapon, nuclear weapon or other
nuclear explosive device, or in their missile delivery systems.

### 14D. Suspension or cancellation of a licence.—

The Director General or an officer authorised by him may, by order, suspend or
cancel a licence to import or export of specified goods or services or
technology without giving the holder of the licence a reasonable opportunity
of being heard but such person shall be given a reasonable opportunity of
being heard within six months of such order and thereupon the Director General
or the officer so authorised may, if necessary, by order in writing, confirm,
modify or revoke such order.

### 14E. Offences and penalties.—

(1)In case of a contravention relating to specified goods, services or
technologies, the penalty shall be in accordance with the provisions of the
Weapons of Mass Destruction and their Delivery Systems (Prohibition of
Unlawful Activities) Act, 2005 (21 of 2005).(2)Where any person contravenes or
attempts to contravene or abets, any of the provision(s) of this Chapter in
relation to import or export of any specified goods or services or technology,
he shall, without prejudice to any penalty which may be imposed on him, be
punishable with imprisonment for a term stipulated in the Weapons of Mass
Destruction and their Delivery Systems (Prohibition of Unlawful Activities)
Act, 2005 (21 of 2005).(3)No court shall take cognizance of any offence
punishable under this Chapter without the previous sanction of the Central
Government or any officer authorised in this behalf by the Central Government
by general or special order.

## Chapter V  
Appeal and Review

### 15. Appeal.—

(1)Any person aggrieved by any decision or order made by the Adjudicating
Authority under this Act may prefer an appeal,—(a)where the decision or order
has been made by the Director General, to the Central Government;(b)where the
decision or order has been made by an officer subordinate to the Director
General, to the Director General or to any officer superior to the
Adjudicating Authority authorised by the Director General to hear the
appeal,within a period of forty-five days from the date on which the decision
or order is served on such person:Provided that the Appellate Authority may,
if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from
preferring the appeal within the aforesaid period, allow such appeal to be
preferred within a further period of thirty days:Provided further that in the
case of an appeal against a decision or order imposing a penalty or redemption
charges, no such appeal shall be entertained unless the amount of penalty or
redemption charges has been deposited by the appellant:Provided also that,
where the Appellate Authority is of opinion that the deposit to be made will
cause undue hardship to the appellant, it may, at its discretion, dispense
with such deposit either unconditionally or subject to such conditions as it
may impose.(2)The Appellate Authority may, after giving to the appellant a
reasonable opportunity of being heard, if he so desires, and after making such
further inquiries, if any, as it may consider necessary, make such orders as
it thinks fit, confirming, modifying or reversing the decision or order
appealed against, or may send back the case with such directions, as it may
think fit, for a fresh adjudication or decision, as the case may be, after
taking additional evidence, if necessary:Provided that an order enhancing or
imposing a penalty or redemption charges or confiscating the goods (including
the goods connected with services or technology) of a greater value shall not
be made under this section unless the appellant has been given an opportunity
of making a representation, and, if he so desires, of being heard in his
defence.(3)The order made in appeal by the Appellate Authority shall be final.

### 16. Review.—

The Central Government, in the case of any decision or order made by the
Director General, or the Director General in the case of any decision or order
made by any officer subordinate to him, may on its or his own motion or
otherwise, call for and examine the records of any proceeding, for the purpose
of satisfying itself or himself, as the case may be, as to the correctness,
legality or propriety of such decision or order and make such orders thereon
as may be deemed fit:Provided that no decision or order shall be varied under
this section so as to prejudicially affect any person unless such
person—(a)has, within a period of two years from the date of such decision or
order, received a notice to show cause why such decision or order shall not be
varied; and(b)has been given a reasonable opportunity of making representation
and, if he so desires, of being heard in his defence.

### 17. Powers of Adjudicating and other Authorities.—

(1)Every authority making any adjudication or hearing any appeal or exercising
any powers of review under this Act shall have all the powers of a civil court
under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit, in
respect of the following matters, namely:—(a)summoning and enforcing the
attendance of witnesses;(b)requiring the discovery and production of any
document;(c)requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any court or
office;(d)receiving evidence on affidavits; and(e)issuing commissions for the
examination of witnesses or documents.(2)Every authority making any
adjudication or hearing any appeal or exercising any powers of review under
this Act shall be deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of sections 345
and 346 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).(3)Every authority
making any adjudication or hearing any appeal or exercising any powers of
review under this Act shall have the power to make such orders of an interim
nature as it may think fit and may also, for sufficient cause, order the stay
of operation of any decision or order.(4)Clerical or arithmetical mistakes in
any decision or order or errors arising therein from any accidental slip or
omission may at any time be corrected by the authority by which the decision
or order was made, either on its own motion or on the application of any of
the parties:Provided that where any correction proposed to be made under this
sub-section will have the effect of prejudicially affecting any person, no
such correction shall be made except after giving to that person a reasonable
opportunity of making a representation in the matter and no such correction
shall be made after the expiry of two years from the date on which such
decision or order was made.

## Chapter VI  
Miscellaneous

### 18. Protection of action taken in good faith.—

No order made or deemed to have been made under this Act shall be called in
question in any court, and no suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding
shall lie against any person for anything in good faith done or intended to be
done under this Act or any order made or deemed to have been made thereunder.

### 18A. Application of other laws not barred.—

The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of,
the provisions of any other law for the time being in force.

### 19. Power to make rules.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:—(a)the manner in
which and the conditions subject to which a special licence may be issued
under sub-section (2) of section 8;(b)the exceptions subject to which and the
person or class of persons in respect of whom fees may be levied and the
manner in which a licence, certificate, scrip or any instrument bestowing
financial or fiscal benefits may be granted or renewed under sub-section (1)
of section 9;(c)the class or classes of goods (including the goods connected
with service or technology) for which a licence, certificate, scrip or any
instrument bestowing financial or fiscal benefits may be granted under sub-
section (2) of section 9;(d)the form in which and the terms, conditions and
restrictions subject to which licence, certificate, scrip or any instrument
bestowing financial or fiscal benefits may be granted under sub-section (3) of
section 9;(e)the conditions subject to which a licence, certificate, scrip or
any instrument bestowing financial or fiscal benefits may be suspended or
cancelled under sub-section (4) of section 9;(ea)the matter in which goods the
import of which shall be subject to quantitative restrictions, may be
identified and the manner in which the causes of serious injury or causes of
threat of serious injury in relation to such goods may be determined under
sub-section (3) of section 9A;(f)the premises, goods (including the goods
connected with the service or technology), documents, things and conveyances
in respect of which and the requirements and conditions subject to which power
of entry, search, inspection and seizure may be exercised under sub-section
(1) of section 10;(g)the class or classes of cases for which and the manner in
which an amount, by way of settlement, may be determined under sub-section (4)
of section 11;(h)the requirements and conditions subject to which goods
(including the goods connected with the service or technology) and conveyances
shall be liable to confiscation under sub-section (8) of section 11;(i)the
manner in which and the conditions subject to which goods (including the goods
connected with the service or technology) and conveyances may be released on
payment of redemption charges under sub-section (9) of section 11;(j)any other
matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed, or in respect of which provision
is to be, or may be, made by rules.(3)Every rule and every Order made by the
Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is
made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree
in making any modification in the rule or the Order or both Houses agree that
the rule or the Order should not be made, the rule or the Order, as the case
may be, shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no
effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or the Order.

### 20. Repeal and savings.—

(1)The Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 (18 of 1947) and the Foreign
Trade (Development and Regulation) Ordinance, 1992 (Ord. 11 of 1992) are
hereby repealed.(2)The repeal of the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947
(18 of 1947) shall, however, not affect,—(a)the previous operation of the Act
so repealed or anything duly done or suffered thereunder; or(b)any right,
privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the Act
so repealed; or(c)any penalty, confiscation or punishment incurred in respect
of any contravention under the Act so repealed; or(d)any proceeding or remedy
in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty,
confiscation or punishment as aforesaid,and any such proceeding or remedy may
be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such penalty, confiscation or
punishment may be imposed or made as if that Act had not been
repealed.(3)Notwithstanding the repeal of the Foreign Trade (Development and
Regulation) Ordinance, 1992 (Ord. 11 of 1992), anything done or any action
taken under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken
under the corresponding provisions of this Act.

