## Union of India - Act

## THE FINANCE ACT, 2021

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# THE FINANCE ACT, 2021

## Act 13 of 2021

  * Published in Gazette of India on 28 March 2021 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 March 2021.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act to give effect to the financial proposals of the Central Government for
the financial year 2021-2022.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Seventy-second
Year of the Republic of India as follows:––

## Chapter I  
PRELIMINARY

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This. Act may be called the Finance Act, 2021.(2)Save as otherwise provided
in this Act,—(a)sections 2 to 88 shall come into force on the 1st day of
April, 2021;(b)sections 108 to 123 shall come into force on such date as the
10 Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

## Chapter II  
RATES OF INCOME-TAX

### 2. Income-tax.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3), for the assessment
year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2021, income-tax shall be charged at
the rates specified in Part I of the First Schedule and such tax shall be
increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated in each
case in the manner provided therein.(2)In the cases to which Paragraph A of
Part I of the First Schedule applies, where the assessee has, in the previous
year, any net agricultural income exceeding five thousand rupees, in addition
to total income, and the total income exceeds two lakh fifty thousand rupees,
then,—(a)the net agricultural income shall be taken into account, in the
manner provided in clause (b) [that is to say, as if the net agricultural
income werecomprised in the total income after the first two lakh fifty
thousand rupees of the total income but without being liable to tax], only for
the purpose of charging income-tax in respect of the total income; and(b)the
income-tax chargeable shall be calculated as follows:—(i)the total income and
the net agricultural income shall be aggregated and the amount of income-tax
shall be determined in respect of the aggregate income atthe rates specified
in the said Paragraph A, as if such aggregate income were the total
income;(ii)the net agricultural income shall be increased by a sum of two lakh
fifty thousand rupees, and the amount of income-tax shall be determined in
respect of the net agricultural income as so increased at the rates specified
in the said Paragraph A, as if the net agricultural income as so increased
were the total income;(iii)the amount of income-tax determined in accordance
with sub-clause (i) shall be reduced by the amount of income-tax determined in
accordance with sub-clause (ii) and the sum so arrived at shall be the income-
tax in respect of the total income:Provided that in the case of every
individual, being a resident in India, who is of the age of sixty years or
more but less than eighty years at any time during the previous year, referred
to in item (II) of Paragraph A of Part I of the First Schedule, the provisions
of this sub-section shall have effect as if for the words “two lakh fifty
thousand rupees”, the words “three lakh rupees” had been substituted:Provided
further that in the case of every individual, being a resident in India, who
is of the age of eighty years or more at any time during the previous year,
referred to in item (III) of Paragraph A of Part I of the First Schedule, the
provisions of this sub-section shall have effect as if for the words “two lakh
fifty thousand rupees”, the words “five lakh rupees” had been
substituted.(3)In cases to which the provisions of Chapter XII or Chapter
XII-A or section 115JB or section 115JC or Chapter XII-FA or Chapter XII-FB or
sub-section (1A) of section 161 or section 164 or section 164A or section 167B
of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Income-tax Act)
apply, the tax chargeable shall be determined as provided in that Chapter or
that section, and with reference to the rates imposed by sub-section (1) or
the rates as specified in that Chapter or section, as the case may be:Provided
that the amount of income-tax computed in accordance with the provisions of
section 111A or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-tax Act shall be
increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, as provided in
Paragraph A, B, C, D or E, as the case may be, of Part I of the First
Schedule, except in case of a domestic company whose income is chargeable to
tax under section 115BAA or section 115BAB of the Income-tax Act or in case of
cooperative society whose income is chargeable to tax under section 115BAD of
the Income-tax Act:Provided further that in respect of any income chargeable
to tax under section 115A, 115AB, 115AC, 115ACA, 115AD, 115B, 115BA, 115BB,
115BBA, 115BBC, 115BBD, 115BBF, 115BBG, 115E, 115JB or 115JC of the Income-tax
Act, the amount of income-tax computed under this sub-section shall be
increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated,—(a)in the
case of every individual or Hindu undivided family or association of persons
or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or every artificial
juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of section 2
of the Income-tax Act, not having any income under section 115AD of the
Income-tax Act,—(i)having a total income exceeding fifty lakh rupees but not
exceeding one crore rupees, at the rate of ten per cent. of such income-
tax;(i)having a total income exceeding fifty lakh rupees but not exceeding one
crore rupees, at the rate of ten per cent. of such income-tax;(ii)having a
total income exceeding one crore rupees, but not exceeding two crore rupees,
at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such income-tax;(iii)having a total income
[excluding the income by way of dividend or income of the nature referred to
in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 115AD of the Income-tax Act]
exceeding two crore rupees but not exceeding five crore rupees, at the rate of
twenty-five per cent. of such income-tax;(iv)having a total income [excluding
the income by way of dividend or income of the nature referred to in clause
(b) of sub-section (1) of section 115AD of(ii)having a total income exceeding
one crore rupees, but not exceeding two crore rupees, at the rate of fifteen
per cent. of such income-tax;(iii)having a total income exceeding two crore
rupees, but not exceeding five crore rupees, at the rate of twenty-five per
cent. of such income-tax; and(iv)having a total income exceeding five crore
rupees, at the rate of thirty-seven per cent. of such income-tax;(aa)in the
case of individual or every association of person or body of individuals,
whether incorporated or not, or every artificial juridical person referred to
in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, having
income under section 115AD of the Income-tax Act,––the Income-tax Act]
exceeding five crore rupees, at the rate of thirty-seven per cent. of such
income-tax; and(v)having a total income [including the income by way of
dividend or income of the nature referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1)
of section 115AD of the Income-tax Act] exceeding two crore rupees, but is not
covered in sub-clauses (iii) and (iv), at the rate of fifteen per cent. of
such income-tax:Provided that in case where the total income includes any
income by way of dividend or income chargeable under clause (b) of sub-section
(1) of section 115AD of the Income-tax Act, the rate of surcharge on the
income-tax calculated on that part of income shall not exceed fifteen per
cent.;(b)in the case of every co-operative society except a co-operative
society whose income is chargeable to tax under section 115BAD of the Income-
tax Act orfirm or local authority, at the rate of twelve per cent. of such
income-tax, where the total income exceeds one crore rupees;(c)in the case of
every domestic company except such domestic company whose income is chargeable
to tax under section 115BAA or section 115BAB of the Income-tax Act,—(i)at the
rate of seven per cent. of such income-tax, where the total income exceeds one
crore rupees but does not exceed ten crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of twelve
per cent. of such income-tax, where the total income exceeds ten crore
rupees;(d)in the case of every company, other than a domestic company,—(i)at
the rate of two per cent. of such incometax, where the total income exceeds
one crore rupees but does not exceed ten crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of five
per cent. of such incometax, where the total income exceeds ten crore
rupees:Provided also that in the case of persons mentioned in (a) and (aa)
above, having total income chargeable to tax under section 115JC of the
Income-tax Act, and such income exceeds,—(i)fifty lakh rupees but does not
exceed one crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge
thereon shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax on a total
income of fifty lakh rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds
fifty lakh rupees;(ii)one crore rupees but not exceed two crore rupees, the
total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge thereon shall not exceed the
total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income of one
crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees;(iii)two crore rupees but not exceed five crore rupees, the total
amount payable as income-tax and surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total
amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income of two crore
rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds two crore
rupees;(iv)five crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and
surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax and
surcharge on a total income of five crore rupees by more than the amount of
income that exceeds five crore rupees:Provided also that in the case of
persons mentioned in (b) above, having total income chargeable to tax under
section 115JC of the Income-tax Act, and such income exceeds one crore rupees,
the total amount payable as income-tax on such income and surcharge thereon
shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax on a total income of
one crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees:Provided also that in the case of every company having total income
chargeable to tax under section 115JB of the Income-tax Act, and such income
exceeds one crore rupees but does not exceed ten crore rupees, the total
amount payable as income-tax on such income and surcharge thereon, shall not
exceed the total amount payable as income-tax on a total income of one crore
rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees:Provided also that in the case of every company having total income
chargeable to tax under section 115JB of the Income-tax Act, and such income
exceeds ten crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax on such
income and surcharge thereon, shall not exceed the total amount payable as
income-tax and surcharge on a total income of ten crore rupees by more than
the amount of income that exceeds ten crore rupees:Provided also that in
respect of any income chargeable to tax under clause (i) of sub-section (1) of
section 115BBE of the Income-tax Act, the amount of income-tax computed under
this sub-section shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the
Union, calculated at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of such income-
tax:Provided also that in case of every domestic company whose income is
chargeable to tax under section 115BAA or section 115BAB of the Income-tax
Act, the income-tax computed under this sub-section shall be increased by a
surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated at the rate of ten per
cent. of such income-tax:Provided also that in case of every individual or
Hindu undivided family, whose income is chargeable to tax under section 115BAC
of the Incometax, the income-tax computed under this sub-section shall be
increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, as provided in
Paragraph A of Part I of the First Schedule:Provided also that in case of
every resident co-operative society, whose income is chargeable to tax under
section 115BAD of the Income-tax Act, the income tax computed under this sub-
section shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union,
calculated at the rate of ten per cent. of such “advance tax”.(4)In cases in
which tax has to be charged and paid under sub-section (2A) of section 92CE or
section 115QA or section 115TA or section 115TD of the Income-tax Act, the tax
shall be charged and paid at the rates as specified in those sections and
shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated
at the rate of twelve per cent. of such tax.(5)In cases in which tax has to be
deducted under sections 193, 194A, 194B, 194BB, 194D, 194LBA, 194LBB, 194LBC
and 195 of the Income-tax Act, at the rates in force, the deductions shall be
made at the rates specified in Part II of the First Schedule and shall be
increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated in cases
wherever prescribed, in the manner provided therein.(6)In cases in which tax
has to be deducted under sections 192A, 194, 194C, 194DA, 194E, 194EE, 194F,
194G, 194H, 194-I, 194-IA, 194-IB, 194-IC, 194J, 194LA, 194LB, 194LBA, 194LBB,
194LBC, 194LC, 194LD, 194K, 194M, 194N, 194-O, 194Q, 196A, 196B, 196C and 196D
of the Income-tax Act, the deductions shall be made at the rates specified in
those sections and shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the
Union,—(a)in the case of every individual or Hindu undivided family or
association of persons or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or
every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause
(31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, being a non-resident except in case
of deduction on income by way of dividend under section 196D of the Income-tax
Act, calculated,—(i)at the rate of ten per cent. of such tax, where the income
or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the
deduction exceeds fifty lakh rupees but does not exceed one crore rupees;(i)at
the rate of ten per cent. of such tax, where the income or the aggregate of
such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds
fifty lakh rupees but does not exceed one crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of
fifteen per cent. of such tax, where the income or the aggregate of such
incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds one
crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such tax, where the
income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject
to the deduction exceeds one crore rupees but does not exceed two crore
rupees;(iii)at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of such tax, where the income
or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the
deduction exceeds two crore rupees but does not exceed five crore
rupees;(iv)at the rate of thirty-seven per cent. of such tax, where the income
or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the
deduction exceeds five crore rupees;(aa)in the case of every individual or
Hindu undivided family or association of persons or body of individuals,
whether incorporated or not, or every artificial juridical person referred to
in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of section 2 of the Incometax Act, being a
non-resident, in case of deduction on income by way of dividend under section
196D of that Act, calculated,—(b)in the case of every co-operative society or
firm, being a non-resident, calculated at the rate of twelve per cent. of such
tax, where the income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be
paid and subject to the deduction exceeds one crore rupees;(c)in the case of
every company, other than a domestic company, calculated,—(i)at the rate of
two per cent. of such tax, where the income or the aggregate of such incomes
paid or likely to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds one crore
rupees but does not exceed ten crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of five per cent.
of such tax, where the income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely
to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds ten crore rupees.(7)In cases
in which tax has to be collected under the proviso to section 194B of the
Income-tax Act, the collection shall be made at the rates specified in Part II
of the First Schedule, and shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes
of the Union, calculated, in cases wherever prescribed, in the manner provided
therein.(8)In cases in which tax has to be collected under section 206C of the
Income-tax Act, the collection shall be made at the rates specified in that
section and shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the
Union,—(a)in the case of every individual or Hindu undivided family or
association of persons or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or
every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause
(31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, being a non-resident,
calculated,—(i)at the rate of ten per cent. of such tax, where the amount or
the aggregate of such amounts collected on likely to be collected and subject
to the collection exceeds fifty lakh rupees but does not exceed one crore
rupees;(ii)at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such tax, where the amount or
the aggregate of such amounts collected on likely to be collected and subject
to the collection exceeds one crore rupees but does not exceed two crore
rupees;(iii)at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of such tax, where the income
or the aggregate of such amounts collected on likely to be collected and
subject to the collection exceeds two crore rupees but does not exceed five
crore rupees;(iv)at the rate of thirty-seven per cent. of such tax, where the
income or the aggregate of such amounts collected on likely to be collected
and subject to the collection exceeds five crore rupees.(b)in the case of
every co-operative society or firm, being a non-resident, calculated at the
rate of twelve per cent. of such tax, where the amount or the aggregate of
such amounts collected on likely to be collected and subject to the collection
exceeds one crore rupees;(c)in the case of every company, other than a
domestic company, calculated,—(i)at the rate of two per cent. of such tax,
where the amount or the aggregate of such amounts collected on likely to be
collected and subject to the collection exceeds one crore rupees but does not
exceed ten crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of five per cent. of such tax, where
the amount or the aggregate of such amounts collected on likely to be
collected and subject to the collection exceeds ten crore rupees.(9)Subject to
the provisions of sub-section (10), in cases in which income-tax has to be
charged under sub-section (4) of section 172 or sub-section (2) of section 174
or section 174A or section 175 or sub-section (2) of section 176 of the
Income-tax Act or deducted from, or paid on, income chargeable under the head
“Salaries” under section 192 of the said Act or deducted under section 194P of
the said Act or in which the “advance tax” payable under Chapter XVII-C of the
said Act has to be computed at the rate or rates in force, such income-tax or,
as the case may be, “advance tax” shall be charged, deducted or computed at
the rate or rates specified in Part III of the First Schedule and such tax
shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated
in such cases and in such manner as provided therein:Provided that in cases to
which the provisions of Chapter XII or Chapter XII-A or section 115JB or
section 115JC or Chapter XII-FA or Chapter XII-FB or sub-section (1A) of
section 161 or section 164 or section 164A or section 167B of the Income-tax
Act apply, “advance tax” shall be computed with reference to the rates imposed
by this sub-section or the rates as specified in that Chapter or section, as
the case may be:Provided further that the amount of “advance tax” computed in
accordance with the provisions of section 111A or section 112 or 112A of the
Income-tax Act shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the
Union, as provided in Paragraph A, B, C, D or E, as the case may be, of Part
III of the First Schedule except in case of a domestic company whose income is
chargeable to tax under section 115BAA or section 115BAB of the Income-tax Act
or in case of a resident cooperative society whose income is chargeable to tax
under section 115BAD of the Income-tax Act:Provided also that in respect of
any income chargeable to tax under section 115A, 115AB, 115AC, 115ACA, 115AD,
115B, 115BA, 115BB, 115BBA, 115BBC, 115BBD, 115BBF, 115BBG, 115E, 115JB or
115JC of the Income-tax Act, “advance tax” computed under the first proviso
shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union,
calculated,—(a)in the case of every individual or Hindu undivided family or
association of persons or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or
every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause
(31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, not having any income under section
115AD of the Income-tax Act,—(i)at the rate of ten per cent. of such “advance
tax”, where the total income exceeds fifty lakh rupees but does not exceed one
crore rupees;(i)at the rate of ten per cent. of such “advance tax”, where the
total income exceeds fifty lakh rupees, but does not exceed one crore
rupees;(ii)at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such “advance tax”, where the
total income exceeds one crore rupees but does not exceed two crore
rupees;(iii)at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of such “advance tax”, where
the total income [excluding the income by way of dividend or income of the
nature referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 115AD of the
Income-tax Act] exceeds two crore rupees but does not exceed five crore
rupees;(iv)at the rate of thirty-seven per cent. of such “advance tax”, where
the total income [excluding the income by way of dividend or income of the
nature referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 115AD of the
Income-tax Act] exceeds five crore rupees;(v)at the rate of fifteen per cent.
of such “advance tax”, where the total income [including the income by way of
dividend or income of the nature referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1)
of section 115AD of the Income-tax Act] exceeds two crore rupees but is not
covered in sub-clauses (iii) and (iv):(ii)at the rate of fifteen per cent. of
such “advance tax”, where the total income exceeds one crore rupees but does
not exceed two crore rupees;(iii)at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of such
“advance tax”, where the total income exceeds two crore rupees but does not
exceed five crore rupees;(iv)at the rate of thirty-seven per cent. of such
“advance tax”, where the total income exceeds five crore rupees;(aa)in the
case of individual or every association of persons or body of individuals,
whether incorporated or not, or every artificial juridical person referred to
in subclause (vii) of clause (31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, having
income under section 115AD of the Incometax Act,—Provided that in case where
the total income includes any income by way of dividend or income chargeable
under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 115AD of the Income-tax Act,
the rate of surcharge on the advance tax calculated on that part of income
shall not exceed fifteen per cent.;(b)in the case of every co-operative
society except such co-operative society whose income is chargeable to tax
under section 115BAD of the Income-tax Act or firm or local authority at the
rate of twelve per cent. of such “advance tax”, where the total income exceeds
one crore rupees;(c)in the case of every domestic company except such domestic
company whose income is chargeable to tax under section 115BAA or section
115BAB of the Income-tax Act,—(i)at the rate of seven per cent. of such
“advance tax”, where the total income exceeds one crore rupees but does not
exceed ten crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of twelve per cent. of such “advance
tax”, where the total income exceeds ten crore rupees;(d)in the case of every
company, other than a domestic company,—(i)at the rate of two per cent. of
such “advance tax”, where the total income exceeds one crore rupees but does
not exceed ten crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of five per cent. of such “advance
tax”, where the total income exceeds ten crore rupees:Provided also that in
the case of persons mentioned in (a) and (aa) above, having total income
chargeable to tax under section 115JC of the Income-tax Act, and such income
exceeds,—(a)fifty lakh rupees but does not exceed one crore rupees, the total
amount payable as “advance tax” on such income and surcharge thereon shall not
exceed the total amount payable as “advance tax” on a total income of fifty
lakh rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds fifty lakh
rupees;(b)one crore rupees but does not exceed two crore rupees, the total
amount payable as “advance tax” on such income and surcharge thereon shall not
exceed the total amount payable as “advance tax” on a total income of one
crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees;(c)two crore rupees but does not exceed five crore rupees, the total
amount payable as “advance tax” on such income and surcharge thereon shall not
exceed the total amount payable as “advance tax” on a total income of two
crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds two crore
rupees;(d)five crore rupees, the total amount payable as “advance tax” on such
income and surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total amount payable as
“advance tax” on a total income of five crore rupees by more than the amount
of income that exceeds five crore rupees:Provided also that in the case of
persons mentioned in (b) above, having total income chargeable to tax under
section 115JC of the Income-tax Act, and such income exceeds one crore rupees,
the total amount payable as “advance tax” on such income and surcharge thereon
shall not exceed the total amount payable as “advance tax” on a total income
of one crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees:Provided also that in the case of every company having total income
chargeable to tax under section 115JB of the Income-tax Act, and such income
exceeds one crore rupees but does not exceed ten crore rupees, the total
amount payable as “advance tax” on such income and surcharge thereon, shall
not exceed the total amount payable as “advance tax” on a total income of one
crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees:Provided also that in the case of every company having total income
chargeable to tax under section 115JB of the Income-tax Act, and such income
exceeds ten crore rupees, the total amount payable as “advance tax” on such
income and surcharge thereon, shall not exceed the total amount payable as
“advance tax” and surcharge on a total income of ten crore rupees by more than
the amount of income that exceeds ten crore rupees:Provided also that in
respect of any income chargeable to tax under clause (i) of sub-section (1) of
section 115BBE of the Income-tax Act, the “advance tax” computed under the
first proviso shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the
Union, calculated at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of such “advance
tax”;Provided also that in case of every domestic company whose income is
chargeable to tax under section 115BAA or section 115BAB of the Income-tax
Act, the advance tax computed under the first proviso shall be increased by a
surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated at the rate of ten per
cent. of such “advance tax”:Provided also that in case of every individual or
Hindu undivided family, whose income is chargeable to tax under section 115BAC
of the Income-tax Act, the advance tax computed under the first proviso shall
be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, as provided in
Paragraph A of Part III of the First Schedule.Provided also that in case of
every resident co-operative society whose income is chargeable to tax under
section 115BAD of the Income-tax Act, the advance tax computed under the first
proviso shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union,
calculated at the rate of ten per cent. of such “advance tax”:(10)In cases to
which Paragraph A of Part III of the First Schedule applies, where the
assessee has, in the previous year or, if by virtue of any provision of the
Income-tax Act, income-tax is to be charged in respect of the income of a
period other than the previous year, in such other period, any net
agricultural income exceeding five thousand rupees, in addition to total
income and the total income exceeds two lakh fifty thousand rupees, then, in
charging income-tax under sub-section (2) of section 174 or section 174A or
section 175 or sub-section (2) of section 176 of the said Act or in computing
the “advance tax” payable under Chapter XVII-C of the said Act, at the rate or
rates in force,—(a)the net agricultural income shall be taken into account, in
the manner provided in clause (b) [that is to say, as if the net agricultural
income were comprised in the total income after the first two lakh fifty
thousand rupees of the total income but without being liable to tax], only for
the purpose of charging or computing such income-tax or, as the case may be,
“advance tax” in respect of the total income; and(b)such income-tax or, as the
case may be, “advance tax” shall be so charged or computed as follows:—(i)the
total income and the net agricultural income shall be aggregated and the
amount of income-tax or “advance tax” shall be determined in respect of the
aggregate income at the rates specified in the said Paragraph A, as if such
aggregate income were the total income;(ii)the net agricultural income shall
be increased by a sum of two lakh fifty thousand rupees, and the amount of
income-tax or “advance tax” shall be determined in respect of the net
agricultural income as so increased at the rates specified in the said
Paragraph A, as if the net agricultural income were the total income;(iii)the
amount of income-tax or “advance tax” determined in accordance with sub-clause
(i) shall be reduced by the amount of income-tax or, as the case may be,
“advance tax” determined in accordance with sub-clause (ii) and the sum so
arrived at shall be the income-tax or, as the case may be, “advance tax” in
respect of the total income:Provided that in the case of every individual,
being a resident in India, who is of the age of sixty years or more but less
than eighty years at any time during the previous year, referred to in item
(II) of Paragraph A of Part III of the First Schedule, the provisions of this
sub-section shall have effect as if for the words “two lakh fifty thousand
rupees”, the words “three lakh rupees” had been substituted:Provided further
that in the case of every individual, being a resident in India, who is of the
age of eighty years or more at any time during the previous year, referred to
in item (III) of Paragraph A of Part III of the First Schedule, the provisions
of this sub-section shall have effect as if for the words “two lakh fifty
thousand rupees”, the words “five lakh rupees” had been substituted:Provided
also that the amount of income-tax or “advance tax” so arrived at, shall be
increased by a surcharge for the purposes of the Union, calculated in each
case, in the manner provided therein.(11)The amount of income-tax as specified
in sub-sections (1) to (3) and as increased by the applicable surcharge, for
the purposes of the Union, calculated in the manner provided therein, shall be
further increased by an additional surcharge, for the purposes of the Union,
to be called the “Health and Education Cess on income-tax”, calculated at the
rate of four per cent. of such income-tax and surcharge so as to fulfil the
commitment of the Government to provide and finance quality health services
and universalised quality basic education and secondary and higher
education.(12)The amount of income-tax as specified in sub-sections (4) to
(10) and as increased by the applicable surcharge, for the purposes of the
Union, calculated in the manner provided therein, shall be further increased
by an additional surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, to be called the
“Health and Education Cess on income-tax”, calculated at the rate of four per
cent. of such income-tax and surcharge so as to fulfil the commitment of the
Government to provide and finance quality health services and universalised
quality basic education and secondary and higher education:Provided that
nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply to cases in which tax is to
be deducted or collected under the sections of the Income-tax Act mentioned in
sub-sections (5), (6), (7) and (8), if the income subjected to deduction of
tax at source or collection of tax at source is paid to a domestic company and
any other person who is resident in India.(13)For the purposes of this section
and the First Schedule,—(a)“domestic company” means an Indian company or any
other company which, in respect of its income liable to income-tax under the
Income-tax Act, for the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April,
2018, has made the prescribed arrangements for the declaration and payment
within India of the dividends (including dividends on preference shares)
payable out of such income;(b)“insurance commission” means any remuneration or
reward, whether by way of commission or otherwise, for soliciting or procuring
insurance business (including business relating to the continuance, renewal or
revival of policies of insurance);(c)“net agricultural income” in relation to
a person, means the total amount of agricultural income, from whatever source
derived, of that person computed in accordance with the rules contained in
Part IV of the First Schedule;(d)all other words and expressions used in this
section and the First Schedule but not defined in this sub-section and defined
in the Income-tax Act shall have the meanings, respectively, assigned to them
in that Act.

## Chapter III  
DIRECT TAXES

Income-tax

### 3. Amendment of section 2.

In section 2 of the Income-tax Act,––(i)in clause (11), in sub-clause (b),
after the words “or commercial rights of similar nature,”, the words “not
being goodwill of a business or profession,” shall be inserted;(ii)in clause
(14), after sub-clause (b), the following subclause shall be inserted,
namely:––“(c) any unit linked insurance policy to which exemption under clause
(10D) of section 10 does not apply on account of the applicability of the
fourth and fifth proviso thereof;”;(iii)in clause (19AA), after Explanation 5,
the following Explanation shall be inserted, namely:––“Explanation 6.–– For
the purposes of this clause, the reconstruction or splitting up of a public
sector company into separate companies shall be deemed to be a demerger, if
such reconstruction or splitting up has been made to transfer any asset of the
demerged company to the resulting company and the resulting company––(i)is a
public sector company on the appointed day indicated in such scheme, as may be
approved by the Central Government or any other body authorised under the
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 or any other law for the time being in
force governing such public sector companies in this behalf; and(ii)fulfils
such other conditions as may be notified by the Central Government in the
Official Gazette in this behalf;”;(iv)clause (29A) shall be renumbered as
clause (29AA) thereof and before clause (29AA) as so renumbered, the following
clause shall be inserted, namely:––‘(29A) “liable to tax”, in relation to a
person, means that there is a liability of tax on such person under any law
for the time being in force in any country, and shall include a case where
subsequent to imposition of tax liability, an exemption has been
provided;’;(v)in clause (42C),--(I)for the words “undertaking as a result of
the sale”, the words “undertaking, by any means,” shall be
substituted;(II)after Explanation 2, the following Explanation shall be
inserted, namely:––‘Explanation 3.––For the purposes of this clause,
“transfer” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (47);’;(vi)in
clause (48), with effect from the 1st day of April, 2022,––(I)in sub-clause
(a), after the words “infrastructure capital fund or”, the words
“infrastructure debt fund or” shall be inserted;(II)in sub-clause (b), after
the words “infrastructure capital fund or”, the words “infrastructure debt
fund or” shall be inserted;(III)the Explanation shall be numbered as
Explanation 1 thereof and after Explanation 1 as so numbered, the following
Explanation shall be inserted, namely:––‘Explanation 2.—For the purposes of
this clause, the expression “infrastructure debt fund” shall mean the
infrastructure debt fund notified by the Central Government in the Official
Gazette under clause (47) of section 10.’.

### 4. Amendment of section 9A.

In section 9A of the Income-tax Act, after sub-section (8), the following sub-
section shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April, 2022,
namely:––“(8A) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify that any one or more of the conditions specified in clauses
(a) to (m) of sub-section (3) or clauses (a) to (d) of sub-section (4) shall
not apply or shall apply with such modifications, as may be specified in such
notification, in case of an eligible investment fund and its eligible fund
manager, if such fund manager is located in an International Financial
Services Centre, as defined in clause (a) of the Explanation to section 80LA,
and has commenced its operations on or before the 31st day of March, 2024.”.

### 5. Insertion of new section 9B.

After section 9A of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall be
inserted namely:-Income on receipt of capital asset or stock in trade by
specified person from specified entity.'9B.(1) Where a specified person
receives during the previous year any capital asset or stock in trade or both
from a specified entity in connection with the dissolution or reconstitution
of such specified entity, then the specified entity shall be deemed to have
transferred such capital asset or stock in trade or both, as the case may be,
to the specified person in the year in which such capital asset or stock in
trade or both are received by the specified person.(2)Any profits and gains
arising from such deemed transfer of capital asset or stock in trade or both,
as the case may be, by the specified entity shall be-(i)deemed to be the
income of such specified entity of the previous year in which such capital
asset or stock in trade or both were received by the specified person;
and(ii)chargeable to income-tax as income of such specified entity under the
head "Profits and gains of business or profession" or under the head "Capital
gains", in accordance with the provisions of this Act.(3)For the purposes of
this section, fair market value of the capital asset or stock in trade or both
on the date of its receipt by the specified 'person shall be deemed to be the
full value of the consideration received or accruing as a result of such
deemed transfer of the capital asset or stock in trade or both by the
specified entity.(4)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the
provisions of this section and sub-section (4) of section 45, the Board may,
with the approval of the Central Government, issue guidelines for the purposes
ofremoving the difficulty.(5)Every guideline issued by the Board under sub-
section (4) shall, as soon as may be after it is issued, be laid before each
House of Parliament, and shall be binding on the income-tax authorities and on
the assessee.Explanation.- For the purposes of this
section,-(i)"reconstitution of the specified entity" means, where-(a)one or
more of is partners or members, as the case may be, of such specified entity
ceases to be partners or members; or(b).one or more new partners or members,
as the case may be, are admitted in such specified entity in such
'circumstances that one or more of the persons who were partners or members,
as the case may be, of the specified entity, before the change, continue as
partner or partners or member or members after the change; or(c)all the
partners or members, as the case may be, of such specified entity continue
with a change in their respective share or in the shares of some of
them;(ii)"specified entity" means a firm or other association of persons or
body of individuals (not being a company or a cooperative
society);(iii)"specified person" means a person, who is a partner of a firm or
member of other association of persons or body of individuals (not being a
company or a cooperative society) in any previous year.'.

### 6. In section 10 of the Income-tax Act,

(a)with effect from the 1st day of April, 2022.(i)in clause (4D),-(I) after
the words "attributable to units held by non-resident (not being the permanent
establishment of a non-resident in India)", the words "or is attributable to
the investment division of offshore banking unit, as the case may be," shall
be inserted;(II) in the Explanation."-(A)after clause (a), the following
clause shall be inserted, namely:-'(aa) "investment division of
offshore.banking unit" means an investment division of a banking unit of a
non-resident located in an International Financial Services Centre, as
referred to in sub-section (IA) of section 80LA and which has commenced its
operations on or before the 31st day of March, 2024';(B)for clause (c), the
following clause shall be substituted, namely:-(c)"specified fund" means,-(i)a
fund established or incorporated in India in the form of a trust or a company
or a limited liability partnership or a body corporate,-(I)which has been
granted a certificate of registration as a Category III Alternative Investment
Fund and is regulated under the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 2012, made under the Securities and
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 or International Financial Services Centres
Authority Act,2019;(II)which is located in any International Financial
Services Centre; and(III)of which all the units other than unit held by a
sponsor or manager are held by non-residents; or(ii)investment division of an
offshore banking unit, which has been-(I)granted a certificate of registration
as a Category-I Foreign portfolio investor under the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019 made under the
Securities and Exchange Board oflndia, Act, 1992 and(II)fulfils such
conditions including maintenance of separate accounts for its investment
division, as may be prescribed;';(ii)after clause. ( 4D), the following
clauses shall be inserted, namely:-"(4E) any income accrued or arisen to, or
received by a non-resident as a result of transfer of non-deliverable forward
contracts entered into with an offshore banking unit of an International
Financial Services Centre as referred to in sub-section (IA) of section 80LA,
which fulfils such conditions as may be prescribed;(4F)any income of a non-
resident by way of royalty or interest, on account of lease of an aircraft in
a previous year, paid by a unit of an International Financial Services Centre
as referred to in sub-section (JA) of section 80LA, if the unit has commenced
its operations on or before the 3 lst day of March, 2024.Explanation.-For the
purposes of this clause, "aircraft" means an aircraft or a helicopter, or an
engine of an aircraft or a helicopter, or any part thereof;'.(b)in clause
(5),-(i)after the proviso and before the Explanation, the following proviso
shall be inserted, namely:-"Provided further that for the assessment year
beginning on the lst day of April, 2021, the value in lieu of any travel
concession or assistance received by, or due to, such individual shall also be
exempt under this clause subject to the fulfillment of such conditions
(including the condition of incurring such amount of such expenditure within
such period), as may be prescribed.";(ii)the Explanation shall be numbered as
Explanation l thereof and after Explanation l as so numbered, the following
Explanation shall be inserted, namely:-"Explanation 2.-For the removal of
doubts, it is hereby clarified that where an individual claims exemption and
the exemption is allowed under the second proviso in connection with the
prescribed expenditure, no exemption shall be allowed under this clause in
respect of such prescribed expenditure to any other individual.";(c)in
clause(10D),-(i)after the third proviso and before Explanation l, the
following provisos shall be inserted, namely:-"Provided also that nothing
contained in this clause shall apply with respect to any unit linked insurance
policy, issued on or after the lst day of February, 2021, if the amount of
premium payable for any of the previous year during the term of such policy
exceeds two lakh and fifty thousand rupees:Provided also that if the premium
is payable, by a person, for more than one unit linked insurance policies,
issued on or after the lst day of February, 2021, the provisions of this
clause shall apply only with respect to those unit linked insurance policies,
where the aggregate amount of premium does not exceed the amount referred to
in fourth proviso in any of the previous year during the term of any of those
policies:Provided also that the provisions of the fourth and fifth provisos
shall not apply to any sum received on the death of a person:Provided also
that if any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this
clause, the Board may, with the previous approval of the Central Government,
issue guidelines for the purpose of removing the difficulty and every
guideline issued by the Board under this proviso shall be laid before each
House of Parliament, and shall be binding on the income-tax authorities and
the assessee.";(ii)after Explanation 2, the following Explanation shall be
inserted, namely:-'Explanation 3.-For the purposes of this clause, "unit
linked insurance policy" means a life insurance policy which has components of
both investment and insurance and is linked to a unit as defined in clause
(ee) of regulation 3 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of
India (Unit Linked Insurance Products) Regulations, 2019 issued by the
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority under the Insurance Act; 1938
and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999.';(d)with
effect from the 1st day of April, 2022,-(i)in clause (II), the following
proviso shall be inserted, namely:-"Provided that the provisions of this
clause shall not apply to the income by way of interest accrued during the
previous year in the account of a person to the extent it relates to the
amount or the aggregate of amounts of contribution made by that person
exceeding two lakh and fifty thousand rupees in any previous year in that
fund, on or after the 1st day of April, 2021 and computed in such manner as
may be prescribed;":Provided further that if the contribution by such persons
is in a fund in which there is no contribution by the employer of such person,
the provisions of the first proviso shall have the effect as if for the words
"two lakh and fifty thousand rupees", the words "five lakh rupees" had been
substituted;(ii)in clause (12), the following proviso shall be inserted,
namely:-"Provided that the provisions of this clause shall not apply to the
income by way of interest accrued during the previous year in the account of a
4 5 person to the extent it relates to the amount or the aggregate of amounts
of contribution made by that person exceeding two lakh and fifty thousand
rupees in any previous year in that fund, on or after the lst day of April,
2021 and computed in such 50 manner as may be prescribed;":Provided further
that if the contribution by such person is in a fund in which there is no
contribution by the employer of such person, the provisions of the first
proviso shall have the effect as if for the words "two lakh and fifty thousand
rupees", the words "five lakh rupees" had been substituted;':(iii)in clause
(23C),-(l)in sub-clause (iiiad), for the words "receipts of such university or
educational institution do not exceed the amount of annual receipts as may be
prescribed", the words "receipts of the person from such university or
universities or educational institution or educational institutions do not
exceed five crore rupees" shall be substituted;(II)in sub-clause
(iiiae),-(A)for the words "receipts of such hospital or institution do not
exceed the amount of annual receipts as may be prescribed; or", the words
"receipts of the person from such hospital or hospitals or institution or
institutions do not exceed five crore rupees." shall be substituted;(B)after
sub-clause (iiiae), the followingExplanation shall be inserted,
namely-c-"Explanauon=Poi the purposes of subo clauses (iiiad) and (iiiae), it
is hereby clarified that if the person has receipts from university or
universities or educational institution or institutions as referred to in sub-
clause (iiiad), as well as from hospital or hospitals or institution or
institutions as referred to in subo clause (iiiae), the exemptions under these
clauses shall not apply, if the aggregate of annual receipts of the person
from such university or universities or educational institution or
institutions or hospital or hospitals or institution or institutions, exceed
five crore rupees; or";(III)in the third proviso,-(A)the Explanation shall be
numbered as Explanation I thereof and in Explanation I as so numbered, after
the words "medical institution:" occurring at the end, the words, brackets and
figures "subject to the condition that such voluntary contributions are
invested or deposited in one or more of the forms or modes specified in sub-
section (5) of section 11 maintained specifically for such corpus" shall be
inserted;(B)after Explanation I. as so numbered, the following Explanation
shall be inserted, namely:-"Explanation 2.-For the purposes of determining the
amount of application under this proviso,-(i)application for charitable or
religious purposes from the corpus as referred to in Explanation I, shall not
be treated as application of income for charitable or religious
purposes:Provided that the amount not so treated as application or part
thereof, shall be treated as application for charitable or religious purposes
in the previous year in which the amount, or part thereof, is invested or
deposited back, into one or more of the forms or modes specified in sub-
section (5) of section 11 maintained specifically for such corpus, from the
income of that year and to the extent of such investment or deposit;
and(ii)application for charitable or religious purposes, from any loan or
borrowing, shall not be treated as application of income for charitable or
religious purposes:Provided that the amount not so treated as application or
part thereof, shall be treated as application for charitable or religious
purposes in the previous year in which the loan or borrowing, or part thereof,
is repaid from the income of that year and to the extent of such
repayment:";(IV)in the fourteenth proviso, after the figures and letters
"12AA", the words, figures and letters "or section 12AB" shall be
inserted;(V)after the twentieth proviso, the Explanation shall be numbered as
Explanation I thereof and after Explanation 1 as so numbered, the following
Explanation shall be inserted, namely;"Explanation 2.-For the purposes of this
clause, it is clarified that the calculation of income required to be applied
or accumulated during the previous year shall be made without any set off or
deduction or allowance of any excess application of any of the year preceding
to the previous year;";(e)in clause (23FE),(A)in sub-clause (iii),-(i)in item
(c),-(l)for the words "hundred per cent.", the words "not less than fifty per
cent." shall be substituted;(II)after the word, brackets and letter "item
(b)", the brackets, letters and figures "or item (d) or item {e) or in an'.
Infrastructure Investment Trust referred to in sub-clause(i)of clause ( J 3A)
of section 2; or" shall be inserted;(ii)after item (c), the following items
shall be inserted, namely:-“(d) a domestic company, set up and registered on
or after the 1st day of April, 2021, having minimum seventyfive per cent.
investments in one or more of the companies or enterprises or entities
referred to in item (b); or(e)a non-banking financial company registered as an
Infrastructure Finance Company as referred to in notification number
RBI/2009-10/316 issued by the Reserve Bank of India or in an Infrastructure
Debt Fund, a non-banking finance company, as referred to in the Infrastructure
Debt Fund-Non-Banking Financial Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2011,
issued by the Reserve Bank of India, having minimum ninety per cent. lending
to one or more of the companies or enterprises or entities referred to in item
(b):”;(B)after the third proviso, the following provisos shall be inserted,
namely:––“Provided also that in case a Category-I or CategoryII Alternative
Investment Fund referred to in item (c) of sub-clause (iii) has investment of
less than one hundred per cent. in one or more of the companies or enterprises
or entities referred to in item (b) of the said sub-clause or in an
Infrastructure Investment Trust referred to in item (c) of the said sub-
clause, income accrued or arisen or received or attributable to such
investment, directly or indirectly, which is exempt under this clause shall be
calculated proportionately to that investment made in one or more of the
companies or enterprises or entities referred to in item (b) of the said sub-
clause or in the Infrastructure Investment Trust referred to in item (c) of
the said sub-clause, in such manner as may be prescribed:Provided also that in
case a domestic company referred to in item (d) of sub-clause (iii) has
investment of less than one hundred per cent in one or more of the companies
or enterprises or entities referred to in item (b) of the said sub-clause,
income accrued or arisen or received or attributable to such investments,
directly or indirectly, which is exempt under this clause shall be calculated
proportionately to the investment made in one or more of the companies or
enterprises or entities referred to in item (b) of the said sub-clause, in
such manner as may be prescribed:Provided also that in case a non-banking
finance company registered as an Infrastructure Finance Company or
Infrastructure Debt Fund, referred to in item (e) of sub-clause (iii), has
lending of less than one hundred per cent. in one or more of the companies or
enterprises or entities referred to in item (b) of the said sub-clause, income
accrued or arisen or received or attributable to such lending, directly or
indirectly, which is exempt under this clause shall be calculated
proportionately to the lending made in one or more of the companies or
enterprises or entities referred to in item (b) of the said sub-clause, in
such manner as may be prescribed:Provided also that in case a sovereign wealth
fund or pension fund has loans or borrowings, directly or indirectly, for the
purposes of making investment in India, such fund shall be deemed to be not
eligible for exemption under this clause.”;(C)the Explanation shall be
numbered as Explanation 1 thereof, and in Explanation 1 as so numbered,––(i)in
clause (b),––(I)after sub-clause (iv), the following proviso shall be
inserted, namely:––“Provided that the provisions of sub-clause(iii)and (iv)
shall not apply to any payment made to creditors or depositors for loan taken
or borrowing for the purposes other than for making investment in
India;”;(II)in sub-clause (v), for the words “undertake any commercial
activity whether within or outside India”, the words “participate in the day
to day operations of investee but the monitoring mechanism to protect the
investment with the investee including the right to appoint directors or
executive director shall not be considered as participation in the day to day
operations of the investee” shall be substituted;(ii)in clause (c),––(I)in
sub-clause (ii), after the word “country”, the words “or if liable to tax,
exemption from taxation for all its income has been provided by such foreign
country” shall be inserted;(II)in sub-clause (iii), for the words
“prescribed;and”, the word “prescribed;”, shall be substituted;(III)after sub-
clause (iii), the following subclause shall be inserted, namely:––“(iiia) it
does not participate in the day to day operations of investee but the
monitoring mechanism to protect the investment with the investee including the
right to appoint directors or executive director shall not be considered as
participation in day to day operations of the investee; and”;(D)after
Explanation 1, the following Explanations shall be inserted,
namely:––‘Explanation 2.— For the purposes of this clause,––(i)“investee”
means a business trust, or a company, or an enterprise, or an entity, or a
Category I or Category II Alternative Investment Fund, or an Infrastructure
Investment Trust or a domestic company, or an Infrastructure Finance Company
or an Infrastructure Debt Fund referred to in item (e) of sub-clause (iii), in
which the sovereign wealth fund or the pension fund, as the case may be, has
made the investment, directly or indirectly, under the provisions of this
clause;(ii)“loan and borrowing” means—(a)any loan taken or borrowing by a
sovereign wealth fund from, or any deposit or investment made in a sovereign
wealth fund by, any person other than the Government of the country in which
the sovereign wealth fund is set up;(b)any loan taken or borrowing by a
pension fund from or any deposit or investment made in a pension fund by, any
person but shall not include the deposit or investment which represents
statutory obligations and defined contributions of one or more funds or plans
established for providing retirement, social security, employment, disability,
death benefits or any similar compensation to the participants or
beneficiaries of such funds or plans, as the case may be.Explanation 3.––For
the purposes of this clause, the Central Government may prescribe that the
method of calculation of “fifty per cent.” referred to in item(c)or “seventy-
five per cent.” referred to in item (d) or “ninety per cent.” referred to in
item (e), of sub-clause (iii) shall be such as may be prescribed;’;(f)after
clause (23FE), the following clause shall be inserted with effect from the 1st
day of April, 2022, namely:––‘(23FF) any income of the nature of capital
gains, arising or received by a non-resident, which is on account of transfer
of share of a company resident in India, by the resultant fund and such shares
were transferred from the original fund to the resultant fund in relocation,
and where capital gains on such shares were not chargeable to tax if that
relocation had not taken place.Explanation.-For the purposes of this
clause,-(a)the expressions "original fund", "relocation" and "resultant fund"
shall have the· meanings respectively assigned to them in the Explanation to
clause(viiac)and clause (viiad) of section 47;(b)the expression "specified
fund" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (c) of the Explanation
to clause (4D) of section 10;(g)after clause (48C), the following clauses
shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April, 2022, namely:-"(48D)
any income accruing or arising to an institution established for financing the
infrastructure and development, set up under an Act of Parliament and notified
by the Central Government for the purposes of this clause, for a period of ten
consecutive assessment years beginning from the assessment year relevant to
the previous year in which such institution is set up;(48F)any income accruing
or arising to a developmental financing institution, licensed by the Reserve
Bank of India under an Act of the Parliament referred to in clause (48D) and
notified by the Central Government for the purposes of this clause, for a
period of five consecutive assessment years beginning from the assessment year
relevant to the previous year in which the developmental· financing
institution is set up:Provided that the Central Government may, by issuing
notification under this clause, extend the period of exemption under this
clause for a further period, not exceeding five more consecutive assessment
years, subject to fulfilment of such conditions as may be specified in the
said notification;";(h)in clause (50),-(I)for the figures "2021 ", the figures
"2020" shall be substituted;(II)for the Explanation, the following
Explanations shall be substituted, namely:-Explanation 1.-For the removal of
doubts it is hereby clarified that the income referred to in this clause shall
not include and shall be deemed never to have been included any income which
is chargeable to tax as royalty or fees for technical services in India under
this Act read with the agreement notified by the Central Government under
section 90 or section 90A.Explanation 2.—For the purposes of this
clause,––(i)“e-commerce supply or services” shall have the meaning assigned to
it in clause (cb) of section 164 of the Finance Act, 2016; 28 of
2016.(ii)"specified service" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause
(i) of section 164 of the Finance Act, 2016.’.

### 7. Amendment of section 11.

In section 11 of the Income-tax Act, with effect from the 1st day of April,
2022,––(a)in sub-section (1),––(i)in clause (d), for the word “institution”,
the words, brackets and figures “institution, subject to the condition that
such voluntary contributions are invested or deposited in one or more of the
forms or modes specified in sub-section (5) maintained specifically for such
corpus” shall be substituted;(ii)after Explanation 3, the following
Explanations shall be inserted, namely:––“Explanation 4.––For the purposes of
determining the amount of application under clause (a) or clause
(b),––(i)application for charitable or religious purposes from the corpus as
referred to in clause (d) of this subsection, shall not be treated as
application of income for charitable or religious purposes:Provided that the
amount not so treated as application, or part thereof, shall be treated as
application for charitable or religious purposes in the previous year in which
the amount, or part thereof, is invested or deposited back, into one or more
of the forms or modes specified in sub-section (5) maintained specifically for
such corpus, from the income of that year and to the extent of such investment
or deposit; and(ii)application for charitable or religious purposes, from any
loan or borrowing, shall not be treated as application of income for
charitable or religious purposes:Provided that the amount not so treated as
application, or part thereof, shall be treated as application for charitable
or religious purposes in the previous year in which the loan or borrowing, or
part thereof, is repaid from the income of that year and to the extent of such
repayment.Explanation 5.––For the purposes of this sub-section, it is hereby
clarified that the calculation of income required to be applied or accumulated
during the previous year shall be made without any set off or deduction or
allowance of any excess application of any of the year preceding the previous
year.”;(b)in sub-section (2), in the Explanation, after the figures and
letters “12AA”, the words, figures and letters “or section 12AB” shall be
inserted;(c)in sub-section (3), in clause (d), after the figures and letters
“12AA”, the words, figures and letters “or section 12AB” shall be inserted.

### 8. Amendment of section 32.

In section 32 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1),––(a)in clause (ii),
after the words, figures and letters, “after the 1st day of April, 1998,”, the
words “not being goodwill of a business or profession,” shall be
inserted;(b)in Explanation 3, in clause (b), after the words “or commercial
rights of similar nature”, the words “, not being goodwill of a business or
profession” shall be inserted.

### 9. Amendment of section 36.

In section 36 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), in clause (va), the
Explanation shall be numbered as Explanation 1 thereof and after Explanation 1
as so numbered, the following Explanation shall be inserted,
namely:––‘Explanation 2.––For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified
that the provisions of section 43B shall not apply and shall be deemed never
to have been applied for the purposes of determining the “due date” under this
clause;’.

### 10. Amendment of section 43.

In section 43B of the Income-tax Act, after Explanation 4, the following
Explanation shall be inserted, namely:––"as further adjusted by,-(A)the
increase or the reduction referred to in item (i), not being increase on
account of acquisition of goodwill of a business orprofession;(B)the reduction
by an amount which is equal to the actual cost of the goodwill falling within
that block as decreased by-(a)the amount of depreciation actually allowed to
the assessee under this Act or under the corresponding provisions of the
Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 for such goodwill in respect of any previous year
relevant to the assessment year commencing before the 1st day of April, 1988;
and(b)the amount of depreciation that would have been allowable to the
assessee for such goodwill for any assessment year commencing on or after the
1st day of April, 1988 as if the goodwill was the only asset in the relevant
block of assets, in respect of the previous year relevant to the assessment
year commencing on the 1o1 day of April 2021, in a case where the goodwill of
a business or profession was part of the block of assets on which depreciation
was obtained by the assessee for the immediate preceding previous year, so
however that the amount of such reduction does not exceed the written down
value.".

### 11. Amendment of section 43B.

In section 43B of the Income-tax Act, after Explanation 4, the following
Explanation shall be inserted, namely:––“Explanation 5.––For the removal of
doubts, it is hereby clarified that the provisions of this section shall not
apply and shall be deemed never to have been applied to a sum received by the
assessee from any of his employees to which the provisions of sub-clause (x)
of clause (24) of section 2 applies.”.

### 12. Amendment of section 43CA.

In Section 43CA of the Income-tax Act,-(a)in sub-section (1), after the
proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:––‘Provided further
that in case of transfer of an asset, being a residential unit, the provisions
of this proviso shall have the effect as if for the words “one hundred and ten
per cent.”, the words “one hundred and twenty per cent.” had been substituted,
if the following conditions are satisfied, namely:––(i)the transfer of such
residential unit takes place during the period beginning from the 12th day of
November, 2020 and ending on the 30th day of June, 2021;(ii)such transfer is
by way of first time allotment of the residential unit to any person;
and(iii)the consideration received or accruing as a result of such transfer
does not exceed two crore rupees.’;(b)after sub-section (4), the following
Explanation shall be inserted, namely:––‘Explanation.––For the purposes of
this section, “residential unit” means an independent housing unit with
separate facilities for living, cooking and sanitary requirement, distinctly
separated from other residential units within the building, which is directly
accessible from an outer door or through an interior door in a shared hallway
and not by walking through the living space of another household.’.

### 13. Amendment of section 44AB.

In section 44AB of the Income-tax Act, in clause (a), in the proviso, in long
line, for the words “five crore rupees”, the words “ten crore rupees” shall be
substituted.

### 14. Amendment of section 44ADA.

In section 44ADA of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), for the words “in
the case of an assessee, being a resident in India, who”, the words, brackets,
letter and figures “in case of an assessee, being an individual, Hindu
undivided family or a partnership firm other than a limited liability
partnership as defined under clause (n) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the
Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, who is a resident in India, and”
shall be substituted.

### 15. Amendment of section 44DB.

In section 44DB of the Income-tax Act,--(a)in sub-section (3), after the words
“successor cooperative bank”, the words “or to the converted banking company”
shall be inserted;(b)in sub-section (4), after the words “a successor
cooperative bank”, and the words “the successor co-operative bank” the words
“or to a converted banking company” and the words “or to the converted banking
company” shall, respectively, be inserted;(c)in sub-section (5),––(i)after
clause (c), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:––‘(ca) "banking
company" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (c) of section 5 of
Banking Regulation Act, 1949;’;(ii)in clause (d), after the words “a co-
operative bank”, the words “or conversion of a primary cooperative bank” shall
be inserted;(iii)after clause (d), the following clauses shall be inserted,
namely:––‘(da) “conversion” means transition of a primary co-operative bank to
a banking company under the scheme of the Reserve Bank of India as notified
vide its circular number DCBR. CO. LS. PCB. Cir. No. 5/07.01.000/2018-19,
dated the 27th September, 2018; (db) “converted banking company” means a
banking company formed as a result of conversion from primary co-operative
bank;’ ;(iv)in clause (h), after the words “the demerged cooperative bank”,
the words “or the primary co-operative bank which has been succeeded as a
result of conversion” shall be inserted;(v)after clause (h), the following
clause shall be inserted, namely:––‘(ha) “primary co-operative bank” shall
have the meaning assigned to it in clause (ccv) of section 5 of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949;’.

### 16. Amendment of section 45.

In section 45 of the Income-tax Act,––(a)after sub-section (1A), the following
sub-section shall be inserted, namely:––‘(1B) Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1), where any person receives at any time during any
previous year any amount under a unit linked insurance policy, to which
exemption under clause (10D) of section 10 does not apply on account of the
applicability of the fourth and fifth proviso thereof, including the amount
allocated by way of bonus on such policy, then, any profits or gains arising
from receipt of such amount by such person shall be chargeable to income-tax
under the head "Capital gains" and shall be deemed to be the income of such
person of the previous year in which such amount was received and the income
taxable shall be calculated in such manner as may be prescribed.’;(b)for sub-
section (4), the following sub-sections shall be substituted, namely:––'(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section(/), where a specified person
receives during the previous year any money or capital asset or both from a
specified entity in connection with the reconstitution of such specified
entity, then any profits or gains arising from receipt of such money by the
specified person shall be chargeable to income-tax as income of such specified
entity under the head "Capital gains" and shall be deemed to be the income of
such specified entity of the previous year in which such money or capital
asset or both were received by the specified person, and notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Act, such profits or gains shall be
determined in accordance with following formula, namely:-A=B+C-DWhere,A =
income chargeable to income-tax under this sub-section as income of the
specified entity under the head "Capital gains";B =value of any money received
by the specified person from the specified entity on the date of such
receipt;C = the amount of fair market value of the capital asset received by
the specified person from the specified entity on the date of such
receipt;andD = the amount of balance in the capital account (represented in
any manner) of the specified person in the books of accounts of the specified
entity at the time of its reconstitution:Provided that if the value of "A" in
the above formula is negative , its value shall be deemed to be zero:Provided
further that the balance in the capital account of the specified 5 person in
the books of account of the specified entity is to be calculated without
taking into account the increase in the capital account of the specified
person due to revaluation of any asset or due to self-generated goodwill or
any other self-generated asset.Explanation 1. -For the purposes of this sub-
section,-(i)the expressions "reconstitution of the specified entity",
"specified entity" and "specified person" shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in section 9B;(ii)"self-generated goodwill" and "self-
generated asset" mean goodwill or asset, as the case may be, which has been
acquired without incurring any cost for purchase or which has been generated
during the course of the business or profession.Explanation 2.-:-For the
removal of doubts it is clarified that when a capital asseet is received by a
specified person from a specified entityentity in connection with the
reconstitution of such specified entity, the provisions of this sub-section
shall operate in addition to the provisions of section 9B and the taxation
under the said provisions thereof shall be worked out independently.'.

### 17. Amendment of section 47.

In section 47 of the Income-tax Act,--(a)in clause (vica), after the words
“successor cooperative bank”, the words “or to the converted banking company”
shall be inserted;(b)in clause (vicb),––(i)after the words “successor co-
operative bank”, the words “or to the converted banking company” shall be
inserted;(ii)in the Explanation, for the words ‘expressions “business
reorganisation”, “predecessor co-operative bank” and’, the words ‘expressions
“business reorganisation”, “converted banking company”, “predecessor co-
operative bank” and’ shall be substituted;(c)after clause (viiab), the
following clauses shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April,
2022, namely:––‘(viiac) any transfer, in a relocation, of a capital asset by
the original fund to the resulting fund;(viiad)any transfer by a shareholder
or unit holder or interest holder, in a relocation, of a capital asset being a
share or unit or interest held by him in the original fund in consideration
for the share or unit or interest in the resultant fund;Explanation.–– For the
purposes of clauses (viiac) and (viiad),––(a)“original fund” means a fund
established or incorporated or registered outside India, which collects funds
from its members for investing it for their benefit and fulfills the following
conditions, namely:—(i)the fund is not a person resident in India;(ii)the fund
is a resident of a country or a specified territory with which an agreement
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 90 or subsection (1) of section 90A
has been entered into; or is established or incorporated or registered in a
country or a specified territory as may be notified by the Central Government
in this behalf;(iii)the fund and its activities are subject to applicable
investor protection regulations in the country or specified territory where it
is established or incorporated or is a resident; and(iv)fulfils such other
conditions as may be prescribed;(b)“relocation” means transfer of assets of
the original fund to a resultant fund on or before the 31st day of March,
2023, where consideration for such transfer is discharged in the form of share
or unit or interest in the resulting fund to the shareholder or unit holder or
interest holder of the original fund in the same proportion in which the share
or unit or interest was held by such shareholder or unit holder or interest
holder in such original fund;(c)“resultant fund” means a fund established or
incorporated in India in the form of a trust or a company or a limited
liability partnership, which––(i)has been granted a certificate of
registration as a Category I or Category II or Category III Alternative
Investment Fund, and is regulated under the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 2012 made under the
Securities and exchange Board of India Act, 1992; and 15 of 1992. or
International Finance Services Centres Authority Act, 2019; and(ii)is located
in any International Financial Services Centre as referred to in sub-section
(IA) of section SOLA;'.(viiae)any transfer of capital asset by India
Infrastructure· Finance Company Limited to an institution established for
Financing the Infrastructure and Development, set up under an Act of
Parliament and notified by the Central Government for the purposes of this
clause;

### 18. Amendment of section 48.

In section 48 of the Income-tax Act, after clause (ii) the following clause
shall be inserted, namely: --“(iii) in case of specified entity referred to in
sub-section (4A) of section 45, the amount included in the total income of
such specified entity under sub-section (4A) of section 45 which is
attributable to the capital asset being transferred, calculated in the
prescribed manner:”.

### 19. Amendment of section 49.

In section 49 of the income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), in clause (iii), in
sub-clause (e), after the words, brackets, figures and letters “clause (vicc)
or”, the words, brackets, figures and letters “clause (viiac) or clause
(viiad) or” shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April, 2022.

### 20. Amendment of section 50.

In section 50 of the Income-tax Act, in clause (2), the following proviso
shall be inserted, namely:––“Provided that in a case where goodwill of a
business or profession forms part of a block of asset for the assessment year
beginning on the 1st day of April, 2020 and depreciation thereon has been
obtained by the assessee under the Act, the written down value of that block
of asset and short term capital gain, if any, shall be determined in such
manner as may be prescribed.”.

### 21. Amendment of section 50B.

In section 508 of the Income-tax Act,-(a)for sub-section (2), the following
sub-section shall be substituted, namely:-(2)In relation to capital assets
being an undertaking or division transferred byway of such slump sale,-(i)the
"net worth" of the undertaking or the division, as the case may be, shall be
deemed to be the cost of acquisition and the cost of improvement for the
purposes of sections 48 and 49 and no regard shall be given to the provisions
contained in the second proviso to section 48;(ii)Fair market value of the
capital assets as on the date of transfer, calculated in the prescribed
manner, shall be deemed to be the full value of the consideration received or
accruing as a result of the transfer of such capital asset.';(b)in Explanation
2, after clause (a), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-"(aa) in
the case of capital asset being goodwill of a business or profession, which
has not been acquired by the assessee by purchase from a previous owner,
nil;".'

### 22. Amendment of section 54GB.

In section 54GB of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (5), in the proviso, for
the figures “2021”, the figures “2022” shall be substituted.

### 23. Amendment of section 55.

In section 55 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (2), for clause (a), the
following clause shall be substituted, namely:––“(a) in relation to a capital
asset, being goodwill of a business or profession, or a trade mark or brand
name associated with a business or profession, or a right to manufacture,
produce or process any article or thing, or right to carry on any business or
profession, or tenancy rights, or stage carriage permits, or loom hours,—(i)in
the case of acquisition of such asset by the assessee by purchase from a
previous owner, means the amount of the purchase price; and(ii)in the case
falling under sub-clauses (i) to (iv) of sub-section (1) of section 49 and
where such asset was acquired by the previous owner (as defined in that
section) by purchase, means the amount of the purchase price for such previous
owner; and(iii)in any other case, shall be taken to be nil:Provided that where
the capital asset, being goodwill of a business or profession, in respect of
which a deduction on account of depreciation undersub-section (1) of section
32 has been obtained by the assessee in any previous year preceding the
previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on or after the 1st
day of April, 2021, the provisions of sub-clauses (i) and (ii) shall apply
with the modification that the total amount of depreciation obtained by the
assessee under sub-section (1) of section 32 before the assessment year
commencing on the 1st day of April, 2021 shall be reduced from the amount of
purchase price;”.

### 24. Amendment of section 56.

In section 56 the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (2), in clause (x),––(a)in
sub-clause (b), in item (B), after the third proviso, the following proviso
shall be inserted, namely:––“Provided also that in case of property being
referred to in the second proviso to sub-section (1) of section 43CA, the
provisions of sub-item (ii) of item(B)shall have effect as if for the words
“ten per cent.”, the words “twenty per cent.” had been substituted;”;(b)in the
proviso, in clause (IX) after the words, brackets and figures “clause (vii)”,
the words, brackets, figures and letters “or clause (viiac) or clause (viiad)”
shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April, 2022.

### 25. Amendment of section 72A.

In section 72A of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1),––(i)for clause (c),
the following clauses shall be substituted, namely:––“(c) one or more public
sector company or companies with one or more public sector company or
companies; or(d)an erstwhile public sector company with one or more company or
companies, if the share purchase agreement entered into under strategic
disinvestment restricted immediate amalgamation of the said public sector
company and the amalgamation is carried out within five year from the end of
the previous year in which the restriction on amalgamation in the share
purchase agreement ends,”;(ii)after the long line, the following shall be
inserted, namely:––‘Provided that the accumulated loss and the unabsorbed
depreciation of the amalgamating company, in case of an amalgamation referred
to in clause (d), which is deemed to be the loss or, as the case may be, the
allowance for unabsorbed depreciation of the amalgamated company, shall not be
more than the accumulated loss and unabsorbed depreciation of the public
sector company as on the date on which the public sector company ceases to be
a public sector company as a result of strategic
disinvestment.Explanation.––For the purposes of clause (d),––(i)“control”
shall have the same meaning as assigned to in clause (27) of section 2 of the
Companies Act, 2013;(ii)“erstwhile public sector company” means a company
which was a public sector company in earlier previous years and ceases to be a
public sector company by way of strategic disinvestment by the
Government;(iii)“strategic disinvestment” means sale of shareholding by the
Central Government or any State Government in a public sector company which
results in reduction of its shareholding to below fifty-one per cent. along
with transfer of control to the buyer.’.

### 26. Amendment of section 79.

In section 79 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (2), after clause (d), the
following clause shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April,
2022, namely:––“(e) to a company to the extent that a change in the
shareholding has taken place during the previous year on account of relocation
referred to in theExplanation to clause (viiac) and (viiad) of section 47.”.

### 27. Amendment of section 80EEA.

In section 80EEA of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (3), in clause (i), for
the figures “2021”, the figures “2022” shall be substituted with effect from
the 1st day of April, 2022.

### 28. Amendment of section 80-IAC.

In section 80-IAC of the Income-tax Act, in the Explanation, in clause (ii),
in sub-clause (a), for the figures “2021”, the figures “2022” shall be
substituted.

### 29. Amendment of section 80-IBA.

In section 80-IBA of the Income-tax Act, with effect from the 1st day of
April, 2022,––(a)after sub-section (1) , the following sub-section shall be
inserted, namely:––“(1A) Where the gross total income of an assessee includes
any profits and gains derived from the business of developing and building
rental housing project,there shall be allowed a deduction of an amount equal
to hundred per cent. of the profits and gains derived from such
business.”;(b)in sub-section (2), in clause (a), for the figures “2021”, the
figures “2022”shall be substituted;(c)in sub-section (6), after clause (d),
the following clause shall be inserted, namely:––‘(da) “rental housing
project” means a project which is notified by the Central Government in the
Official Gazette under this clause on or before the 31st day of March, 2022
and fulfils such conditions as may be specified in the said notification;’.

### 30. Amendment of section 80LA.

In section 80LA of the Income-tax Act, with effect from the 1st day of April,
2022,––(i)in sub-section (1A), for the words “any other relevant laws was
obtained”, the words “permission or registration under the International
Financial Services Centre Authority Act, 2019 was obtained” shall be
substituted; 50 of 2019.(ii)in sub-section (2), after clause (c), the
following clause shall be inserted, namely:––“(d) arising from the transfer of
an asset, being an aircraft or aircraft engine, which was leased by a unit
referred to in clause (c) to a domestic company engaged in the business of
operation of aircraft, before such transfer subject to condition that the unit
has commenced operation on or before the 31st day of March, 2024.”;(iii)in
sub-section (3), for clause (ii), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:––“(ii) a copy of the permission obtained under clause (a) of sub-
section (1) of section 23 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 or copy of
permission or registration obtained under the International Financial Services
Centre Authority Act, 2019.”.

### 31. Insertion of new section 89A.

Relief from taxation in income from retirement benefit account maintained in a
notified country.‘89A. Where a specified person has income accrued in a
specified account, such income shall be taxed in such manner and in such year
as may be prescribed.Explanation.––For the purposes of this
section,––(a)“specified person” means a person resident in India who opened a
specified account in a notified country while being non-resident in India and
resident in that country;(b)“specified account” means an account maintained in
a notified country by the specified person in respect of his retirement
benefits and the income from such account is not taxable on accrual basis but
is taxed by such country at the time of withdrawal or redemption;(c)“notified
country” means a country as may be notified by the Central Government in the
Official Gazette for the purposes of this section.’.

### 32. Amendment of section 112A.

In section 112A of the Income-tax Act, in the Explanation, in clause (a),(i)in
the opening portion, after the word and figures “section 10”, the words,
brackets, figures and letter “or under a scheme of an insurance company
comprising unit linked insurance policies to which exemption under clause
(10D) of the said section does not apply on account of the applicability of
the fourth and fifth proviso thereof” shall be inserted.(ii)after the proviso,
the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:-"Provided further that in
case of a scheme of an insurance company comprising unit linked insurance
policies· to which exemption under clause (JOD) of section 10 does not apply
on account of the applicability of the fourth and fifth proviso thereof, the
minimum requirement of ninety per cent. or sixty-five per cent., as the case
may be, is required to be satisfied throughout the term of such insurance
policy".'.

### 33. Amendment of section 115ACA.

In section l15ACA of the Income-tax Act, in the Explanation, with effect from
the 1st day of April, 2022-{i) in clause (a), in the opening portion,-(a)after
the words "the Overseas Depository Bank outside India", the words "or in an
International Financial Services Centre" shall be inserted;(b)after sub-clause
(ii), the following sub-clause shall be inserted, namely:-"(iii) ordinary
shares of issuing company, being a company incorporated outside India, if such
depository receipt or certificate is listed and traded on any International
Financial Services Centre;";(ii)after clause (c), the following clause shall
be inserted, namely:-'(ca) "International Financial Services Centre" shall
have the meaning assigned to it in clause ( q) of section 2 of the Special
Economic Zone Act, 2005.' .'.

### 34. Amendment of section 115AD.

In section 115AD of the Income-tax Act, with effect from the 1st day of April,
2022,––(i)after sub-section (1A), the following sub-section shall be inserted,
namely:––“(1B) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1), in case
of investment division of an offshore banking unit, the provisions of this
section shall apply to the extent of income that is attributable to the
investment division of such banking units, referred to in sub-clause (ii) of
clause( c) to the Explanation to clause (4D) of section 10, as a Category-III
portfolio investor under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign
Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019 made under the Securities And Exchange
Board of India Act, 1992, calculated in such manner as may be
prescribed.”;(ii)in the Explanation, after clause (a), the following clause
shall be inserted, namely:–––“(aa) the expression “investment division of
offshore banking unit” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (aa) of
the Explanation to clause (4D) of section 10;”.

### 35. Amendment of section 115JB.

In section 115JB of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (2),––(a)in Explanation
1,––(i)in clause (fb), in sub-clause (B), for the words “interest, royalty”,
the words “interest, dividend, royalty” shall be substituted;(ii)in the long
line, in clause (iid), in sub-clause (B), for the words “interest, royalty”,
the words “interest, dividend, royalty” shall be substituted;(b)after sub-
section (2C), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely: --“(2D) In
the case of an assessee being a company, where there is an increase in book
profit of the previous year due to income of past year or years included in
the book profit on account of an advance pricing agreement entered into by the
assessee under section 92CC or on account of secondary adjustment required to
be made under section 92CE, the Assessing Officer shall, on an application
made to him in this behalf by the asssessee, recompute the book profit of the
past year or years and tax payable, if any, by the assessee during the
previous year under sub-section (1), in such manner as may be prescribed and
the provisions of section 154 shall, so far as may be, apply and the period of
four years specified in sub-section (7) of that section shall be reckoned from
the end of the financial year in which the said application is received by the
Assessing Officer.”.Provided that the provisions of this sub-section shall
apply only if the assessee has not utilised the credit of tax paid under this
section in any subsequent assessment year under section 115JAA:Provided that
the provisions of this sub-section shall also apply to an assessment year
beginning on or before the 1st day of April, 2020 and notwithstanding anything
contained in any other provisions of this Act, no interest shall be payable to
such assessee on the refund arising on account of the provisions of this subo
section.".

### 36. Amendment of section 115UB.

In section 11 SUB of the Income-tax Act, in Explanation 1, in clause (a), for
the figures "1992", the figures and words "1992 or under the International
Financial Services Centers Authority Act, 2019" shall be substituted with
effect from the 1st day of April, 2022.

### 37. Amendment of section 139.

In section 139 of the Income-tax Act,––(a)in sub-section (1), in Explanation
2,––(i)in clause (a), in sub-clause (iii), after the words “any other law for
the time being in force”, the words, figure and letter “or the spouse of
suchpartner if the provisions of section 5A applies to such spouse” shall be
inserted;(ii)in clause (aa), after the words “an assessee”, the words “,
including the partners of the firm being such assessee,” shall be
inserted;(b)in sub-section (4), for the words “return for any previous year at
any time before”, the words “a return for any previous year at any time within
three months prior to” shall be substituted;(c)in sub-section (5), for the
words “he may furnish a revised return at any time”, the words “he may furnish
a revised return at any time within three months” shall be substituted;(d)in
sub-section (9), in the Explanation, the following proviso shall be inserted,
namely:––“Provided that the Board may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify that any of the conditions specified in clauses (a) to (f) to
the Explanation shall not apply to such class of assessees or shall apply with
such modifications, as may be specified in such notification.”.

### 38. Amendment of section 142.

In section 142 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), in clause (i), after
the existing proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted,
namely:––“Provided further that a notice under this sub-section for the
purposes of this clause may also be served by the prescribed income-tax
authority,”.

### 39. Amendment of section 143.

In section 143 of the Income-tax Act,—(a)in sub-section (1),––(i)in the second
proviso, for the words “one year”, the words “nine months” shall be
substituted;(ii)in clause (a),––(I)in sub-clause (iv), for the words
“disallowance of expenditure indicated”, the words “disallowance of
expenditure or increase in income indicated” shall be substituted;(II)in sub-
clause (v), for the words, figures and letters “sections 10AA, 80-IA, 80-IAB,
80-IB, 80-IC, 80-ID or section 80-IE, if”, the words, figures and letters
‘section 10AA or under any of the provisions of Chapter VI-A under the heading
“C.-Deductions in respect of certain incomes”, if’ shall be substituted;(b)in
sub-section (2), in the proviso, for the word “six”, the word “three” shall be
substituted.

### 40. Substitution of new section for section 147.

For section 147 of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:-Income escaping assessment.“147. If any income chargeable
to tax, in the case of an assessee, has escaped assessment for any assessment
year, the Assessing Officer may, subject to the provisions of sections 148 to
153, assess or reassess such income or recompute the loss or the depreciation
allowance or any other allowance or deduction for such assessment year
(hereafter in this section and in sections 148 to 153 referred to as the
relevant assessment year).Explanation.—For the purpose of assessment or
reassessment under this section, the Assessing Officer may assess or reassess
the income in respect of any issue, which has escaped assessment, and such
issue comes to his notice subsequently in the course of the proceedings under
this section, irrespective of the fact that the provisions of section 148A
have not been complied with.”.

### 41. Substitution of new section for section 148.

For section 148 of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:-Issue of notice where income has escaped assessment.“148.
Before making the assessment, reassessment or recomputation under section 147,
and subject to the provisions of section 148A, the Assessing Officer shall
serve on the assessee a notice, along with a copy of the order passed, if
required, under clause (d) of section 148A, requiring him to furnish within
such period, as may be specified in such notice, a return of his income or the
income of any other person in respect of which he is assessable under this Act
during the previous year corresponding to the relevant assessment year, in the
prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner and setting forth such
other particulars as may be prescribed; and the provisions of this Act shall,
so far as may be, apply accordingly as if such return were a return required
to be furnished under section 139:Provided that no notice under this section
shall be issued unless there is information with the Assessing Officer which
suggests that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment in the case
of the assessee for the relevant assessment year and the Assessing Officer has
obtained prior approval of the specified authority to issue such
notice.Explanation 1.—For the purposes of this section and section 148A, the
information with the Assessing Officer which suggests that the income
chargeable to tax has escaped assessment means,—(i)any information flagged in
the case of the assessee for the relevant assessment year in accordance with
the risk management strategy formulated by the Board from time to time;(ii)any
final objection raised by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India to the
effect that the assessment in the case of the assessee for the relevant
assessment year has not been made in accordance with the provisions of this
Act.Explanation 2.—For the purposes of this section, where,—(i)a search is
initiated under section 132 or books ofaccount, other documents or any assets
are requisitioned under section 132A, on or after the 1st day of April,
2021,in the case of the assessee; or(ii)a survey is conducted under section
133A in the case of the assessee on or after the 1st day of April, 2021;
or(iii)the Assessing Officer is satisfied, with the prior approval of the
Principal Commissioner or Commissioner, that any money, bullion, jewellery or
other valuable article or thing, seized or requisitioned in case of any other
person on or after the 1st day of April, 2021, belongs to the assessee;
or(iv)the Assessing Officer is satisfied, with the prior approval of Principal
Commissioner or Commissioner, that any books of account or documents, seized
or requisitioned in case of any other person on or after the 1st day of April,
2021, pertains or pertain to, or any information contained therein, relate to,
the assessee, the Assessing Officer shall be deemed to have information which
suggests that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment in the case
of the assessee for the three assessment years immediately preceding the
assessment year relevant to the previous year in which the search is initiated
or books of account, other documents or any assets are requisitioned or survey
is conducted in the case of the assessee or money, bullion, jewellery or other
valuable article or thing or books of account or documents are seized or
requisitioned in case of any other person.Explanation.3—For the purposes of
this section, specified authority means the specified authority referred to in
section 151.”.

### 42. Insertion of new section 148A.

After section 148 of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:—Conducting inquiry, providing opportunity before issue of
notice under section 148.“148A. The Assessing Officer shall, before issuing
any notice under section 148, —(a)conduct any enquiry, if required, with the
prior approval of specified authority, with respect to the information which
suggests that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment;(b)provide
an opportunity of being heard to the assessee, with the prior approval of
specified authority, by serving upon him a notice to show cause within such
time, as may be specified in the notice, being not less than seven days and
but not exceeding thirty days from the date on which such notice is issued, or
such time, as may be extended by him on the basis of an application in this
behalf, as to why a notice under section 148 should not be issued on the basis
of information which suggests that income chargeable to tax has escaped
assessment in his case for the relevant assessment year and results of enquiry
conducted, if any, as per clause (a);(c)consider the reply of assessee
furnished, if any, in response to the show-cause notice referred to in clause
(b);(d)decide, on the basis of material available on record including reply of
the assessee, whether or not it is a fit case to issue a notice under section
148, by passing an order, with the prior approval of specified authority,
within one month from the end of the month in which the reply referred to in
clause (c) is received by him, or where no such reply is furnished, within one
month from the end of the month in which time or extended time allowed to
furnish a reply as per clause (b) expires:Provided that the provisions of this
section shall not apply in a case where,—(a)a search is initiated under
section 132 or books of account, other documents or any assets are
requisitioned under section 132A in the case of the assessee on or after the
1st day of April, 2021; or(b)the Assessing Officer is satisfied, with the
prior approval of the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner that any money,
bullion, jewellery or other valuable article or thing, seized in a search
under section 132 or requisitioned under section 132A, in the case of any
other person on or after the 1st day of April, 2021, belongs to the assessee;
or(c)the Assessing Officer is satisfied, with the prior approval of the
Principal Commissioner or Commissioner that any books of account or documents,
seized in a search under section 132 or requisitioned under section 132A, in
case of any other person on or after the 1st day of April, 2021, pertains or
pertain to, or any information contained therein, relate to, the
assessee.Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, specified authority
means the specified authority referred to in section 151.”

### 43. Substitution of new section for section 149.

For section 149 of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:––Time limit for notice.“149. (1) No notice under section
148 shall be issued for the relevant assessment year,—(a)if three years have
elapsed from the end of the relevant assessment year, unless the case falls
under clause (b);(b)if three years, but not more than ten years, have elapsed
from the end of the relevant assessment year unless the Assessing Officer has
in his possession books of accounts or other documents or evidence which
reveal that the income chargeable to tax, represented in the form of asset,
which has escaped assessment amounts to or is likely to amount to fifty lakh
rupees or more for that year:Provided that no notice under section 148 shall
be issued at any time in a case for the relevant assessment year beginning on
or before 1st day of April, 2021, if such notice could not have been issued at
that time on account of being beyond the time limit specified under the
provisions of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of this section, as they stood
immediately before the commencement of the Finance Act, 2021:Provided further
that the provisions of this sub-section shall not apply in a case, where a
notice under section 153A, or section 153C read with section 153A, is required
to be issued in relation to a search initiated under section 132 or books of
account, other documents or any assets requisitioned under section 132A, on or
before the 31st day of March, 2021:Provided also that for the purposes of
computing the period of limitation as per this section, the time or extended
time allowed to the assessee, as per show-cause notice issued under clause (b)
of section 148A or the period during which the proceeding under section 148A
is stayed by an order or injunction of any court, shall be excluded:Provided
also that where immediately after the exclusion of the period referred to in
the immediately preceding proviso, the period of limitation available to the
Assessing Officer for passing an order under clause (d) of section 148A is
less than seven days, such remaining period shall be extended to seven days
and the period of limitation in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be extended
accordingly.Explanation.-For the purposes of clause (b) of this sub-section,
"asset" shall include immovable property, being land or building or both,
shares and securities, loans and advances, deposits in bank account.'.(2)The
provisions of sub-section (1) as to the issue of notice shall be subject to
the provisions of section 151.”.

### 44. Substitution of new section for section 151.

For section 151 of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:-Sanction for issue of notice.“151. Specified authority
for the purposes of section 148 and section 148A shall be,—(i)Principal
Commissioner or Principal Director or Commissioner or Director, if three years
or less than three years have elapsed from the end of the relevant assessment
year;(ii)Principal Chief Commissioner or Principal Director General or where
there is no Principal Chief Commissioner or Principal Director General, Chief
Commissioner or Director General, if more than three years have elapsed from
the end of the relevant assessment year.”.

### 45. Amendment of section 151A.

In section 151A of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), in the opening
portion, after the words and figures “issuance of notice under section 148”,
the words, figures and letter “or conducting of enquiries or issuance of show-
cause notice or passing of order under section 148A” shall be inserted.

### 46. Amendment of section 153.

In section 153 of the Income-tax Act,-(i)In section 153 of the Income-tax Act,
in sub-section (1), after the second proviso, the following proviso shall be
inserted, namely:––“Provided also that in respect of an order of assessment
relating to the assessment year commencing on or after the 1st day of April,
2021, the provisions of this sub-section shall have effect, as if for the
words “twenty-one months”, the words “nine months” had been
substituted.”.(ii)in Explanation 1,-(a)in clause (viii), for the words
"Authority for Advance Rulings", the words "Authority for Advance Rulings or
before the Board for Advance Rulings" shall be substituted;{b) in clause (ix),
for the words "Authority for Advance Rulings", the words "Authority for
Advance Rulings or before the Board for Advance Rulings" shall be
substituted;{c) after the third proviso, the following provisos shall be
inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with effect from the 1st
day of February, 2021, namely:-"Provided also that where the assessee
exercises the option to withdraw the application under sub-section (1) of
section 245M, the period of limitation available under this section to the
Assessing Officer for making an order of assessment, reassessment or
recomputation, as the case may be, shall, after the exclusion of the period
under sub-section (5) ofthe said section, be not less than one year; and where
such period of limitation is less than one year, it shall be deemed to have
been extended to one year:Provided also that for the purposes of determining
the period of limitation under sections 149, 154 and 155, and for the purposes
of payment of interest under section 244A, the provisions of the fourth
proviso shall apply accordingly.".'."Provided also that in respect of an order
of assessment relating to the assessment year commencing on or after the lst
day of April, 2021, the provisions of this sub-section shall have effect, as
if for the words "twentyo one months", the words "nine months" had been
substituted.".

### 47. Amendment of section 153A.

In section 153A of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), in the opening
portion, after the words, figures and letters “after the 31st day of May,
2003”, the words, figures and letters “but on or before the 31st day of March,
2021” shall be inserted.

### 48. Amendment of section 153B.

In section 153B of the Income-tax A-ct, in the Explanation,-(a)in clause (vi),
for the words "Authority for Advance Rulings", the words "Authority for
Advance Rulings or before the Board for Advance Rulings" shall be
substituted;(b)in clause (vii), for the words "Authority for Advance Rulings",
the words "Authority for Advance Rulings or before the Board for Advance
Rulings" shall be substituted;(c)after the third proviso, the following
proviso shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with
effect from the 1st day of February, 2021, namely:-"Provided also that where
the assessee exercises the option to withdraw the application under sub-
section (1) of section 245M, the period of limitation available under this
section to the Assessing Officer for making an order. of assessment or
reassessment, as the case may be, shall, after the exclusion of the period
under sub-section (5) of the said section, be not less than one year; and
where such period of limitation is less than one year, it shall be deemed to
have been extended to one year.".'.

### 49. Amendment of section 153C.

In section 153C of the Income-tax Act, after sub-section (2), the following
sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—“(3) Nothing contained in this section
shall apply in relation to a search initiated under section 132 or books of
account, other documents or any assets requisitioned under section 132A on or
after the 1st day of April, 2021.”.

### 50. Amendment of section 194.

In section 194 of the Income-tax Act, in the second proviso, after clause (c),
the following clauses shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have been
inserted with effect from the 1st day of April, 2020, namely:––‘(d) a
“business trust”, as defined in clause (13A) of section 2, by a special
purpose vehicle referred to in the Explanation to clause (23FC) of section
10;(e)any other person as may be notified by the Central Government in the
Official Gazette in this behalf.’.

### 51. Amendment of section 194A.

In section 194A of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (3), in clause (x),
after the words “infrastructure capital fund or”, the words “infrastructure
debt fund or” shall be inserted.

### 52. Amendment of section 194-IB.

In section 194-IB of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (4), for the words,
figures and letters “section 206AA, such”, the words, figures and letters
“section 206AA or section 206AB, such” shall be substituted with effect from
the 1st day of July, 2021.

### 53. Insertion of new section 194P.

After section 194-O of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:––Deduction of tax in case of specified senior citizen.‘194P.
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the provisions of Chapter XVII-B, in
case of a specified senior citizen, the specified bank shall, after giving
effect to the deduction allowable under Chapter VI-A and rebate allowable
under section 87A, compute the total income of such specified senior citizen
for the relevant assessment year and deduct income-tax on such total income on
the basis of the rates in force.(2)The provisions of section 139 shall not
apply to a specified senior citizen for the assessment year relevant to the
previous year in which the tax has been deducted under subsection
(1).Explanation.–– For the purposes of this section,––(a)“specified bank”
means a banking company as the Central Government may, by notification in
Official Gazette, specify;(b)“specified senior citizen” means an individual,
being a resident in India––(i)who is of the age of seventy-five years or more
at any time during the previous year;(ii)who is having income of the nature of
pension and no other income except the income of the nature of interest
received or receivable from any account maintained by such individual in the
same specified bank in which he is receiving his pension income; and(iii)has
furnished a declaration to the specified bank containing such particulars, in
such form and verified in such manner, as may be prescribed.’.

### 54. Insertion of new section 194Q.

After section 194P of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall be
inserted with effect 1st day of July, 2021, namely:––Deduction of tax at
source on payment of certain sum for purchase of goods.‘194Q. (1) Any person,
being a buyer who is responsible for paying any sum to any resident (hereafter
in this section referred to as the seller) for purchase of any goods of the
value or aggregate of such value exceeding fifty lakh rupees in any previous
year, shall, at the time of credit of such sum to the account of the seller or
at the time of payment thereof by any mode, whichever is earlier, deduct an
amount equal to 0.1 per cent. of such sum exceeding fifty lakh rupees as
income-tax.Explanation.––For the purposes of this sub-section, “buyer” means a
person whose total sales, gross receipts or turnover from the business carried
on by him exceed ten crore rupees during the financial year immediately
preceding the financial year in which the purchase of goods is carried out,
not being a person, as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify for this purpose, subject to such conditions as may
be specified therein.(2)Where any sum referred to in sub-section (1) is
credited to any account, whether called “suspense account” or by any other
name, in the books of account of the person liable to pay such income, such
credit of income shall be deemed to be the credit of such income to the
account of the payee and the provisions of this section shall apply
accordingly.(3)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of
this section, the Board may, with the previous approval of the Central
Government, issue guidelines for the purpose of removing the
difficulty.(4)Every guideline issued by the Board under sub-section (3) shall,
as soon as may be after it is issued, be laid before each House of Parliament,
and shall be binding on the incometax authorities and the person liable to
deduct tax.(5)The provisions of this section shall not apply to a transaction
on which––(a)tax is deductible under any of the provisions of this Act;
and(b)tax is collectible under the provisions of section 206C other than a
transaction to which sub-section (1H) of section 206C applies.’.

### 55. Amendment of section 196D.

In section 196D of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), the following
proviso shall be inserted, namely:––“Provided that where an agreement referred
to in subsection (1) of section 90 or sub-section (1) of section 90A applies
to the payee and if the payee has furnished a certificate referred to in sub-
section (4) of section 90 or sub-section (4) of section 90A, as the case may
be, then, income-tax thereon shall be deducted at the rate of twenty per cent.
or at the rate or rates of income-tax provided in such agreement for such
income, whichever is lower.”.

### 56. Amendment of section 206AA.

In section 206AA of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), after the proviso,
the following proviso shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of July,
2021, namely:––‘Provided further that where the tax is required to be deducted
under section 194Q, the provisions of clause (iii) shall apply as if for the
words “twenty per cent.”, the words “five per cent.” had been substituted.’.

### 57. Insertion of new section 206AB.

After section 206AA of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall be
inserted with effect from the 1st day of July, 2021, namely:––Special
provision for deduction of tax at source for non-filers of income-tax
return.‘206AB. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provisions
of this Act, where tax is required to be deducted at source under the
provisions of Chapter XVIIB, other than sections 192, 192A, 194B, 194BB,
194LBC or 194N on any sum or income or amount paid, or payable or credited, by
a person (hereafter referred to as deductee) to a specified person, the tax
shall be deducted at the higher of the following rates, namely:––(i)at twice
the rate specified in the relevant provision of the Act; or(ii)at twice the
rate or rates in force; or(iii)at the rate of five per cent..(2)If the
provisions of section 206AA is applicable to a specified person, in addition
to the provision of this section, the tax shall be deducted at higher of the
two rates provided in this section and in section 206AA.(3)For the purposes of
this section “specified person” means a person who has not filed the returns
of income for both of the two assessment years relevant to the two previous
years immediately prior to the previous year in which tax is required to be
deducted, for which the time limit of filing return of income under sub-
section (1) of section 139 has expired; and the aggregate of tax deducted at
source and tax collected at source in his case is rupees fifty thousand or
more in each of these two previous years:Provided that the specified person
shall not include a nonresident who does not have a permanent establishment in
India.Explanation.––For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression
“permanent establishment” includes a fixed place of business through which the
business of the enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.’.

### 58. Insertion of new section 206CCA.

After section 206CC of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall be
inserted with effect from the 1st day of July, 2021, namely:––Special
provision for collection of tax at source for non-filers of income-tax
return.‘206CCA. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provisions
of this Act, where tax is required to be collected at source under the
provisions of Chapter XVII-BB, on any sum or amount received by a person
(hereafter referred to as collectee) from a specified person, the tax shall be
collected at the higher of the following two rates, namely:––(i)at twice the
rate specified in the relevant provision of the Act; or(ii)at the rate of five
per cent.(2)If the provisions of section 206CC is applicable to a specified
person, in addition to the provisions of this section, the tax shall be
collected at higher of the two rates provided in this section and in section
206CC.(3)For the purposes of this section “specified person” means a person
who has not filed the returns of income for both of the two assessment years
relevant to the two previous years immediately prior to the previous year in
which tax is required to be collected, for which the time limit of filing
return of income under sub-section (1) of section 139 has expired; and the
aggregate of tax deducted at source and tax collected at source in his case is
rupees fifty thousand or more in each of these two previous years:Provided
that the specified person shall not include a nonresident who does not have a
permanent establishment in India.Explanation.––For the purposes of this sub-
section, the expression “permanent establishment” includes a fixed place of
business through which the business of the enterprise is wholly or partly
carried on.’.

### 59. Amendment of section 234C.

In section 234C of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1),––(i)in the first
proviso, for clause (d), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:––“(d) the amount of dividend income,”;(ii)the Explanation shall be
numbered as Explanation 1 thereof and after Explanation 1 as so numbered, the
following Explanation shall be inserted, namely: ––‘Explanation 2.––For the
purposes of this sub-section, the term “dividend” shall have the meaning
assigned to it in clause (22) of section 2, but shall not include sub-clause
(e) thereof.’.

### 60. Amendment of section 234F.

In section 234F of the Income-tax Act, for sub-section (1), the following sub-
section shall be substituted, namcly:-"(i) Without prejudice to the provisions
of this Act, where a person required to furnish a return of income under
section 139, fails to do so within the time prescribed in sub-section(i) of
the said section, he shall pay, by way of a fee, a sum of five thousand
rupees:Provided that if the total income of the person does not exceed five
lakh rupees, the fee payable under this section shall not exceed one thousand
rupees.";

### 61. Insertion of new section 234H.

After section 234G of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:-Fee for default relating to intimation of Aadhaar
number"234H. Without prejudice to the provisions of this Act, where a person
is required to intimate his Aadhaar number under sub-ection (2) of section
139AA and such person fails to do so on or before such date, as may be
presecribed, he shall be liable to pay such fee, as may be prescribed, not
exceeding one thousand rupees, at the time of making intimation under sub-
ection(2) of section 139AA after the said date.".'.

### 62. Amendment of section 245A.

In section 245A of the Income-tax Act, with effect from the 1st day of
February, 2021,––(i)after clause (d), the following clause shall be inserted
and shall be deemed to have been inserted, namely:––‘(da) “Interim Board”
means the Interim Board for Settlement constituted under section
245AA;’;(ii)after the clause (e), the following clauses shall be inserted and
shall be deemed to have been inserted, namely:––‘(ea) “Member of the Interim
Board” means a Member of the Interim Board;(eb)“pending application” means an
application which was filed under section 245C and which fulfils the following
conditions, namely: —(i)it was not declared invalid under sub-section (2C) of
section 245D; and(ii)no order under sub-section (4) of section 245D was issued
on or before the 31st day of January, 2021 with respect to such application;’.

### 63. Insertion of new section 245AA.

After section 245A of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall be
inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with effect from the 1st
day of February, 2021, namely:––Interim Boards for Settlement.“245AA.(1) The
Central Government shall constitute one or more Interim Boards for Settlement,
as may be necessary, for the settlement of pending applications.(2)Every
Interim Board shall consist of three members, each being an officer of the
rank of Chief Commissioner, as may be nominated by the Board.”.(3)If the
Members of the Interim Board differ in opinion on any point, the point shall
be decided according to the opinion of the majority.”.

### 64. Amendment of section 245B.

In section 245B of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), the following
proviso shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with
effect from the 1st day of February, 2021, namely:––“Provided that the Income-
tax Settlement Commission so constituted shall cease to operate on or after
the 1st day of February, 2021.”.

### 65. Amendment of section 245BC.

In section 245BC of the Income-tax Act, the following proviso shall be
inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with effect from the 1st
day of February, 2021, namely:––“Provided that the provisions of this section
shall not apply on or after the 1st day of February, 2021.”.

### 66. Amendment of section 245BD.

In section 245BD of the Income-tax Act, the following proviso shall be
inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted, with effect from the 1st
day of February, 2021, namely:––“Provided that the provisions of this section
shall not apply on or after the 1st day of February, 2021.”.

### 67. Amendment of section 245C.

In section 245C of the Income-tax Act, after subsection (4), the following
sub-section shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with
effect from the 1st day of February, 2021, namely:––“(5) No application shall
be made under this section on or after the 1st day of February, 2021.”.

### 68. Amendment of section 245D.

In section 245D of the Income-tax Act, with effect from the 1st day of
February, 2021,––(i)in sub-section (2C), after the second proviso, the
following proviso shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted,
namely:––“Provided also that where in respect of an application, an order,
which was required to be passed under this subsection on or before the 31st
day of January, 2021, has not been passed on or before the 31st day of
January, 2021, such application shall deemed to be valid.”;(ii)in sub-section
(6B), for the words “amend any order passed by it”, the words “amend any order
passed” shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been
substituted;(iii)after sub-section (8), the following sub-sections shall be
inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted, namely:––‘(9) On and from
the 1st day of February, 2021, the provisions of sub-sections (1), (2), (2B),
(2C), (3), (4), (4A), (5), (6) and (6B) shall apply to pending applications
allotted to Interim Board with the following modifications, namely:––(i)for
the words “Settlement Commission”, wherever they occur, the words “Interim
Board” shall be substituted;(ii)for the word “Bench”, the words “Interim
Board” shall be substituted;(iii)for the purposes of this section, the date
referred to in sub-section (2) of section 245M shall be deemed to be date on
which the application was made under section 245C and received by the Interim
Board;(iv)where the time-limit for amending any order or filing of
rectification application as per sub-section (6B) expires on or after the 1st
day of February, 2021, in computing the period of limitation, the period
commencing from the 1st February, 2021 and ending on the end of the month in
which the Interim Board is constituted shall be excluded and where immediately
after exclusion of such period, the remaining period available to the Interim
Board for amending the order or to the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner
or the applicant for filing of application is less than sixty days, such
remaining period shall be extended to sixty days and the period of limitation
shall be deemed to have been extended accordingly.(10)On and from the 1st day
of February, 2021, the provisions of sub-sections (6A) and (7) shall have
effect as if for the words “Settlement Commission”, the words “Settlement
Commission or Interim Board of Settlement” had been substituted.(11)The
Central Government may by notification in the Official Gazette, make a scheme,
for the purposes of settlement in respect of pending applications by the
Interim Board, so as to impart greater efficiency, transparency and
accountability by—(a)eliminating the interface between the Interim Board and
the assessee in the course of proceedings to the extent technologically
feasible;(b)optimising utilisation of the resources through economies of scale
and functional specialisation;(c)introducing a mechanism with dynamic
jurisdiction.(12)The Central Government may, for the purposes of giving effect
to the scheme made under sub-section (11), by notification in the Official
Gazette, direct that any of the provisions of this Act shall not apply or
shall apply with such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as may be
specified in the said notification:Provided that no such direction shall be
issued after the 31st day of March, 2023.(13)Every notification issued under
sub-section (11) and sub-section (12) shall, as soon as may be after the
notification is issued, be laid before each House of Parliament.”.

### 69. Amendment of section 245DD.

In section 245DD of the Income-tax Act, after sub-section (2), the following
sub-section shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with
effect from the 1st day of February, 2021, namely:––“(3) On and from the 1st
day of February, 2021, the power of the Settlement Commission under this
section shall be exercised by the Interim Board and the provisions of this
section shall mutatis mutandis apply to the Interim Board as they apply to the
Settlement Commission.”.

### 70. Amendment of section 245F.

In section 245F of the Income-tax Act, after sub-section (7), the following
sub-section shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with
effect from the 1st day of February, 2021, namely:––“(8) On and from the 1st
day of February, 2021, the powers and functions of the Settlement Commission
under this section shall be exercised or performed, by the Interim Board and
all the provisions of this section shall mutatis mutandis apply to the Interim
Board as they apply to the Settlement Commission.”.

### 71. Amendment of section 245G.

In section 245G of the Income-tax Act, after the first proviso, the following
proviso shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with
effect from the 1st day of February, 2021, namely:––“Provided further that on
or after the 1st day of February, 2021, functions of the Settlement Commission
under this section shall be performed by the Interim Board and the provisions
of this section shall mutatis mutandis apply to Interim Board as they apply to
the Settlement Commission.”.

### 72. Amendment of section 245H.

In section 245H of the Income-tax Act, after sub-section (2), the following
sub-section shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with
effect from the 1st day of February, 2021, namely:––“(3) On and from the 1st
day of February, 2021, the power of the Settlement Commission under this
section shall be exercised by the Interim Board and the provisions of this
section shall mutatis mutandis apply to the Interim Board as they apply to the
Settlement Commission.”.

### 73. Insertion of new section 245M.

In the Income-tax Act, after section 245L, the following section shall be
inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with effect from the 1st
day of February, 2021, namely:––Option to withdraw pending
application.“245M.(1) With respect to a pending application, the assessee who
had filed such application may, at his option, withdraw such application
within a period of three months from the date of commencement of the Finance
Act, 2021 and intimate the Assessing Officer, in the prescribed manner, about
such withdrawal.(2)Where the option under sub-section (1) is not exercised by
the assessee within the time allowed under that sub-section, the pending
application shall be deemed to have been received by the Interim Board on the
date on which such application is allotted or transferred to the Interim Board
under sub-section (3).(3)The Board may, by an order, allot any pending
application to any Interim Board and may also transfer, by an order, any
pending application from one Interim Board to another Interim Board.(4)Where
the pending application is allotted to an Interim Board under sub-section (3)
or transferred to another Interim Board subsequently, all the records,
documents or evidences, by whatever name called, with the Settlement
Commission shall be transferred to such Interim Board and shall be deemed to
be the records before it for all purposes.(5)Where the assessee exercises the
option under subsection (1) to withdraw his application, the proceedings with
respect to the application shall abate on the date on which such application
is withdrawn and the Assessing Officer, or, as the case may be, any other
income-tax authority before whom the proceeding at the time of making the
application was pending, shall dispose of the case in accordance with the
provisions of this Act as if no application under section

### 245C. had been made:

Provided that for the purposes of the time-limit under sections 149, 153,
153B, 154 and 155 and for the purposes of payment of interest under section
243 or 244 or, as the case may be, section 244A, for making the assessment or
reassessment under this sub-section, the period commencing on and from the
date of the application to the Settlement Commission under section 245C and
ending with the date referred to in this sub-section shall be
excluded:Provided further that the income-tax authority shall not be entitled
to use the material and other information produced by the assessee before the
Settlement Commission or the results of the inquiry held or evidence recorded
by the Settlement Commission in the course of proceedings before it:Provided
also that nothing contained in the first proviso shall apply in relation to
the material and other information collected, or results of the inquiry held
or evidence recorded by the Assessing Officer, or as the case may be, other
incometax authority during the course of any other proceeding under this Act
irrespective of whether such material or other information or results of the
inquiry or evidence were also produced by the assessee or the Assessing
Officer before the Settlement Commission.”.

### 74. Insertion of new Chapter XIXAA.

After Chapter XIX-A of the Income-tax Act, the following Chapter shall be
inserted, with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021, namely: —

## Chapter XIX  
AA DISPUTE RESOLUTION COMMITTEE IN CERTAIN CASES

### 245MA. Dispute Resolution Committee.

(1)The Central Government shall constitute, one or more Dispute Resolution
Committees, as may be necessary, in accordance with the rules made under this
Act, for dispute resolution in the case of such persons or class of persons,
as may be specified by the Board, who may opt for dispute resolution under
this Chapter in respect of dispute arising from any variation in the specified
order in his case and who fulfils the specified conditions.(2)The Dispute
Resolution Committee, subject to such conditions, as may be prescribed, shall
have the powers to reduce or waive any penalty imposable under this Act or
grant immunity from prosecution for any offence punishable under this Act in
case of a person whose dispute is resolved under this Chapter.(3)The Central
Government may make a scheme, by notification in the Official Gazette, for the
purposes of dispute resolution under this Chapter, so as to impart greater
efficiency, transparency and accountability by—(a)eliminating the interface
between the Dispute Resolution Committee and the assessee in the course of
dispute resolution proceedings to the extent technologically
feasible;(b)optimising utilisation of the resources through economies of scale
and functional specialisation;(c)introducing a dispute resolution system with
dynamic jurisdiction.(4)The Central Government may, for the purposes of giving
effect to the scheme made under sub-section (3), by notification in the
Official Gazette, direct that any of the provisions of this Act shall not
apply or shall apply with such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as
may be specified in the said notification:Provided that no such direction
shall be issued after the 31st day of March, 2023.(5)Every notification issued
under sub-sections (3) and(4)shall, as soon as may be after the notification
is issued, be laid before each House of Parliament.Explanation.— For the
purposes of this section,—(a)“specified conditions” in relation to a person
means a person who fulfils the following conditions, namely:—(I)where he is
not a person,—(A)in respect of whom an order of detention has been made under
the provisions of the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of
Smuggling Activities Act, 1974:Provided that—(i)such order of detention, being
an order to which the provisions of section 9 or section 12A of the said Act
do not apply, has been revoked on the report of the Advisory Board under
section 8 of the said Act or before the receipt of the report of the Advisory
Board; or(ii)such order of detention being an order to which the provisions of
section 9 of the said Act apply, has not been revoked before the expiry of the
time for, or on the basis of, the review under sub-section (3) of section 9,
or on the report of the Advisory Board under section 8, read with sub-section
(2) of section 9, of the said Act; or(iii)such order of detention, being an
order to which the provisions of section 12A of the said Act apply, has not
been revoked before the expiry of the time for, or on the basis of, the first
review under sub-section (3) of the said section, or on the basis of the
report of the Advisory Board under section 8, read with subsection (6) of
section 12A, of the said Act; or(iv)such order of detention has not been set
aside by a court of competent jurisdiction;(B)in respect of whom prosecution
for any offence punishable under the provisions of the Indian Penal Code, the
Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, the Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, the Prohibition of Benami Transactions Act,
1988, the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 or the Prevention of Money
Laundering Act, 2002 has been instituted and he has been convicted of any
offence punishable under any of those Acts;(C)in respect of whom prosecution
has been initiated by an income-tax authority for any offence punishable under
the provisions of this Act or the Indian Penal Code or for the purpose of
enforcement of any civil liability under any law for the time being in force,
or such person has been convicted of any such offence consequent upon the
prosecution initiated by an Income-tax authority;(D)who is notified under
section 3 of the Special Court (Trial of Offences Relating to Transactions in
Securities) Act, 1992;(II)such other conditions, as may be
prescribed.(b)“specified order” means such order, including draft order, as
may be specified by the Board, and,—(i)aggregate sum of variations proposed or
made in such order does not exceed ten lakh rupees;(ii)such order is not based
on search initiated under section 132 or requisition under section 132A in the
case of assessee or any other person or survey under section 133A or
information received under an agreement referred to in section 90 or section
90A;(iii)where return has been filed by the assessee for the assessment year
relevant to such order, total income as per such return does not exceed fifty
lakh rupees.’.

### 75. Amendment of section 245N.

In section 245N of the Income-tax Act,––(i)in clause (b), sub-clauses (B), (C)
and (D) shall be omitted with effect from such date as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint;(ii)in clause (c), after
the word “Authority”, the words “or the Board for Advance Rulings” shall be
inserted;(iii)after clause (c), the following clause shall be inserted,
namely:—‘(ca) “Board for Advance Rulings” means the Board for Advance Rulings
constituted by the Central Government under section 245-OB;’;(iv)in clause
(f), after the word “Vice-Chairman”, the words “or a Member of the Board for
Advance Rulings” shall be inserted.

### 76. Amendment of section 245-O.

In section 245-O of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), after the proviso,
the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—“Provided further that the
Authority so constituted shall cease to operate on and from such date as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.”.

### 77. Insertion of new section 245-OB.

After section 245-OA of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:—“245-OB. Board for Advance Rulings.(1)The Central Government
shall constitute one or more Boards for Advance Rulings, as may be necessary,
for giving advance rulings under this Chapter on or after such date as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint.(2)The Board for Advance Rulings shall consist of two members, each
being an officer not below the rank of Chief Commissioner, as may be nominated
by the Board.”.

### 78. Amendment of section 245P.

Section 245P of the Income-tax Act shall be numbered as sub-section (1)
thereof, and after sub-section (1) as so numbered, the following sub-section
shall be inserted, namely:––“(2) With effect from such date as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, the
provisions of this section shall have effect as if for the word “Authority”,
the words “Board for Advance Rulings” had been substituted.”.

### 79. Amendment of section 245Q.

In section 245Q of the Income-tax Act,—(a)in sub-section (1), the words,
figures and letters “or under Chapter IIIA of the Central Excise Act, 1944 or
under Chapter VA of the Finance Act, 1994” shall be omitted with effect from
such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint;(b)after sub-section (3), the following sub-section shall be
inserted, namely:—“(4) Where an application is made under this section before
such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette appoint, and in respect of which no order under sub-section (2) of
section 245R has been passed or advance ruling under sub-section (4) of
section 245R has been pronounced before such date, such application along with
all the relevant records, documents or material, by whatever name called, on
the file of the Authority shall be transferred to the Board for Advance
Rulings and shall be deemed to be the records before the Board for Advance
Rulings for all purposes.”.

### 80. Amendment of section 245R.

In section 245R of the Income-tax Act, after subsection (7), the following
sub-sections shall be inserted, namely:—‘(8) On and from such date as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, the
provisions of this section shall have effect as if for the word “Authority”,
the words “Board for Advance Rulings” had been substituted and the provisions
of this section shall apply mutatis mutandis to the Board for Advance Rulings
as they apply to the Authority.(9)The Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, make a scheme for the purposes of giving advance
rulings under this Chapter by the Board for Advance Rulings, so as to impart
greater efficiency, transparency and accountability by—(a)eliminating the
interface between the Board for Advance Rulings and the applicant in the
course of proceedings to the extent technologically feasible;(b)optimising
utilisation of the resources through economies of scale and functional
specialisation;(c)introducing a system with dynamic jurisdiction.(10)The
Central Government may, for the purposes of giving effect to the scheme made
under sub-section (9), by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that
any of the provisions of this Act shall not apply or shall apply with such
exceptions, modifications and adaptations as may be specified in the said
notification:Provided that no such direction shall be issued after the 31st
day of March, 2023.(11)Every notification issued under sub-section (9) and
sub-section (10) shall, as soon as may be after the notification is issued, be
laid before each House of Parliament.’.

### 81. Amendment of section 245S.

In section 245S of the Income-tax Act, after subsection (2), the following
sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—“(3) Nothing contained in this section
shall apply to any advance ruling pronounced under section 245R on or after
such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint.”.

### 82. Amendment of section 245T.

In section 245T of the Income-tax Act,—(a)in sub-section (1), the words “by
it” shall be omitted;(b)after sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall
be inserted, namely:—‘(3) With effect from such date as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, the provisions of this
section shall have effect as if for the word “Authority”, the words “Board for
Advance Rulings” had been substituted.’.

### 83. Amendment of section 245U.

In section 245U of the Income-tax Act, after sub-section (2), the following
sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—“(3) On and from such date as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, the
powers of the Authority under this section shall be exercised by the Board for
Advance Rulings and the provisions of this section shall mutatis mutandis
apply to the Board for Advance Rulings as they apply to the Authority.”.

### 84. Amendment of section 245V.

In section 245V of the Income-tax Act, the following proviso shall be
inserted, namely:—“Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply
on or after such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint.”.

### 85. Insertion of new section 245W.

After section 245V of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:—Appeal.“245W. (1) The applicant, if he is aggrieved by any
ruling pronounced or order passed by the Board for Advance Rulings or the
Assessing Officer, on the directions of the Principal Commissioner or
Commissioner, may appeal to the High Court against such ruling or order of the
Board of Advance Rulings within sixty days from the date of the communication
of that ruling or order, in such form and manner, as may be
prescribed:Provided that where the High Court is satisfied, on an application
made by the appellant in this behalf, that the appellant was prevented by
sufficient cause from presenting the appeal within the period specified in
sub-section (1), it may grant further period of thirty days for filing such
appeal.(2)The Central Government may make a scheme, by notification in the
Official Gazette, for the purposes of filing appeal to the High Court under
sub-section(1)by the Assessing Officer, so as to impart greater efficiency,
transparency and accountability by—(a)optimising utilisation of the resources
through economies of scale and functional specialisation;(b)introducing a
team-based mechanism with dynamic jurisdiction.(3)The Central Government may,
for the purposes of giving effect to the scheme made under sub-section (2), by
notification in the Official Gazette, direct that any of the provisions of
this Act shall not apply or shall apply with such exceptions, modifications
and adaptations as may be specified in the said notification:Provided that no
such direction shall be issued after the 31st day of March, 2023.(4)Every
notification issued under sub-section (2) and sub-section (3) shall, as soon
as may be after the notification is issued, be laid before each House of
Parliament.”.

### 86. Amendment of section 255.

In section 255 of the Income-tax Act, after sub-section (6), the following
sub-sections shall be inserted, namely: ––“(7) The Central Government may make
a scheme, by notification in the Official Gazette, for the purposes of
disposal of appeals by the Appellate Tribunal so as to impart greater
efficiency, transparency and accountability by—(a)eliminating the interface
between the Appellate Tribunal and parties to the appeal in the course of
appellate proceedings to the extent technologically feasible;(b)optimising
utilisation of the resources through economies of scale and functional
specialisation;(c)introducing an appellate system with dynamic
jurisdiction.(8)The Central Government may, for the purposes of giving effect
to the scheme made under sub-section (7), by notification in the Official
Gazette, direct that any of the provisions of this Act shall not apply to such
scheme or shall apply with such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as
may be specified in the said notification:Provided that no such direction
shall be issued after the 31st day of March, 2023.(9)Every notification issued
under sub-section (7) and sub-section (8) shall, as soon as may be after the
notification is issued, be laid before each House of Parliament.”.

### 87. Amendment of section 263.

In section 263 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), before Explanation,
for the words "Principal Commissioner", the words "Principal Chief
Commissioner or Chief Commissioner or Principal Commissioner" shall be
inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with effect from the 151
day of November, 2020.'.

### 88. Amendment of section 281B.

In section 281B of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), after the words
“escaped assessment”, the words, figures and letters “or for imposition of
penalty under section 271AAD where the amount or aggregate of amounts of
penalty likely to be imposed under the said section exceeds two crore rupees”
shall be inserted.

## Chapter IV  
INDIRECT TAXES

Customs

### 89. Amendment of section 2.

In the Customs Act, 1962 (hereinafter referred to as the Customs Act), in
section 2, after clause (7A), the following clause shall be inserted,
namely:––‘(7B) “common portal” means the Common Customs Electronic Portal
referred to in section 154C;’.

### 90. Amendment of section 5.

In section 5 of the Customs Act, in sub-section (3), for the words and figures
“Chapter XV and section 108”, the words, figures, brackets and letter
“ChapterXV, section 108 and subsection (1D) of section 110” shall be
substituted.

### 91. Amendment of section 25.

In section 25 of the Customs Act, after sub-section (4), the following sub-
section shall be inserted, namely:––“(4A) Where any exemption is granted
subject to any condition under sub-section (1), such exemption shall, unless
otherwise specified or varied or rescinded, be valid upto 31st day of March
falling immediately after two years from the date of such grant or
variation:Provided that in respect of any such exemption in force as on the
date on which the Finance Bill, 2021 receives the assent of the President, the
said period of two years shall be reckoned from the 1st day February, 2021.”.

### 92. Insertion of new section 28BB.

After section 28BA of the Customs Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:––Time limit for completion of certain actions.“28BB.(1) Any
inquiry or investigation under this Act, culminating in the issuance of a
notice under sub-section (1) or sub-section (4) of section 28 shall be
completed by issuing such notice, within a period of two years from the date
of initiation of audit, search, seizure or summons, as the case may
be:Provided that the Principal Commissioner of Customs or the Commissioner of
Customs may, on sufficient cause being shown and for reasons to be recorded in
writing, extend the said period to a further period of one year.(2)For
computing the period under sub-section (1), the period during which stay was
granted by an order of a court or tribunal, or the period for seeking
information from an overseas authority through a legal process, shall be
excluded.Explanation.––For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that
nothing contained in this section shall apply to any such proceeding initiated
before the date on which the Finance Bill, 2021 receives the assent of the
President.”.

### 93. Amendment of section 46.

In section 46 of the Customs Act, in sub-section (3),––(i)in the opening
portion, for the words and brackets “before the end of the next day following
the day (excluding holidays)”, the words and brackets “before the end of the
day (including holidays) preceding the day” shall be substituted;(ii)for the
words “Provided that”, the following shall be substituted, namely:––“Provided
that the Board may, in such cases as it may deem fit, prescribe different time
limits for presentation of the bill of entry, which shall not be later than
the end of the day of such arrival:Provided further that”;(iii)for the words
“Provided further that”, the words “Provided also that” shall be substituted.

### 94. Amendment of section 110.

In section 110 of the Customs Act, after sub-section (1C), the following sub-
section shall be inserted, namely:––“(1D) Where the goods seized under sub-
section (1) is gold in any form as notified under sub-section (1A), then, the
proper officer shall, instead of making an application under sub-section (1B)
to the Magistrate, make such application to the Commissioner (Appeals) having
jurisdiction, who shall, as soon as may be, allow the application and
thereafter, the proper officer shall dispose of such goods in such manner as
the Central Government may determine.”.

### 95. Amendment of section 113.

In section 113 of the Customs Act, after clause (j), the following clause
shall be inserted, namely:––“(ja) any goods entered for exportation under
claim of remission or refund of any duty or tax or levy to make a wrongful
claim in contravention of the provisions of this Act or any other law for the
time being in force;”.

### 96. Insertion of new section 114AC.

After section 114AB of the Customs Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:––Penalty for fraudulent utilisation of input tax credit for
claiming refund.‘114AC. Where any person has obtained any invoice by fraud,
collusion, willful misstatement or suppression of facts to utilise input tax
credit on the basis of such invoice for discharging any duty or tax on goods
that are entered for exportation under claim of refund of such duty or tax,
such person shall be liable for penalty not exceeding five times the refund
claimed.Explanation.––For the purposes of this section, the expression “input
tax credit” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (63) of
section 2 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017.’.

### 97. Amendment of section 139.

In section 139 of the Customs Act, in the Explanation, for the words,
brackets, figures and letter “a Magistrate under subsection (1C) of section
110”, the words, brackets, figures and letters “a Magistrate under sub-section
(1C), or Commissioner (Appeals) under sub-section (1D), of section 110” shall
be inserted.

### 98. Amendment of section 149.

In section 149 of the Customs Act, after the proviso, the following provisos
shall be inserted, namely:––“Provided further that such authorisation or
amendment may also be done electronically through the customs automated system
on the basis of risk evaluation through appropriate selection
criteria:Provided also that such amendments, as may be specified by the Board,
may be done by the importer or exporter on the common portal.”.

### 99. Amendment of section 153.

In section 153 of the Customs Act, in sub-section (1), after clause (c), the
following clause shall be inserted, namely:––“(ca) by making it available on
the common portal;”.

### 100. Insertion of new section 154C.

After section 154B of the Customs Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:––Common Customs Electronic Portal.“154C. The Board may
notify a common portal, to be called the Common Customs Electronic Portal, for
facilitating registration, filing of bills of entry, shipping bills, other
documents and forms prescribed under this Act or under any other law for the
time being in force or the rules or regulations made thereunder, payment of
duty and for such other purposes, as the Board may, by notification,
specify.”.Customs tariff

### 101. Amendment of section 8B.

In the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (hereinafter referred to as the Customs Tariff
Act), in section 8B, in sub-section (6),––(i)in clause (i), for the word
“unit;”, the words “unit; or” shall be substituted;(ii)for the Explanation,
the following Explanation shall be substituted, namely:–‘Explanation.––For the
purposes of this sub-section,–(a)the expression “hundred per cent.
exportoriented undertaking” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
clause (i) of Explanation 2 to subsection(1)of section 3 of the Central Excise
Act, 1944;(b)the expression “special economic zone” shall have the same
meaning as assigned to it in clause (za) of section 2 of the Special Economic
Zones Act, 2005.’.

### 102. Amendment of section 9.

In section 9 of the Customs Tariff Act,––(i)in sub-section (1A), after the
words “such other article also”, the words “from such date, not earlier than
the date of initiation of the inquiry, as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify” shall be inserted;(ii)after
sub-section (1A), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:––‘(1B)
Where the Central Government, on such inquiry as it considers necessary, is of
the opinion that absorption of countervailing duty imposed under sub-section
(1) has taken place whereby the countervailing duty so imposed is rendered
ineffective, it may modify such duty to counter the effect of such absorption,
from such date, not earlier than the date of initiation of the inquiry, as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify.Explanation.––For the purposes of this sub-section, “absorption of
countervailing duty” is said to have taken place,–(a)if there is a decrease in
the export price of an article without any commensurate change in the resale
price in India of such article imported from the exporting country or
territory; or(b)under such other circumstances as may be provided by
rules.’;(iii)after sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be
inserted, namely: –‘(2A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections
(1) and (2), a notification issued under sub-section (1) or any countervailing
duty imposed under sub-section (2) shall not apply to article imported by a
hundred per cent. export-oriented undertaking or a unit in a special economic
zone, unless, —(i)it is specifically made applicable in such notification or
to such undertaking or unit; or(ii)such article is either cleared as such into
the domestic tariff area or used in the manufacture of any goods that are
cleared into the domestic tariff area, in which case, countervailing duty
shall be imposed on that portion of the article so cleared or used, as was
applicable when it was imported into India.Explanation.––For the purposes of
this sub-section,––(a)the expression “hundred per cent. export-oriented
undertaking” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (i) of
Explanation 2 to sub-section(1)of section 3 of the Central Excise Act,
1944;(b)the expression “special economic zone” shall have the same meaning as
assigned to it in clause (za) of section 2 of the Special Economic Zones Act,
2005.’;(iv)in sub-section (6),––(a)in the first proviso, for the words “of
five years”, the words “upto five years” shall be substituted;(b)after the
second proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:––“Provided
also that if the said duty is revoked temporarily, the period of such
revocation shall not exceed one year at a time.”.

### 103. Amendment of section 9A.

In section 9A of the Customs Tariff Act,––(i)in sub-section (1A), after the
words “as the case may be”, the words “, from such date, not earlier than the
date of initiation of the inquiry, as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify” shall be inserted;(ii)after
sub-section (1A), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:––‘(1B)
Where the Central Government, on such inquiry as it may consider necessary, is
of the opinion that absorption of anti-dumping duty imposed under sub-section
(1) has taken place whereby the anti-dumping duty so imposed is rendered
ineffective, it may modify such duty to counter the effect of such absorption,
from such date, not earlier than the date of initiation of the inquiry, as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify.Explanation.––For the purposes of this sub-section, “absorption of
anti-dumping duty” is said to have taken place,––(a)if there is a decrease in
the export price of an article without any commensurate change in the cost of
production of such article or export price of such article to countries other
than India or resale price in India of such article imported from the
exporting country or territory; or(b)under such other circumstances as may be
provided by rules.’;(iii)for sub-section (2A), the following sub-section shall
be substituted, namely:––‘(2A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1) and sub-section (2), a notification issued under subsection (1) or
any anti-dumping duty imposed under subsection (2) shall not apply to articles
imported by a hundred per cent. export-oriented undertaking or a unit in a
special economic zone, unless,—(i)it is specifically made applicable in such
notification or to such undertaking or unit; or(ii)such article is either
cleared as such into the domestic tariff area or used in the manufacture of
any goods that are cleared into the domestic tariff area, in which case,
antidumping duty shall be imposed on that portion of the article so cleared or
used, as was applicable when it was imported into India.Explanation.––For the
purposes of this section,––(a)the expression “hundred per cent. export-
oriented undertaking” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause
(i) of Explanation 2 to sub-section(1)of section 3 of the Central Excise Act,
1944;(b)the expression “special economic zone” shall have the same meaning as
assigned to it in clause (za) of section 2 of the Special Economic Zones Act,
2005.’;(iv)in sub-section (5),––(a)in the first proviso, for the words “of
five years”, the words “upto five years” shall be substituted;(b)after the
second proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:–“Provided
also that if the said duty is revoked temporarily, the period of such
revocation shall not exceed one year at a time.”.

### 104. Amendment of First Schedule.

In the Customs Tariff Act, the First Schedule shall––(i)be amended in the
manner specified in the Second Schedule;(ii)with effect from the 1st April,
2021, be also amended in the manner specified in the Third Schedule;
and(iii)with effect from the 1st January, 2022, be also amended in the manner
specified in the Fourth Schedule.Excise

### 105. Amendment of Fourth Schedule.

In the Central Excise Act, 1944 (hereinafter referred to as the Central Excise
Act), the Fourth Schedule shall,––(i)with effect from the 1st April, 2021, be
amended in the manner specified in the Fifth Schedule; and(ii)with effect from
the 1st January, 2022, be also amended in the manner specified in the Sixth
Schedule.

### 106. Amendment of Chapter 27 of Fourth Schedule.

In the Fourth Schedule to the Central Excise Act, in Chapter 27, with effect
from the 1st day of January, 2020,––(i)for the entry in column (2) occurring
against tariff item 2710 12 49, the entry “---- M15 Fuel conforming to
standard IS 17076” shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been
substituted;(ii)for the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff item 2710
20 10, the entry “14% + Rs.15.00 per litre” shall be substituted and shall be
deemed to have been substituted;(iii)for the entry in column (4) occurring
against tariff item 2710 20 20, the entry “14% + Rs.15.00 per litre” shall be
substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted.

### 107. Revised date of effect to amendments made in Fourth Schedule vide
notification issued under section 3C of Central Excise Act, 1944.

Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph 2 of the notification of the
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) number
G.S.R 978 (E), dated the 31st December, 2019, issued in exercise of the powers
conferred under section 3C of the Central Excise Act, 1944, the amendments
made in Chapter 27 of the Fourth Schedule thereto by the said notification
shall be deemed to have, and always to have had effect, for all purposes, on
and from the

### 1st. day of January, 2020.

Central Goods and Services Tax

### 108. Amendment of section 7.

In the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (hereinafter referred as the
Central Goods and Services Tax Act), in section 7, in sub-section (1), after
clause (a), the following clause shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have
been inserted with effect from the 1st day of July, 2017, namely:––“(aa) the
activities or transactions, by a person, other than an individual, to its
members or constituents or viceversa, for cash, deferred payment or other
valuable consideration.Explanation.––For the purposes of this clause, it is
hereby clarified that, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for
the time being in force or any judgment, decree or order of any Court,
tribunal or authority, the person and its members or constituents shall be
deemed to be two separate persons and the supply of activities or transactions
inter se shall be deemed to take place from one such person to another;”.

### 109. Amendment of section 16.

In section 16 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-section (2),
after clause (a), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:––“(aa) the
details of the invoice or debit note referred to in clause (a) has been
furnished by the supplier in the statement of outward supplies and such
details have been communicated to the recipient of such invoice or debit note
in the manner specified under section 37;”

### 110. Amendment of section 35.

In section 35 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, sub-section (5) shall
be omitted.

### 111. Substitution of new section for section 44.

For section 44 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, the following
section shall be substituted, namely:––Annual return.“44. Every registered
person, other than an Input Service Distributor, a person paying tax under
section 51 or section 52, a casual taxable person and a non-resident taxable
person shall furnish an annual return which may include a selfcertified
reconciliation statement, reconciling the value of supplies declared in the
return furnished for the financial year, with the audited annual financial
statement for every financial year electronically, within such time and in
such form and in such manner as may be prescribed:Provided that the
Commissioner may, on the recommendations of the Council, by notification,
exempt any class of registered persons from filing annual return under this
section:Provided further that nothing contained in this section shall apply to
any department of the Central Government or a State Government or a local
authority, whose books of account are subject to audit by the Comptroller and
AuditorGeneral of India or an auditor appointed for auditing the accounts of
local authorities under any law for the time being in force.”.

### 112. Amendment of section 50.

In section 50 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-section (1),
for the proviso, the following proviso shall be substituted and shall be
deemed to have been substituted with effect from the 1st day of July, 2017,
namely:––“Provided that the interest on tax payable in respect of supplies
made during a tax period and declared in the return for the said period
furnished after the due date in accordance with the provisions of section 39,
except where such return is furnished after commencement of any proceedings
under section 73 or section 74 in respect of the said period, shall be payable
on that portion of the tax which is paid by debiting the electronic cash
ledger.”.

### 113. Amendment of section 74.

In section 74 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in Explanation 1, in
clause (ii), for the words and figures “sections 122, 125, 129 and 130”, the
words and figures “sections 122 and 125” shall be substituted.

### 114. Amendment of section 75.

In section 75 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-section (12),
the following Explanation shall be inserted, namely:––‘Explanation.––For the
purposes of this sub-section, the expression "self-assessed tax" shall include
the tax payable in respect of details of outward supplies furnished under
section 37, but not included in the return furnished under section 39.’.

### 115. Amendment of section 83.

In section 83 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, for sub-section (1),
the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:––“(1) Where, after the
initiation of any proceeding under Chapter XII, Chapter XIV or Chapter XV, the
Commissioner is of the opinion that for the purpose of protecting the interest
of the Government revenue it is necessary so to do, he may, by order in
writing, attach provisionally, any property, including bank account, belonging
to the taxable person or any person specified in sub-section (1A) of section
122, in such manner as may be prescribed.”.

### 116. Amendment of section 107.

In section 107 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-section (6),
the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:––“Provided that no appeal
shall be filed against an order under sub-section (3) of section 129, unless a
sum equal to twenty-five per cent. of the penalty has been paid by the
appellant.”.

### 117. Amendment of section 129.

In section 129 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, ––(i)in sub-section
(1), for clauses (a) and (b), the following clauses shall be substituted,
namely:––“(a) on payment of penalty equal to two hundred per cent. of the tax
payable on such goods and, in case of exempted goods, on payment of an amount
equal to two per cent. of the value of goods or twenty-five thousand rupees,
whichever is less, where the owner of the goods comes forward for payment of
such penalty;(b)on payment of penalty equal to fifty per cent. of the value of
the goods or two hundred per cent. of the tax payable on such goods, whichever
is higher, and in case of exempted goods, on payment of an amount equal to
five per cent. of the value of goods or twenty-five thousand rupees, whichever
is less, where the owner of the goods does not come forward for payment of
such penalty;”;(ii)sub-section (2) shall be omitted;(iii)for sub-section (3),
the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:––“(3) The proper
officer detaining or seizing goods or conveyance shall issue a notice within
seven days of such detention or seizure, specifying the penalty payable, and
thereafter, pass an order within a period of seven days from the date of
service of such notice, for payment of penalty under clause (a) or clause (b)
of sub-section (1).”;(iv)in sub-section (4), for the words “No tax, interest
or penalty”, the words “No penalty” shall be substituted;(v)for sub-section
(6), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:––“(6) Where the
person transporting any goods or the owner of such goods fails to pay the
amount of penalty under sub-section (1) within fifteen days from the date of
receipt of the copy of the order passed under sub-section (3), the goods or
conveyance so detained or seized shall be liable to be sold or disposed of
otherwise, in such manner and within such time as may be prescribed, to
recover the penalty payable under sub-section (3):Provided that the conveyance
shall be released on payment by the transporter of penalty under sub-section
(3) or one lakh rupees, whichever is less:Provided further that where the
detained or seized goods are perishable or hazardous in nature or are likely
to depreciate in value with passage of time, the said period of fifteen days
may be reduced by the proper officer.”.

### 118. Amendment of section 130.

In section 130 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act,––(a)in sub-section
(1), for the words “Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, if ”, the
word “Where” shall be substituted;(b)in sub-section (2), in the second
proviso, for the words, brackets and figures “amount of penalty leviable under
sub-section (1) of section 129”, the words “penalty equal to hundred per cent.
of the tax payable on such goods” shall be substituted;(c)sub-section (3)
shall be omitted.

### 119. Substitution of new section for section 151.

For section 151 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, the following
section shall be substituted, namely: ––Power to call for information.“151.
The Commissioner or an officer authorised by him may, by an order, direct any
person to furnish information relating to any matter dealt with in connection
with this Act, within such time, in such form, and in such manner, as may be
specified therein.”.

### 120. Amendment of section 152.

In section 152 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act,––(a)in sub-section
(1),––(i)the words “of any individual return or part thereof” shall be
omitted;(ii)after the words “any proceedings under this Act”, the words
“without giving an opportunity of being heard to the person concerned” shall
be inserted;(b)sub-section (2) shall be omitted.

### 121. Amendment of section 168.

In section 168 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-section
(2),––(i)for the words, brackets and figures “sub-section (1) of section 44”,
the word and figures “section 44” shall be substituted;(ii)the words, brackets
and figures “sub-section (1) of section 151,” shall be omitted.

### 122. Amendment to Schedule II.

In Schedule II of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, paragraph 7 shall be
omitted and shall be deemed to have been omitted with effect from the 1st day
of July, 2017.Integrated Goods and Services Tax

### 123. Amendment of section 16.

In the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, in section 16, ––(a)in
sub-section (1), in clause (b), after the words “supply of goods or services
or both”, the words “for authorised operations” shall be inserted;(b)for sub-
section (3), the following sub-sections shall be substituted, namely:––“(3) A
registered person making zero rated supply shall be eligible to claim refund
of unutilised input tax credit on supply of goods or services or both, without
payment of integrated tax, under bond or Letter of Undertaking, in accordance
with the provisions of section 54 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act or
the rules made thereunder, subject to such conditions, safeguards and
procedure as may be prescribed:Provided that the registered person making zero
rated supply of goods shall, in case of non-realisation of sale proceeds, be
liable to deposit the refund so received under this sub-section along with the
applicable interest under section 50 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act
within thirty days after the expiry of the time limit prescribed under the
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 for receipt of foreign exchange
remittances, in such manner as may be prescribed.(4)The Government may, on the
recommendation of the Council, and subject to such conditions, safeguards and
procedures, by notification, specify––(i)a class of persons who may make zero
rated supply on payment of integrated tax and claim refund of the tax so
paid;(ii)a class of goods or services which may be exported on payment of
integrated tax and the supplier of such goods or services may claim the refund
of tax so paid.”.

## Chapter V  
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT CESS

### 124. Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess on imported goods.

(1)There shall be levied and collected, in accordance with the provisions of
this section, for the purposes of the Union, a duty of customs, to be called
Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess, on the goods specified in the
First Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (hereinafter referred to as the
Customs Tariff Act), being the goods imported into India, at the rate not
exceeding the rate of customs duty as specified in the said Schedule, for
thepurposes of financing the agriculture infrastructure and other development
expenditure.(2)The Central Government may, after due appropriation made by
Parliament by law in this behalf, utilise such sums of money of the
Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess levied under this section for
the purposes specified in sub-section (1), as it may consider
necessary.(3)Where the duty is leviable on the goods at any percentage of its
value, then, for the purposes of calculating the Agriculture Infrastructure
and Development Cess under this section, the value of such goods shall be
calculated in the same manner as the value of goods is calculated for the
purpose of customs duty under section 14 of the Customs Act, 1962.(4)The
Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess on imported goods shall be in
addition to any other duties of customs chargeable on such goods, under the
Customs Act, 1962 or any other law for the time being in force.(5)The
provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 and the rules and regulations made
thereunder, including those relating to assessment, non-levy, short-levy,
refund, exemptions, interest, appeals, offences, and penalties shall, as far
as may be, apply in relation to the levy and collection of the Agriculture
Infrastructure and Development Cess on imported goods as they apply in
relation to the levy and collection of duties of customs on such goods under
the said Act, or the rules or regulations, as the case maybe.

### 125. Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess on excisable goods.

(1)There shall be levied and collected, in accordance with the provisions of
this section, for the purposes of the Union, an additional duty of excise, to
be called Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess, on the goods
specified in the Seventh Schedule (hereinafter referred to as scheduled
goods), being the goods manufactured or produced, at the rates specified in
column (3) of the said Schedule, for the purposes of financing the agriculture
infrastructure and other development expenditure.(2)The Central Government
may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in this behalf, utilise
such sums of money of the Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess
levied under this section for the purposes specified in sub-section (1), as it
may consider necessary.(3)The cess leviable under sub-section (1), chargeable
on the scheduled goods, shall be in addition to any other duties of excise
chargeable on such goods under the Central Excise Act, 1944 or any other law
for the time being in force.(4)The provisions of the Central Excise Act, 1944
and the rules and the regulations made thereunder, including those relating to
assessment, non-levy, short-levy, refund, exemptions, interest, appeals,
offences, and penalties shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to the levy
and collection of the cess leviable under this section in respect of scheduled
goods as they apply in relation to the levy and collection of duties of excise
on such goods under the said Act or the rules or regulations, as the case
maybe.

## Chapter VI  
MISCELLANEOUS

**PART I-AMENDMENT TO THE INDIAN STAMP ACT, 1899**

### 126. Insertion of new section 8G.

In the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, after section 8F, the following section shall
be inserted, namely:––Strategic sale, disinvestment, etc., of immovable
property by Government company not liable to stamp duty."8G. Notwithstanding
anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time being in force,
any instrument for conveyance or IS transfer of a business or asset or right
in any immovable property from a Government company, its subsidiary, unit or
joint venture,-(i)by way of strategic sale or disinvestment or demerger or any
other ·scheme of arrangements or through any law, to another Government
company or to the Central Government or any State ;t.D Government or to the
development financial institution established byany law made by Parliament;
or(ii)which is to be wound up, closed, struck-off, liquidated or otherwise
shut down, to another Government company or to the Central Government or any
State Government, after approval of the Central Government or the State
Government, as the case may be, shall not be liable to duty under this
Act.Explanation.––For the purposes of this section, “Government company” shall
have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (45) of section 2 of the
Companies Act, 2013.”.**PART II-AMENDMENT TO THE CONTINGENCY FUND OF INDIA
ACT, 1950**

### 127. Amendment of Act 49 of 1950.

In section 2 of the Contingency Fund of India Act, 1950, after sub-section
(2), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:––“(3) On and from
the date on which the Finance Bill, 2021 receives the assent of the President,
the sum which shall be paid from and out of the Consolidated Fund of India
into the Contingency Fund of India under sub-section (2) shall stand enhanced
to thirty thousand crores of rupees.”.**PART III-AMENDMENTS TO THE LIFE
INSURANCE CORPORATION ACT, 1956**

### 128. Commencement of this Part.

The provisions of this Part shall come into force on such date as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint:Provided that
different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this Part and any
reference in any such provision to the commencement of this Act shall be
construed as a reference to the coming into force of that provision.

### 129. Amendment of section 2.

In the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 (hereinafter in this Part referred
to as the principal Act), in section 2,—(i)after clause (1), the following
clauses shall be inserted, namely:—‘(1a) “Audit Committee” means the Committee
constituted under section 19C;(1b)“Board of Directors” or “Board” means the
collective body of the directors appointed or nominated or deemed as such
under section 4;(1c)“Chairperson” means the Chairperson referred to in clause
(a) of sub-section (2) of section 4;(Id)"Chief Executive" means,-(i)During the
initial period, the Chairperson referred to in sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of
sub-section (2) of section 4;(ii)after the initial period, the Chief Executive
Officer and Managing Director;(le)"Chief Executive Officer and Managing
Director" means the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director referred to
in clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 4;(1f)"Companies Act" means the
Companies Act, 2013;(Ig)"court" means "Court" as defined in clause (29) of
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;';(ii)after clause ( 4), the following
clauses shall be inserted, namely:-'(4a) "director" means a director appointed
or nominated or deemed as such under section 4;(4b)"financial statement", in
relation to the Corporation, includes-(i)a balance-sheet as at the end of the
financial year;(ii)a profit and loss account for the financial year;(iii)cash
flow statement for the financial year;(iv)a statement of changes in equity, if
applicable; and(v)any explanatory note annexed to, or forming part of, any
document referred to in sub-clause (i) to sub-clause (iv);(4c)“fully diluted
basis” shall mean, in relation to the percentage holding of the Central
Government on such basis, the total number of shares held by the Central
Government expressed as a percentage of the total number of shares of the
Corporation that would be outstanding if all possible sources of conversion
are exercised;(4d)“independent director” means an independent director
referred to in clause (f) of sub-section (2) of section 4;’;(4e)"initial
period" means the period of three years reckoned from the date on which the
provisions of section 121 of the Finance Act, 2021 shall come into
force;'.(iii)after clause (6), the following clause shall be inserted, namely
:-'(6a) "Managing Director" means a Managing Director referred to in clause
(c) of sub-section (2) of section 4;';(iv)for clause (7), the following
clauses shall be substituted, namely:-'(7) "member" means every person holding
shares of the /O Corporation and whose name is entered in .the register of
members maintained under clause (a) ofsub-section(J) of section
SB;(7a)"Nomination and Remuneration Committee" means the Committee constituted
under section l9B;(7b)"notification" means a notification published in the
Official Gazette, and the expression "notify" shall be construed
accordingly;';(v)after clause (8), the following clause shall be inserted,
namely:-'(8a) "special resolution" means a resolution for which the intention
to propose the same as a special resolution has been duly specified in the
notice given to members for calling a general meeting, and the votes cast in
favour of the resolutionby members are not less than three limes the number of
votes, if any, cast against the resolution;';(vi)for clause (10), the
following clause shall be substituted, namely:-"(10) unless there is anything
repugnant in the subject or context, all the words and expressions used herein
but not defined and defined in the Insurance Act, 1938 or in the Companies
Act, 2013 shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the said
Acts.".

### 130. Substitution of new section for section 4.

For section 4 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be
substituted, namely:-Board of Directors'4.(1) The general superintendence and
direction of the affairs and 35 business of the Corporation shall vest in its
Board of Directors, which may exercise all such powers and do all such acts
and things as may be exercised or done by the Corporation and are not by this
Act expressly directed or required to be done by the Corporation in general
meeting.(2)The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall consist of the 4b
following directors, not exceeding eighteen, of whom at least one shall be a
woman, namely:-(a)a Chairperson of the Board, to be appointed by the Central
Government, who shall,-(i)during the initial period, be a whole-time director
of the Corporation; and(ii)after the initial period, be from amongst the non-
executive directors nominated or to be nominated by the Central
Government;(b)after the initial period, a Chief Executive Officer and Managing
Director, who shall be a who-time director of the Corporation to be 'Sb
appointed by theCentral Government: ·Provided that where no Chief Executive
Officer and Managing Director is appointed before expiry of the initial
period, the individual holding office as Chairperson shall be deemed to have
been appointed as the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director on and
from the date of such expiry;".(c)Managing Directors, not exceeding four, to
be appointed by the Central Government, who shall be whole-time directors of
the Corporation;(d)an officer of the Central Government not below the rank of
a Joint Secretary to the Government of India, to be nominated by the Central
Government;(e)an individual to be nominated by the Central Government, who has
special knowledge or practical experience in actuarial science, business
management, economics, finance, human resources, information technology,
insurance, law, risk management, or any other field the special knowledge or
practical experience of which would be useful to the Corporation in the
opinion of the Central Government or who represent the interests of
policyholders;(f)where the total holding of members other than the Central
Government in the paid-up equity capital of the Corporation is-(a)not more
than ten per cent., one individual;(b)more than ten per cent., two
individuals;who shall be elected by and from amongst such members and in such
manner as may be specified by regulations, to be appointed by the Board;
and(g)such number of independent directors, not exceeding nine, to be
recommended by the Nomiriation and Remuneration Committee and appointed by the
Board;(3)An independent director of the Corporation shall, in relation to the
Corporation, meet the same criteria of independence as an independent director
of a company is required to meet in relation to the company under sub-section
(6) of section 149 of the Companies Act:Provided that such a director shall
also meet, in addition to the aforesaid criteria, any criteria that the
Nomination and Renumeration Committee may formulate regarding qualifications,
positive attributes and independence:Provided further that every such director
shall at the first meeting of the Board in which he participates as a director
and thereafter at the first meeting of the Board in every financial year or
whenever there is any change in the circumstances which may affect his status
as an Lio independent director, give a declaration that he meets the criteria
of independence under this sub-section and that he is not aware of any
circumstance or situation, which exist or may reasonably be anticipated, that
could impair or impact his ability to discharge his duties with an objective
independent judgment and without any external influence.(4)An individual
appointed by the Board as a director under clause (f) or clause (g) of sub-
section (2) shall hold office up to the date of the next annual general
meeting or the last date on which the annual general meeting should have been
held, whichever is earlier, and shall hold office beyond such date only if his
appointment is approved at the annual general meeting.(5)Before an individual
is appointed or nominated as a director under sub-section (2), the Central
Government or the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, as the case may be,
shall satisfy itself that such an individual as a director shall have no
financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially the exercise
or performance by him of the functions of a director:Provided that the Board
shall satisfy itself from time to time with respect to every director other
than a director nominated under clause (d) of sub-section (2) that he has no
such interest:Provided further that, for the purposes of this sub-section, any
10 individual who is, or whose appointment or nomination or election is
proposed and who has consented to be a director, shall furnish such
information as the Central Government or the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee or the Board, as the case may be, may require.(6)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (2), on and 15 from the appointed date, an
individual appointed under section 4 who is eligible to be or remain a
director under section 4A and who, immediately before such appointed date,
held the office of a member of the Corporation-(i)in the capacity as the
Chairman of the Corporation, shall be "-.o deemed to be a director and the
Chairperson under sub-clause {1) of clause (a) of sub-section (2);(ii)in the
capacity as a Managing Director of the Corporation, shall be deemed to be a
director and a Managing Director under clause (c) of sub-section (2);(iii)and
is an officer of the Central Government not below the rank of a Joint
Secretary to the Government of India in the department of Financial Services,
shall be deemed to be a director nominated under clause (d) of sub-section
(2);(iv)and has been in office for a duration which is the longest amongst
members other than members referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii), shall
be deemed to be a director nominated under clause (e) of sub-section
(2):Provided that every such individual shall hold office until expiry of the
term, if any, specified at the time of his appointment; as a member of the
Corporation, or until a director appointed or nominated, as the case may be,
under sub-section (2)in place of such an individual assumes office:Provided
further that any act or proceeding of the collective body of members
constituting the Corporation under section 4 before the appointed date, shall
be deemed to be an act or proceeding, as the case may be, of the
Board.Explanation-For the purposes of this sub-section,-(a)notwithstanding
anything contained in clause (7) of section 2, the expression "member" shall
mean a member appointed to the 45 Corporation constituted under section 4 [as
it stood before the coming into force of section 130 of the Finance Act,
2021];(b)"appointed date" means the date on which the provisions of section
130 of the Finance Act, 2021 shall come into force.

### 4A. Disqualification to be director.

An individual shall not be eligible to be or remain a director if, -(a)he is
of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent court;(b)he is an
undischarged insolvent;(c)he has applied to be adjudicated as an insolvent and
his application is pending;(d)he has been convicted by a court of any offence,
whether involving· moral turpitude or otherwise, and sentenced in respect
thereof to imprisonment for not less than six months and a period of five
years has not elapsed from the date of expiry of the sentence:Provided that if
an individual has been convicted of any offence and sentenced in respect
thereof to imprisonment for a period of seven years or more, he shall not be
eligible to be a director;(e)an order disqualifying him to be a director has
been passed by a court or the National Company Law Tribunal constituted under
section 408 of the Companies Act, and the order is in force;(f)he has not paid
any calls in respect of any shares of the Corporation held by him, whether
alone or jointly with others, and six months have elapsed from the last day
fixed for the payment of such call;(g)he attracts any disqualification for
being a director of a company under the provisions of sub-section (2) of
section 164 of the Companies Act, subject to such exceptions thereto as the
Central Government may be notification specify;(h)he is a salaried government
official, other than an individual nominated director under clause (d) of sub-
section (2) of section 4;(i)he is an insurance agent or an intermediary or an
insurance intermediary;(j)he is an employee of the Corporation, other than the
Chief Executive or a Managing Director, or of its subsidiary or associate
company;(k)he is a director of a subsidiary or an associate company of the
Corporation and is other than the Chief Executive or a Managing Director;(l)he
is an employee or a director or a promoter of any insurer carrying on life
insurance business anywhere in the world, other than the Corporation or its
subsidiary or associate company, or of any holding company, subsidiary or
associate company of such an insurer;(m)he absents himself from all the
meetings of the Board held during a period of twelve months, with or without
seeking leave of absence of the Board:Provided that the disqualifications
referred to in clauses (d) and (e) shall continue to apply even if an appeal
or petition has been filed against the order of conviction or
disqualification.

### 4B. Disclosure of interest by director and senior management.

(1)Every director shall at the first meeting of the Board in which he
participates as a director and thereafter at the first meeting of the Board in
every financial year, or whenever there is any change in the disclosures
already made, then at the first Board meeting held after such change, disclose
his concern or interest in any body corporate, which shall include
shareholding, in such manner as may be prescribed.(2)Every director who is in
any way, whether directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in a contract
or arrangement or proposed contract or arrangement entered into or to be
entered into by the Corporation-(a)with a body corporate in which such
director or such director in association with any other director, holds more
than two per cent shareholding of that body corporate, or is a promoter,
manager, chief executive officer or trustee of that body corporate, or;(b)with
a firm or other entity in which such director is a partner, owner or member,
as the case may be,shall not participate in any meeting of the Board or of its
Committee in which such contract or arrangement is deliberated upon, or in any
other deliberations or discussions regarding such contract or arrangement, and
shall, in the case of such deliberations in a meeting of the Board or its
Committee, disclose the nature of his concern or interestto the Board or the
Committee, as the case may be:Provided that where any director who is not so
concerned or interested at the time of entering into such contract or
arrangement, he pO shall, if he becomes concerned or interested after the
contract or arrangement is entered into, disclose his concern or interest
forthwith when he becomes concerned or interested, or at the first meeting of
the Board held after he becomes so concerned or interested.(3)A contract or
arrangement entered into by the Corporation without disclosure under sub-
section (2) or with participation by a director·who is concerned or interested
in any way, whether directly or indirectly, in such contract or arrangement,
shall be voidable at the option of the Corporation.(4)Such employees as the
Board may specify as constituting the senior management of the Corporation
shall make disclosures to the Board relating to all material, financial and
commercial transactions, in which they have personal interest that may have a
potential conflict with the interest of the Corporation, and the Board shall
formulate a policy on such transactions, including any materiality threshold
therefore, and shall review such policy at least once every three
years.Explanation-For the purposes of this sub-section, conflict of interest
relates to dealing in the shares of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries
or associate companies, commercial dealings with bodies in which the senior
management individual or his relatives have shareholding, etc.(5)If an
individual who is a director contravenes the provisions of sub-section (J) or
sub-section (2), or an employee referred to in sub-section (4), contravenes
such provisions, such an individual or employee shall be liable to pay penalty
of a sum of up to one lakh rupees.(6)Without prejudice to anything contained
in sub-section (5), it shall be open to the Corporation to proceed against a
director or any other employee who had entered into such contract or
arrangement in contravention of the provisions of this section for recovery of
any loss sustained by it as a result of such contract or
arrangement.Explanation-For the purposes of sections 4B and 4C, the expression
"body corporate" shall include a company, a body corporate as defined under
clause (11) of section 2 of the Companies Act, a firm, a financial institution
or a scheduled bank or a public sector enterprise established or constituted
by or under any Central Act or State Act, and an)' other incorporated
association of persons or body of individuals.

### 4C. Related party transactions.

(1)Except with the consent of the Board and subject to such conditions as may
be prescribed, the Corporation shall not enter into any contract or
arrangement with a related party with respect to-(a)sale, purchase or supply
of any goods or materials;(b)selling or otherwise disposing of, or buying,
property of any kind; ·(c)leasing of property of any kind;(d)availing or
rendering of any services;(e)appointment of any agent for purchase or sale of
goods; materials, services or property;(f)such related party's appointment to
any office or place of profit in the Corporation, its subsidiary or associate
company;(g)underwriting the subscription of any securities, or derivatives
thereof, of the Corporation:Provided that no contract or arrangement involving
transactions exceeding such sums as the Board may specify, shall be entered
into except with the prior approval in the general meeting:Provided further
that no member shall vote in such general meeting to approve any contract or
arrangement which may be entered into by the Corporation, if such member is a
related party:Provided also that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to
any transactions entered into by the Corporation in its ordinary course of
business, other than transactions which are not on an arm's length
basis:Provided also that the requirement of approval under the first proviso
shall not be applicable for transactions entered into between the Corporation
and-(a)its wholly owned subsidiary, if any, whose financial statements are
consolidated with the Corporation and placed before the 5 members at the
general meeting for adoption;(b)a Government company, or the Central
Government, or any State Government, or any combination thereof, in respect of
contracts or arrangement entered into between them.Explanation-In this sub-
section,-(a)the expression "office or place of profit" means any office or
place-(i)where such office or place is held by a director, if the director
holding it receives from the Corporation anything by way of remuneration over
and above the remuneration to which he is entitled as director, by way of
salary, fee, commission, perquisites, any rentfree accommodation, or
otherwise;(ii)where such office or place is held by an individual other than a
director or by any firm, private company or other body corporate, if the
individual, firm, private company or body corporate holding it receives from
the Corporation anything by way of remuneration, salary, fee, commission,
perquisites, any rent-free accommodation, or otherwise;(b)the expression
"arm's length transaction" means a transaction between two related parties
that is conducted as if they were unrelated, so that there is no conflict of
interest.(2)The Board shall formulate a policy on materiality of related party
transactions and on dealing with related party transactions, including clear
threshold limits, and shall review and update such policy at least once in
every three years.Explanation--For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
clarified that a transaction with a related party shall be considered material
if the amount of the transaction to be entered into, individually or taken
together with previous transactions during a financial year, exceeds such
percentage of the annual consolidated turnover of the Corporation as per its
last audited financial statements as may be specified in any regulation made
by the Securities and Exchange Board in this behalf.(3)Every contract or
arrangement entered into under sub-section (1) shall be referred to in a
report made by the Board to the members, along with the justification for
entering into such contract or arrangement.(4)Where any contract or
arrangement is entered into by a director or any other employee, without
obtaining the consent of the Board or approval by a resolution in the general
meeting under sub-section (1) and if it is not ratified by the Board or, as
the case may be, by the members at a meeting within three months from the date
on which such contract or LJ5 arrangement was entered into, such contract or
arrangement shall be voidable at the option of the Board or, as the case may
be, of the members and if the contract or arrangement is with a related party
to any director, or is authorised by any other director, the directors
concerned shall indemnify the Corporation against any loss incurred by
it.(5)Without prejudice to anything contained in sub-section (4), it shall be
open to the Corporation to proceed against a director or any other employee
who had entered into such contract or arrangement in contravention of the
provisions of this section for recovery of any loss sustained by it as a
result of such contract or arrangement.(6)Any director or any other employee
of the Corporation who had entered into or. authorised a contract or
arrangement in violation of the provisions of this section, shall be liable to
pay penalty of a sum of up to twenty-five lakh rupees.

### 4D. Adjudication of penalties.

(1)The Central Government may, by an order published in the Official Gazette,
appoint an officer of the Central Government, not below the rank of Joint
Secretary to the Government of India or equivalent, as adjudicating officer
for adjudging penalties under the provisions of this Act.(2)The adjudicating
officer may, on a complaint made in writing by a person authorised by the
Corporation, and after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard, by an
order impose penalty on a director or employee liable to penalty under any
provision of this Act on account of any contravention or violation on his
part.(3)The adjudicating officer, for the purposes of discharging his
functions under this Act, shall have the same powers as are vested in a civil
court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 while trying a suit, to summon
and enforce the attendance of any person and examine him on oath and to
require the discovery and production of documents or other electronic records,
and shall be deemed to be a civil court for purposes of Order XXI of the Civil
Procedure Code, 1908.(4)A director or employee aggrieved by any order made by
the adjudicating officer may prefer an appeal to such officer to the Central
Government of a rank higher than that of the adjudicating officer as the
Central Government may appoint as appellate authority, within thirty days from
the date on which a copy of the order made by the adjudicating officer is
received by the aggrieved individual, and the officer so appointed may, after
giving the individual an opportunity of being heard, pass such order as he may
deem fit, confirming, modifying or setting aside the order appealed against,
or remanding the case to the adjudicating officer for disposal, with such
directions as he may deem fit.(5)Where a director or employee of the
Corporation having already been subjected to penalty under this Act for any
contravention or "to violation of any provision of this Act, again commits
such contravention or violation within a period of three years from the date
of order imposing such penalty passed by the adjudicating officer, he shall be
liable for the second or subsequent contravention or violation for twice the
amount of penalty provided therefor.'.

### 131. Substitution of new section for section 5.

For section 5 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be
substituted, namely:-Capital of Corporation.'5.(1) The authorised share
capital of the Corporation shall be twenty-five thousand crore rupees, divided
into two thousand and five hundred crore shares of ten rupees each:Provided
that the Central Government may, by notification, increase the authorised
share capital or reduce the authorised share capital to such amount not less
than the amount of the paid-up equity capital of the Corporation immediately
before the coming into force of section 131 of the Finance Act, 2021, as it
may deem fit:Provided further that the Corporation may, with the previous
approval of the Central Government, consolidate or reduce the nominal !i or
face value of the shares, divide the authorised share capital into equity
share capital or a combination of equity and preference share capital, and
divide the nominal or face value of shares into such denomination as the
Corporation may decide.(2)The Corporation shall, with the previous approval of
the Central lb Government, issue equity _shares to the Central Government in
consideration for the paid-up equity capital provided by the Central
Government to the Corporation as it stood before the coming into force of
section 131 of the Finance Act, 2021.(3)The share capital of the Corporation
shall consist of equity 15" shares and preference shares, which may be fully
paid-up or partly paid-up:Provided that the Board may determine the terms of
issue of partly paid-up shares and payment of calls for such partly paid-up
shares.(4)The Corporation may from time to time increase its issued share
capital, with the previous approval of the Central Government, whether by
·public issue or rights issue or preferential allotment or private placement
or issue of bonus shares to existing members holding equity shares, or by
issue of shares to employees pursuant to share based employee benefits
schemes, or by issue of shares to life insurance policyholders of the
Corporation, or otherwise:Provided that the Central Government shall, on a
fully diluted basis hold,-(a)at all times, not less than fifty-one per cent.
of the issued equity share capital of the Corporation;(b)during a period of
five years from the date of first issue of shares to any person other than the
Central Government, not less than seventy-five per cent. of the issued equity
share capital of the Corporation.Provided further that no shares shall be
issued other than by way of rights issue unless authorised by a special
resolution, except in the circumstances where the provisions of the second and
third provisos to sub-section (1) of section 23A apply:Provided also that
issue of shares to life insurance 40 policyholders of the Corporation shall
not be by preferential allotment or private placement.(5)Where the Corporation
issues shares at a premium, whether for cash or otherwise, a sum equal to the
aggregate amount of the premium received on those shares shall be transferred
to a share premium account, and the provisions of sub-sections (7) and (8)
shall, except as provided in sub-section (6), apply as if the share premium
account were the paid-up share capital of the Corporation.(6)The share premium
account referred to in sub-section (5) may be applied by the
Corporation-(a)towards the issue of unissued shares of the Corporation to
'members as fully paid-up bonus shares;(b)in writing off the expenses of, or
the commission paid or discount allowed on, any issue of shares or debentures
of the Corporation;(c)in providing for the premium payable on the redemption
of any redeemable preference shares or of any debentures or of any securities
of the Corporation; or(d)for the purchase of its own shares or other
securities.(7)The Corporation may, by a special resolution, reduce its paid-up
equity share capital in the following manners, namely:-(a)giving of previous
notice by the Corporation of the intended reduction to every member, and to
such class or classes of creditors as the Central Government may, by
notification, specify;(b)constitution of a committee which shall consist of a
chairperson who has been a judge of a High Court or the chairperson of a
tribunal and such independent experts not exceeding two as the Board may
appoint, to consider representations, if any, that may be made by members and
creditors referred to in clause (a) in respect of the intended reduction and
to submit its recommendations to the Board; and(c)after consideration of the
committee's recommendations, making of recommendations by the Boardfor
reduction, either as given in the notice or with such modifications as the
Board may consider necessary, to the Central Government for its
approval.(8)Without prejudice to the generality of the power under sub-section
(7), the Corporation may reduce its paid-up equity share capital
by-(a)extinguishing or reducing the liability on any of its equity shares in
respect of share capital not paid-up; or(b)cancelling, with or without
extinguishing or reducing liability on any of its paid-up equity shares, any
paid-up equity share capital which is either lost or is unrepresented by
available assets; or(c)paying off, with or without extinguishing or reducing
liability on any of its paid-up equity shares, any paid-up equity share
capital which is in excess of the wants of the Corporation.(9)Notwithstanding
anything contained in any other law for the time being in force-(a)regarding
various categories of persons in favour of whom an issuer may make
reservations on a competitive basis, in relation to a public issue, the
Corporation may, at any time during the period of five years from the
commencement of section 131 of the Finance Act, 2021, make a reservation oh a
competitive basis, to an extent of up to ten per cent. out of the issue size,
in favour of its life insurance policyholders as one of the reserved
categoriesfor such public issue:Provided that the value of the allotment of
equity shares to such a policyholder shall not exceed two lakh rupees, or such
higher amount as the Central Government may by notification specify:Provided
further that, in the event of under-subscription in the policyholder
reservation portion, the unsubscribed portion may be 5 allotted on a
proportionate basis, in excess of the value referred to in the first proviso,
subject to the total allotment to a policyholder not exceeding five lakh
rupees or such higher amount as the Central Government may by notification
specify:Provided also that the policyholders in favour of whom reservation is
made under this sub-section may be offered shares at a price not lower than by
more than ten per cent. of the price at which net offer to public is made to
other categories of applicants;(b)regarding ineligibility for computation of
minimum promoter's contribution, in relation to a public issue by way of an
initial public offer, all equity shares of the Corporation held by the Central
Government, including all shares acquired during the period of three years
preceding the opening of such public offer, resulting from a bonus issue or
otherwise, shall be eligible for such computation;(c)requiring the holding of
paid-up equity shares by the sellers for minimum holding period as a condition
for offering such shares for sale to the public, in relation to a public issue
by way of an initial public offer, all fully paid-up equity shares of the
Corporation held by the Central Government shall be eligible for such an offer
for sale:Provided that and subject to any regulation made by the Securities
and Exchange Board, no shares issued by the Corporation against revaluation of
assets or by utilization of revaluation reserves or from unrealized profits
shall be eligible for computation of minimum promoter's contribution and for
offer for sale in relation to a public Issue by way of initial public
offer.Explanation.-Words and expressions used in this sub-section but not
defined either in this Act or in the Insurance Act or in the Companies Act
shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in regulations made by
the Securities and Exchange Board regarding issue of capital and disclosure
requirements, to the extent not repugnant with the provisions of this
Act.(10)The Corporation may issue other securities, including bonds,
debentures, notes, commercial paper and other debt instruments, for the
purpose of raising funds to meet its business requirements.

### 5A. Transferability of shares.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in sub-sections (2) and (3), the shares of the
Corporation shall be freely transferable:Provided that any arrangement between
two or more persons in respect of transfer of shares shall be enforceable as a
contract.(2)Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall entitle the Central
Government to transfer any shares held by it in the Corporation, if as a 45
result of such transfer, the shares held by it, on a fully diluted basis,
shall reduce to less than fifty-one per cent. of the issued equity share
capitalof the Corporation.(3)No person, other than the Central Government,
acting individually or with persons acting in concert with such person, or 50
constituents of a group, shall hold equity share in excess of five per cent.
of issued equity share capital of the Corporation, or such higher percentage
as the Central Government may by notification specify.Explanation.-For the
purposes of this section,-(a)the expression "group" shall have the meaning
assigned to it in the Competition Act, 2002.(b)the expression "persons acting
in concert" shall have the meaning assigned to it in regulations made by the
Securities and Exchange Board regarding substantial acquisition of shares and
takeovers.

### 5B. Register of members, etc.

(I)The Corporation shall keep and maintain the following registers, in such
form and in such manner as may be specified by regulations,
namely:-(a)register of members, indicating separately each class of equity and
preference shares held by each member residing in or 15 outside
India;(b)register of debenture-holders; and(c)register of any other security
holders.(2)Every register maintained under sub-section (/) shall include an
index of the names· included therein.(3)The register and index of beneficial
owners maintained by a depository under section 11 of the Depositories Act,
1996 shall be deemed to be the corresponding register and index for the
purposes of this Act.(4)No notice of any trust, whether express or implied or
constructive, shall be entered on the register of members or be receivable by
the Corporation:Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to a
depository in respect of shares held by it as a registered owner on behalf of
the beneficial owners.Explanation.-For the purposes of this section and
section 5C, the -expressions "beneficial owner", "depository" and "registered
owner" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in clauses (a),
(e) and (i) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Depositories Act, 1996.

### 5C. Declaration in respect of beneficial interest· in shares.

(1)Where the name of a person is entered on the register of members of the
Corporation as the holder of shares in the Corporation but he does not hold
beneficial interest in such shares, such person shall make, within such time
and in such form as may be prescribed for a company under section 89 of the
Companies Act, a declaration to the Corporation specifying the name and other
particulars of the person who holds beneficial interest in such
shares.(2)Every person who holds or acquires a beneficial interest in shares
of the Corporation shall make, within such time and in such form as may be
prescribed for a company under section 89 of the Companies Act, a declaration
to the Corporation specifying the nature of his interest, particulars of the
person in whose name the share stands registered in the books of the
Corporation and such other particulars as may be prescribed under the said
section.(3)Where any change occurs in the beneficial interest in shares of the
Corporation, the person referred to in sub-section (1) and the beneficial
owner specified in sub-section (2) shall, within a period of thirty days from
the date of such change, make a declaration to the Corporation in such form
and containing such particulars as may be prescribed for a company under
section 89 of the Companies Act.(4)No right in relation to any share in
respect of which a declaration is required to be made under this section but
has not been made by the beneficial owner, shall be enforceable by him or by
any person claiming through him.(5)For the purposes of this section,
beneficial interest in a share includes, directly or indirectly, through any
contract, arrangement or otherwise, the right or entitlement of a person alone
or together with any other person to--(a)exercise or cause to be exercised any
or all of the rights attached to such share; or(b)receive or participate in
any dividend or other distribution in respect of such share.(6)Every
individual who, acting alone or together or through one or more persons, holds
beneficial interests, of not less than twenty-five per cent. or such other
percentage as may be prescribed for a company under section 90 of the
Companies Act, in the shares of the Corporation or the right to exercise, or
the actual exercising of significant influence or control as defined in clause
(27) of section 2 of the Companies Act, over the Corporation (herein referred
to as "significant beneficial owner"), shall make a declaration to the
Corporation, specifying the nature of his interest and other particulars, in
such manner and within such period of acquisition of the beneficial interest
or rights and any change thereof, as may be prescribed for a company under
section 90 of the Companies Act.(7)The Corporation shall maintain a register
of the interest declared by individuals ·under sub-section (6) and changes
therein, which shall include the name of individual, his date of birth,
address, details of ownership in the Corporation and such other details as may
be prescribed for a company under section 90 of the Companies Act.

### 5D. Shares to be securities.

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Securities Contracts (Regulation)
Act, 1956 or any other law for the time being in force, the 42ofl956. shares
of the Corporation shall be deemed to be securities as defined under the said
Act.

### 5E. Right of registered members to nominate.

(1)Every individual registered member may, at any time, nominate, in such
manner as may be specified by regulations, an individual to whom all his
rights in the shares shall vest in the event of death of such member.(2)Where
the shares are registered in the name of more than one individual jointly, the
joint holders may together nominate, in such manner as may be specified by
regulations, an individual to whom all their rights in the shares shall vest
in the event of the death of all such joint holders.(3)Notwithstanding
anything contained in any other law for time being in force or in any
disposition, whether testamentary or otherwise, where a nomination in respect
of shares is made and which purports to confer on the nominee the right to
vest the shares, the nominee shall, on the death of the member or, as the case
may be, on the death of all the joint holders, become entitled to all the
rights of the member or, as the case may be, of all the joint holders, in
relation to such shares, and all other persons shall be excluded unless the
nomination has been varied or cancelled before death in such manner as may be
specified by regulations.(4)Where the nominee is a minor, it shall be lawful
for the individual registered holder of the shares to make nomination to
appoint, in such manner as may be specified by regulations, any person to
become entitled to the shares in the event of his death during the minority of
the nominee.’.

### 132. Substitution of section 19.

For section 19 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be
substituted, namely:—‘19. Executive Committee.(1)The Board may constitute an
Executive Committee of the Board, consisting of—(i)the
Chairperson;(ii)Managing Directors;(iii)the directors referred to in clause
(c) of sub-section (2) of section 4; and(iv)four directors nominated by the
Board from amongst the directors referred to in clauses (d), (e), (f) and (g)
of subsection (2) of section 4.(2)The Executive Committee of the Board shall
exercise such powers as the Board may entrust to it.”.

### 19A. Investment Committee.

The Board may, for such functions relating to investment of the funds of the
Corporation as the Board may entrust, constitute an Investment Committee of
the Board, consisting of the Chairperson and not more than seven other
directors, of which a minimum two shall be directors other than directors
appointed under clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section
4:Provided that the officers of the Corporation heading the functions dealing
with finance, risk, investment and law as well as its Appointed Actuary shall
be invited to every meeting of the Committee and shall have a right to be
heard at the meeting.Explanation.—For the purposes of this section and section
24B, “Appointed Actuary” means the actuary appointed as such by the
Corporation under the regulations made by the Authority under the Insurance
Act regarding appointed actuaries.

### 19B. Nomination and Remuneration Committee.

(1)The Board shall constitute a Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the
Board, consisting of three or more directors from amongst directors other than
those appointed under clauses (a) or (b) of sub-section (2) of section 4, out
of whom not less than one-half shall be independent directors at any time when
the number of independent directors in office is sufficient to constitute such
proportion of the membership of the Committee:Provided that the Chairperson
may be appointed as a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee but
shall not chair the Committee.(2)The Nomination and Remuneration Committee
shall—(i)formulate the criteria for determining qualifications, positive
attributes and independence of a director to be appointed under clause (e) or
clause (f) or clause (g) of subsection (2) of section 4 and recommend the same
to the Board;(ii)in accordance with the criteria referred to in clause (i),
identify individuals who are qualified to be appointed as such a
director:Provided that while identifying individuals, the Committee shall have
due regard to the requirements under the proviso to sub-section (1) of section
19C;(iii)give its recommendations to the Board regarding appointment and
removal of such an individual, and carry out evaluation of his performance;
and(iv)recommend to the Board a policy relating to the sum payable as sitting
fees to a director nominated or appointed under clauses (d) or (e) or (f) or
(g) of sub-section (2) of section 4, subject to such fees not exceeding such
limit as may apply in respect of sitting fees payable to a director of a
company under the Companies Act.

### 19C. Audit Committee.

(1)The Board shall constitute an Audit Committee of the Board, consisting of a
minimum of three directors with independent directors forming a majority when
the number of independent directors in office is sufficient to constitute such
proportion of the membership of the Audit Committee:Provided that a majority
of directors on the Audit Committee, including its chairperson, shall be
individuals with ability to read and understand financial statements and at
least one individual shall have accounting or related financial management
expertise.(2)The Audit Committee shall act in accordance with the terms of
reference specified by the Board, which shall include, inter
alia,—(a)recommendations for appointment, remuneration and terms of
appointment of the auditors of the Corporation;(b)review and monitoring of the
independence and performance of the auditors, and the effectiveness of the
audit process;(c)examination of financial statements and auditor’s report
thereon;(d)approval of transactions of the Corporation with related
parties:Provided that the Audit Committee may make omnibus approval for
related party transactions proposed to be entered into by the Corporation
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed:Provided further that in case
of transaction other than transactions referred to in section 4C, and where
the Audit Committee does not approve a transaction, it shall make its
recommendations to the Board:Provided also that in case any transaction
involving any amount not exceeding one crore rupees is entered into by a
director or an officer of the Corporation without obtaining the approval of
the Audit Committee and it is not ratified by the Audit Committee within three
months from the date of the transaction, such transaction shall be voidable at
the option of the Corporation with the approval of the Audit Committee and if
the transaction is with the related party to any director or is authorised by
any other director, the director concerned shall indemnify the Corporation
against any loss incurred by it:Provided also that the provisions of this
clause shall not apply to a transaction, other than a transaction referred to
in section 4C, between the Corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiary;(e)scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;(f)valuation
of undertakings or assets of the Corporation, wherever it is
necessary;(g)evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management
systems;(h)monitoring the end use of funds raised through public offers, and
related matters.(3)The Audit Committee may grant omnibus approval for related
party transactions proposed to be entered into by the Corporation subject to
the following conditions, namely:-(a)the Audit Committees shall lay down
thecriteria for granting omnibus approval in line with the policy referred to
in sub section (2) of section 4Cincluding in respect of transactions which are
repetitive in nature;(b)the Audit Committee shall satisfy itself that omnibus
approval 'is needed and that such approval is in the interest of the
Corporation;(c)the omnibus approval shall specify the following, namely:(i)the
details regarding the name of the related party and the nature, period and the
maximum amount of the transitions that shall be entered into;(ii)the details
regarding indicative base price or current contracted price, along with the
formula, if any, for variation in the. price; and(iii)such other conditions as
the Audit Committee may deem fit:Provided that where the need for related
party transition cannot be foreseen and the said details are not available,
the Audit Committee may grant omnibus approval for such transactions subject
to their value not exceeding one crore rupees per transaction;(d)the Audit
Committee shall review on a quarterly basis, the details of related party
transactions entered into by the Corporation pursuant to every omnibus
approval given; and(e)omnibus approval shall be valid for a period not
exceeding one year and shall require fresh approval after expiry of one
year.(4)The Audit Committee may call for the comments of the auditors about
internal control systems, the scope of audit including the observations of the
auditors, and review of financial statements before their submission to the
Board, and may also discuss any related issues with the auditors and the
management of the Corporation.(5)The Audit Committee shall have authority to
investigate any matter in relation to the items specified in sub-section (2)
or referred to it by the Board and, for this purpose, shall have the power to
obtain professional advice from external sources and have full access to
information contained in the records of the Corporation.(6)The auditors of the
Corporation and such key managerial personnel as the Board may specify shall
have a right to be heard in the meetings of the Audit Committee when it
considers the auditor's report.

### 19D. Other Committees.

The Board may constitute such other Committees of the Board g_o as it may deem
fit, to render advice to the Board on such matters as may be generally or
specially referred to them, and to perform such duties as the Board may
entrust to them.'.

### 133. Substitution of section

For section 20 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:-Chief Executive Managing Directors."20.(1) The Chief
Executive shall, subject to the superintendence, control and direction of the
Board, be entrusted with substantial powers of management in respect of the
whole of the affairs of the Corporation.(2)The Chief Executive shall also
perform such other duties in relation to the affairs of the Corporation as the
Board may entrust to him 30 from time to time and shall, for this purpose,
exercise such powers as may be conferred upon him by the Board:Provided that
the Board may also empower the Chief Executive to entrust or delegate such of
his duties and powers, as it may deem fit.(3)Every Managing Director, subject
to the general control of the Chief Executive, shall perform such duties and
exercise such powers as may be entrusted or delegated to him by the Board or,
under sub-section (2), by the Chief Executive.".

### 134. Amendment of section 22.

In section 22 of the principal Act,—(i)in sub-section (1), for the words “a
person whether a member or not”, the words “an employee of the Corporation
other than a whole-time director” shall be substituted;(ii)sub-section (2)
shall be omitted.nsertion of new section 23A.After section 23 of the principal
Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:—

### 23A. Annual general meeting and other general meetings.

(1)An annual general meeting or other general meeting of members shall be held
in each financial year at such time as the Board may specify, at the central
office of the Corporation or at such other place in India as the Central
Government may permit on the recommendations of the Board:Provided that not
more than fifteen months shall elapse between the date of one annual general
meeting of the Corporation and that of the next:Provided further that
notwithstanding anything contained in this section, general meeting shall be
held only when the Corporation has members other than the Central Government
who are entitled to vote:Provided also that until the first annual general
meeting or other general meeting is held, the Board shall perform all the
functions required to be performed in such meeting.(2)The members present at
an annual general meeting shall be entitled to—(a)discuss the financial
statements of the Corporation as referred to in section 24B and the auditor’s
report as referred to in section 25B, which shall be accompanied by the report
of the Board as referred to in section 24C, and to adopt the financial
statements, along with all the documents which are required to be attached to
such financial statements under this Act;(b)discuss and adopt the Annual
Report prepared under section 27;(c)approve a declaration of dividend under
subsection (1) of section 28B;(d)approve the appointment of directors under
subsection (4) of section 4;(e)approve the appointment of auditors under
subsections (1) and (4) of section 25 and fix their remuneration under sub-
section (7) of section 25.(3)Every member shall be entitled to attend a
general meeting, whether in person or by proxy or by duly authorised
representative:Provided that every director shall also be entitled to attend a
general meeting, whether in person or through electronic means:Provided
further that all notices of, and other communications relating to, any general
meeting shall be forwarded to the auditor appointed for the Corporation, and
such auditor shall, unless exempted by the Corporation, attend any general
meeting either in person or through authorised representative who is qualified
to be an auditor, and shall have the right to be heard at such meeting on any
part of the business which concerns him as the auditor.(4)A member who is
entitled to vote may exercise his vote at a general meeting in person or by
proxy or by duly authorised representative.(5)Persons entitled to attend and
to exercise vote at a general meeting may also do so through electronic means,
and the manner of attendance and exercise of vote shall be such as may be
prescribed.(6)No business other than that specified in sub-section (2) shall
be transacted or discussed at the annual general meeting, except with the
consent of the Chairperson, unless not less than six weeks’ notice of the same
has been given to the Chairperson either by the Central Government or by at
least hundred members who have the right to vote at the meeting:Provided that
such a notice shall be in the form of a definite resolution to be put to the
meeting, and that such resolution shall be included in the notice of the
meeting.(7)Save and except with the consent of the Chairperson, no business
other than that for which a general meeting has been convened shall be
transacted or discussed at the meeting.(8)No general meeting shall be
proceeded with and no business shall be transacted at any general meeting
unless members constitute such quorum as may be prescribed: Provided that
where a meeting could not be held for want of quorum, it may be adjourned and
held in such manner as may be prescribed.(9)The Corporation shall cause the
minutes of all proceedings of general meetings to be entered in books kept for
that purpose.”.

### 135. Substitution of section 24.

For section 24 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be
substituted, namely:—

### 24\. Funds of the Corporation.

(1)The Corporation shall have its own fund or funds, and all receipts of the
Corporation shall be credited thereto and all payments of the Corporation
shall be made therefrom: Provided that the Board may, in relation to any of
the funds of the Corporation or otherwise, establish reserves which may or may
not be allocated for a specific purpose, and such sums as the Board may
determine, may be transferred to or from such reserves.(2)The Board shall, for
every financial year after the financial year in which the provisions of
section 127 of the Finance Act, 2021 come into force, cause to be
maintained—(a)a participating policyholders fund, to which all receipts from
participating policyholders shall be credited and from which all payments to
such policyholders shall be made; and(b)a non-participating policyholders
fund, to which all receipts from non-participating policyholders shall be
credited and from which all payments to such policyholders shall be
made:Provided that the members, by resolution in a general meeting, may exempt
maintenance of such funds for one financial year at a time up to two financial
years.

### 24A. Books of account, etc.

(1)The Corporation shall prepare and keep at its central office books of
account and other relevant books and records and financial statement for every
financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of its affairs,
including that of its zonal offices, and which explain the transactions
effected both at the central office and at its zonal offices.(2)The
Corporation shall prepare and keep at each zonal office of the Corporation,
books of account and other relevant books and records and financial statement
for every financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of every divisional office established in the zone corresponding to
such zonal office and which explain the transactions effected thereat.(3)The
Corporation shall prepare and keep at each divisional office of the
Corporation, books of account and other relevant books and records and
financial statement for every financial year which give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of every branch established under such divisional
office and which explain the transactions effected thereat.(4)All or any of
the books of account and other relevant books and records referred to in sub-
section (1) or sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) may be kept at such other
place or places in India as the Board may decide.(5)The Corporation shall be
deemed to have complied with the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section
(2) or sub-section (3), in respect of a zonal office or a divisional office,
other than the central office, or a branch of the Corporation, whether within
or outside India, if proper books of account relating to the transactions
effected at such office or branch, are kept thereat and proper summarised
returns are sent periodically to the central office or the corresponding zonal
office or the corresponding divisional office, or to the other place referred
to in sub-section (4).(6)The books of account and other relevant books and
records referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) or sub-section (3)
may be kept in electronic form, in such manner as the Board may
determine.(7)The books of account of the Corporation relating to a period of
not less than ten financial years immediately preceding a financial year,
together with the vouchers relevant to any entry in such books of account,
shall be kept in good order:Provided that where the Central Government has
appointed a special auditor under section 25D or is of the opinion that
circumstances exist which render it necessary so to do, it may direct the
Corporation that the books of account be kept for such longer period as the
Central Government may specify.

### 24B. Financial statements.

(1)The financial statements of the Corporation shall give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the Corporation and shall be in conformity with the
standards on auditing issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of
India, constituted under section 3 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949, and
with the accounting standards issued by the said Institute to the extent such
accounting standards are applicable to insurers carrying on life insurance
business and subject to any regulations made by the Authority under the
Insurance Act relating to preparation of financial statements and auditor’s
report:Provided that the financial statements shall not be treated as not
disclosing a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Corporation,
merely by reason of the fact that they do not disclose any matters which are
not required to be disclosed by this Act or by the Insurance Act or by the
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 or by any other law
for the time being in force.(2)At every annual general meeting, the Board
shall place before such meeting financial statements for the preceding
financial year.(3)The Corporation shall, in addition to financial statements
provided under sub-section (2), prepare a consolidated financial statement of
the Corporation and of all its subsidiaries and associate companies in
conformity with the auditing standards referred to in sub-section (1) and the
accounting standards applicable by law, and shall place the same before the
annual general meeting, along with the placing of its financial statements
under sub-section (2): Provided that the Corporation shall also attach along
with its financial statements, a separate statement containing the salient
features of the consolidated financial statement in respect of its
subsidiaries and associate companies.(4)The provisions of this Act applicable
to financial statements under sub-section (1) and under section 24C, the
inquiry by the auditor into matters referred to in and making of the auditor’s
report on accounts under section 25B, and adoption of financial statements
under section 23A at the annual general meeting, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to the consolidated financial statement referred to in sub-section
(3).(5)Without prejudice to anything contained in subsection (1) or sub-
section (3), where the financial statements are not in conformity with the
standards referred to therein, the Corporation shall disclose in the financial
statements the deviation from such standards, the reasons therefor and the
financial effects, if any, arising out of such deviation.(6)Financial
statements including consolidated financial statement, if any, shall be
approved by the Board before they are signed on behalf of the Board by the
Chairperson, a Managing Director, one director other than a whole-time
director, the heads of the finance and secretarial functions of the
Corporation and its Appointed Actuary, for submission to the auditor for his
report thereon.(7)The auditor’s report shall be attached to every financial
statement.(8)A signed copy of every financial statement, including
consolidated financial statement, if any, shall be issued, circulated or
published, along with a copy each of—(a)any notes annexed to or forming part
of such financial statement;(b)the auditor’s report; and(c)the Board’s report
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 24C.

### 24C. Board’s report.

(1)There shall be attached to financial statements placed before general
meeting, a report by the Board, which shall include—(a)number of meetings of
the Board;(b)a Directors’ Responsibility Statement;(c)details in respect of
frauds reported by auditors;(d)a statement on declarations given by
independent directors under the second proviso to sub-section (3) of section
4;(e)the Corporation’s policy on directors’ appointment, including the
criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence
of a director, which are referred to in section 19B;(f)explanations or
comments by the Board on every qualification, reservation or adverse remark or
disclaimer made in the auditor’s report;(g)particulars in respect of
investments in terms of the provisions of section 27A of the Insurance Act as
made applicable to the Corporation by notification issued under sub-section
(2) of section 43;(h)particulars of contracts or arrangements with related
parties, referred to in sub-section (1) of section 4C;(i)the state of the
Corporation’s affairs;(j)the amounts, if any, which are carried to any
reserves;(k)the amount, if any, which it recommends should be paid by way of
dividend;(l)material changes and commitments, if any, affecting the financial
position of the Corporation, which have occurred between the end of the
financial year to which the financial statements relate and the date of the
report;(m)a statement indicating the manner in which annual evaluation of the
performance of individual directors has been made under section 19B;(n)such
other matters as may be prescribed:Provided that where disclosures referred to
in this sub-section have been included in the financial statements, such
disclosures may be referred to instead of being repeated in the Board’s
report:Provided further that where the policy referred to in clause (e) is
made available on the Corporation’s website, it shall be sufficient compliance
of the requirement under the said clause if the salient features of the policy
and any changes therein are specified in brief in the Board’s report and the
web-address at which the policy is available is indicated therein.(2)The
Directors’ Responsibility Statement referred to in clause (b) of sub-section
(1) shall state that—(a)in the preparation of the annual accounts, the
standards referred to in section 24B were followed, along with proper
explanation relating to material departures;(b)accounting policies were
selected and applied consistently and the judgements made and estimates were
reasonable and prudent, so as to give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Corporation at the end of the financial year and of the profit
and loss of the Corporation for that period;(c)proper and sufficient care for
the maintenance of adequate accounting records was taken in accordance with
the provisions of this Act for safeguarding the assets of the Corporation and
for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;(d)the annual
accounts were prepared on a going concern basis;(e)the vigilance
administration referred to in clause (h) of sub-section (1) of section 8 of
the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 was in operation in the Corporation
under the superintendence of the Central Vigilance Commission, and in
addition, internal financial controls to be followed by the Corporation had
been laid down and were operating effectively; and(f)proper systems were
devised to ensure compliance with the provisions of applicable laws and were
operating effectively.Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, the
expression “internal financial controls” means the policies and procedures
adopted for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of the Corporation’s
business, including adherence to its policies, safeguarding of its assets,
prevention and detection of errors, accuracy and completeness of accounting
records, and timely preparation of reliable financial information.(3)The
Board’s report and any annexures thereto under sub-section (1) shall be signed
on behalf of the Board by the Chairperson, a Managing Director and one
director other than a whole-time director.

### 24D. Penalties.

If the Chairperson or the Managing Director in charge of finance or the head
of the finance function of the Corporation or any other person of the
Corporation charged by the Board with the duty of complying with the
provisions of section 24A or section 24B or section 24C contravenes any of the
said provisions, such Chairperson or Managing Director or head of finance
function or other person shall, for each section whose provisions have been
contravened, be liable to pay penalty of a sum which shall not be less than
fifty thousand rupees but which may extend to five lakh rupees.’.

### 137. Substitution of section 25.

For section 25 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be
substituted, namely:—

### 25\. Appointment of auditors.

(1)The Corporation shall, at its first annual general meeting, appoint as many
auditors (which may be individual or firm) as it deems fit, and such auditor
shall hold office from the conclusion of that meeting till the conclusion of
its sixth annual general meeting thereafter, and shall similarly appoint
auditor for subsequent periods of five years at a time, and the manner and
procedure of selection of auditors by the members at such a meeting shall be
such as may be prescribed:Provided that before such appointment is made, the
written consent of the auditor to such appointment, and a certificate from the
auditor that the appointment, if made, shall be in accordance with such
conditions as may be prescribed, shall be obtained from the auditor:Provided
further that such certificate shall also declare that the auditor satisfies
the criteria provided for eligibility for appointment as an auditor of a
company under section 141 of the Companies Act.(2)The Corporation shall not
appoint an auditor for more than one term of five consecutive years:Provided
that an auditor who has completed the term of appointment shall not be
eligible for re-appointment or for fresh appointment as auditor for a period
of five years from such completion:Provided further that no audit firm shall
be appointed as auditor for a period of five years which, if appointed, as on
the date of its appointment, would have a common partner or partners with the
audit firm whose term as auditor in the Corporation had expired in the
financial year immediately preceding the financial year in which fresh
appointment is to be made, or which is associated with the same network of
audit firms as the audit firm whose term had expired as aforesaid:Provided
also that nothing contained in this sub-section shall prejudice the right of
the Corporation to remove an auditor or the right of the auditor to resign
from such office of the Corporation.Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-
section, the expression “same network” includes firms operating or functioning
under a common brand name or trade name, or under common control, or which are
network firms as defined under any guidelines for networking issued by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, constituted under section 3 of
the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949.(3)Subject to the provisions of this Act,
the Corporation may resolve in a general meeting to provide that—(a)in the
audit firm appointed by it, the auditing partner and his team shall be rotated
at such intervals as may be resolved by members;(b)the audit shall be
conducted by more than one auditor.(4)Any casual vacancy in the office of an
auditor shall be filled by the Board within thirty days, but if such casual
vacancy is as a result of the resignation of an auditor, such appointment
shall also be approved by the Corporation in a general meeting convened within
three months of the Board making recommendations in this behalf, and the
auditor so appointed shall hold office till the conclusion of the next annual
general meeting.(5)Where at any annual general meeting, no auditor is
appointed, the existing auditor shall continue to be the auditor of the
Corporation.(6)All appointments, including the filling of a casual vacancy of
an auditor under this section, shall be made after taking into account the
recommendations of the Audit Committee.(7)The remuneration of the auditor
shall be fixed in the general meeting or in such manner as may be determined
therein.(8)Until the first annual general meeting is held, auditors duly
qualified to act as auditors of companies under the law for the time being in
force relating to companies shall be appointed by the Board with the previous
approval of the Central Government, and shall receive such remuneration from
the Corporation as the Central Government may fix.(9)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1), where an auditor has been appointed previous to
the first annual general meeting, either under section 25 [as it stood before
the coming into force of section 128 of the Finance Act, 2021] or thereafter
under sub-section (8), and the term specified for such auditor’s appointment
has not expired, and the auditor meets the criteria referred to in sub-section
(1), such auditor shall continue till the expiry of the term so
specified:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section or in section
25A shall prejudice the right of the Corporation to remove such auditor or the
right of the auditor to resign from such office of the Corporation.(10)An
auditor appointed under sub-section (1) or subsection (8) or sub-section (9)
shall provide to the Corporation or its subsidiaries such other services as
are approved by the Board, but shall not include any of the services, whether
rendered directly or indirectly, that are enumerated in section 144 of the
Companies Act:Provided that an auditor who has been performing any non-audit
services on or before the coming into force of section 128 of the Finance Act,
2021 shall comply with the provisions of this sub-section before the close of
the first financial year in which the said section comes into force.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the word “firm” shall include a
limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability
Partnership Act, 2008.

### 25A. Removal and resignation of auditor.

(1)The auditor appointed under section 25 may be removed from office before
expiry of the term of appointment only by a special resolution:Provided that
before taking any action under this subsection, an auditor proposed to be
removed shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard, which shall
include the right to represent in writing to the Corporation and, where the
auditor requests that such representation be notified to members, to have a
copy thereof sent to every member and in case a copy is not sent as aforesaid
because it was received too late, to have the representation read out at the
meeting, without prejudice to the right to be heard orally.(2)The auditor who
has resigned from the Corporation shall file within a period of thirty days
from the date of resignation, a statement in the prescribed form with the
Corporation, indicating the reasons and other facts as may be relevant with
regard to the resignation.(3)Without prejudice to any action under this Act or
any other law, if the Central Government is satisfied, in consultation with
the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, that any change of auditor is
required, it may make an order that the auditor shall not function as such and
may appoint another auditor in place of such auditor.

### 25B. Powers and duties of auditors and auditor’s report.

(1)Every auditor of the Corporation shall have a right of access at all times
to the books of account and vouchers of the Corporation, and shall be entitled
to require from the officers of the Corporation such information and
explanation as the auditor may consider necessary for the performance of his
duties as auditor, and shall, amongst other matters, inquire into the
following matters, namely:—(a)whether loans and advances made by the
Corporation on the basis of security have been properly secured;(b)whether the
terms on which loans and advances have been made are prejudicial to the
interests of the Corporation or its members;(c)whether transactions of the
Corporation which are represented merely by book entries are prejudicial to
its interests;(d)whether so much of the assets of the Corporation as consist
of shares, debentures and other securities have been sold at a price less than
that at which they were purchased;(e)whether loans and advances made by the
Corporation have been shown as deposits;(f)whether personal expenses have been
charged to revenue account;(g)where it is stated in the books and documents of
the Corporation that any shares have been allotted for cash, whether cash has
actually been received in respect of such allotment, and if no cash has
actually been so received, whether the position as stated in the account books
and the balance-sheet is correct, regular and not misleading:Provided that the
auditor shall also have the right of access to the records of all the
subsidiaries and associate companies of the Corporation, in so far as they
relate to consolidation of the Corporation’s financial statements with those
of such subsidiaries and associate companies.(2)The auditor shall make a
report to the members on the accounts examined by the auditor and on every
financial statement which is required by or under law to be placed in general
meeting, and such report shall, after taking into account applicable
provisions of this Act and any other law for the time being in force, the
standards referred to in section 24B, and matters that are required to be
included in the audit report under the provisions of this Act or any other law
for the time being in force, and to the best of the information and knowledge
of the auditor, state that the said accounts and financial statements give a
true and fair view of the state of the Corporation’s affairs as at the end of
its financial year and profit or loss and cash flow for the year.(3)The
auditor’s report shall also state—(a)whether the auditor has sought and
obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of the
auditor’s knowledge and belief were necessary for the purpose of audit and if
not, the details thereof and the effect of such information on the financial
statements;(b)whether, in the auditor’s opinion, proper books of account as
required by law have been kept by the Corporation so far as appears from the
auditor’s examination of those books and proper returns adequate for the
purposes of audit have been received from branches not visited by the
auditor;(c)whether any report referred to in the proviso to sub-section (6)
has been sent to the Corporation’s auditor, and the manner in which the
Corporation’s auditor has dealt with it in preparing the auditor’s
report;(d)whether the Corporation’s balance-sheet and profit and loss account
dealt within the report are in agreement with the books of account and
returns;(e)whether, in the auditor’s opinion, the financial statements comply
with applicable standards;(f)the observations or comments of the auditor on
financial transactions and matters which have any adverse effect on the
functioning of the Corporation;(g)whether any director is disqualified to be
or remain a director under clause (i) of section 4A;(h)any qualification,
reservation or adverse remark relating to the maintenance of accounts and
matters connected therewith;(i)whether the Corporation has adequate internal
financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the
operating effectiveness of such controls;(j)such other matters as may be
prescribed.(4)Where any of the matters required to be included in the audit
report under this section is answered in the negative or with a qualification,
the report shall state the reasons therefor.(5)All qualifications,
observations or comments mentioned in the report of the auditor appointed for
the Corporation, in respect of financial transactions or matters that have any
adverse effect on the functioning of the Corporation, shall be read out in
general meeting and shall be open to inspection by any member.(6)In respect of
a branch or an office of the Corporation, the accounts shall be audited either
by the auditor appointed for the Corporation (herein referred to as
Corporation’s auditor) in this section or by any other person qualified for
appointment as an auditor of the Corporation and appointed as such under
section 25, or where the branch or office is situated in a country outside
India, the accounts of the branch or office shall be audited either by the
Corporation’s auditor or by an accountant or by any other person duly
qualified to act as an auditor of the accounts of the branch or office in
accordance with the laws of that country, and the duties and powers of the
Corporation’s auditor with reference to the audit of the branch or office and
the auditor thereof, if any, shall be such as may be prescribed:Provided that
the auditor for a branch or office shall prepare a report on the accounts of
the branch or office, examined by such auditor and shall send it to the
Corporation’s auditor, who shall deal with it in the Corporation’s auditor’s
report in such manner as the Corporation’s auditor may consider necessary.

### 25C. Internal auditor.

(1)The Board shall, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, appoint an
internal auditor, who shall either be a chartered accountant or a cost
accountant, or such other professional as may be determined by the Board to
conduct the internal audit of the functions and activities of the
Corporation.(2)The Audit Committee shall—(a)recommend to the Board for the
appointment, remuneration and terms of appointment of the internal
auditor;(b)in consultation with the internal auditor, formulate the scope,
functioning, periodicity and methodology for conducting the internal
audit;(c)review and monitor the internal auditor’s performance and
effectiveness of audit process.

### 25D. Special auditor.

Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 19C, 23A, 25, 25A and 25B, the
Central Government may, at any time, appoint such auditor as it deems fit as a
special auditor to examine and report on the accounts of the Corporation, and
such auditor shall have the same rights of access to the books of account and
vouchers of the Corporation and entitlement to require information and
explanation from the officers of the Corporation as an auditor of the
Corporation has under section 25B.’.

### 138. Amendment of section 26.

In section 26 of the principal Act,—(i)for the words “The Corporation”, the
words “The Board” shall be substituted;(ii)for the words “Central Government”,
the word “Board” shall be substituted.

### 139. Amendment of section 27.

In section 27 the principal Act, the words “and the report shall also give an
account of the activities, if any, which are likely to be undertaken by the
Corporation in the next financial year” shall be omitted.

### 140. Amendment of section 28.

For section 28 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:—“28. Surplus from life insurance business, how to be
utilised.(1)If as a result of any investigation undertaken by the Board under
section 26, any surplus emerges,—(a)for every financial year previous to the
financial year for which the funds referred to in sub-section (2) of section
24 are to be maintained, and for any subsequent financial year for which
members may exempt the maintenance of such funds,—(i)ninety per cent., or such
higher percentage as the Board may approve, of such surplus shall be allocated
to or reserved for the life insurance policyholders of the Corporation;
and(ii)such percentage of the remaining surplus as the Board may approve,
shall be allocated to or reserved for members and may either be credited to a
separate account maintained by the Corporation or be transferred to such
reserve or reserves as the Board may specify;(b)for every financial year other
than that referred to in clause (a),—(i)in respect of participating
policyholders,—(I)ninety per cent., or such higher percentage as the Board may
approve, of surplus relating to such policyholders, shall be transferred to
the participating policyholders fund, and shall be allocated to or reserved
for the life insurance participating policyholders of the Corporation;
and(II)such percentage of the remaining surplus as the Board may approve,
shall be allocated to or reserved for members and may either be credited to a
separate account maintained by the Corporation or be transferred to such
reserve or reserves as the Board may specify;(ii)in respect of non-
participating policyholders, one hundred per cent. of surplus relating to such
policyholders shall be allocated to or reserved for members and may either be
credited to a separate account maintained by the Corporation or be transferred
to such reserve or reserves as the Board may specify.(2)The remaining surplus
referred to in sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of sub-section (1) or in item
(II) of sub-clause (i) of clause (b) of sub-section (1), as the case may be,
and the surplus referred to in sub-clause (ii) of clause (b) of subsection
(1), and the profits allocated to or reserved for the members under section
28A, shall be utilised for such purposes as the Board may approve, including
for the purpose of declaration or payment of dividend, the issue of fully
paidup bonus shares to members and crediting any of the reserves that the
Board may create for any purpose.(3)The Corporation shall, with the approval
of the Board, publish on its website its surplus distribution policy at least
once in five years, or such shorter period not less than three years as the
Board may deem fit, and such policy shall specify, among other things, the
percentages referred to in sub-section (1).”

### 141. Amendment of section 28A.

In section 28A of the principal Act, for the words “paid to the Central
Government”, the words “allocated to or reserved for the members” shall be
substituted.

### 142. Insertion of new sections 28B and 28C.

In the principal Act, after section 28A, the following sections shall be
inserted, namely:—“28B. Declaration of dividend.(1)No dividend shall be
declared or paid by the Corporation for any financial year except out of the
surpluses and profits referred to in sub-section (2) of section 28 (after
excluding any amount representing unrealised gains, notional gains or
revaluation of assets and any change in carrying amount of an asset or of a
liability on measurement of the asset or the liability at fair value) for such
year arrived at after providing for depreciation, or for any previous
financial year or years arrived at after providing for depreciation and
remaining undistributed, or out of both the aforesaid surpluses and
profits:Provided that no dividend shall be declared or paid by the Corporation
from its reserves other than free reserves:Provided further that no dividend
shall be declared or paid by the Corporation unless any losses carried over
from previous years and any depreciation not provided for in previous years
are set off against the surpluses and profits referred to in sub-section (2)
of section 28 for the financial year for which the dividend is proposed to be
declared or paid.(2)The Board may, during any financial year or at any time
during the period from the close of a financial year till the holding of the
annual general meeting for that financial year, declare interim dividend out
of the surpluses and profits referred to in sub-section (2) of section 28 of
the financial year for which such interim dividend is sought to be declared,
or out of the surpluses and profits referred to in sub-section (2) generated
in the current financial year till the close of the quarter preceding the date
of declaration of such interim dividend:Provided that in case the Corporation
has incurred loss during the current financial year up to the close of the
quarter immediately preceding the date of declaration of interim dividend,
such interim dividend shall not be declared at a rate higher than the average
of the dividends declared by the Corporation during the immediately preceding
three financial years.(3)The amount of the dividend, including interim
dividend, shall be deposited in a scheduled bank in a separate account within
five days from the date of declaration of such dividend.(4)No dividend shall
be paid by the Corporation in respect of any share of the Corporation except
to the member in whose name such share is entered on the register of members
referred to in section 5C, or to his order, or to his banker, and shall be
payable in cash and not in stock or other form of value:Provided that nothing
in this sub-section shall be deemed to prohibit the capitalisation of the
surpluses and profits referred to in sub-section (2) of section 28 for the
purpose of issuing fully paid-up bonus shares or paying up any amount for the
time being unpaid on any share held by members: Provided further that any
dividend payable in cash may be paid by cheque or warrant or in any electronic
mode to the member entitled to such payment.

### 28C. Unpaid Dividend Account.

(1)Where a dividend has been declared by the Corporation but has not been paid
or claimed within thirty days from the date of declaration to any member
entitled to payment thereof, the Corporation shall, within seven days from the
expiry of the said period of thirty days, transfer the total amount of
dividend which remains unpaid or unclaimed to a special account to be opened
by the Corporation in that behalf in any scheduled bank, to be called the
Unpaid Dividend Account.(2)The Corporation shall, within a period of ninety
days of making any transfer of an amount under sub-section (1) to the Unpaid
Dividend Account, prepare a statement containing the name and last known
address of, and the amount of the unpaid dividend payable to, each member
entitled to such unpaid dividend, and shall place such statement on its
website and on any other website as the Central Government may specify.(3)If
any default is made in transferring the total amount referred to in sub-
section (1) or any part thereof to the Unpaid Dividend Account, the
Corporation shall pay, from the date of such default, interest on so much of
the amount as has not been transferred to the said account, at such rate as is
specified in section 123 of the Companies Act, and the interest accruing on
such amount shall ensure to the benefit of the members in proportion to the
amount remaining unpaid to them.(4)Any person claiming to be entitled to any
money transferred under sub-section (1) to the Unpaid Dividend Account may
apply to the Corporation for payment of the money claimed.(5)The amount
remaining unclaimed and unpaid for a period of seven year from the date it
became due for payment in the Unpaid Dividend Account shall be transferred to
the Investor Education and Protection Fund established under sub-section (1)
of section 125 of the Companies Act and shall be deemed to be an amount
credited to the said Fund under sub-section (2) of the said section.”.(6)All
shares in respect of which dividend has not been paid or claimed for seven
consecutive years or more shall be transferred by the Corporation in the name
of the Investor Education and Protection Fund along with a statement
containing such details as may be prescribed:Provided that every claimant of
such shares shall be entitled to claim the transfer thereof from the said Fund
in accordance with such procedure and on submission of such documents as may
be prescribed.Explanation.--For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified
that in case any dividend is paid or claimed for any year during the said ~ 7
period of seven consecutive years, the share shall not be transferred to the
Investor Education and Protection Fund.

### 143. Substitution of sections 46 and 47.

For sections 46 and 47 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be
substituted, namely:—Defects in constitution of Corporation or Committees or
in appointment or nomination of directors not to invalidate acts or
proceedings.‘46.(1) No act or proceeding of the Corporation or of its Board or
any Committee thereof shall be called in question on the ground merely of the
existence of any vacancy or defect in the constitution of the Corporation or
the Board or such Committee, as the case may be.(2)No act done by an
individual as a director shall be deemed to be invalid, notwithstanding that
it was subsequently noticed that his appointment or nomination, as the case
may be, was invalid by reason of any defect or disqualification or had
terminated by virtue of any provision contained in this Act:Provided that
nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to give validity to any act done
by such individual as director after his appointment or nomination, as the
case may be, has been noticed by the Corporation to be invalid or to have
terminated.

### 47\. Protection of action taken under this Act.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any
director or employee of the Corporation for anything which is in good faith
done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or of any rules or
regulations made thereunder.(2)A director who is not a whole-time director
shall be held liable only in respect of such acts of omission or commission of
the Corporation which had occurred with his knowledge, attributable through
Board processes, and with his consent or connivance or where he had not acted
diligently.Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, the reference to
“Board” shall include Committees of the Board.’.

### 144. Amendment of section 48.

In section 48 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2),—(i)in clause (a), for
the word “members”, the word “directors” shall be substituted;(ii)for clause
(aa), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely:—“(aa) the manner of
disclosure of interest by a director under section 4B;(ab)the conditions
subject to which the Board may consent to related party transactions under
section 4C;(ac)the securities and instruments which may be issued under
section 5;(ad)the manner of reservation in favour of life insurance
policyholders and allotment against such reservation, in relation to a public
issue, under clause(a)of sub-section (9) of section 5;”;(iii)for clause (g),
the following clause shall be substituted, namely:––“(g) the conditions under
the first proviso to clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 19C;”;(iv)after
clause (h), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:—“(ha) the manner
in which general meetings shall be held, and the business to be transacted and
procedure to be followed thereat;(hb)the quorum for a general meeting, and the
manner of holding the meeting if it could not be held for want of quorum and
was adjourned under section 23A;(hc)the manner in which persons may attend a
general meeting and exercise their vote;(hd)the manner in which notices may be
served on behalf of the Corporation upon members or other persons;(he)the form
and manner in which the financial statements referred to in sub-section (8) of
section 24B may be issued, circulated or published;(hf)matters that may be
prescribed under clause (n) of sub-section (1) of section 24C;(hg)the manner
and procedure of selection and conditions of appointment of auditors under
sub-section (1) of section 25;(hh)the form in which an auditor who has
resigned shall indicate the reasons and other facts relevant to the
resignation under sub-section (2) of section 25A;(hi)the matters to be
prescribed under clause (j) of sub-section (3) of section 25B;(hj)the duties
and powers of the Corporation’s auditor with reference to the audit of a
branch or office of the Corporation and the auditor thereof, undersub-section
(6) of section 25B;”.(hk)the details, procedure and documents under sub-
section (6) of section 28C.

### 145.

, Amendment of section 49.In the principal Act, in section 49,—(i)in sub-
section (1), for the word “Corporation”, the word “Board” shall be
substituted;(ii)in sub-section (2),—(a)in clause (a), for the word
“Corporation”, the word “Board” shall be substituted;(b)clause (c) shall be
omitted;(c)in clause (e), for the word “Fund”, the words “fund or funds” shall
be substituted;(d)for clause (h), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:—“(h) the manner in which meetings of the Board and its Committees
shall be held, the business to be transacted and procedure to be followed
thereat, and thequorum therefor;”;(e)clause (i) shall be omitted;(f)after
clause (m), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:—“(n) the manner
of election of directors under clause (e) of sub-section (2) of section
4;(o)the form and manner of registers to be kept and maintained under sub-
section (1) of section 5C;(p)the manner of nomination by an individual
registered member or joint holder of shares, the manner of variation or
cancellation of such nomination, and themanner of nomination in favour of a
minor, under section 5F;(q)the manner in which and the conditions subject to
which shares, including partly paid-up shares, may be issued, held,
transferred and registered;(r)the maintenance and operation of the funds and
reserves under section 24;(s)the form and manner in which the books and
records referred to in section 24A may be kept;”;(iii)after sub-section (2),
the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—“(2A) Any reference in
the regulations as in force immediately before the coming into force of
section 123 of the Finance Act, 2021 to “Investment Committee” shall be
construed as a reference to the Investment Committee of the Board referred to
in section 19A.”.

### 146. Insertion of sections 50 and 51.

After section 49 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be
inserted, namely:—“50. Form, manner etc. for companies to apply with
modifications.Where this Act provides that the form or manner or period or
details in respect of any declaration to be made or the particulars to be
included in anyregister to be maintained shall be such as may be prescribed
for a company under the Companies Act, such prescribed form or manner or
period or details orparticulars, as the case may be, shall apply subject to
such modifications, exceptions and conditions that the Central Government may
by notification specify.

### 51\. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act as
amended by Part III of Chapter VI of the Finance Act, 2021, the Central
Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make such
provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear to it
to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty: Provided that no
such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of three years from the
date of commencement of Part III of Chapter VI of the Finance Act,
2021.(2)Every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be after it
is made, be laid on the table of each House of Parliament.”.**PART IV-
AMENDMENTS TO THE SECURITIES CONTRACTS (REGULATION) ACT, 1956**

### 147. Commencement of this Part.

The provisions of this Part shall come into force on the 1st day of April,
2021.

### 148. Amendment of section 2.

In the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (hereafter in this Part
referred to as the principal Act), in section 2,––(i)after clause (d), the
following clause shall be inserted, namely:––‘(da) “pooled investment vehicle”
means a fund established in India in the form of a trust or otherwise, such as
mutual fund, alternative investment fund, collective investment scheme or a
business trust as defined in sub-section (13A) of section 2 of the Incometax
Act, 1961 and registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India, or
such other fund, which raises or collects monies from investors and invests
such funds in accordance with such regulations asmay be made by the Securities
and Exchange Board of India in this behalf;’;(ii)in clause (h),––(a)in sub-
clause (i), for the words “other body corporate”, the words “or a pooled
investment vehicle or other body corporate” shall be substituted;(b)after sub-
clause (id), the following sub-clause shall be inserted, namely:––“(ida) units
or any other instrument issued by any pooled investment vehicle;”.

### 149. Insertion of new section 30B.

After section 30A of the principal Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:––Special provisions related to pooled investment
vehicle.“30B.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Trust Act,
1882 or in any other law for the time being in force or in any judgment,
decree or order of any Court, Tribunal or any other authority, a pooled
investment vehicle, whether constituted as a trust or otherwise, and
registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India shall be eligible
to borrow and issue debt securities in such manner and to such extent as may
be specified under the regulations made by Securities and Exchange Board of
India in this behalf.(2)Every pooled investment vehicle referred to in
subsection (1) shall, subject to the provisions of the trust deed, be
permitted to provide security interest to lenders in terms of the facility
documents entered into by such pooled investment vehicle.(3)Where any pooled
investment vehicle referred to in sub-section (1) defaults in repayment of
principal amount or payment of interest or any such amount due to the lender,
the lender shall recover the defaulted amount and enforce security interest,
if any, against the trust assets, by initiating proceedings against the
trustee acting on behalf of such pooled investment vehicle in accordance with
the terms and conditions specified in the facility documents:Provided that on
initiation of the proceedings against the trust assets, the trustee shall not
be personally liable and his assets shall not be utilised towards recovery of
such debt.(4)The trust assets, which remain after recovery of defaulted
amount, shall be remitted to the unit holders on proportionate basis.”.**PART
V-AMENDMENT TO THE CENTRAL SALES TAX ACT, 1956**

### 150. Amendment of Act 74 of 1956.

In the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, in section 8, in subsection (3), for
clause (b), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:––“(b) are goods
of the class or classes specified in the certificate of registration of the
registered dealer purchasing the goods as being intended for re-sale by him or
subject to any rules made by the Central Government in this behalf, for use by
him in the manufacture or processing for sale of goods specified under clause
(d) of section 2;”.**PART VI-AMENDMENTS TO THE PROHIBITION OF BENAMI PROPERTY
TRANSACTION ACT, 1988**

### 151. Commencement of this Part.

The provisions of this Part shall come into force on such date as the Central
Government may, be notification in the official Gazette, appoint.

### 152. Amendment of Act 12 of 1974.

In the Economic Offences (inapplicability of Limitation)Act, 1974, in the
Schedule, after serial number 21 and the entries relating thereto, the
following serial numbers and entries shall be inserted, namely:-"22. The
Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988;

### 23\. The Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017;

### 24\. The Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017;

### 25\. The Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017; and

### 26\. The Goods and Services (Compensation to States) Act, 2017.".

**PART VII-AMENDMENTS TO THE PRO!IlBITION OF BENAMIPROPERTY TRANSACTION ACT,
1988**

### 153. Commencement ofthis Part.

The provisions of this Part shall come into force on the lst day of July,
2021.

### 154. Amendmentof section 2.

In the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (hereinafter in
this Part referred to as the principal Act), in section 2, in clause (J), for
the words "appointed under", the words "referred to in" shall

### 155. Substitution of section 7.

For section 7 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:-

### 156. Comission of sections 8 to 17.

Sections 8 to 17 of the principal Act, shall be omitted.

### 157. Amendment of section 26.

In section 26 of the principal Act, in sub-section (7), after the proviso to
the Explanation, the following proviso shall be inserted, ae namely:-"Provided
that where the time limit for passing order under this sub-section expires
during the period beginning from the 1st day of July, 2021 and ending on the
29th day of September, 2021, the time limit for passing such order shall be
extended to the 30th day of September, 2021.".

### 158. Amendment of section 68.

In section 68 of the principal Act, in sub-section {2), clauses ( b) and (c)
shall be omitted.**PART VIII-AMENDMENT TO THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF
INDIA ACT, 1992**

### 159. Amendment of Act 15 of 1992.

In the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, in section 12, after
sub-section{JB), the following sub-section shall be inserted with effect from
the 1st day of April, 2021, namely:-"(IC) No person shall sponsor or cause to
be sponsored or carry on or cause to be carried on the activity of an
alternative investment fund or a business trust as defined in clause ( J3A) of
section 2 of the Income-tax Act, 1961, unless a certificate of registration is
granted by the Board in accordance with the regulations made under this
Act.".**PART IX-AMENDMENTTO THE RECOVERY OF DEBTS DUE TO BANKS AND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS ACT, 1993**

### 160. Amendment of Act 51 of 1993.

In the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993, in
section 2, in clause (g), after the words "from any person", the words,
brackets, letters and figures "or a pooled . investment vehicle as lt defined
in clause (da) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act,
1956," shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021.**PART
X-AMENDMENT TO THE FINANCE ACT, 2001**

### 161. Amendment of Seventh Schedule.

In the Seventh Schedule to the Finance Act, 2001,- 14 of 2001.(a)for the
brackets, words and figures "(See section 138)", the brackets, words and
figures "(See section 136)" shall be substituted;(b)after tariff item 2403 99
90 and the entries relating thereto, the following tariff items and entries
shall be inserted with effect from the lst day of January, 2022, namely:-.

" 240411 00 | Containing tobacco or | Kg | 25%  
---|---|---|---  
2404 19 00 | \-- Other | Kg | 25%  
  
**PART XI-AMENDMENT TO THE SECURITISATION AND RECONSTRUCTION OF FINANCIAL
ASSETS AND ENFORCEMENT OF SECURITY INTEREST ACT, 2002**

### 162. Amendment of Act 54 of 2002,

In the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and I 5
Enforcement ofSecurity Interest Act, 2002, in section 2, in sub-section(/)
with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021-(i)in clause (j),-(a)for the words
"any person who", the words "any person who, or a pooled investment vehicle as
defined in clause (d.a) of 20 section 2 of the Securities Contracts
(Regulation) Act, 1956 42ofl956. which," shall be substituted;(b)for the words
"and includes a person who", the words "and includes a person who, or a pooled
investment vehicle which," shall be substituted; as(ii)in clause (zd), in sub-
clause (iv), for the words "the Board appointed by any company", the words
"the Board and appointed" shall be substituted.**PART XII-AMENDMENT TO THE
UNIT TRUST OF INDIA (TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKING AND REPEAL) ACT, 2002**

### 163. Amendment of Act 54 of 2002,

In the Unit Trust of India (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act, 2002, in
section 13, in sub-section (1), for the words, figures and letters "the 31st
day of March, 2021", the words, figures and letters "the "30 31st day ofMarch,
2023" shall be substituted with effect from the lst day 35"" of April,
2021.**PART XIII-AMENDMENTS TOTHE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK {TRANSFER OF
UNDERTAKING AND REPEAL) ACT, 2003**

### 164. Commencement of this Part.

The provisions of this Part shall come into force on such date as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 165. Amendment of section 3.

In the Industrial Development Bank (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act,
2003, in section 3, in sub-section (2),- 53 of 2003.(i)in the opening
paragraph, the words "in addition to the business which may be carried on and
transacted by the Development Bank" lJ ') shall be omitted;(ii)after the
proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:-"Provided further
that the provisions of clause (a) to the proviso, shall cease to be applicable
immediately after the commencement of Part XIII of the Finance Act, 2021, and
from such commencement, the Company shall be deemed to have obtained licence
under section 22 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.".**PART XIV-AMENDMENTS
TO THE FINANCE (NO. 2) ACT, 2004**

### 166. Commencement of this Part.

The provisions of this Part shall come into force and shall be deemed to have
come into force on the 1st day of February, 2021.

### 167. Amendment of section 97.

In section 97 of the Finance Act (No.2) Act, 2004, (hereafter in this Part
referred to as the Principal Act),-

### 15\.

' (i) in clause ( 13), in sub-clause ( b ), for the words "Mutual Fund;", the
following shall be substituted, namely:-"Mutual Fund; or(ba)sale or surrender
or redemption of a unit of an equity oriented fund to an insurance company, on
maturity or partial withdrawal, with respect to unit linked insurance policy
issued by such insurance company on or after the lst day of February,
2021;";(ii)after clause (13), the following clause. shall be inserted,
namely:-'(13A) "unit linked insurance policy" shall have the meaning assigned
to it in Explanation 3 of clause (JOD) of section 10 of the Income-tax Act,
1%1;'.

### 168. Amendment of section 98.

In section 98 of the Principal Act, in the Table, after serial number 5 and
the entries relating thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:-"5A.
Sale or surrender or redemption of a unit of {0.001] Seller" an equity
oriented fund to an insurance company, per cent. on maturity or partial
withdrawal, with respect to unit linked insurance policy issued by such
insurance company on or after the first day of "3'.f February, 2021.".

### 169. Amendment of section 100.

In section 100 of the Principal Act, after the words "Mutual Fund" wherever
they occur, the words "or insurance company" shall be inserted.

### 170. Amendment of section 101.

In section 101 of the Principal Act, after the words "Mutual Fund" at both
places where they occur, the words "or insurance company" shall be 4o
inserted.**PART XV-AMENDMENT TO THE FINANCE ACT, 2016**

### 171. Amendment of Act 28 of 2016.

In the Finance Act, 2016,-(a)the following amendments shall be made and shall
be deemed to have been made with effect from the 1st day of April, 2020,
namely:- 5'(i)in section 163, in sub-section (3), the following proviso shall
be inserted, namely:-"Provided that the consideration received or receivable
for specified services and fore-commerce.supply or services shall not include
the consideration, which are taxable as royalty or fees for 10 technical
services in India under the Income-tax Act, read with the agreement notified
by the Central Government under section 90 or section 90A of the said
Act.";(ii)in section 164, in clause (ch), the following Explanation shall be
inserted, namely:-'Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause, "online sale
of goods" and "online provision of services" shall include one or more of the
following online activities, namely:-(a)acceptance of offer for sale;
or(b)placing of purchase order; or(c)acceptance of the purchase order;
or(d)payment of consideration; or(e)supply of goods or provision of services,
partly or wholly;';(iii)in section 165A, in sub-section (3),-(a)in the opening
portion, for the words 'section, "specified circumstances" mean-', the
following shall be substituted, namely:-'section,-(a)"specified circumstances"
mean-';(B)after clause (a) as so amended, the following clause shall be
inserted, namely:-"(b) consideration received or receivable from e-commerce
supply or services shall include- ·;.(i)consideration for sale of goods
irrespective of whether the e-commerce operator goods, so however that it
shall not include consideration for sale of such goods which are owned by a
person resident in India 40 or by a permanent, establishment in India of a
person non-resident in India, if sale of such goods is effectively connected
with such permanent establishment.(ii)consideration for provision of services
irrespective of whether service is provided or facilitated by the commerce
operator, so however that it shall not include consideration for provision of
services which are provided by a person resident in India or by permanent
establishment in India of a person non-resident in India, if provision of such
services is effectively connected with such permanent establishment.(b)in
section 191, in the proviso, after the word "refundable", the I words "without
any interest" shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with
effect fromthe 1st day of June, 2016.**PART XVI-AMENDMENT TO THE DIRECT TAX
VIVAD SE VISHWAS ACT,2020**

### 172. Amendment of Act 3 of 2020

In the Direct Tax Vivad se Vishwas Act, 2020, the following amendments shall
be made and shall be deemed to have been made with effect from the 17th day of
March, 2020, namely:-(a)in section 2, in sub-section(/),-(i)in clause (a), the
following Explanation shall be inserted, namely:-'Explanation.-For the removal
of doubts, it is hereby clarified that the expression "appellant" shall not
include and shall be deemed never to have been included a person in whose case
a writ petition or special leave petition or any other proceeding has been
filed either by him or by the income-tax authority or by both before an
appellate forum, arising out of an order of the Settlement Commission under
Chapter XIX-A of the Income-tax Act, and such petition or appeal is either
pending or is disposed of.';(ii)in clause (i), after the second proviso, the
following Explanation shall be inserted, namely:-'Explanation.-For the removal
of doubts, it is hereby clarified that the expression "disputed tax", in
relation to an assessment year or financial year, as the case may be, shall
not include and shall be deemed never to have been included any sum payable
either by way of tax, penalty or interest pursuant to an order passed by the
Settlement Commission under Chapter XIX-A of the Income-tax Act.';(iii)in
clause (o), the following Explanation shall be inserted,
namely:-'Explanation.-For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that
the expression ''tax arrear" shall not include and shall be deemed never to
have been included any sum payable either by way of tax, penalty or interest
pursuant to an order passed by the Settlement Commission 5 under Chapter XIX-A
of theIncome-tax Act.**PART XVII-AMENDMENT TO THE TAXATION AND OTHER LAWS
(RELAXATION AND AMENDMENT OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS ACT,2020.**

### 173. Amendment of Act 38 of 2020.

In the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain
Provisions) Act, 2020, in section 4, with effect from the lst day of the
April, 2021,-(i)In clause (XIV), in sub-section (a), for item (ii), the
following shall be substituted, namely:-'(ii) for clause (i), after the Jong
line, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:-"(i) the amount of
income-tax calculated on the income in respect of securities referred to in
clause (a), if any, included in the total income,-(A)at the rate of twenty per
cent. in case of Foreign Institutional Investor;(B)at the rate of ten per
cent. in case of specified fund:Provided that the amount of income-tax
calculated on ~7 the income by way of interest referred to in section 194LD
shall be at the rate of five per cent.;"(ii)in clause (XXIV), after the
portion beginning with "(9) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other
provision of this Act, assessment made" and ending with "the procedure laid
'!JO down under this section", the following shall be inserted, namely:-"(10)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this section the function of
verification .unit under this section may also be performed by a verification
unit located in any other faceless centre set up under .the provisions of this
3So Act or under any scheme notified under the provisions of this Act; and the
request for verification may also be assigned by the National Faceless
Assessment Centre to such verification unit."THE FIRST SCHEDULE(See section 2)

## Part I – INCOME-TAX

Paragraph A(I)In the case of every individual other than the individual
referred to in items (II) and (III) of this Paragraph or Hindu undivided
family or association of persons or body of individuals, whether incorporated
or not, or every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii)
of clause (31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, not being a case to which
any other Paragraph of this Part applies,-Rates of income-tax

(1) | where the total income does not exceed Rs. 2,50,000 | Nil;  
---|---|---  
(2) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 2,50,000 but does not exceed Rs. 5,00,000 | 5 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 2,50,000;  
(3) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000 but does not exceed Rs. 10,00,000 | Rs.12,500 plus 20 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000;  
(4) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000 | Rs. 1,12,500 plus 30 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs.10,00,000.  
  
(II)In the case of every individual, being a resident in India, who is of the
age of sixty years or more but less than eighty years at any time during the
previous year,—Rates of income-tax

(1) | (1) where the total income does not exceed Rs. 3,00,000 | Nil;  
---|---|---  
(2) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 3,00,000 but does not exceed Rs. 5,00,000 | 5 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 3,00,000;  
(3) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000 but does not exceed Rs. 10,00,000 | Rs.10,000 plus 20 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000;  
(4) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000 | Rs. 1,10,000 plus 30 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs.10,00,000.  
  
(III)In the case of every individual, being a resident in India, who is of the
age of eighty years or more at any time during the previous year,—Rates of
income-tax

(1) | where the total income does not exceed Rs. 5,00,000 | Nil;  
---|---|---  
(2) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000 but does not exceed Rs. 10,00,000 | 20 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000;  
(3) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000 | Rs. 1,00,000 plus 30 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000.  
  
**Surcharge on income-tax** The amount of income-tax computed in accordance
with the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the provisions of section
111A or section 112 or section 112A or the provision of section 115BAC of the
Income-tax Act, shall be increased by a surcharge for the purposes of the
Union, calculated, in the case of every individual or Hindu undivided family
or association of persons or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not,
or every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause
(31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act,-(a)having a total income (including
the income by way of dividend or income under the provisions of section 111A
and section 112A of the Income-tax Act) exceeding fifty lakh rupees but not
exceeding one crore rupees, at the rate of ten per cent. of such income-
tax;(b)having a total income (including the income by way of dividend or
income under the provisions of section 111A and section 112A of the Income-tax
Act) exceeding one crore rupees, but not exceeding two crore rupees, at the
rate of fifteen per cent. of such income-tax;(c)having a total income
(excluding the income by way of dividend or income under the provisions of
section 111A and section 112A of the Income-tax Act) exceeding two crore
rupees but not exceeding five crore rupees, at the rate of twenty-five per
cent. of such income-tax;(d)having a total income (excluding the income by way
of dividend or income under the provisions of section 111A and section 112A of
the Income-tax Act) exceeding five crore rupees at the rate of thirty-seven
per cent. of such income-tax; and(e)having a total income (including the
income by way of dividend or income under the provisions of section 111A and
section 112A of the Income-tax Act) exceeding two crore rupees, but is not
covered under clauses (c) and (d), shall be applicable at the rate of fifteen
per cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in case where the total income
includes any income by way of dividend or income chargeable under section 111A
and section 112A of the Income-tax Act, the rate of surcharge on the amount of
income-tax computed in respect of that part of income shall not exceed fifteen
per cent.:Provided further that in the case of persons mentioned above having
total income exceeding,-(a)fifty lakh rupees but not exceeding one crore
rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income
shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax on a total income of
fifty lakh rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds fifty lakh
rupees;(b)one crore rupees but does not exceed two crore rupees, the total
amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the
total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income of one
crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees;(c)two crore rupees but does not exceed five crore rupees, the total
amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the
total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income of two
crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds two crore
rupees;(d)five crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and
surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-
tax and surcharge on a total income of five crore rupees by more than the
amount of income that exceeds five crore rupees.Paragraph BIn the case of
every co-operative society,-

(1) | where the total income does not exceed Rs.10,000 | 10 per cent. of the total income;  
---|---|---  
(2) | where the total income exceeds Rs.10,000 but does not exceed Rs. 20,000 | Rs.1,000 plus 20 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 10,000;  
(3) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 20,000 | Rs. 3,000 plus 30 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 20,000  
  
Surcharge on income-taxThe amount of income-tax computed in accordance with
the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the provisions of section 111A
or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-tax Act, shall, in the case of
every co-operative society, having a total income exceeding one crore rupees,
be increased by a surcharge for the purposes of the Union calculated at the
rate of twelve per cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in the case of every
co-operative society mentioned above having total income exceeding one crore
rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income
shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax on a total income of
one crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees.Paragraph CIn the case of every firm,—Rate of income-tax

On the whole of the total income | 30 per cent.  
---|---  
  
Surcharge on income-taxThe amount of income-tax computed in accordance with
the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the provisions of section 111A
or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-tax Act, shall, in the case of
every firm, having a total income exceeding one crore rupees, be increased by
a surcharge for the purposes of the Union calculated at the rate of twelve per
cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in the case of every firm mentioned
above having total income exceeding one crore rupees, the total amount payable
as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount
payable as income-tax on a total income of one crore rupees by more than the
amount of income that exceeds one crore rupees.Paragraph DIn the case of every
local authority,—Rate of income-tax

On the whole of the total income | 30 per cent.  
---|---  
  
Surcharge on income-taxThe amount of income-tax computed in accordance with
the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the provisions of section 111A
or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-tax Act, shall, in the case of
every local authority, having a total income exceeding one crore rupees, be
increased by a surcharge for the purposes of the Union calculated at the rate
of twelve per cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in the case of every
local authority mentioned above having total income exceeding one crore
rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income
shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax on a total income of
one crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees.Paragraph EIn the case of a company,—Rates of income-tax

(i) | where its total turnover or the gross receipt in the previous year 2018-19 does not exceed four hundred crore rupees; | 25 per cent. of the total income;  
---|---|---  
(ii) | other than that referred to in item (i) | 30 per cent. of the total income.  
  
II. In the case of a company other than a domestic company,-

(i) | on so much of the total income as consists of,— | 50 per cent.;  
---|---|---  
| (a) royalties received from Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern after the 31st day of March, 1961 but before the 1st day of April, 1976; or | 30 per cent. of the total income.  
| (b) fees for rendering technical services received from Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern after the 29th day of February, 1964 but before the 1st day of April, 1976, and where such agreement has, in either case, been approved by the Central Government . |   
(ii) | on the balance, if any, of the total income | 40 per cent..  
  
Surcharge on income-taxThe amount of income-tax computed in accordance with
the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the provisions of section 111A
or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-tax Act, shall, be increased by a
surcharge for the purposes of the Union, calculated,––(i)in the case of every
domestic company,––(a)having a total income exceeding one crore rupees but not
exceeding ten crore rupees, at the rate of seven per cent. of such income-tax;
and(b)having a total income exceeding ten crore rupees, at the rate of twelve
per cent. of such income-tax;(ii)in the case of every company other than a
domestic company,––(a)having a total income exceeding one crore rupees but not
exceeding ten crore rupees, at the rate of two per cent. of such income-tax;
and (b) having a total income exceeding ten crore rupees, at the rate of five
per cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in the case of every company having
a total income exceeding one crore rupees but not exceeding ten crore rupees,
the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not
exceed the total amount payable as income-tax on a total income of one crore
rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees:Provided further that in the case of every company having a total
income exceeding ten crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and
surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-
tax and surcharge on a total income of ten crore rupees by more than the
amount of income that exceeds ten crore rupees.**PART II-RATES FOR DEDUCTION
OF TAX AT SOURCE IN CERTAIN CASES** In every case in which under the
provisions of sections 193, 194A, 194B, 194BB, 194D, 194LBA, 194LBB, 194LBC
and 195 of the Income-tax Act, tax is to be deducted at the rates in force,
deduction shall be made from the income subject to the deduction at the
following rates:–Rate of income-tax

(i) on income by way of interest other than “Interest on securities” |   
---|---  
(ii) on income by way of winnings from lotteries, puzzles, card games and other games of any sort | 30 per cent.;  
(iii) on income by way of winnings from horse races | 30 per cent.;  
(iv) on income by way of insurance commission | 5 per cent.;  
(v) on income by way of interest payable on— | 10 per cent.;  
(A) any debentures or securities for money issued by or on behalf of any local authority or a corporation established by a Central, State or Provincial Act; (B) any debentures issued by a company where such debentures are listed on a recognised stock exchange in India in accordance with the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) and any rules made thereunder; (C) any security of the Central or State Government; |   
on any other income | 10 per cent.;  
(b) where the person is not resident in India— |   
(i) in the case of a non-resident Indian— |   
(A) on any investment income | 20 per cent.;  
(B) on income by way of long-term capital gains referred to in section 115E or sub-clause (iii) of clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 112 | 10 per cent.;  
(C) on income by way of long-term capital gains referred to in section 112A | 10 per cent.;  
(D) on other income by way of long-term capital gains [not being long-term capital gains referred to in clauses (33) and (36) of section 10] referred to in section 112A exceeding one lakh rupees | 20 per cent.;  
(E) on income by way of short-term capital gains referred to in section 111A | 15 per cent.;  
(F) on income by way of interest payable by Government or an Indian concern on moneys borrowed or debt incurred by Government or the Indian concern in foreign currency (not being income byway of interest referred to in section 194LB or section 194LC) 2 | 20 per cent.;  
(G) on income by way of royalty payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern where such royalty is in consideration for the transfer of all or any rights (including the granting of a licence) in respect of copyright in any book on a subject referred to in the first proviso to sub-section (1A) of section115A of the Income-tax Act, to the Indian concern, or in respect of any computer software referred to in the second proviso to sub-section (1A) of section 115A of the Income-tax Act, to a person resident in India | 10 per cent.;  
(H) on income by way of royalty [not being royalty of the nature referred to in sub-item (b)(i)(g)] payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern and where such agreement is with an Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the Central Government or where it relates to a matter included in the industrial policy, for the time being in force, of the Government of India, the agreement is in accordance with that policy | 10 per cent.;  
(I) on income by way of fees for technical services payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern and where such agreement is with an Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the Central Government or where it relates to a matter included in the industrial policy, for the time being in force, of the Government of India, the agreement is in accordance with that policy | 10 per cent.;  
(J) on income by way of winnings from lotteries, crossword puzzles, card games and other gamesof any sort | 30 per cent.;  
(K) on income by way of winnings from horse races | 30 per cent.;  
(L) on the income by way of dividend | 20 per cent.;  
(M) on the whole of the other income | 30 per cent.;  
in the case of any other person— |   
(A) on income by way of interest payable by Government or an Indian concern on moneys borrowed or debt incurred by Government or the Indian concern in foreign currency (not being income by way of interest referred to in section 194LB or section 194LC) | 20 per cent.;  
(B) on income by way of royalty payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concernwhere such royalty is in consideration for the transfer of all or any rights (including the granting of a licence) in respect of copy right in any book on a subject referred to in the first proviso to subsection (1A) of section 115A of the Income-tax Act, to the Indian concern, in respect of any computer software referred to in the second proviso to sub-section (1A) of section 115A of the Income-tax Act, to a person resident in India | 10 per cent.;  
(C) on income by way of royalty [not being royalty of the nature referred to in sub-item (b)(ii)(b)] payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern and where such agreement is with an Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the Central Government or where it relates to a matter included in the industrial policy, for the time being in force, of the Government of India, the agreement is in accordance with that policy | 10 per cent.;  
(D) on income by way of fees for technical services payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern and where such agreement is with an Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the Central Government or where it relates to a matter included in the industrial policy, for the time being in force, of the Government of India, the agreement is in accordance with that polic | 10 per cent.;  
(E) on income by way of winnings from lotteries, crossword puzzles, card games and other games of any sort | 30 per cent.;  
(F) on income by way of interest payable by Government or an Indian concern on moneys borrowed or debt incurred by Government or the Indian concern in foreign currency (not being income byway of interest referred to in section 194LB or section 194LC) | 30 per cent.;  
(G) on income by way of royalty payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern where such royalty is in consideration for the transfer of all or any rights (including the granting of a licence) in respect of copyright in any book on a subject referred to in the first proviso to sub-section (1A) of section115A of the Income-tax Act, to the Indian concern, or in respect of any computer software referred to in the second proviso to sub-section (1A) of section 115A of the Income-tax Act, to a person resident in India | 10 per cent.;  
(H) on income by way of royalty [not being royalty of the nature referred to in sub-item (b)(i)(g)] payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern and where such agreement is with an Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the Central Government or where it relates to a matter included in the industrial policy, for the time being in force, of the Government of India, the agreement is in accordance with that policy | 10 per cent.;  
(I) on income by way of fees for technical services payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern and where such agreement is with an Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the Central Government or where it relates to a matter included in the industrial policy, for the time being in force, of the Government of India, the agreement is in accordance with that policy | 10 per cent.;  
(J) on income by way of winnings from lotteries, crossword puzzles, card games and other games of any sort | 30 per cent.;  
(K) on income by way of winnings from horse races | 30 per cent.  
(L) on the income by way of dividend | 20 per cent.;  
(M) on the whole of the other income | 30 per cent.;  
in the case of any other person— |   
(A) on income by way of interest payable by Government or an Indian concern on moneys borrowed or debt incurred by Government or the Indian concern in foreign currency (not being income by way of interest referred to in section 194LB or section 194LC) |   
(B) on income by way of royalty payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concernwhere such royalty is in consideration for the transfer of all or any rights (including the granting of a licence) in respect of copy right in any book on a subject referred to in the first proviso to subsection (1A) of section 115A of the Income-tax Act, to the Indian concern, in respect of any computer software referred to in the second proviso to sub-section (1A) of section 115A of the Income-tax Act, to a person resident in India |   
(C) on income by way of royalty [not being royalty of the nature referred to in sub-item (b)(ii)(b)] payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern and where such agreement is with an Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the Central Government or where it relates to a matter included in the industrial policy, for the time being in force, of the Government of India, the agreement is in accordance with that policy |   
(D) on income by way of fees for technical services payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern and where such agreement is with an Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the Central Government or where it relates to a matter included in the industrial policy, for the time being in force, of the Government of India, the agreement is in accordance with that policy |   
(E) on income by way of winnings from lotteries, crossword puzzles, card games and other games of any sort |   
(F) on income by way of winnings from horse races |   
(G) on income by way of short-term capital gains referred to in section 111A |   
(H) on income by way of long-term capital gains referred to in sub-clause (iii) of clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 112 |   
(I) on income by way of long-term capital gains referred to in section 112A exceeding one lakh rupees |   
(J) on income by way of other long-term capital gains [not being long-term capital gains referred to in clauses (33) and (36) of section 10] | 20 per cent.;  
(L) on the whole of the other income | 30 per cent.;  
2\. In the case of a company— |   
(a) where the company is a domestic company— |   
(i) on income by way of interest other than “Interest on securities” | 10 per cent.;  
(ii) on income by way of winnings from lotteries, puzzles card games and other games of any sort | 30 per cent.;  
(iii) on income by way of winnings from horse races | 30 per cent.;  
(iv) on any other income | 10 per cent.;  
(b) where the company is not a domestic company— |   
(i) on income by way of winnings from lotteries, crossword puzzles, card games and other games ofany sort 30 | 30 per cent.;  
(ii) on income by way of winnings from horse races | 30 per cent.;  
(iii) on income by way of interest payable by Government or an Indian concern on moneys borrowed or debt incurred by Government or the Indian concern in foreign currency (not being income by way of interest referred to in section 194LB or section 194LC) | 20 per cent.;  
(iv) on income by way of royalty payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern after the 31st day of March, 1976 where such royalty is in consideration for the transfer of all or any rights (including the granting of a licence) in respect of copyright in any book on a subject referred to in the first proviso to sub-section (1A) of section 115A of the Income-tax Act, to the Indian concern, or in respect of any computer software referred to in the second proviso to sub-section (1A) of section 115A of the Income-tax Act, to a person resident in India 1 | 10 per cent.;  
(v) on income by way of royalty [not being royalty of the nature referred to in sub-item (b)(iv)] payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern and where such agreement is with an Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the Central Government or where it relates to a matter included in the industrial policy, for the time being in force, of the Government of India, the agreement is in with that policy— | 10 per cent.;  
(A) where the agreement is made after the 31st day of March, 1961 but before the 1st day of April, 1976 |   
(B) where the agreement is made after the 31st day of March, 1976 | 50 per cent.;  
(vi) on income by way of fees for technical services payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern and where such agreement is with an Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the Central Government or where it relates to a matter included in the industrial policy, for the time being in force, of the Government of India, the agreement is in accordance with that policy— | 10 per cent.;  
(A) where the agreement is made after the 29th day of February, 1964 but before the 1st day of April, 1976 | 50 per cent.;  
(B) where the agreement is made after the 31st day of March, 1976 | 10 per cent.;  
(vii) on income by way of short-term capital gains referred to in section 111A | 15 per cent.;  
(viii) on income by way of long-term capital gains referred to in sub-clause (iii) of clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 112 | 10 per cent.;  
(ix) on income by way of long-term capital gains referred to in section 112A exceeding one lakh rupees | 10 per cent.;  
(x) on income by way of other long-term capital gains [not being long-term capital gains referred to in clauses (33) and (36) of section 10] | 20 per cent.;  
(xi) on income by way of dividend | 20 per cent  
(xii) on any other income | 40 per cent.  
  
Explanation.- For the purposes of item 1(b)(i) of this Part, "investment
income" and "non-resident Indian" shall have the meanings assigned to them in
Chapter XII-A of the Income-tax Act.Surcharge on income-taxThe amount of
income-tax deducted in accordance with the provisions of--(i)item 1 of this
Part, shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union,--(a)in
the case of every individual or Hindu undivided family or association of
persons or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or every
artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of
section 2 of the Income-tax Act, being a non-resident, calculated,--I. at the
rate of ten per cent. of such tax, where the income or the aggregate of such
incomes (including the income by way of dividend or income under the
provisions of sections 111A and 112A of the Income-tax Act) paid or likely to
be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds fifty lakh rupees but does not
exceed one crore rupees;II. at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such tax,
where the income or the aggregate of such incomes (including the income by way
of dividend or income under the provisions of sections 111A and 112A of the
Income-tax Act) paid or likely to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds
one crore rupees but does not exceed two crore rupees;III. at the rate of
twenty-five per cent. of such tax, where the income or the aggregate of such
incomes (excluding the income by way of dividend or income under the
provisions of sections 111A and 112A of the Income-tax Act) paid or likely to
be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds two crore rupees but does not
exceed five crore rupees;IV. at the rate of thirty-seven per cent. of such
tax, where the income or the aggregate of such incomes (excluding the income
by way of dividend or income under the provisions of sections 111A and 112A of
the Income-tax Act) paid or likely to be paid and subject to the deduction
exceeds five crore rupees; andV. at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such tax,
where the income or the aggregate of such incomes (including the income by way
of dividend or income under the provisions of sections 111A and 112A of the
Income-tax Act) paid or likely to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds
two crore rupees, but is not covered under sub-clauses (III) and (IV):Provided
that in case where the total income includes any income by way of dividend or
income chargeable under sections 111A and 112A of the Income-tax Act, the rate
of surcharge on the amount of Income-tax deducted in respect of that part of
income shall not exceed fifteen per cent.;(b)in the case of every co-operative
society or firm, being a non-resident, calculated at the rate of twelve per
cent., where the income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be
paid and subject to the deduction exceeds one crore rupees;(ii)Item 2 of this
Part shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, in the
case of every company other than a domestic company, calculated,--(a)at the
rate of two per cent. of such income-tax where the income or the aggregate of
such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds
one crore rupees but does not exceed ten crore rupees; and(b)at the rate of
five per cent. of such income-tax where the income or the aggregate of such
incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds ten
crore rupees.**PART III-RATES FOR CHARGING INCOME-TAX IN CERTAIN CASES,
DEDUCTING INCOME-TAX FROM INCOME CHARGEABLE UNDER THE HEAD "SALARIES" AND
COMPUTING "ADVANCE TAX"** In cases in which income-tax has to be charged under
sub-section (4) of section 172 of the Income-tax Act or sub-section (2) of
section 174 or section 174A or section 175 or sub-section (2) of section 176
of the said Act or deducted from, or paid on, from income chargeable under the
head "Salaries" under section 192 of the said Act or deducted under section
194P of the said Act or in which the "advance tax" payable under Chapter
XVII-C of the said Act has to be computed at the rate or rates in force, such
income-tax or, as the case may be, "advance tax" [not being "advance tax" in
respect of any income chargeable to tax under Chapter XII or Chapter XII-A or
income chargeable to tax under section 115JB or section 115JC or Chapter XII-
FA or Chapter XII-FB or sub-section (1A) of section 161 or section 164 or
section 164A or section 167B of the Income-tax Act at the rates as specified
in that Chapter or section or surcharge, wherever applicable, on such "advance
tax" in respect of any income chargeable to tax under section 115A or section
115AB or section 115AC or section 115ACA or section 115AD or section 115B or
section 115BA or section 115BAA or section 115BAB or section 115BAD or section
115BB or section 115BBA or section 115BBC or section 115BBD or section 115BBE
or section 115BBF or section 115BBG or section 115E or section 115JB or
section 115JC] shall be charged, deducted or computed at the following rate or
rates:-Paragraph A(i)In the case of every individual other than the individual
referred to in items (ii) and (iii) of this Paragraph or Hindu undivided
family or association of persons or body of individuals, whether incorporated
or not, or every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii)
of clause (31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, not being a case to which
any other Paragraph of this Part applies,-Rates of income-tax

(1) | where the total income does not exceed Rs. 2,50,000 | Nil;  
---|---|---  
(2) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 2,50,000 but does not exceed Rs. 5,00,000 | 5 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 2,50,000;  
(3) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000 but does not exceed Rs. 10,00,000 | Rs.12,500 plus 20 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000;  
(4) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000 | Rs. 1,12,500 plus 30 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs.10,00,000.  
  
(II)In the case of every individual, being a resident in India, who is of the
age of sixty years or more but less than eighty years at any time during the
previous year,-Rates of income-tax

(1) | (1) where the total income does not exceed Rs. 3,00,000 | Nil;  
---|---|---  
(2) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 3,00,000 but does not exceed Rs. 5,00,000 | 5 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 3,00,000;  
(3) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000 but does not exceed Rs. 10,00,000 | Rs.10,000 plus 20 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000;  
(4) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000 | Rs. 1,10,000 plus 30 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs.10,00,000.  
  
(III)In the case of every individual, being a resident in India, who is of the
age of eighty years or more at any time during the previous year,-Rates of
income-tax

(1) | where the total income does not exceed Rs. 5,00,000 | Nil;  
---|---|---  
(2) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000 but does not exceed Rs. 10,00,000 | 20 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000;  
(3) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000 | Rs. 1,00,000 plus 30 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000.  
  
Surcharge on income-taxThe amount of income-tax computed in accordance with
the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the provisions of section 111A
or section 112 or section 112A or the provision of section 115BAC of the
Income-tax Act, shall be increased by a surcharge for the purposes of the
Union, calculated, in the case of every individual or Hindu undivided family
or association of persons or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not,
or every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause
(31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act,—(a)having a total income (including
the income by way of dividend or income under the provisions of section 111A
and section 112A of the Income-tax Act) exceeding fifty lakh rupees but not
exceeding one crore rupees, at the rate of ten per cent. of such income-
tax;(b)having a total income (including the income by way of dividend or
income under the provisions of section 111A and section 112A of the Income-tax
Act) exceeding one crore rupees, but not exceeding two crore rupees, at the
rate of fifteen per cent. of such income-tax;(c)having a total income
(excluding the income by way of dividend or income under the provisions of
section 111A and section 112A of the Income-tax Act) exceeding two crore
rupees but not exceeding five crore rupees, at the rate of twenty-five per
cent. of such income-tax;(d)having a total income (excluding the income by way
of dividend or income under the provisions of section 111A and section 112A of
the Income-tax Act) exceeding five crore rupees at the rate of thirty-seven
per cent. of such income-tax; and(e)having a total income (including the
income by way of dividend or income under the provisions of section 111A and
section 112A of the Income-tax Act) exceeding two crore rupees, but is not
covered under clauses (c) and (d), shall be applicable at the rate of fifteen
per cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in case where the total income
includes any income by way of dividend or income chargeable under section 111A
and section 112A of the Income-tax Act, the rate of surcharge on the amount of
income-tax computed in respect of that part of income shall not exceed fifteen
per cent.:Provided further that in the case of persons mentioned above having
total income exceeding,—(a)fifty lakh rupees but not exceeding one crore
rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income
shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax on a total income of
fifty lakh rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds fifty lakh
rupees;(b)one crore rupees but does not exceed two crore rupees, the total
amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the
total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income of one
crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees;(c)two crore rupees but does not exceed five crore rupees, the total
amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the
total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income of two
crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds two crore
rupees;(d)five crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and
surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-
tax and surcharge on a total income of five crore rupees by more than the
amount of income that exceeds five crore rupees.Paragraph BIn the case of
every co-operative society,—Rates of income-tax

(1) | where the total income does not exceed Rs.10,000 | 10 per cent. of the total income;  
---|---|---  
(2) | where the total income exceeds Rs.10,000 but does not exceed Rs. 20,000 | Rs.1,000 plus 20 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 10,000;  
(3) | where the total income exceeds Rs. 20,000 | Rs. 3,000 plus 30 per cent. of the amount by which the total income exceeds Rs. 20,000  
  
Surcharge on income-taxThe amount of income-tax computed in accordance with
the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the provisions of section 111A
or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-tax Act, shall, in the case of
every co-operative society, having a total income exceeding one crore rupees,
be increased by a surcharge for the purposes of the Union calculated at the
rate of twelve per cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in the case of every
co-operative society mentioned above having total income exceeding one crore
rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income
shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax on a total income of
one crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees.Paragraph CIn the case of every firm,—Rate of income-tax

On the whole of the total income | 30 per cent.  
---|---  
  
Surcharge on income-taxThe amount of income-tax computed in accordance with
the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the provisions of section 111A
or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-tax Act, shall, in the case of
every firm, having a total income exceeding one crore rupees, be increased by
a surcharge for the purposes of the Union calculated at the rate of twelve per
cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in the case of every firm mentioned
above having total income exceeding one crore rupees, the total amount payable
as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount
payable as income-tax on a total income of one crore rupees by more than the
amount of income that exceeds one crore rupees.Paragraph DIn the case of every
local authority,—Rate of income-tax

On the whole of the total income | 30 per cent.  
---|---  
  
Surcharge on income-taxThe amount of income-tax computed in accordance with
the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the provisions of section 111A
or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-tax Act, shall, in the case of
every local authority, having a total income exceeding one crore rupees, be
increased by a surcharge for the purposes of the Union calculated at the rate
of twelve per cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in the case of every
local authority mentioned above having total income exceeding one crore
rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income
shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax on a total income of
one crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees.Paragraph EIn the case of a company,-Rates of income-taxI. In the case
of a domestic company,-

(i) | where its total turnover or the gross receipt in the previous year 2018-19 does not exceed four hundred crore rupees; | 25 per cent. of the total income;  
---|---|---  
(ii) | other than that referred to in item (i) | 30 per cent. of the total income.  
  
II. In the case of a company other than a domestic company,-

(i) | on so much of the total income as consists of,— | 50 per cent.;  
---|---|---  
| (a) royalties received from Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern after the 31st day of March, 1961 but before the 1st day of April, 1976; or | 30 per cent. of the total income.  
| (b) fees for rendering technical services received from Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern after the 29th day of February, 1964 but before the 1st day of April, 1976, and where such agreement has, in either case, been approved by the Central Government . |   
(ii) | on the balance, if any, of the total income | 40 per cent..  
  
Surcharge on income-taxThe amount of income-tax computed in accordance with
the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the provisions of section 111A
or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-tax Act, shall, be increased by a
surcharge for the purposes of the Union, calculated,––(i)in the case of every
domestic company,––(a)having a total income exceeding one crore rupees but not
exceeding ten crore rupees, at the rate of seven per cent. of such income-tax;
and(b)having a total income exceeding ten crore rupees, at the rate of twelve
per cent. of such income-tax;(ii)in the case of every company other than a
domestic company,––(a)having a total income exceeding one crore rupees but not
exceeding ten crore rupees, at the rate of two per cent. of such income-tax;
and (b) having a total income exceeding ten crore rupees, at the rate of five
per cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in the case of every company having
a total income exceeding one crore rupees but not exceeding ten crore rupees,
the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not
exceed the total amount payable as income-tax on a total income of one crore
rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees:Provided further that in the case of every company having a total
income exceeding ten crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and
surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-
tax and surcharge on a total income of ten crore rupees by more than the
amount of income that exceeds ten crore rupees.

## Part IV

[See section 2(13)(c)]RULES FOR COMPUTATION OF NET AGRICULTURAL INCOMERule
1.—Agricultural income of the nature referred to in subclause (a) of clause
(1A) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act shall be computed as if it were income
chargeable to income-tax under that Act under the head “Income from other
sources” and the provisions of sections 57 to 59 of that Act shall, so far as
may be, apply accordingly:Provided that sub-section (2) of section 58 shall
apply subject to the modification that the reference to section 40A therein
shall be construed as not including a reference to sub-sections (3), (3A) and
(4) of section 40A.Rule 2.—Agricultural income of the nature referred to in
subclause (b) or sub-clause (c) of clause (1A) of section 2 of the Incometax
Act [other than income derived from any building required as a dwelling-house
by the receiver of the rent or revenue of the cultivator or the receiver of
rent-in-kind referred to in the said sub-clause (c)] shall be computed as if
it were income chargeable to income-tax under that Act under the head “Profits
and gains of business or profession” and the provisions of sections 30, 31,
32, 36, 37, 38, 40, 40A [other than sub-sections (3), (3A) and (4) thereof],
41, 43, 43A, 43B and 43C of the Income-tax Act shall, so far as may be, apply
accordingly.Rule 3.—Agricultural income of the nature referred to in subclause
(c) of clause (1A) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, being income derived
from any building required as a dwelling-house by the receiver of the rent or
revenue or the cultivator or the receiver of rentin-kind referred to in the
said sub-clause (c) shall be computed as if it were income chargeable to
income-tax under that Act under the head “Income from house property” and the
provisions of sections 23 to 27 of that Act shall, so far as may be, apply
accordingly.Rule 4.—Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provisions
of these rules, in a case—(a)where the assessee derives income from sale of
tea grown and manufactured by him in India, such income shall be computed in
accordance with rule 8 of the Income-tax Rules, 1962, and sixty per cent. of
such income shall be regarded as the agricultural income of the
assessee;(b)where the assessee derives income from sale of centrifuged latex
or cenex or latex based crepes (such as pale latex crepe) or brown crepes
(such as estate brown crepe, re-milled crepe, smoked blanket crepe or flat
bark crepe) or technically specified block rubbers manufactured or processed
by him from rubber plants grown by him in India, such income shall be computed
in accordance with rule 7A of the Income-tax Rules, 1962, and sixtyfive per
cent. of such income shall be regarded as the agricultural income of the
assessee;(c)where the assessee derives income from sale of coffee grown and
manufactured by him in India, such income shall be computed in accordance with
rule 7B of the Income-tax Rules, 1962, and sixty per cent. or seventy-five per
cent., as the case may be, of such income shall be regarded as the
agricultural income of the assessee.Rule 5.—Where the assessee is a member of
an association of persons or a body of individuals (other than a Hindu
undivided family, a company or a firm) which in the previous year has either
no income chargeable to tax under the Income-tax Act or has total income not
exceeding the maximum amount not chargeable to tax in the case of an
association of persons or a body of individuals (other than a Hindu undivided
family, a company or a firm) but has any agricultural income then, the
agricultural income or loss of the association or body shall be computed in
accordance with these rules and the share of the assessee in the agricultural
income or loss so computed shall be regarded as the agricultural income or
loss of the assessee.Rule 6.—Where the result of the computation for the
previous year in respect of any source of agricultural income is a loss, such
loss shall be set off against the income of the assessee, if any, for that
previous year from any other source of agricultural income:Provided that where
the assessee is a member of an association of persons or a body of individuals
and the share of the assessee in the agricultural income of the association or
body, as the case may be, is a loss, such loss shall not be set off against
any income of the assessee from any other source of agricultural income.Rule
7.—Any sum payable by the assessee on account of any tax levied by the State
Government on the agricultural income shall be deducted in computing the
agricultural income.Rule 8.—(1) Where the assessee has, in the previous year
relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2021, any
agricultural income andthe net result of the computation of the agricultural
income of the assessee for any one or more of the previous years relevant to
the assessment years commencing on the 1st day of April, 2013 or the 1st day
of April, 2014 or the 1st day of April, 2015 or the 1st day of April, 2016 or
the 1st day of April, 2017 or the 1st day of April, 2018 or the 1st day of
April, 2019, or the 1st day of April, 2020, is a loss, then, for the purposes
of sub-section (2) of section 2 of this Act,––(i)the loss so computed for the
previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of
April, 2013, to the extent, if any, such loss has not been set off against the
agricultural income for the previous year relevant to the assessment year
commencing on the 1st day of April, 2014 or the 1st day of April, 2015 or the
1st day of April, 2016 or the 1st day of April, 2017 or the 1st day of April,
2018 or the 1st day of April, 2019 or the 1st day of April, 2020,(ii)the loss
so computed for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing
on the 1st day of April, 2014, to the extent, if any, such loss has not been
set off against the agricultural income for the previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2015 or the 1st day of
April, 2016 or the 1st day of April, 2017 or the 1st day of April, 2018 or the
1st day of April, 2019 or the 1st day of April, 2020,(iii)the loss so computed
for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st
day of April, 2015, to the extent, if any, such loss has not been set off
against the agricultural income for the previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2016 or the 1st day of
April, 2017 or the 1st day of April, 2018 or the 1st day of April, 2019 or the
1st day of April, 2020,(iv)the loss so computed for the previous year relevant
to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2016, to the
extent, if any, such loss has not been set off against the agricultural income
for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st
day of April, 2017 or the 1st day of April, 2018 or the 1st day of April, 2019
or the 1st day of April, 2020,(v)the loss so computed for the previous year
relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2017, to
the extent, if any, such loss has not been set off against the agricultural
income for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the
1st day of April, 2018 or the 1st day of April, 2019 or the 1st day of April,
2020,(vi)the loss so computed for the previous year relevant to the assessment
year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2018, to the extent, if any, such
loss has not been set off against the agricultural income for the previous
year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2019
or the 1st day of April, 2020,(vii)the loss so computed for the previous year
relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2019, to
the extent, if any, such loss has not been set off against the agricultural
income for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the
1st day of April, 2020,(viii)the loss so computed for the previous year
relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2020,
shall be set off against the agricultural income of the assessee for the
previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of
April, 2021.(2)Where the assessee has, in the previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2022, or, if by virtue of
any provision of the Income-tax Act, income-tax is to be charged in respect of
the income of a period other than the previous year, in such other period, any
agricultural income and the net result of the computation of the agricultural
income of the assessee for any one or more of the previous years relevant to
the assessment years commencing on the 1st day of April, 2014 or the 1st day
of April, 2015 or the 1st day of April, 2016 or the 1st day of April, 2017 or
the 1st day of April, 2018 or the 1st day of April, 2019 or the 1st day of
April, 2020 or the 1st day of April, 2021, is a loss, then, for the purposes
of sub-section (10) of section 2 of this Act,––(i)the loss so computed for the
previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of
April, 2014, to the extent, if any, such loss has not been set off against the
agricultural income for the previous year relevant to the assessment year
commencing on the 1st day of April, 2015 or the 1st day of April, 2016 or the
1st day of April, 2017 or the 1st day of April, 2018 or the 1st day of April,
2019 or the 1st day of April, 2020 or the 1st day of April, 2021,(ii)the loss
so computed for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing
on the 1st day of April, 2015, to the extent, if any, such loss has not been
set off against the agricultural income for the previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2016 or the 1st day of
April, 2017 or the 1st day of April, 2018 or the 1st day of April, 2019 or the
1st day of April, 2020 or the 1st day of April, 2021,(iii)the loss so computed
for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st
day of April, 2016, to the extent, if any, such loss has not been set off
against the agricultural income for the previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2017 or the 1st day of
April, 2018 or the 1st day of April, 2019 or the 1st day of April, 2020 or the
1st day of April, 2021,(iv)the loss so computed for the previous year relevant
to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2017, to the
extent, if any, such loss has not been set off against the agricultural income
for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st
day of April, 2018 or the 1st day of April, 2019 or the 1st day of April, 2020
or the 1st day of April, 2021,(v)the loss so computed for the previous year
relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2018, to
the extent, if any, such loss has not been set off against the agricultural
income for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the
1st day of April, 2019 or the 1st day of April, 2020 or the 1st day of April,
2021,(vi)the loss so computed for the previous year relevant to the assessment
year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2019, to the extent, if any, such
loss has not been set off against the agricultural income for the previous
year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the or the 1st day of
April, 2020 or the 1st day of April, 2021,(vii)the loss so computed for the
previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of
April, 2020, to the extent, if any, such loss has not been set off against the
agricultural income for the previous year relevant to the assessment year
commencing on the 1st day of April, 2021,(viii)the loss so computed for the
previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of
April, 2021, shall be set off against the agricultural income of the assessee
for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st
day of April, 2022.(3)Where any person deriving any agricultural income from
any source has been succeeded in such capacity by another person, otherwise
than by inheritance, nothing in sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) shall entitle any
person, other than the person incurring the loss, to have it set off under
sub-rule (1) or, as the case may be, sub-rule (2).(4)Notwithstanding anything
contained in this rule, no loss which has not been determined by the Assessing
Officer under the provisions of these rules or the rules contained in the
First Schedule to the Finance Act, 2013 (17 of 2013) or the First Schedule to
the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2014 (25 of 2014) or the First Schedule to the
Finance Act, 2015 (20 of 2015) or the First Schedule to the Finance Act, 2016
(28 of 2016) or the First Schedule to the Finance Act, 2017 (7 of 2017) or the
First Schedule to the Finance act, 2018 ( 13 of 2018) or the First Schedule of
the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2019 (23 of 2019) or the First Schedule of the
Finance Act, 2020 (12 of 2020) shall be set off under sub-rule (1) or, as the
case may be, sub-rule (2).Rule 9.—Where the net result of the computation made
in accordance with these rules is a loss, the loss so computed shall be
ignored and the net agricultural income shall be deemed to be nil.Rule 10.—The
provisions of the Income-tax Act relating to procedure for assessment
(including the provisions of section 288A relating to rounding off of income)
shall, with the necessary modifications, apply in relation to the computation
of the net agricultural income of the assessee as they apply in relation to
the assessment of the total income.Rule 11.—For the purposes of computing the
net agricultural income of the assessee, the Assessing Officer shall have the
same powers as he has under the Income-tax Act for the purposes of assessment
of the total income.THE SECOND SCHEDULE[See section 95 (i)]In the First
Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act, -(1)in Chapter 28, for the entry in column
(4) occurring against tariff item 2803 00 10, the entry "7.5%" shall be
substituted;(2)in Chapter 39, for the entry in column (4) occurring against
all tariff items of heading 3925, the entry "15%" shall be substituted;(3)in
Chapter 70, for the entry in column (4) occurring against all the tariff items
of heading 7007, the entry "15%" shall be substituted;(4)in Chapter 71, for
the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff item 7104 90 90, the entry
"15%" shall be substituted;(5)in Chapter 84,--(i)for the entry in column (4)
occurring against tariff item 8414 30 00, the entry "15%" shall be
substituted;(ii)for the entry in column (4) occurring against all the tariff
items of sub-heading 8414 40, the entry "15%" shall be substituted;(iii)for
the entry in column (4) occurring against all the tariff items of sub-heading
8414 80, the entry "15%" shall be substituted;(6)in Chapter 85,--(i)for the
entry in column (4) occurring against all the tariff items of sub-heading 8501
10, the entry "15%" shall be substituted;(ii)for the entry in column (4)
occurring against tariff item 8501 20 00, the entry "15%" shall be
substituted;(iii)for the entry in column (4) occurring against all the tariff
items of sub-headings 8501 31, 8501 32, 8501 33, 8501 34, 8501 40, 8501 51,
8501 52 and 8501 53, the entry "15%" shall be substituted;(iv)for the entry in
column (4) occurring against tariff item 8504 90 90, the entry "15%" shall be
substituted;(v)for the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff items 8512
90 00, 8536 41 00 and 8536 49 00, the entry "15%" shall be substituted;(vi)for
the entry in column (4) occurring against all the tariff items of heading
8537, the entry "15%" shall be substituted;(vii)for the entry in column (4)
occurring against tariff item 8544 30 00, the entry "15%" shall be
substituted;(7)in Chapter 90,--(i)for the entry in column (4) occurring
against tariff item 9031 80 00, the entry "15%" shall be substituted;(ii)for
the entry in column (4) occurring against all the tariff items of sub heading
9032 89, the entry "15%" shall be substituted;(8)in Chapter 91, for the entry
in column (4) occurring against tariff item 91040000, the entry "15%" shall be
substituted.THE THIRD SCHEDULE[See section 95 (ii)]In the First Schedule to
the Customs Tariff Act, in Chapter 27, for heading 2709, tariff items 2709 10
00 and 2709 20 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
substituted with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021, namely:-

Tariff Item | Description of goods | Unit | Rate of duty  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  | Standard | Preferential  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
"2709 PETROLEUM OILS AND OILS OBTAINED FROM BITUMINOUS MINERALS, CRUDE  
270900 -- Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous minerals, crude  
27090010 --- Petroleum crude kg. 5%  
27090090 --- Otherkg. kg. 5%  
  
THE FOURTH SCHEDULE[See section 95 (iii)]

Tariff Item | Description of goods | Unit | Rate of duty  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  | Standard | Preferential  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
(1) in Chapter 2, in the Note-(i) after clause (a), the following clause shall
be inserted, namely :-"(b) edible, non-living insects (heading 0410);";(ii)
the existing clauses (b) and (c) shall respectively be re-lettered as clauses
(c) and (d);(2) in Chapter 3, -(i) after Note 2, the following Note shall be
inserted, namely :-"3. Headings 0305 to 0308 do not cover flours, meals and
pellets, fit for human consumption (heading 0309).";(ii) in heading 0302, for
the entry in column (2), -(a) occurring after tariff item 0302 29 00 and the
entries relating thereto, the following entry shall be substituted, namely
:-"\- Tunas (of the genus Thunnus), skipjack tuna (stripe-bellied bonito)
(Katsuwonus pelamis), excluding edible fish offal of sub-headings 030291 to
030299 :";(b) occurring against tariff item 0302 33 00, the following entry
shall be substituted, namely :-Skipjack tuna (stripe-bellied bonito)
(Katsuwonus pelamis)";(c) occurring against tariff item 0302 55 00, the
following entry shall be substituted, namely :-"- - Alaska Pollock (Theragra
chalcogramma)";(iii) in heading 0303, for the entry in column (2), -(a)
occurring after tariff item 0303 39 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following entry shall be substituted, namely :-" - Tunas (of the genus
Thunnus), skipjack tuna (stripe-bellied bonito) (Katsuwonus pelamis),
excluding edible fish offal of sub-headings 0303 91 to 0303 99 :";(b)
occurring against tariff item 0303 43 00, the following entry shall be
substituted, namely :-"- - Skipjack tuna (stripe-bellied bonito) (Katsuwonus
pelamis)";(c) occurring against tariff item 0303 67 00, the following entry
shall be substituted, namely :-"- - Alaska Pollock (Theragra
chalcogramma)";(iv) in heading 0304, for the entry in column (2),-(a)
occurring against tariff item 0304 75 00, the following entry shall be
substituted, namely :-"- - Alaska Pollock (Theragra chalcogramma)";(b)
occurring against tariff item 0304 87 00, the following entry shall be
substituted, namely :-"- - Tunas (of the genus Thunnus), skipjack tuna
(stripe-bellied bonito) (Katsuwonus pelamis)";(c) occurring against tariff
item 0304 94 00, the following entry shall be substituted, namely :-"- -
Alaska Pollock (Theragra chalcogramma)";(d) occurring against tariff item 0304
95 00, the following entry shall be substituted, namely :-"- - Fish of the
families (Bregmacerotidae, Euclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae, Melanonidae,
Merlucciidae, Moridae and Muraenolepididae,) other than Alaska Pollock
(Theragra chalcogramma)";(v) in heading 0305, -(a) for the entry in column (2)
occurring against the heading 0305, the following entry shall be substituted,
namely :-"FISH, DRIED, SALTED OR IN BRINE; SMOKED FISH, WHETHER OR NOT COOKED
BEFORE OR DURING THE SMOKING PROCESS";(b) tariff item 0305 10 00 and the
entries relating thereto shall be omitted; (vi) in heading 0306, for the entry
in column (2),-(a) occurring against the heading 0306, the following entry
shall be substituted, namely :-"CRUSTACEANS, WHETHER IN SHELL OR NOT, LIVE,
FRESH, CHILLED, FROZEN, DRIED, SALTED OR IN BRINE; SMOKED CRUSTACEANS, WHETHER
IN SHELL OR NOT, WHETHER OR NOT COOKED BEFORE OR DURING THE SMOKING PROCESS;
CRUSTACEANS, IN SHELL, COOKED BY STEAMING OR BY BOILING IN WATER, WHETHER OR
NOT CHILLED, FROZEN, DRIED, SALTED OR IN BRINE";(b) occurring against tariff
item 0306 19 00, the following entry shall be substituted, namely :-"- -
Other";(c) occurring against tariff item 0306 39 00, the following entry shall
be substituted, namely :-"- - Other";(d) occurring against tariff item 0306 99
00, the following entry shall be substituted, namely :-"- - Other"; (vii) in
heading 0307, for the entry in column (2), -(a) occurring against the heading
0307, the following entry shall be substituted, namely :-"MOLLUSCS, WHETHER IN
SHELL OR NOT, LIVE, FRESH, CHILLED, FROZEN, DRIED, SALTED OR IN BRINE; SMOKED
MOLLUSCS, WHETHER IN SHELL OR NOT, WHETHER OR NOT COOKED BEFORE OR DURING THE
SMOKING PROCESS";(b) occurring after tariff item 0307 19 00 and the entries
relating thereto, the following entry shall be substituted, namely
:-"-Scallops and other molluscs of the family Pectinidae :";(c) occurring
after tariff item 03078800 and the entries relating thereto, the following
entry shall be substituted, namely :-"-Other";(viii) in the heading 0308, for
the entry in column (2) occurring against the heading 0308, the following
entry shall be substituted, namely :-"AQUATIC INVERTEBRATES OTHER THAN
CRUSTACEANS AND MOLLUSCS, LIVE, FRESH, CHILLED, FROZEN, DRIED, SALTED OR IN
BRINE; SMOKED AQUATIC INVERTEBRATES OTHER THAN CRUSTACEANS AND MOLLUSCS,
WHETHER OR NOT COOKED BEFORE OR DURING THE SMOKING PROCESS";(ix) after tariff
item 0308 90 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
inserted, namely :-  
  
“0309 | FLOURS, MEALS AND PELLETS OF FISH, CRUSTACEANS, MOLLUSCS AND OTHER AQUATIC INVERTEBRATES, FIT FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION |  |   
---|---|---|---  
0309 10 | \- Of fish: |  |   
0309 10 10 | \- - - Fresh or chilled | kg. | 30%  
0309 10 20 | \- - - Frozen | kg. | 30%  
0309 10 30 | \- - - Salted, in brine, dried or smoked | kg. | 30%  
0309 10 90 | \- - - Other | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 | \- Other:- - - Of crustaceans, fresh or chilled: |  |   
0309 90 11 | \- - - - Vannamei shrimp (Litopenaeus vannamei) | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 12 | \- - - - Indian white shrimp (Fenneropenaeus indicus) | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 13 | \- - - - Black tiger shrimp (Penaeus monodon) | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 14 | \- - - - Flower shrimp (Penaeus semisulcatus) | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 19 | \- - - - Other- - - Of crustaceans, frozen: | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 21 | \- - - - Vannamei shrimp (Litopenaeus vannamei) | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 22 | \- - - - Indian white shrimp (Fenneropenaeus indicus) | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 23 | \- - - - Black tiger shrimp (Penaeus monodon) | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 24 | \- - - - Flower shrimp (Penaeus semisulcatus) | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 29 | \- - - - Other- - - Of crustaceans, salted, in brine, dried orsmoked: | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 31 | \- - - - Vannamei shrimp (Litopenaeus vannamei) | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 32 | \- - - - Indian white shrimp (Fenneropenaeus indicus) | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 33 | \- - - - Black tiger shrimp (Penaeus monodon) | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 34 | \- - - - Flower shrimp (Penaeus semisulcatus) | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 39 | \- - - - Other | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 40 | \- - - Of crustaceans, other | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 50 | \- - - Of molluscs, fresh or chilled | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 60 | \- - - Of molluscs, frozen | kg. | 30%  
0309 90 70 | \- - - Of molluscs, salted, in brine, dried or smoked | kg | 30%  
0309 90 80 | \- - - Of molluscs, other | kg | 30%  
0309 90 90 | \- - - Other | kg | 30%  
  
(3)in Chapter 4, -(i)after Note 1, the following Note shall be inserted,
namely :-"2. For the purposes of heading 0403, yogurt may be concentrated or
flavoured and may contain added sugar or other sweetening matter, fruit, nuts,
cocoa, chocolate, spices, coffee or coffee extracts, plants, parts of plants,
cereals or bakers' wares, provided that any added substance is not used for
the purpose of replacing, in whole or in part, any milk constituent, and the
product retains the essential character of yogurt.";(ii)the existing Notes 2
and 3 shall respectively be re-numbered as Notes 3 and 4;(iii)for existing
Note 4, the following Notes shall be substituted, namely:--"5. This Chapter
does not cover:(a)non-living insects, unfit for human consumption (heading
0511);(b)products obtained from whey, containing by weight more than 95 %
lactose, expressed as anhydrous lactose, calculated on the dry matter (heading
1702);(c)products obtained from milk by replacing one or more of its natural
constituents (for example, butyric fats) by another substance (for example,
oleic fats) (heading 1901 or 2106); or(d)Albumins (including concentrates of
two or more whey proteins, containing by weight more than 80 % whey proteins,
calculated on the dry matter) (heading 3502) or globulins (heading 3504).

### 6\. For the purposes of heading 0410, the term "insects" means edible non-
living insects, whole or in parts, fresh, chilled, frozen, dried, smoked,
salted or in brine, as well as flours and meals of insects,fit for human
consumption. However, it does not cover edible non-living insects otherwise
prepared or preserved (generally Section IV).";

(iv)in heading 0403, -(v)for heading 0410, sub-heading 0410 00, tariff items
0410 00 10 to 0410 00 90 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall
be substituted, namely:--

heading 1 | heading 2  
---|---  
cell 1 | cell 2  
cell 3 | cell 4  
  
(4)in Chapter 7, -(i)after Note 4, the following Note shall be inserted,
namely :-"5. Heading 0711 applies to vegetables which have been treated solely
to ensure their provisional preservation during transport or storage prior to
use (for example, by sulphur dioxide gas, in brine, in sulphur water or in
other preservative solutions), provided they remain unsuitable for immediate
consumption in that state.";(ii)in heading 0704, for the entry in column (2)
occurring against tariff item 0704 10 00, the following entry shall be
substituted, namely :-"- Cauliflowers and broccoli";(iii)in heading 0709,
after tariff item 0709 51 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following
shall be inserted, namely:--"- Cauliflowers and broccoli";(iii)in heading
0709, after tariff item 0709 51 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely:-

“0709 52 00 | Mushrooms of the genus Boletus | kg. | 30% | 20%  
---|---|---|---|---  
0709 53 00 | \- - Mushrooms of the genus Cantharellus | kg. | 30% | 20%  
0709 54 0 | \- - Shiitake (Lentinus edodes) | kg. | 30% | 20%  
0709 55 00 | \- - Matsutake (Tricholoma matsutake, Tricholoma magnivelare, Tricholoma anatolicum, Tricholoma dulciolens, Tricholoma caligatum) | kg. | 30% | 20%  
0709 56 00 | \- - Matsutake (Tricholoma matsutake, Tricholoma magnivelare, Tricholoma anatolicum, Tricholoma dulciolens, Tricholoma caligatum) | kg. | 30% | 20%  
  
(iv)in heading 0711, for the entry in column (2) occurring against the heading
0711, the following entry shall be substituted, namely:-"VEGETABLES
PROVISIONALLY PRESERVED, BUT UNSUITABLE IN THAT STATE FOR IMMEDIATE
CONSUMPTION";(v)in heading 0712, after tariff item 0712 33 00 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:--

“0712 34 00 | \- - Shiitake (Lentinus edodes) | kg. | 30%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(5)in Chapter 8, -(i)after Note 3, the following Note shall be inserted,
namely :-"4. Heading 0812 applies to fruit and nuts which have been treated
solely to ensure their provisional preservation during transport or storage
prior to use (for example, by sulphur dioxide gas, in brine, in sulphur water
or in other preservative solutions), provided they remain unsuitable for
immediate consumption in that state.";(ii)in heading 0802, for tariff item
0802 90 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
substituted, namely:-

0802 91 00 | \- - Pine nuts, in shell | kg. | 100% | 90%  
---|---|---|---|---  
0802 92 00 | Pine nuts, shelled | kg. | 100% | 90%  
0802 99 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 100% | 90%  
  
(iii)in heading 0805, for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff
item 0805 40 00, the following entry shall be substituted, namely:-"-
Grapefruit and pomelos";(iv)in heading 0812, for the entry in column (2)
occurring against the heading 0812, the following entry shall be substituted,
namely:-"FRUIT AND NUTS PROVISIONALLY PRESERVED, BUT UNSUITABLE IN THAT STATE
FOR IMMEDIATE CONSUMPTION";(6)in Chapter 10, in Note 1, for clause (B), the
following clause shall be substituted, namely :-"(B) This Chapter does not
cover grains which have been hulled or otherwise worked. However, rice,
husked, milled, polished, glazed, parboiled or broken remains classified in
heading 1006. Similarly, quinoa from which the pericarp has been wholly or
partly removed in order to separate the saponin, but which has not undergone
any other processes, remains classified in heading 1008.";(7)in Chapter 12, in
heading 1211, after tariff item 1211 50 00 and the entries relating thereto,
the following shall be inserted, namely :-

“1211 60 00 | Bark of African cherry (Prunus africana) | kg. | 30%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(8)in Section III, for the Section heading, the following Section heading
shall be substituted, namely:-"ANIMAL, VEGETABLE OR MICROBIAL FATS AND OILS
AND THEIR CLEAVAGE PRODUCTS; PREPARED EDIBLE FATS; ANIMAL OR VEGETABLE
WAXES";(9)in Chapter 15, -(i)for the Chapter heading, the following Chapter
heading shall be substituted, namely:-"Animal, vegetable or microbial fats and
oils and their cleavage products; prepared edible fats; animal or vegetable
waxes";(ii)for Sub-heading Note, the following Sub-heading Notes shall be
substituted, namely:-"Sub-heading Notes:

### 1\. For the purposes of sub-heading 1509 30, virgin olive oil has a free
acidity expressed as oleic acid not exceeding 2.0 g/ 100 g and can be
distinguished from the other virgin olive oil categories according to the
characteristics indicated in the Codex Alimentarius Standard 33-1981.

### 2\. For the purposes of sub-headings 1514 11 and 1514 19, the expression
"low erucic acid rape or colza oil" means the fixed oil which has an erucic
acid content of less than 2% by weight.";

(iii)in heading 1509, for the tariff item 1509 10 00 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:--

heading 1 | heading 2  
---|---  
cell 1 | cell 2  
cell 3 | cell 4  
  
(iv)for heading 1510, sub-heading 1510 00, tariff items 1510 00 10 to 1510 00
99 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely:--"1510 OTHER OILS AND THEIR FRACTIONS, OBTAINED SOLELY FROM OLIVES,
WHETHER OR NOT REFINED, BUT NOT CHEMICALLY MODIFIED, INCLUDING BLENDS OF THESE
OILS OR FRACTIONS WITH OILS OR FRACTIONS OF HEADING 1509

1510 10 00 | \- Crude olive pomace oil | kg | 45%  
---|---|---|---  
1510 90 | \- Other: | kg | 45%  
1510 90 10 | \- - - Refined olive pomace oil | kg | 45%  
1510 90 90 | \- - - Other | kg | 45%  
  
(v)in heading 1515,(a)in the entry in column (2) occurring against the heading
1515, for the words "VEGETABLE FATS" the words "VEGETABLE OR MICROBIAL FATS"
shall be substituted;(b)after tariff item 1515 50 99 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:--

“1515 60 00 | \- Microbial fats and oils and theirfractions | kg. | 100% | 90%  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
(vi)in heading 1516,(a)in the entry in column (2) occurring against the
heading 1516, for the words " OR VEGETABLE FATS" the words ", VEGETABLE OR
MICROBIAL FATS" shall be substituted;(b)after tariff item 1516 20 99 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:--

“1516 30 00 | \- Microbial fats and oils and theirfractions | kg. | 30%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(vii)in heading 1517, for the entry in column (2) occurring against the
heading 1517, the following entry shall be substituted, namely:-"MARGARINE;
EDIBLE MIXTURES OR PREPARATIONS OF ANIMAL, VEGETABLE OR MICROBIAL FATS OR OILS
OR OF FRACTIONS OF DIFFERENT FATS OR OILS OF THIS CHAPTER, OTHER THAN EDIBLE
FATS AND OILS OR THEIR FRACTIONS OF HEADING 1516";(viii)in heading 1518,
-(a)for the entry in column (2) occurring against the heading 1518, the
following entry shall be substituted, namely:-"ANIMAL, VEGETABLE OR MICROBIAL
FATS AND OILS AND THEIR FRACTIONS, BOILED, OXIDISED, DEHYDRATED, SULPHURISED,
BLOWN, POLYMERISED BY HEAT IN VACUUM OR IN INERT GAS OR OTHERWISE CHEMICALLY
MODIFIED, EXCLUDING THOSE OF HEADING 1516; INEDIBLE MIXTURES OR PREPARATIONS
OF ANIMAL, VEGETABLE OR MICROBIAL FATS OR OILS OR OF FRACTIONS OF DIFFERENT
FATS OR OILS OF THIS CHAPTER, NOT ELSEWHERE SPECIFIED OR INCLUDED";(b)sub-
heading 1518 00 and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted;(10)in
Section IV, for the Section heading, the following Section heading shall be
substituted, namely:-"PREPARED FOODSTUFFS; BEVERAGES, SPIRITS AND VINEGAR;
TOBACCO AND MANUFACTURED TOBACCO SUBSTITUTES; PRODUCTS, WHETHER OR NOT
CONTAINING NICOTINE, INTENDED FOR INHALATION WITHOUT COMBUSTION; OTHER
NICOTINE CONTAINING PRODUCTS INTENDED FOR THE INTAKE OF NICOTINE INTO THE
HUMAN BODY";(11)in Chapter 16, -(i)for the Chapter heading, the following
Chapter heading shall be substituted, namely:-"Preparations of meat, of fish,
crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates, or of insects";(ii)for
Note 1, the following Note shall be substituted, namely:-"1. This Chapter does
not cover meat, meat offal, fish, crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic
invertebrates, as well as insects, prepared or preserved by the processes
specified in Chapter 2 or 3, Note 6 to Chapter 4 or in heading 0504.";(iii)in
Note 2, for the words "blood, fish", the words "blood, insects, fish" shall be
substituted;(iv)in Sub-heading Note 1,-(a)for the words "preparations of meat,
meat offal or blood", the words "preparations of meat, meat offal, blood or
insects" shall be substituted;(b)for the words "visible pieces of meat or meat
offal", the words "visible pieces of meat or meat offal or insects" shall be
substituted;(v)for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff item 1601
00 00, the following entry shall be substituted, namely:-"sausages and similar
products, of meat, meat offal, blood or insects; food preparations based on
these products";(vi)in heading 1602, for the entry in column (2) occurring
against the heading 1602, the following entry shall be substituted,
namely:-"OTHER PREPARED OR PRESERVED MEAT, MEAT OFFAL, BLOOD OR
INSECTS";(vii)in heading 1604, for the entry in column (2) occurring against
sub-heading 1604 14, the following entry shall be substituted, namely:-"- -
Tunas, skipjack tuna and bonito (Sarda spp.):";(12)in Chapter 18, for Note 1,
the following Note shall be substituted, namely:-"1. This Chapter does not
cover:(a)food preparations containing more than 20 % by weight of sausage,
meat, meat offal, blood, insects, fish or crustaceans, molluscs or other
aquatic invertebrates, or any combination thereof (Chapter 16);(b)preparations
of headings 0403, 1901, 1902, 1904, 1905, 2105, 2202, 2208, 3003 or
3004.";(13)in Chapter 19, in Note 1, in clause (a), for the words "blood,
fish", the words "blood, insects, fish" shall be substituted;(14)in Chapter
20, -(i)in Note 1, -(A)for clause (b), the following clauses shall be
substituted, namely:-"(b) vegetable fats and oils (Chapter 15);(c)food
preparations containing more than 20 % by weight of sausage, meat, meat offal,
blood, insects, fish or crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates,
or any combination thereof (Chapter 16);";(B)the existing clauses (c) and (d)
shall respectively be re-lettered as clauses (d) and (e);(ii)in heading 2008,
for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff item 2008 93 00, the
following entry shall be substituted, namely:-"- - Cranberries (Vaccinium
macrocarpon, Vaccinium oxycoccos); lingonberries (Vaccinium vitis-
idaea)";(iii)in heading 2009, for the entry in column (2), -(a)occurring
against the heading 2009, the following entry shall be substituted,
namely:-"FRUIT OR NUT JUICES (INCLUDING GRAPE MUST AND COCONUT WATER) AND
VEGETABLE JUICES, UNFERMENTED AND NOT CONTAINING ADDED SPIRIT, WHETHER OR NOT
CONTAINING ADDED SUGAR OR OTHER SWEETENING MATTER";(b)occurring after tariff
item 2009 19 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following entry shall be
substituted, namely:-"- Grapefruit juice; pomelo juice :";(c)occurring after
tariff item 2009 79 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following entry
shall be substituted, namely:-"- Juice of any other single fruit, nut or
vegetable :";(d)occurring against tariff item 2009 81 00, the following entry
shall be substituted, namely:-"- - Cranberry (Vaccinium macrocarpon, Vaccinium
oxycoccos) juice; lingonberry (Vaccinium vitis-idaea) juice";(15)in Chapter
21, in Note 1, -(A)after clause (e), the following clause shall be inserted,
namely:-"(f) products of heading 2404;";(B)the existing clauses (f) and (g)
shall respectively be re-lettered as clauses (g) and (h);(16)in Chapter 22, in
heading 2202, in the entry in column (2) occurring against the heading 2202,
for the words "INCLUDING FRUIT OR", the words "INCLUDINGFRUIT, NUT OR" shall
be substituted;(17)in Chapter 23, in heading 2306, in the entry in column (2)
occurring against the heading 2306, for the words "VEGETABLE FATS", the words
"VEGETABLE OR MICROBIAL FATS" shall be substituted;(18)in Chapter 24, -(i)for
the Chapter heading, the following Chapter heading shall be substituted,
namely:-"Tobacco and manufactured tobacco substitutes; products, whether or
not containing nicotine, intended for inhalation without combustion; other
nicotine containing products intended for the intake of nicotine into the
human body";(ii)for the Note, the following Notes shall be substituted,
namely:-"Notes:

### 1\. This Chapter does not cover medicinal cigarettes (Chapter 30);

### 2\. Any products classifiable in heading 2404 and any other heading of the
Chapter are to be classified in heading 2404.

### 3\. For the purposes of heading 2404, the expression "inhalation without
combustion" means inhalation through heated delivery or other means, without
combustion.";

(iii)after tariff item 2403 99 90 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely :-"2404 PRODUCTS CONTAINING TOBACCO,
RECONSTITUTED TOBACCO, NICOTINE, OR TOBACCO OR NICOTINE SUBSTITUTES, INTENDED
FOR INHALATION WITHOUT COMBUSTION; OTHER NICOTINE CONTAINING PRODUCTS INTENDED
FOR THE INTAKE OF NICOTINE INTO THE HUMAN BODY\- Products intended for
inhalation without combustion:

2404 11 00 | \- - Containing tobacco or reconstituted tobacco | kg. | 30%  
---|---|---|---  
2404 12 00 | \- Other: | kg. | 30%  
2404 19 00 | \- Other: | kg. | 30%  
2404 91 00 | \- - For oral application |  |   
2404 92 00 | \- - For transdermal application | kg. | 30%  
2404 99 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 30%  
  
(19)in Chapter 25, -(i)in Note 2, after clause (d), the following clause shall
be inserted, namely :-"(e) dolomite ramming mix (heading 3816);";(ii)the
existing clauses (e), (f), (g), (h) and (ij) shall respectively be re-lettered
as clauses (f), (g), (h), (ij) and (k);(iii)in heading 2518, -(a)in the entry
in column (2) occurring against the heading 2518, the words "DOLOMITE RAMMING
MIX" shall be omitted;(b)tariff item 2518 30 00 and the entries relating
thereto shall be omitted;(20)in Chapter 27, in Sub-heading Note 5, for the
words "animal or vegetable fats", the words "animal, vegetable or microbial
fats" shall be substituted;(21)in Section VI, after Note 3, the following Note
shall be inserted, namely:-"4. Where a product answers to a description in one
or more of the headings in Section VI by virtue of being described by name or
function and also to heading 3827, then it is classifiable in a heading that
references the product by name or function and not under heading 3827.";(22)in
Chapter 28, -(i)in heading 2844, for the tariff item 2844 40 00 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:--"-
Radioactive elements and isotopes and compounds other than those of subheading
2844 10, 2844 20 or 2844 30; alloys, dispersions (including cermets), ceramic
products and mixtures containing these elements, isotopes or compounds;
radioactive residues:

2844 41 00 | \- Tritium and its compounds; alloys, dispersions (including cermets), ceramic products and mixtures containing tritium or its compounds | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
2844 42 00 | Actinium-225, actinium-227, kg. 10% californium-253, curium-240, curium-241, curium-242, curium-243, curium-244, einsteinium-253, einsteinium-254, gadolinium-148, polonium-208, polonium-209, polonium-210, radium-223, uranium-230 or uranium-232, and their compounds; alloys, dispersions (including cermets), ceramic products and mixtures containing these elements or compounds | kg. | 10%  
2844 43 00 | \- Other radioactive elements and isotopes and compounds; other alloys, dispersions (including cermets), ceramic products and mixtures containing these elements, isotopes or compounds | kg. | 10%  
2844 44 00 | \- Radioactive residues | kg. | 10%  
  
(ii)in heading 2845, after tariff item 2845 10 00 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:--

“2845 20 00 | \- Boron enriched in boron-10 and itscompounds | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
2845 30 00 | \- Lithium enriched in lithium-6 and itscompounds | kg. | 10%  
2845 40 00 | Helium-3 | kg. | 10%  
  
(23)in Chapter 29, -(i)in Note 1, in clause (g), after the words "odoriferous
substance", the words "or an emetic" shall be inserted;(ii)in Note 4, for the
portion beginning with the words "For the purposes" and ending with the words
and figures "heading 2905 to 2920", the following shall be substituted, namely
:-'For the purposes of headings 2911, 2912, 2914, 2918 and 2922, "oxygen
function", the characteristic organic oxygen-containing group of those
respective headings, is restricted to the oxygen-functions referred to in
headings 2905 to 2920.';(iii)in heading 2903, for tariff items 2903 29 00 to
2903 31 00, sub-heading 2903 39, tariff items 29033911 to 29037630, the
following shall be substituted, namely :-

“2903 29 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
| \- Saturated fluorinated derivatives of acyclic hydrocarbons : |  |   
2903 41 00 | \- - Trifluoromethane (HFC-23) | kg. | 10%  
  
2903 42 00 | \- - Difluoromethane (HFC-32) | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
2903 43 00 | Fluoromethane (HFC-41), 1,2-difluoroethane (HFC-152) and1,1difluoroethane (HFC-152a) | kg. | 10%  
2903 44 00 | \- - Pentafluoroethane (HFC-125), 1,1,1trifluoroethane (HFC-143a) and 1,1,2-trifluoroethane (HFC-143) | kg. | 10%  
2903 45 00 | 1,1,1,2-Tetrafluoroethane (HFC134a) and 1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethane (HFC-134) | kg. | 10%  
2903 46 00 | \- - 1,1,1,2,3,3,3-Heptafluoropropane (HFC-227ea), 1,1,1,2,2,3hexafluoropropane (HFC-236cb), 1,1,1,2,3,3-hexafluoropropane (HFC236ea) and 1,1,1,3,3,3hexafluoropropane (HFC-236fa) | kg. | 10%  
2903 47 00 | \- - 1,1,1,3,3-Pentafluoropropane (HFC245fa) and 1,1,2,2,3pentafluoropropane (HFC-245ca) | kg. | 10%  
2903 48 00 | \- - 1,1,1,3,3-Pentafluorobutane (HFC-365mfc) and 1,1,1,2,2,3,4,5,5,5decafluoropentane (HFC-43-10mee) | kg. | 10%  
2903 49 00 | \- - Other - Unsaturated fluorinated derivatives of acyclic hydrocarbons : | kg. | 10%  
2903 51 | \- - 2,3,3,3-Tetrafluoropropene (HFO-1234yf), 1,3,3,3-tetrafluoropropene (HFO-1234ze) and (Z)-1,1,1,4,4,4hexafluoro-2-butene (HFO-1336mzz) | kg. | 10%  
2903 59 | \- - Other : | kg. | 10%  
2903 59 10 | \- - - 1,1,3,3,3-pentafluoro-2(trifluoromethyl)prop-1-ene [Perfluoroisobutene (PFIB)] | kg. | 10%  
2903 59 90 | \- - - Other - Brominated or iodinated derivatives ofacyclic hydrocarbons: | kg. | 10%  
2903 61 00 | \- - Methyl bromide (bromomethane) | kg. | 10%  
2903 61 00 | \- - Ethylene dibromide (ISO) (1,2dibromoethane) | kg. | 10%  
2903 69 00 | \- - OtherHalogenated derivatives of acyclic hydrocarbons containing two or more different halogen: | kg. | 10%  
2903 71 00 | \- - Chlorodifluoromethane (HCFC-22) | kg. | 10%  
2903 72 00 | \- - Dichlorotrifluoroethanes (HCFC-123) | kg. | 10%  
2903 73 00 | \- - Dichlorofluoroethanes (HCFC-141,141b) | kg. | 10%  
2903 75 00 | Dichloropentafluoropropanes (HCFC225, 225ca,225cb) | kg. | 10%  
2903 76 | \- - Bromochlorodifluoromethane (Halon-1211), bromotrifluoromethane (Halon-1301) and dibromotetrafluoroethanes (Halon2402): | kg. | 10%  
2903 76 10 | \- - - Bromochlorodifluoromethane (Halon-1211) | kg. | 10%  
2903 76 20 | \- - - Bromotrifluoromethane (Halon1301) | kg. | 10%  
2903 76 30 | \- - - Dibromotetrafluoroethanes (Halon2402) | kg. | 10%  
  
(iv)in heading 2909, in the entry in column (2) occurring against the heading
2909, for the words "ETHER PEROXIDES", the words "ETHER PEROXIDES, ACETAL AND
HEMIACETAL PEROXIDES" shall be substituted;(v)in heading 2930, -(a)after the
entry in column (2) occurring against the heading 2930, the following shall be
inserted, namely :-

“2930 10 00 | ,N-Dimethylamino) ethanethiol | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(b)tariff item 2930 90 92 and the entries relating thereto shall be
omitted;(c)tariff item 2930 90 94 and the entries relating thereto shall be
omitted;(vi)for heading 2931, sub-heading 2931 10, tariff items 2931 10 10 to
2931 39 00, sub-heading 2931 90, tariff items 2931 90 10 and 2931 90 90 and
the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:--

2931 10 | \- Tetramethyl lead and tetraethyl lead: |  |   
---|---|---|---  
2931 10 10 | \- Tributyltin compounds- Non-halogenated organo-phosphorous derivatives: | kg | 10%  
2931 10 90 | Dimethyl methylphosphonate | kg | 10%  
2931 20 00 | Dimethyl propylphosphonate | kg | 10%  
2931 43 00 | \- Diethyl ethylphosphonate | kg | 10%  
2931 44 00 | \- - Methylphosphonic acid | kg | 10%  
2931 45 00 | \- - Salt of methylphosphonic acid and(aminoiminomethyl)urea (1 : 1) | kg | 10%  
2931 46 00 | \- - 2,4,6-Tripropyl-1,3,5,2,4,6-trioxatriphosphinane 2,4,6-trioxide | kg | 10%  
2931 47 00 | \- - (5-Ethyl-2-methyl-2-oxido-1,3,2-dioxaphosphinan-5-yl) methyl methylmethylphosphonate | kg | 10%  
2931 48 00 | 3,9-Dimethyl-2,4,8,10-tetraoxa-3,9diphosphaspiro[5.5] undecane 3,9dioxide | kg | 10%  
2931 49 | Other: | kg | 10%  
2931 49 10 | \- - - Sodium 3-(trihydroxysilyl)propyl methylphosphonate | kg | 10%  
2931 49 20 | Bis[(5-ethy1-2-methy1-2-oxido-1,3,2dioxaphosphinan-5-yl)methyl] methylphosphonate | kg | 10%  
2931 49 20 | \- - - Other - Halogenated organo-phosphorous derivatives: | kg | 10%  
2931 51 00 | Methylphosphonic dichloride | kg |   
2931 52 00 | \- - Propylphosphonic dichloride | kg. | 10%  
2931 53 00 | \- - O-(3-chloropropyl) O-[4-nitro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] methylphosphonothionate | kg. | 10%  
2931 54 00 | \- - Trichlorfon (ISO) | kg. | 10%  
2931 59 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
2931 90 | \- Other:- - - Organo-arsenic compounds: |  |   
2931 90 11 | \- - - - Methylarsonic acid and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2931 90 12 | \- - - - Cacodylic acid and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2931 90 13 | \- - - - p-Aminophenylarsonic acid and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2931 90 14 | \- - - - Amino-hydroxyphenylarsonic acids, their formyl and acetyl derivatives and their salts | kg. | 10%  
2931 90 15 | \- - - - Arsenobenzene and its derivatives | kg. | 10%  
2931 90 19 | \- - - - Other | kg. | 10%  
2931 90 20 | \- - - Organo-silicon compounds | kg. | 10%  
2931 90 30 | \- - - o-Iodosobenzoic acid | kg. | 10%  
2931 90 90 | \- - - Other | kg. | 10%  
  
(vii)in heading 2932, after tariff item 2932 95 00 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely :-

\- - Carbofuran (ISO) | \- - Carbofuran (ISO) | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(viii)in heading 2933, -(a)for tariff item 2933 33 00 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely :-

“2933 33 | \- - Alfentanil (INN), anileridine (INN), bezitramide (INN), bromazepam (INN), carfentanil (INN), difenoxin (INN), diphenoxylate (INN), dipipanone (INN), fentanyl (INN), ketobemidone (INN), methylphenidate (INN), pentazocine (INN), pethidine (INN), pethidine (INN) intermediate A, phencyclidine (INN) (PCP), phenoperidine (INN), pipradrol (INN), piritramide (INN), propiram (INN), remifentanil (INN) and trimeperidine (INN); salts thereof: - - Alfentanil (INN), anileridine (INN), bezitramide (INN), bromazepam (INN), carfentanil (INN), difenoxin (INN), diphenoxylate (INN), dipipanone (INN); salts thereof: - - Alfentanil (INN) and its salt kg. | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
2933 33 11 | \- - - - Alfentanil (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 12 | \- - - - Anileridine (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 13 | \- - - - Bezitramide (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 14 | \- - - - Bromazepam (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 15 - | \- - - - Carfentanil (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 16 | \- - - - Difenoxin (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 17 | \- - - - Diphenoxylate (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 18 | \- - - - Dipipanone (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
| \- - - Fentanyl (INN), ketobemidone (INN), methylphenidate (INN), pentazocine (INN), pethidine (INN), pethidine (INN) intermediate A, phencyclidine (INN) (PCP), phenoperidine (INN); salts thereof | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 11 | \- - - - Alfentanil (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 12 | \- - - - Anileridine (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 13 | \- - - - Bezitramide (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 14 | \- - - - Bromazepam (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 15 | \- - - - Carfentanil (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 16 | \- - - - Difenoxin (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 17 | \- - - - Diphenoxylate (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 18 | \- - - - Dipipanone (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
| \- - - Fentanyl (INN), ketobemidone (INN), methylphenidate (INN), pentazocine (INN), pethidine (INN), pethidine (INN) intermediate A, phencyclidine (INN) (PCP), phenoperidine (INN); salts thereof | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 21 | \- - - - Fentanyl (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 22 | \- - - - Ketobemidone (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 23 | \- - - - Methylphenidate (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 24 | \- - - - Pentazocine (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 25 | \- - - - Pethidine (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 26 | \- - - - Pethidine (INN) intermediate A and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 27 | Phencyclidine (INN) (PCP) and itssalt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 28 | \- - - - Phenoperidine (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
|  | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 31 | \- - - Pipradrol (INN), piritramide (INN), propiram (INN), remifentanil (INN) and trimeperidine (INN); salts thereof: | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 32 | \- - - - Pipradrol (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 33 | \- - - - Piritramide (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 34 | \- - - - Remifentanil (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 33 35 | \- - - - Trimeperidine (INN) and its salt | kg. | 10%  
2933 34 00 | \- - Other fentanyls and their derivatives | kg. | 10%  
2933 35 00 | \- - 3-Quinuclidinol | kg. | 10%  
2933 36 00 | \- - 4-Anilino-N-phenethylpiperidine (ANPP) | kg. | 10%  
2933 37 00 | \- - N-Phenethyl-4-piperidone (NPP) | kg. | 10%  
  
(b)tariff items 2933 39 20 and 2933 39 30 and the entries relating thereto
shall be omitted;(ix)in heading 2934, after tariff item 2934 91 00 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely :-

“2934 92 00 | \- - Other fentanyls and theirderivatives | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(x)in heading 2936, for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff item
2936 24 00, the following entry shall be substituted, namely :-"- - D- or DL-
Pantothenic acid (Vitamin B5) and its derivatives";(xi)in heading 2939,
-(a)for sub-headings and tariff items from 2939 30 00 to 2939 49 00 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely :-

2939 41 00 | \- - Ephedrine and its salts | kg. | 10% | 10%  
---|---|---|---|---  
2939 42 00 | \- - Pseudoephedrine (INN) and its salts | kg. | 10% | 10%  
2939 43 00 | \- - Cathine (INN) and its salts | kg. | 10% | 10%  
2939 44 00 | \- - Norephedrine and its salts | kg. | 10% | -  
2939 45 00 | \- - Levometamfetamine, metamfetamine (INN), metamfetamine racemate and their salts | kg. | 10% | 10%  
2939 49 00 | Other | kg. | 10% | 10%  
  
(b)for tariff items 2939 69 00 and 2939 71 00, sub-heading 2939 79, tariff
items 2939 79 10 and 2939 79 90 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely :-

“2939 69 00 10% | \- - Other - Other, of vegetal origin: | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
2939 72 00 | \- - Cocaine, ecgonine; salts, esters and other derivatives thereof | kg. | 10%  
2939 79 00 | \- - Other |  | 10%  
  
(24)in Chapter 30, —(i)in Note 1, —(A)for the clause (b), the following clause
shall be substituted, namely :—“(b) products, such as tablets, chewing gum or
patches (transdermal systems), containing nicotine and intended to assist
tobacco use cessation (heading 2404);”(B)in clause (g), the word “or” shall be
omitted;(C)in clause (h), for the brackets, word and figures “(heading
3502).”, the brackets, words and figures“(heading 3502); or” shall be
substituted;

“3002 13 00 | \- - Immunological products, unmixed, not put up in measured doses or in forms or packings for retail sale | kg. | 10% | 10%  
---|---|---|---|---  
3002 14 00 | \- - Immunological products, mixed, not put up in measured doses or in forms or packings for retail sale | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 15 00 | \- - Immunological products, put up in measured doses or in forms or packings for retail sale | kg. | 10% | 10%  
| \- Vaccines, toxins, cultures of microorganisms (excluding yeasts) and similar products: |  |  |   
3002 41 | \- - Vaccines for human medicine:- - - Single vaccines for: |  |  |   
3002 41 11 | \- - - - Cholera and typhoid | kg. |  | 10%  
3002 41 12 | \- - - - Hepatitis | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 41 13 | \- - - - Tetanus | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 41 14 | \- - - - Polio | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 41 15 | \- - - - Tuberculosis | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 41 16 | \- - - - Rabies | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 41 17 | \- - - - Japanese encephalitis | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 41 18 | \- - - - Whopping cough (pertussis) | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 41 19 | \- - - - Other- - - Mixed vaccines for: | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 41 21 | \- - - - Diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus (DPT) | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 41 22 | \- - - - Diphtheria and tetanus (DT) | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 41 23 | \- - - - Measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 41 24 | \- - - - Typhoid-paratyphoid (TAB) | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 41 25 | \- - - - Typhoid- paratyphoid-cholera (TABC) | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 41 29 | \- - - - Other | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 42 00 | \- - Vaccines for veterinary medicine | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 49 | \- - Other |  |  |   
3002 49 10 | \- - - Cultures of micro-organisms (excluding yeast) | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 49 20 | \- - - Toxins | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 49 90 | \- - - Other- Cell cultures, whether or not modified : | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 51 00 | \- - Cell therapy products | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 59 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 90 | \- Other: |  |  |   
3002 90 10 | \- - - Human blood | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 90 20 | \- - - Animal blood prepared for therapeutic, prophylactic or diagnostic uses | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3002 90 90 | \- - - Other | kg. | 10% | 10%”  
  
(iv)in heading 3006, —(a)tariff item 3006 20 00 and the entries relating
thereto shall be omitted;(b)after tariff item 3006 92 00 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be

"3006 93 00 | \- - Placebos and blinded (or double-blinded) clinical trial kits for a recognised clinical trial, put up in measured doses” | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(25)in Chapter 32, in heading 3204, after tariff item 3204 17 90 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely: —

"3006 93 00 | \- - Placebos and blinded (or double-blinded) clinical trial kits for a recognised clinical trial, put up in measured doses” | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(26)in Chapter 34,(i)in Note 1, for clause (a), the following clause shall be
substituted, namely: -"(a) edible mixtures or preparations of animal,
vegetable or microbial fats or oils of a kind used as mould release
preparations (heading 1517);";(ii)in heading 3402, for the entry in column (2)
occurring after heading 3402 and the entry relating thereto, sub-heading 3402
11, tariff items 34021110 to 34021900, subheading 3402 20, tariff items 3402
20 10 to 3402 20 90 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
substituted, namely :-"- Anionic organic surface active agents, whether or not
put up for retail sale :

3402 31 00 | \- - Linear alkylbenzene sulphonic acids and their salts | kg. | 10% | 10%  
---|---|---|---|---  
3402 39 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10% | 10%  
  
\- Other organic surface active agents, whether or not put up for retail sale:

3402 41 00 | \- - Cationic | kg. |  | 10%  
---|---|---|---|---  
3402 42 00 | \- - Non-ionic | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3402 49 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10% | 10%  
3402 50 00 | \- Preparations putup for retail sale | kg. | 10% | -”;  
  
(27)in Chapter 36, for heading 3603, sub-heading 3603 00, tariff items 3603 00
11 to 3603 00 59 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
substituted, namely :-"3603S AFETY FUSES; DETONATING CORDS; PERCUSSION OR
DETONATING CAPS; IGNITERS; ELECTRIC DETONATORS

3603 10 00 | \- Safety fuses | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
3603 20 00 | \- Detonating cords | kg. | 10%  
3603 30 00 | \- Percussion caps | kg. | 10%  
3603 40 00 | \- Detonating caps | kg. | 10%  
3603 50 00 | \- Igniters | kg. | 10%  
3603 60 00 | \- Electric detonators | kg. | 10%  
  
(28)in Chapter 37, in Note 2, for the words "photosensitive surfaces", the
words "photosensitive, including thermosensitive, surfaces" shall be
substituted;(29)in Chapter 38, -(i)in Note 1, -(A)after clause (b), the
following clause shall be inserted, namely :-"(c) products of heading
2404;";(B)the existing clauses (c), (d) and (e) shall respectively be re-
lettered as clauses (d), (e), and (f);(ii)in Note 4, for clause (a), the
following clause shall be substituted, namely :-"(a) individual materials or
articles segregated from the waste, for example wastes of plastics, rubber,
wood, paper, textiles, glass or metals, electrical and electronic waste and
scrap (including spent batteries) which fall in their appropriate headings of
the Nomenclature;";(iii)in Note 7, for the words "vegetable fats", the words
"vegetable or microbial fats" shall be substituted;(iv)for Sub-heading Note 1,
the following Sub-heading Note shall be substituted, namely:-"1. Sub-headings
3808 52 and 3808 59 cover only goods of heading 3808, containing one or more
of the following substances : alachlor (ISO); aldicarb (ISO); aldrin (ISO);
azinphos-methyl (ISO); binapacryl (ISO); camphechlor (ISO) (toxaphene);
captafol (ISO); carbofuran (ISO); chlordane (ISO); chlordimeform (ISO);
chlorobenzilate (ISO); DDT (ISO) (clofenotane (INN),
1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane); dieldrin (ISO, INN);
4,6-dinitro-o-cresol (DNOC (ISO)) or its salts; dinoseb (ISO), its salts or
its esters; endosulfan (ISO); ethylene dibromide (ISO) (1,2-dibromoethane);
ethylene dichloride (ISO) (1,2-dichloroethane); fluoroacetamide (ISO);
heptachlor (ISO); hexachlorobenzene (ISO); 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane
(HCH (ISO)), including lindane (ISO, INN); mercury compounds; methamidophos
(ISO); monocrotophos (ISO); oxirane (ethylene oxide); parathion (ISO);
parathion-methyl (ISO) (methyl-parathion); pentachlorophenol (ISO), its salts
or its esters; perfluorooctane sulphonic acid and its salts; perfluorooctane
sulphonamides; perfluorooctane sulphonyl fluoride; phosphamidon (ISO); 2,4,5-T
(ISO) (2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid), its salts or its esters;
tributyltin compounds; trichlorfon (ISO).";(v)for Sub-heading Note 3, the
following Sub-heading Note shall be substituted, namely:-"3. Sub-headings 3824
81 to 3824 89 cover only mixtures and preparations containing one or more of
the following substances : oxirane (ethylene oxide); polybrominated biphenyls
(PBBs); polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs); polychlorinated terphenyls (PCTs);
tris(2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate; aldrin (ISO); camphechlor (ISO)
(toxaphene); chlordane (ISO); chlordecone (ISO); DDT (ISO) (clofenotane (INN);
1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane); dieldrin (ISO, INN);
endosulfan (ISO); endrin (ISO); heptachlor (ISO); mirex (ISO);
1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH (ISO)), including lindane (ISO, INN);
pentachlorobenzene (ISO); hexachlorobenzene (ISO); perfluorooctane sulphonic
acid, its salts; perfluorooctane sulphonamides; perfluorooctane sulphonyl
fluoride; tetra-, penta-, hexa-, hepta- or octabromodiphenyl ethers; short-
chain chlorinated paraffins.Short-chain chlorinated paraffins are mixtures of
compounds, with a chlorination degree of more than 48 % by weight, with the
following molecular formula : CxH(2x-y+2)Cly, where x=10 - 13 and y= 1 -
13.";(vi)for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff item 3816 00 00,
the following entry shall be substituted, namely :-"refractory cements,
mortars, concretes and similar compositions, including dolomite ramming mix,
other than products of heading 3801";(vii)for heading 3822, sub-heading 3822
00, tariff items 3822 00 11 to 3822 00 90 and the entries relating thereto,
the following shall be substituted,namely :-"3822 DIAGNOSTIC OR LABORATORY
REAGENTS ON A BACKING, PREPARED DIAGNOSTIC OR LABORATORY REAGENTS WHETHER OR
NOT ON A BACKING, WHETHER OR NOT PUT UP IN THE FORM OF KITS, OTHER THAN THOSE
OF HEADING 3006; CERTIFIED REFERENCE MATERIALS - Diagnostic or laboratory
reagents on a backing, prepared diagnostic or 195 laboratory reagents whether
or not on a backing, whether or not put up in the form of kits:

3822 11 00 | \- - For malaria | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
3822 12 00 | \- - For Zika and other diseasestransmitted by mosquitoes of the genus Aedes | kg. | 10%  
3822 13 00 | \- - For blood-grouping | kg. | 10%  
3822 19 | \- - Other: |  |   
3822 19 10 | \- - - Pregnancy test kit | kg. | 10%  
3822 19 90 | \- - - Other | kg. | 10%  
3822 90 | \- Other: |  |   
3822 90 10 | \- - - Certified reference materials | kg. | 30%  
3822 90 90 | \- - - Other | kg. | 30%  
  
(viii)in heading 3824, -(a)for tariff items 3824 60 90 to 3824 79 00 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely :-

3824 60 90 | \- - - Other | kg. | 30%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(b)in the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff item 3824 88 00, for
the words "hexa, hepta -", the words "hexa-, hepta-" shall be
substituted;(c)after tariff item 3824 88 00 and the entries relating thereto,
the following shall be inserted, namely :-

3824 60 90 | \- - - Other | kg. | 30%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(d)after tariff item 3824 91 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely :-

“3824 89 00 | \- Containing short-chain chlorinated paraffins | kg | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(ix)after tariff item 3826 00 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely :-“3827 MIXTURES CONTAINING HALOGENATED
DERIVATIVES OF METHANE, ETHANE OR PROPANE, NOT ELSEWHERE SPECIFIED OR INCLUDED
- Containing chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), whether or not containing
hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs) or
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs); containing hydrobromofluorocarbons (HBFCs);
containing carbon tetrachloride; containing 1,1,1trichloroethane (methyl
chloroform):

3827 11 00 | \- - Containing chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), whether or not containing hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs) or hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
3827 12 00 | \- - Containing hydrobromofluorocarbons (HBFCs) | kg. | 10%  
3827 13 00 | \- - Containing carbon tetrachloride | kg. | 10%  
3827 14 00 | \- - Containing 1,1,1-trichloroethane (methyl chloroform) | kg. | 10%  
3827 20 00 | \- Containing bromochlorodifluoromethane (Halon1211), bromotrifluoromethane (Halon1301) or dibromotetrafluoroethanes (Halon-2402) - Containing hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), whether or not containing perfluorocarbons (PFCs) or hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), but not containing chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs): | kg. | 10%  
3827 31 00 | \- - Containing substances of subheadings | kg. | 10%  
3827 32 00 | \- - Other, containing substances of subheadings 2903.71 to 2903.75 | kg. | 10%  
3827 39 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
3827 40 00 | \- Containing methyl bromide (bromomethane) or bromochloromethane - Containing trifluoromethane (HFC-23) or perfluorocarbons (PFCs) but not containing chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) or hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs): | kg. | 10%  
3827 51 00 | \- - Containing trifluoromethane (HFC-23) | kg. | 10%  
3827 59 00 | \- - Other - Containing other hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) but not containing chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) or hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) : | kg. | 10%  
3827 61 00 | \- - Containing 15 % or more by mass of1,1,1-trifluoroethane (HFC-143a) | kg. | 10%  
3827 62 00 | \- - Other, not included in the subheading above, containing 55 % or more by mass of pentafluoroethane (HFC- 125) but not containing unsaturated fluorinated derivatives of acyclic hydrocarbons (HFOs) | kg. | 10%  
3827 63 00 | \- - Other, not included in the subheadings above, containing 40 % or more by mass of pentafluoroethane (HFC-125) | kg. | 10%  
3827 64 00 | \-- Other, not included in the subheadings above, containing 30 % or more by mass of 1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane (HFC-134a) but not containing unsaturated fluorinated derivatives of acyclic hydrocarbons (HFOs) | kg. | 10%  
3827 65 00 | \- Other, not included in the subheadings above, containing 20 % or more by mass of difluoromethane (HFC-32) and 20 % or more by mass of pentafluoroethane (HFC-125) | kg. | 10%  
3827 68 00 | \- - Other, not included in the subheadings above, containing substances of subheadings 2903 41 to 2903 48 | kg. | 10%  
3827 69 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
3827 90 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
  
(30)in Section VII, for Note 2, the following Note shall be substituted,
namely :-"2. Except for the goods of heading 3918 or 3919, plastics, rubber,
and articles thereof, printed with motifs, characters or pictorial
representations, which are not merely subsidiary to the primary use of the
goods, fall in Chapter 49.";(31)in Chapter 39, -(i)in Note 2, in clause (x),
for the words "lamps and lighting fittings", the words "luminaires and
lighting fittings" shall be substituted;(ii)in heading 3907, for sub-heading
3907 20, tariff items 3907 20 10 and 3907 20 90 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely: -

3907 21 00 | \- - Bis (polyoxyethylene) methylphosphonate | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
3907 29 | \- - - Other | kg. | 10%  
3907 29 10 | \- - - Poly (ether alcohols) | kg. | 10%  
3907 29 90 | \- - - Other | kg. | 10%  
  
(iii)in heading 3911, after tariff item 3911 10 90 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:-

“3911 20 00 | \- Poly (1,3-phenylene methylphosphonate) | Kg. | 10% -”  
---|---|---|---  
  
(32)in Chapter 40, in heading 4015, for tariff items 4015 11 00 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely: -

“4015 12 00 | \- Of a kind used for medical, surgical, dental or veterinary purposes | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(33)in Chapter 42, in Note 2, in clause (k), for the words "lamps and lighting
fittings", the words "luminaires and lighting fittings" shall be
substituted;(34)in Chapter 44, -(i)in Note 1, in clause (o), for the words
"lamps and lighting fittings", the words "luminaires and lighting fittings"
shall be substituted;(ii)after Sub-heading Note 1, the following Sub-heading
Notes shall be inserted, namely:'2. For the purposes of sub-heading 4401 32,
the expression "wood briquettes" means by products such as cutter shavings,
saw dust or chips, of the mechanical wood processing industry, furniture
making or other wood transformation activities, which have been agglomerated
either directly by compression or by addition of a binder in a proportion not
exceeding 3% by weight. Such briquettes are in the form of cubiform,
polyhedral or cylindrical units with the minimum cross-sectional dimension
greater than 25 mm.";

### 3\. For the purposes of sub-heading 4407 13, "S-P-F" refers to wood
sourced from mixed stands of spruce, pine and fir where the proportion of each
species varies and is unknown.

### 5\. For the purposes of sub-heading 4407 14, "Hem-fir" refers to wood
sourced from mixed stands of Western hemlock and fir where the proportion of
each species varies and is unknown.';

(iii)in heading 4401, —(a)in the entry in column (2) occurring after the
tariff item 4401 22 00, for the words “agglomerated, in logs”, the words
“agglomerated in logs” shall be substituted;(b)after tariff item 4401 31 00
and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely: —

“4401 32 00 | \- - Wood briquettes | mt | 5%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(c)for the tariff item 4401 40 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely: —“- Sawdust and wood waste and scrap,
not agglomerated:

4401 41 00 | \- - Sawdust | mt | 5%  
---|---|---|---  
4401 49 00 | \- -Other | mt | 5%  
  
(iv)in heading 4402, for sub-heading 4402 90, tariff items 4402 90 10 and 4402
90 90 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely: -

“4402 20 | Of shell or nut: |  | 5%  
---|---|---|---  
4402 20 10 | \- - - Of coconut shell | mt | 5%  
4402 20 90 | Other | mt | 5%  
4402 90 00 - | Other | mt | 5%  
  
(v)in heading 4403, -(a)for the entry in column (2) occurring against sub-
heading 4403 21, the following shall be substituted, namely: -"- - Of pine
(Pinus spp.), of which the smallest cross-sectional dimension is 15 cm or
more:";(b)for the entry in column (2) occurring against sub-heading 4403 23,
the following shall be substituted, namely: -"- - Of fir (Abies spp.) and
spruce (Picea spp.), of which the smallest cross-sectional dimension is 15 cm
or more:";(c)for the entry in column (2) occurring against sub-heading 4403
25, the following shall be substituted, namely: -" - - Other, of which the
smallest cross-sectional dimension is 15 cm or more:";(d)for sub-heading 4403
49, tariff items 4403 49 10 and 4403 49 90 and the entries relating thereto,
the following shall be substituted, namely: -

“4403 42 00 | \- - Teak | m3 | 5%  
---|---|---|---  
4403 49 00 | Other | m3 | 5%  
  
(e)for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff item 4403 93 00, the
following entry shall be substituted, namely: -" - - Of beech (Fagus spp.), of
which the smallest cross-sectional dimension is 15 cm or more";(f)for the
entry in column (2) occurring against tariff item 4403 95 00, the following
entry shall be substituted, namely: -"- - Of birch (Betula spp.), of which the
smallest cross-sectional dimension is 15 cm or more";(vi)in heading 4407,
-(a)after the tariff item 4407 12 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely: -

“4407 13 00 | \- - Of S-P-F (spruce (Picea spp.), pine (Pinus spp.) and fir (Abies spp.)) | m3 | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
4407 14 00 | Of Hem-fir (Western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla) and fir (Abies spp.)) | m3 | 10%  
  
(b)after the tariff item 4407 22 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely: -

4407 23 00 | Teak | m3 | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(c)for sub-heading 4407 29, tariff items 4407 29 10 and 4407 29 90 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely: -

4407 29 00 | Teak | m3 | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(vii)in heading 4412, for the tariff items 4412 39 90 and 4412 94 00, sub-
headings 4412 99, tariff items 4412 99 10 to 4412 99 90 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely: -

“4412 39 90 | \- - - Other - Laminated veneered lumber (LVL): | m3 | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
4412 41 00 | \- - With at least one outer ply of tropical wood | m3 | 10%  
4412 42 00 | \- - Other, with at least one outer ply of non-coniferous wood | m3 | 10%  
4412 91 | \- - With at least one outer ply of tropical wood: |  |   
4412 91 10 | \- - - Decorative plywood | m3 | 10%  
4412 91 20 | \- - - Tea chest panel or shooks, packed in sets | m 3 | 10%  
4412 91 30 | \- - - Marine and aircraft plywood | m3 | 10%  
4412 91 40 | \- - - Cuttings and trimmings of plywood of which not exceeding 5cm | m3 | 10%  
4412 91 90 | \- - - Other | m3 | 10%  
4412 92 | \- - Other, with at least one outer ply of non-coniferous wood: |  |   
4412 92 10 | \- - - Decorative plywood | m3 | 10%  
4412 92 20 | \- - - Tea chest panel or shooks, packed in sets | m 3 | 10%  
4412 92 30 | \- - - Marine and aircraft plywood | m3 | 10%  
4412 92 40 | \- - - Cuttings and trimmings of plywood of which not exceeding 5cm | m3 | 10%  
4412 92 90 | \- - - Other | m3 | 10%  
4412 99 | \- - Other, with both outer plies of coniferous wood: |  |   
4412 99 10 | \- - - Decorative plywood | m3 | 10%  
4412 99 20 | \- - - Tea chest panel or shooks, packed in sets | m 3 | 10%  
4412 99 30 | \- - - Marine and aircraft plywood | m3 | 10%  
4412 99 40 | \- - - Cuttings and trimmings of plywood of which not exceeding 5cm | m3 | 10%  
4412 99 90 | \- - - Other | m3 | 10%  
  
(viii)for tariff item 4414 00 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely: -

“4414 | WOODEN FRAMES FOR PAINTINGS, PHOTOGRAPHS, MIRRORS OR SIMILAR OBJECTS |  |   
---|---|---|---  
4414 10 00 | \- Of tropical wood | kg. | 10% -  
4414 90 00 | \- Other | kg. | 10% -”;  
  
(ix)in heading 4418, —(a)for tariff item 4418 10 00, sub-heading 4418 20 and
tariff items 4418 20 10 to 4418 20 90 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely: —“- Windows, French-windows and their
frames:

4418 11 00 | \- - Of tropical wood | kg. | 10% -  
---|---|---|---  
4418 19 00 | Other Doors and their frames and thresholds: | kg. | 10% -  
4418 21 | \- - Of tropical wood: | kg. | 10% -  
4418 21 10 | Flush doors | kg. | 10% -  
4418 21 20 | Frames and thresholds of flush doors | kg. | 10% -  
4418 21 90 | Other | kg. | 10% -  
4418 29 | Other: | kg. | 10% -”;  
4418 29 10 | Flush doors | kg. | 10% -”;  
4418 29 20 | Frames and thresholds of flush doors | kg. | 10% -”;  
4418 29 90 | Other | kg. | 10% -”;  
4418 29 90 | \- Posts and beams other than products of sub-headings 4418 81 to 4418 89 | kg. | 10% -”;  
  
(b)tariff item 4418 60 00 and the entries relating thereto shall be
omitted”;(c)after tariff item 4418 79 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely: —“- Engineered structural timber products
:

4418 81 00 | \- - Glue-laminated timber (glulam) | kg. | 10% -  
---|---|---|---  
4418 82 00 | \- - Cross-laminated timber (CLT or X-lam) | kg. | 10% -  
4418 83 00 - | \- - I beams | kg. | 10% -  
4418 89 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10% -”;  
  
(d)after tariff item 4418 91 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely: —

“4418 92 00 | \- - Cellular wood panels | kg. | 10% -”;  
---|---|---|---  
  
(x)after tariff item 4419 19 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely: —

“4419 20 00 | \- of tropical wood | kg. | 10% -”;  
---|---|---|---  
  
(xi)for tariff item 4420 10 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following
shall be substituted, namely: —“- Statuettes and other ornaments:

4420 11 00 | \- - Of tropical wood | kg. | 10% -”;  
---|---|---|---  
4420 19 00 | Other | kg. | 10% -”;  
  
(xii)after tariff item 4421 10 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely: —

“4421 20 00 | \- Coffins | kg. | 10% -”;  
---|---|---|---  
  
(35)in Chapter 46, in Note 2, in clause (e), for the words “lamps and lighting
fittings” , the words “luminaires and lighting fittings” shall be
substituted;(36)in Chapter 48, —(i)in Note 2, for clause (q), the following
clause shall be substituted, namely: —“(q) articles of Chapter 96 (for
example, buttons, sanitary towels (pads) and tampons, napkins (diapers) and
napkin liners).”;(ii)in Note 4, for the word “apply”, the word “applies” shall
be substituted;(iii)in Note 5,—(a)for the words, figures and letters “For
paper or paperboard weighing not more than 150 g/m2 :”, the following shall be
substituted, namely:–“(A) For paper or paperboard weighing not more than 150
g/m2 :”;(b)for the words, figures and letters “For papers or paperboard
weighing more than 150 g/m2 :”, the following shall be substituted,
namely:–“(B) For paper or paperboard weighing more than 150 g/m2 :”;(c)for the
brackets and words “(including tea-bag paper) or felt paper of paperboard,
occurring at the end, the brackets and words “(including teabag paper) or felt
paper or paperboard” shall be substituted;(iv)in Note 12, for the word “
incidental”, the word “subsidiary” shall be substituted;(37)in Chapter 49, in
heading 4905, for tariff items 4905 10 00 and 4905 91 00, sub-heading 4905 99,
tariff items 4905 99 10 and 4905 99 90 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely: —

“4905 20 00 | \- In book form | kg. | Free -  
---|---|---|---  
4905 90 | \- Other: | kg. | Free -  
4905 90 10 | \- - - Geographical, hydrological, astronomical maps or charts | kg. | Free -  
4905 90 20 | \- - - Globe | kg. | Free -  
4905 90 90 | \- - - Other | kg. | Free -  
  
(38)in Section XI, —(i)in Note 1, —(A)in clause (s), for the words “lamps and
lighting fittings” , the words “luminaires and lighting fittings” shall be
substituted;(B)in clause (u), the words “for babies” shall be
omitted:(ii)after Note 14, the following Note shall be inserted, namely: —“15.
Subject to Note 1 of Section XI, textiles, garments and other textile
articles, incorporating chemical, mechanical or electronic components for
additional functionality, whether incorporated as built-in components or
within the fibre or fabric, are classified in their respective headings in
Section XI provided that they retain the essential character of the goods of
this Section.”;(39)in Chapter 55, in heading 5501, for tariff item 5501 10 00
and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:
—“ - Of nylon or other polyamides :

5501 11 00 | \- - Of aramids | kg. | 20% -”;  
---|---|---|---  
5501 19 00 | \- Other: | kg. | 20% -”;  
  
(40)in Chapter 56, in Note 1, in clause (f), the words “for babies” shall be
omitted;(41)in Chapter 57, for heading 5703, sub-heading 5703 10, tariff items
5703 10 10 to 5703 10 90, sub-heading 5703 20, tariff items 5703 20 10 to 5703
20 90, sub-heading 5703 30, tariff items 5703 30 10 to 5703 30 90, sub-heading
5703 90, tariff items 5703 90 10 to 5703 90 90 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely: —

“5703 | CARPETS AND OTHER TEXTILE FLOOR COVERINGS (INCLUDING TURF), TUFTED, WHETHER OR NOT MADE UP |  |   
---|---|---|---  
570310 | \- Of wool or fine animal hair: |  |   
5703 10 10 | \- - - Carpets | m2 | 25% -  
5703 10 20 | \- - - Mats and matting | m2 | 25% -  
5703 10 90 | \- - - Other Of nylon or other polyamides: | m2 | 25% -  
5703 21 00 | \- - Turf | m2 | 25% or Rs. 70 per sq. metre, whichever is higher  
5703 29 | \- - Other: | m2 |   
5703 29 10 | \- - - Carpets, carpeting and rugs | m2 | 25% or Rs. 70 per sq. metre, whichever is higher  
5703 29 20 | \- - - 100% polyamide tufted velour, cut pile or loop pile carpet mats with jute, rubber latex or PU foam backing | m2 | 25% or Rs. 70 per sq. metre, whichever is higher  
5703 29 90 | \- - - Other - Of other man-made textile materials: | m2 | 25% or Rs. 70 per sq. metre, whichever is higher  
5703 31 00 | \- - Turf | m2 | 25% or Rs. 55 per sq. metre, whichever is higher  
5703 39 | \- - Other : | m2 | 25% or Rs. 55 per sq. metre, whichever is higher  
5703 39 10 | \- - - Carpets, carpeting and rugs | m2 | 25% or Rs. 55 per sq. metre, whichever is higher  
5703 39 20 | 100%polypropylene carpet mats with jute, rubber, latex or PU foam backing | m2 | 25% or Rs. 55 per sq. metre, whichever is higher  
5703 39 90 | \- - - Other | m2 | 25% -  
5703 90 | \- Of other textile materials : | m2 | 25% -  
5703 90 10 | \- - - Carpets and other floor coverings, of cotton, other than durries | m2 | 25% -  
5703 90 20 | \- - - Carpets and floor coverings of coir | m2 | 25% -  
5703 90 90 | \- - - Other | m2 | 25% -”;  
  
(42)in Chapter 58, for heading 5802, tariff item 5802 11 00, sub-heading 5802
19, tariff items 5802 19 10 to 5802 19 90 and the entries relating thereto,
the following shall be substituted, namely: —“5802 TERRY TOWELLING AND SIMILAR
WOVEN TERRY FABRICS, OTHER THAN NARROW FABRICS OF HEADING 5806; TUFTED TEXTILE
FABRICS, OTHER THAN PRODUCTS OF HEADING 5703

5802 10 | \- Terry towelling and similar woven terry fabrics, of cotton: |  |   
---|---|---|---  
5802 10 10 | \- - - Unbleached | m2 | 25%  
5802 10 20 | \- - - Bleached | m2 | 25% or Rs. 60 per sq. -meter, whichever is higher  
5802 10 30 | \- - - Piece dyed | m2 | 25% or Rs. 60 per sq. -meter, whichever is higher  
5802 10 40 | \- - - Yarn dyed | m2 | 25% or Rs. 60 per sq. -meter, whichever is higher  
5802 10 50 | \- - - Printed | m2 | 25% or Rs. 60 per sq. -meter, whichever is higher  
5802 10 60 | \- - - Of Handloom | m2 | 25% or Rs. 60 per sq. -meter, whichever is higher  
5802 10 90 | \- - - Other | m2 | 25% or Rs. 60 per sq. -meter, whichever is ”; higher  
  
(43)in Chapter 59, —(i)after Note 2, the following Note shall be inserted,
namely: —“3. For the purposes of heading 5903, “textile fabrics laminated with
plastics” means products made by the assembly of one or more layers of fabrics
with one or more sheets or film of plastics which are combined by any process
that bonds the layers together, whether or not the sheets or film of plastics
are visible to the naked eye in the crosssection.”;(ii)the existing Notes 3,
4, 5, 6 and 7 shall respectively be re-numbered as Notes 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 and
in Note 8 as so re-numbered, in clause (a), for sub-clause (iii), the
following sub-clause shall be substituted, namely: —“(iii) filtering or
straining cloth of a kind used in oil presses or the like, of textilematerial
or of human hair;”;(iii)in heading 5911 ,—(a)in the entry in column (2)
occurring against heading 5911, for the word and figure “Note 7”, the word and
figure “Note 8” shall be substituted;(b)for the entry in column (2) occurring
against tariff item 5911 40 00, the following shall be substituted, namely:
—“- Filtering or straining cloth of a kind used in oil presses or the like,
including that of human hair”;(44)in Chapter 61,—(i)for Note 4, the following
Note shall be substituted, namely: —‘4. Headings 6105 and 6106 do not cover
garments with pockets below the waist, with a ribbed waistband or other means
of tightening at the bottom of the garment, or garments having an average of
less than 10 stitches per linear centimeter in each direction counted on an
area measuring at least 10 cm x 10 cm. Heading 6105 does not cover sleeveless
garments.“Shirts” and “shirt-blouses” are garments designed to cover the upper
part of the body, having long or short sleeves and a full or partial opening
starting at the neckline. “Blouses” are loose-fitting garments also designed
to cover the upper part of the body but may be sleeveless and with or without
an opening at the neckline. “Shirts”, “shirtblouses” and “blouses” may also
have a collar.’;(ii)in heading 6116, for the entry in column (2) occurring
against tariff item

### 6116. 10 00, the following entry shall be substituted, namely: —

“6116 10 00 - Impregnated, coated, covered or laminated with plastics or
rubber”;(45)in Chapter 62,—(i)after Note 3, the following Note shall be
inserted, namely: —

### 4\. Headings 6205 and 6206 do not cover garments with pockets below the
waist, with a ribbed waistband or other means of tightening at the bottom of
the garment. Heading 6205 does not cover sleeveless garments.

“Shirts” and “shirt-blouses” are garments designed to cover the upper part of
the body, having long or short sleeves and a full or partial ope“Blouses” are
loose-fitting garments also designed to cover the upper part of the body but
may be sleeveless and with or without an opening at the neckline.“Shirts”,
“shirtblouses” and “blouses” may also have a collar.’;(ii)the existing Notes
4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 shall respectively be re-numbered as Notes 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
and 10;(iii)for heading 6201, tariff item 6201 11 00, sub-heading 6201 12,
tariff items 6201 12 10 and 6201 12 90, sub-heading 6201 13, tariff items 6201
13 10 and 6201 13 90, sub-heading 6201 19, tariff item 6201 19 10 to 6201 93
00, sub-heading 6201 99, tariff 208 items 6201 99 10 and 6201 99 90 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely: —“6201
MEN’S OR BOYS’ OVERCOATS, CARCOATS, CAPES, CLOAKS, ANORAKS (INCLUDING SKI-
JACKETS), WINDCHEATERS, WIND-JACKETS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES, OTHER THAN THOSE OF
HEADING 6203

6201 20 | Of wool or fine animal hair : |  |   
---|---|---|---  
6201 20 10 | \- - -Overcoats, raincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks and similar articles | u | 25% or Rs. 385 per piece, whichever is higher -  
6201 20 90 | \- - - Other | u | 25% or Rs.220 per piece, whichever is higher  
6201 30 | \- Of cotton : |  |   
6201 30 10 | \- - -Overcoats, raincoats, car-coats, capescloaks and similar articles | u | 25% or Rs. 385 per piece, whichever is higher -  
6201 30 90 | \- - - Other | u | 25% or Rs. 210 per piece, whichever is higher -  
6201 40 | Of man-made fibres : |  |   
6201 40 10 | \- - -Overcoats, raincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks and similar articles | u | 25% or Rs. 320 per piece, whichever is higher -  
6201 40 90 | \- - - Other | u | 25% or Rs.180 per piece, whichever is higher  
6201 90 | \- Of other textile materials : | u |   
6201 90 10 | \- - -Overcoats, raincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks and similar articles | u | 25%  
6201 90 90 | \- - - Other | u | 25%  
  
(iv)for heading 6202, sub-heading 6202 11, tariff items 6202 11 10 to 6202 13
00, sub-heading 6202 19, tariff items 6202 19 10 to 6201 19 90, sub-heading
6202 91, tariff item 6202 91 10 and 6202 91 90, sub-heading 6202 92, tariff
items 6202 92 10 and 6202 92 90, sub-heading 6202 93, tariff items 620293 10
and 6202 93 90, sub-heading 6202 99, tariff items 6202 99 11 to 6202 99 90 and
the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:
—“6202 WOMEN’S OR GIRLS’ OVERCOATS, CAR-COATS, CAPES, CLOAKS, ANORAKS
(INCLUDING SKIJACKETS), WIND-CHEATERS, WINDJACKETS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES, OTHER
THAN THOSE OF HEADING

6202 20 | \- Of wool or fine animal hair : |  |   
---|---|---|---  
6202 20 10 | \- - -Overcoats, raincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks and similar articles | u | 25% or Rs. 385 per piece, whichever is higher -  
6202 20 90 | \- - - Other | u | 25% or Rs.220 per piece, whichever is higher  
6202 30 10 | \- Of cotton : |  |   
6202 30 10 | \- - -Overcoats, raincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks and similar articles | u | 25% or Rs. 210 per piece, whichever is highe  
6202 30 90 | \- - - Other | u | 25% or Rs. 160 per piece, whichever is higher  
6202 40 | \- Of man-made fibres : |  |   
6202 40 10 | \- - - Overcoats, raincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks and similar articles | u | 25% or Rs. 385 per piece, whichever is higher  
6202 40 90 | \- - - Other | u | 25% or Rs.220 per piece, whichever is higher  
6202 90 | \- Of other textile materials : |  |   
6202 90 10 | \- - - Overcoats, raincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks and similar articles | u | 25%  
6202 90 90 | \- - - Other | u | 25%  
  
(v)in heading 6210, for the entry in column (2),–(a)occurring against sub-
heading 6210 20, the following entry shall be substituted, namely :—“- Other
garments, of the type described in heading 6201”;(b)occurring against sub-
heading 6210 30, the following entry shall be substituted, namely:—“- Other
garments, of the type described in heading 6202”;(46)in Chapter 63, in heading
6306, for the entry in column (2), —(a)occurring against heading 6306, the
following shall be substituted, namely: —“TARPAULINS, AWNINGS AND SUNBLINDS;
TENTS (INCLUDING TEMPORARY CANOPIES AND SIMILAR ARTICLES); SAILS FOR BOATS,
SAILBOARDS OR LANDCRAFT; CAMPING GOODS”;(b)occurring after tariff item 6306 19
90, the following entry shall be substituted, namely: —“ - Tents (including
temporary canopies and similar articles) :”;(47)in Chapter 68, —(i)in Note 1,
in clause (k), for the words “lamps and lighting fittings”, the words
“luminaires and lighting fittings” shall be substituted;(ii)in heading 6802,
for words “largest surface area”, the words “largest face” shall be
substituted;(iii)in heading 6812, sub-heading 6812 92, tariff items 6812 92 11
to 6812 93 00 and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted;(iv)in heading
6815, —(a)for sub-heading 6815 10, tariff items 6815 10 10 to 6815 10 90 and
the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely: —“-
Carbon fibres; articles of carbon fibres for non- electrical uses; other
articles of graphite or other carbon for non-electrical uses :

681511 00 | \- - Carbonfibres | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
681512 00 | \- - Fabrics of carbonfibres | kg. | 10%  
681513 00 | \- - Other articles of carbonfibres | kg. | 10%  
681519 00 | \- -Other | kg. | 10%  
  
(b)for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff item 6815 91 00, the
following entry shall be substituted, namely: —“- - Containing magnesite,
magnesia in the form of periclase, dolomite including in the form of dolime,
or chromite”;(48)in Chapter 69,—(i)for Note 1, the following Note shall be
substituted, namely: —“1. This Chapter applies only to ceramic products which
have been fired after shaping:(a)headings 6904 to 6914 apply only to such
products other than those classifiable in headings 6901 to 6903;(b)articles
heated to temperatures less than 800 °C for purposes such as curing of resins,
accelerating hydration reactions, or for the removal of water or other
volatile components, are not considered to be fired. Such articles are
excluded from Chapter 69; and(c)Ceramic articles are obtained by firing
inorganic, non-metallic materials which have been prepared and shaped
previously at, in general, room temperature. Raw materials comprise, inter
alia, clays, siliceous materials including fused silica, materials with a high
melting point, such as oxides, carbides, nitrides, graphite or other carbon,
and in some cases binders such as refractory clays or phosphates.”;(ii)in Note
2, in clause (ij), for the words “lamps and lighting fittings”, the words
“luminaires and lighting fittings” shall be substituted;(iii)in heading 6903,
—(a)in the entry in column (2) occurring against heading 6903, for the words
“SHEATHS AND RODS”, the words “SHEATHS, RODS AND SLIDGE GATES” shall be
substituted;(b)for sub-heading 6903 10, tariff items 6903 10 10 and 6903 10 90
and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:
—“6903 10 00 - Containing, by weight, more than 50 % of free carbon mt 10%
-”;(49)in Chapter 70,—(a)in Note 1,—(i)after clause (c), the following clauses
shall be inserted, namely: —“(d) front windscreens (windshields), rear windows
and other windows, framed, for vehicles of Chapters 86 to 88;(e)front
windscreens (windshields), rear windows and other windows, whether or not
framed, incorporating heating devices or other electrical or electronic
devices, for vehicles of Chapters 86 to 88;”;(ii)the existing clauses (d),
(e), (f) and (g) shall respectively be re-lettered as (f), (g), (h) and (ij),
and in clause (g) as so re-lettered, for the words, “lamps or lighting
fittings”, the words “Luminaires and lighting fittings” shall be
substituted;(b)in heading 7001, —(i)for the entry in column (2) occurring
against heading 7001, the following shall be substituted, namely: —“CULLET AND
OTHER WASTE AND SCRAP OF GLASS, EXCLUDING GLASS FROM CATHODE RAY TUBES OR
OTHER ACTIVATED GLASS OF HEADING 8549; GLASS IN THE MASS”;(ii)for the entry in
column (2) occurring against sub-heading 7001 00, the following shall be
substituted, namely: —“- Cullet and other waste and scrap of glass, excluding
glass from cathode ray tubes or other activated glass of heading 8549; glass
in the mass”;(c)in heading 7011, in the entries in column (2) occurring
against the heading 7011, for the words “ELECTRIC LAMPS”, the words “ELECTRIC
LAMPS AND LIGHT SOURCES” shall be substituted;(d)for heading 7019, tariff item
7019 11 00 to 7019 59 00, sub-heading 7019 90, tariff items 7019 90 10 and
7019 90 90 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
substituted, namely: —

“7019 | GLASS FIBRES (INCLUDING GLASS WOOL) AND ARTICLES THEREOF (FOR EXAMPLE, YARN, ROVINGS, WOVEN FABRICS) |  |   
---|---|---|---  
701911 00 | \- Slivers, rovings, yarn and chopped strands and matsthereof: | kg. | 10%  
| \- - Chopped strands, of a length of not more than 50 Mm |  |   
7019 12 00 | \- - Rovings | kg. | 10%  
7019 13 00 | \- - Other yarn, slivers | kg. | 10%  
7019 14 00 | \- - Mechanically bonded mats | kg. | 10%  
7019 15 00 | \- - Chemically bonded mats | kg. | 10%  
7019 19 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
| \- Mechanically bonded fabrics: |  |   
7019 61 00 | \- - Closed woven fabrics of rovings | kg. | 10%  
7019 62 00 | \- - Other closed fabrics of rovings | kg. | 10%  
7019 63 00 | \- - Closed woven fabrics, plain weave, of yarns, not coated or laminated | kg. | 10%  
7019 64 00 | -Closed woven fabrics, plain weave, ofyarns, coated or laminated | kg. | 10%  
7019 65 00 | \- - Open woven fabrics of a width not exceeding 30cm | kg. | 10%  
7019 66 00 | \- - Open woven fabrics of a width exceeding 30 cm | kg. | 10%  
7019 69 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
| \- Chemically bonded fabrics: |  |   
7019 71 00 | \- - Veils (thin sheets) | kg. | 10%  
7019 72 00 | \- - Other closed fabrics | kg. | 10%  
7019 73 00 | \- - Other open fabrics | kg. | 10%  
7019 80 00 | \- Glass wool and articles of glass wool | kg. | 10%  
70199000 | Other | kg | 10%  
  
(50)in Chapter 71, —(i)in heading 7104, for sub-heading 7104 20, tariff items
7104 20 10 and 7104 20 90, sub- heading 7104 90, tariff items 7104 90 10 and
7104 90 90 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
substituted, namely: —“- Other, unworked or simply sawn or roughly shaped:

7104 21 00 | \- - Diamonds | c/k | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
7104 29 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
| \- Other : |  |   
7104 91 00 | \- - Diamonds | c/k | 10%  
7104 99 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 15%  
  
(ii)in heading 7112, in the entry in column (2) occurring against heading
7112, after the words “RECOVERY OF PRECIOUS METAL”, the words “RECOVERY OF
PRECIOUS METAL OTHER THAN GOODS OF HEADING 8549” shall be substituted;(51)in
Section XV, —(i)in Note 1, in clause (k), for the words “lamps and lighting
fittings”, the words “luminaires and lighting fittings” shall be
substituted;(ii)in Note 2, for clause (a), the following clause shall be
substituted, namely: —“(a) articles of heading 7307, 7312, 7315, 7317 or 7318
and similar articles of other base metal, other than articles specially
designed for use exclusively in implants in medical, surgical, dental or
veterinary sciences (heading 9021);”;(iii)in Note 7, for the words
“Interpretative Rules”, the words “General Interpretative Rules” shall be
substituted;(iv)in Note 8, for clause (a), the following clause shall be
substituted, namely: — “(a) Waste and scrap:(i)all metal waste and
scrap;(ii)metal goods definitely not usable as such because of breakage,
cutting-up, wear or other reasons.”;(v)after Note 8, the following Note shall
be inserted, namely:‘9. For the purposes of Chapters 74 to 76 and 78 to 81,
the following expressions shall have the meanings hereby assigned to them
:(a)Bars and rodsRolled, extruded, drawn or forged products, not in coils,
which have a uniform solid cross-section along their whole length in the shape
of circles, ovals, rectangles (including squares), equilateral triangles or
regular convex polygons (including “flattened circles” and “modified
rectangles”, of which two opposite sides are convex arcs, the other two sides
being straight, of equal length and parallel). Products with a rectangular
(including square), triangular or polygonal cross-section may have corners
rounded along their whole length. The thickness of such products which have a
rectangular (including “modified rectangular”) cross-section exceeds one-tenth
of the width. The expression also covers cast or sintered products, of the
same forms and dimensions, which have been subsequently worked after
production (otherwise than by simple trimming or de-scaling), provided that
they have not thereby assumed the character of articles or products of other
headings.Wire-bars and billets of Chapter 74 with their ends tapered or
otherwise worked simply to facilitate their entry into machines for converting
them into, for example, drawing stock (wire-rod) or tubes, are however to be
taken to be unwrought copper of heading 7403. This provision applies mutatis
mutandis to the products of Chapter 81.(b)ProfilesRolled, extruded, drawn,
forged or formed products, coiled or not, of a uniform cross- section along
their whole length, which do not conform to any of the definitions of bars,
rods, wire, plates, sheets, strip, foil, tubes or pipes. The expression also
covers cast or sintered products, of the same forms, which have been
subsequently worked after production (otherwise than by simple trimming or de-
scaling), provided that they have not thereby assumed the character of
articles or products of other headings.(c)WireRolled, extruded or drawn
products, in coils, which have a uniform solid cross-section along their whole
length in the shape of circles, ovals, rectangles (including squares),
equilateral triangles or regular convex polygons (including “flattened
circles” and “modified rectangles”, of which two opposite sides are convex
arcs, the other two sides being straight, of equal length and parallel).
Products with a rectangular (including square), triangular or polygonal cross-
section may have corners rounded along their whole length. The thickness of
such products which have a rectangular (including “modified rectangular”)
cross-section exceeds one-tenth of the width.(d)Plates, sheets, strip and
foilFlat-surfaced products (other than the unwrought products of heading
8001), coiled or not, of solid rectangular (other than square) cross-section
with or without rounded corners (including “modified rectangles” of which two
opposite sides are convex arcs, the other two sides being straight, of equal
length and parallel) of a uniform thickness, which are :-of rectangular
(including square) shape with a thickness not exceeding one-tenth of the
width;-of a shape other than rectangular or square, of any size, provided that
they do not assume the character of articles or products of other
headings.Headings for plates, sheets, strip, and foil apply, inter alia, to
plates, sheets, strip, and foil with patterns (for example, grooves, ribs,
chequers, tears, buttons, lozenges) and to such products which have been
perforated, corrugated, polished or coated, provided that they do not thereby
assume the character of articles or products of other headings.(e)Tubes and
pipesHollow products, coiled or not, which have a uniform cross-section with
only one enclosed void along their whole length in the shape of circles,
ovals, rectangles (including squares), equilateral triangles or regular convex
polygons, and which have a uniform wall thickness. Products with a rectangular
(including square), equilateral triangularor regular convex polygonal cross-
section, which may have corners rounded along their whole length, are also to
be considered as tubes and pipes provided the inner and outer cross-sections
are concentric and have the same form and orientation. Tubes and pipes of the
foregoing cross-sections may be polished, coated, bent, threaded, drilled,
waisted, expanded, cone-shaped or fitted with flanges, collars or
rings.’;(52)in Chapter 74, —(i)in the Note, clauses (d), (e), (f), (g) and (h)
shall be omitted;(ii)for heading 7419, sub-heading 7419 10, tariff items 7419
10 10 to 7419 91 00, sub- heading 7419 99, tariff items 7419 99 10 to 7419 99
90 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely: —

7419 | OTHER ARTICLES OFCOPPER |  |   
---|---|---|---  
7419 20 00 | \- Cast, moulded, stamped or forged, but not further worked | kg. | 10%  
7419 80 | \- Other: |  |   
7419 80 10 | \- - - Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar Containers | kg. | 10%  
7419 80 20 | \- - - Articles of copper alloyselectro-plated with nickel-silver | kg. | 10%  
7419 80 30 | \- - - Articles of brass | kg. | 10%  
7419 80 40 | \- - - Copper worked articles | kg. | 10%  
7419 80 50 | \- - - Copper chain | kg. | 10%  
7419 80 90 | \- - - Other articles of copper | kg. | 10%  
  
(53)in Chapter 75,—(i)the Note shall be omitted;(ii)for the words, figure,
brackets and letter “Chapter Note 1 (c)”, the words, figures, brackets and
letter “Note 9 (c) to Section XV” shall be substituted;(54)in Chapter 76,
—(i)the Note shall be omitted;(ii)in Sub-heading Note 2, for the words,
figure, brackets and letter “Chapter Note 1 (c)”, the words, figures, brackets
and letter “Note 9 (c) to Section XV” shall be substituted;(55)in Chapter 78,
the Note shall be omitted;(56)in Chapter 79, the Note shall be omitted;(57)in
Chapter 80, the Note shall be omitted;(58)in Chapter 81, —(i)Sub-heading Note
shall be omitted;(ii)in heading 8103, for the tariff item 8103 90 00 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely: —“ -
Other :

8103 91 00 | \- - Crucibles | kg. | 10% | -  
---|---|---|---|---  
8103 99 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10% | -”;  
  
(iii)in heading 8106, for sub-heading 8106 00, tariff items 8106 00 10 to 8106
00 90 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely: —

“8106 | BISMUTH AND ARTICLES THEREOF, INCLUDING WASTE AND SCRAP |  |   
---|---|---|---  
8106 10 | \- Containing more than 99.99 % of bismuth, by weight |  |   
8106 10 10 | \- - - Bismuth, unwrought | kg. | 5%  
8106 10 20 | \- - - Article of bismuth | kg. | 5%  
8106 10 90 | \- - - Other | kg. | 10%  
8106 90 | \- Other: |  |   
8106 90 10 | \- - - Waste and scrap of bismuth and bismuth Alloys | kg. | 5%  
8106 90 90 | Other | kg | 10%  
  
(iv)heading 8107, tariff items 8107 20 00 and 8107 30 00, sub-heading 8107 90,
tariff items 8107 90 10 and 8107 90 90 and the entries relating thereto shall
be omitted;(v)for heading 8109, tariff items 8109 20 00 to 8109 90 00 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely: -

“- Unwrought zirconium; powders :  
---  
  
8109 21 00 | \- - Containinglessthan1parthafniumto500 parts zirconium by weight | kg | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
8109 29 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
| \- Waste and scrap: |  |   
8109 31 00 | \- - Containing less than 1 part hafnium to 500 | kg. | 10%  
| parts zirconium by weight |  |   
8109 39 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
| \- Other: |  |   
8109 91 00 | \- - Containing less than 1 part hafnium to 500 | kg. | 10%  
8109 99 00 | Other | kg | 10%  
  
(vi)in heading 8112, —(a)for the entry in column (2) occurring against heading
8112, the following entry shall be substituted, namely: —“BERYLLIUM, CHROMIUM,
HAFNIUM, RHENIUM, THALLIUM, CADMIUM, GERMANIUM, VANADIUM, GALLIUM, INDIUM AND
NIOBIUM (COLUMBIUM), ARTICLES OF THESE METALS, INCLUDING WASTE AND
SCRAP”;(b)after tariff item 8112 29 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely: —

| -“ Hafnium : |  |   
---|---|---|---  
8112 31 | \- - Unwrought; waste and scrap; powders: |  |   
8112 31 10 | \- - - Unwrought | kg. | 10%  
8112 31 20 | \- - - Waste and scrap | kg. | 10%  
8112 31 30 | \- - - Powders | kg. | 10%  
8112 39 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
| -Rhenium : |  |   
8112 41 | \- - Unwrought; waste and scrap; powders | kg. | 10%  
8112 41 10 | \- - - Unwrought | kg. | 10%  
8112 41 20 | \- - - Waste and scrap | kg. | 10%  
8112 41 30 | \- - - Powders | kg. | 10%  
8112 49 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
  
(c)after tariff item 8112 59 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely: —

| “- Cadmium : |  |   
---|---|---|---  
8112 61 00 | \- - Waste and scrap | kg. | 10%  
8112 69 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
  
(59)in Section XVI(i)in Note 2, in clause (b), for the portion beginning with
the word “However” and ending with the words and figures “in heading 8517”,
the following shall be substituted, namely:—“However, parts which are equally
suitable for use principally with the goods of headings 8517 and 8525 to 8528
are to be classified in heading 8517, and parts which are suitable for use
solely or principally with the goods of heading 8524 are to be classified in
heading 8529”;(ii)after Note 5, the following Note shall be inserted, namely
:—‘6.(A) Throughout the Nomenclature, the expression “electrical and
electronic waste and scrap” means electrical and electronic assemblies,
printed circuit boards and electrical or electronic articles that-(i)have been
rendered unusable for their original purposes by breakage, cuttingup or other
processes or are economically unsuitable for repair, refurbishment or
renovation to render them fit for their original purposes; and(ii)are packaged
or shipped in a manner not intended to protect individual articles from damage
during transportation, loading and unloading operations;(B)mixed consignments
of “electrical and electronic waste and scrap” and other waste and scrap are
to be classified in heading 8549;(C)this Section does not cover municipal
waste as defined in Note 4 to Chapter 38.’;(60)in Chapter 84, —(i)for Note 2,
the following Note shall be substituted, namely:—“2. Subject to the operation
of Note 3 to Section XVI and subject to Note 9 to this Chapter, a machine or
appliance which answers to a description in one or more of the headings 8401
to 8424, or heading 8486 and at the same time to a description in one or more
of the headings 8425 to 8480 is to be classified under the appropriate heading
of the former group or under heading 8486, as the case may be, and not the
latter group.(A)Heading 8419 does not, however, cover(i)germination plant,
incubators or brooders (heading 8436);(ii)grain dampening machines (heading
8437);(iii)diffusing apparatus for sugar juice extraction (heading
8438);(iv)machinery for the heat-treatment of textile yarns, fabrics or made
up textile articles (heading 8451); or(v)machinery or plant, designed for a
mechanical operation, in which a change of temperature, even if necessary, is
subsidiary.(B)Heading 8422 does not cover :(i)sewing machines for closing bags
or similar containers (heading 8452); or(ii)office machinery of heading
8472.(C)Heading 8424 does not cover :(i)ink-jet printing machines (heading
8443); or(ii)water-jet cutting machines (heading 8456).”;(ii)after Note 4, the
following Note shall be inserted, namely :—‘5. For the purposes of heading
8462, a “slitting line” for flat products is a processing line composed of an
uncoiler, a coil flattener, a slitter and a recoiler. A “cut-to-length line”
for flat products is a processing line composed of an uncoiler, a coil
flattener and a shear.’;(iii)the existing Notes 5, 6, 7 and 8 shall
respectively be re-numbered as Notes 6, 7, 8 and 9, and after Note 9 as so re-
numbered, the following Note shall be inserted, namely :—‘10. For the purposes
of heading 8485, the expression “additive manufacturing” (also referred to as
3D printing) means the formation of physical objects, based on a digital
model, by the successive addition and layering, and consolidation and
solidification, of material (for example, metal, plastics or ceramics).Subject
to Note 1 to Section XVI and Note 1 to Chapter 84, machines answering to the
description in heading 8485 are to be classified in that heading and in no
other heading of the Nomenclature.’;(iv)the existing Note 9 shall be
renumbered as Note 11 thereof, and in Note 11 as sorenumbered, in clause (A),
for the words, figures, brackets and letters “Notes 9 (a) and

### 9\.

(b)”, the words, figures, brackets and letters “Note 12 (a) and 12 (b)” shall
be substituted;(v)in Sub-heading Note (2), for the word, figure, brackets and
letter “Note 5 (C)”, the word, figure, brackets and letter “Note 6 (C)” shall
be substituted;(vi)in heading 8414, —(a)in the entry in column (2) occurring
against heading 8414, for the word “FILTERS”, the words “FILTERS; GAS-TIGHT
BIOLOGICAL SAFETY CABINETS, WHETHER OR NOT FITTED WITH FILTERS” shall be
substituted;(b)after tariff item 8414 60 00 and the entries relating thereto,
the following shall be inserted, namely :—

“8414 70 00 | \- Gas-tight biological safety cabinets | U | 7.5%”; -  
---|---|---|---  
  
(vii)in heading 8418, for the entry in column (2) occurring against sub-
heading 8418 10, the following entry shall be substituted, namely :—“-
Combined refrigerator-freezers, fitted with separate external doors or
drawers, or combinations thereof :”;(viii)in heading 8419, —(a)after tariff
item 8419 11 90 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
inserted, namely :—

“8419 12 00 | \- - Solar water heaters | U | 10% -”;  
---|---|---|---  
  
(b)for tariff items 8419 31 00 and 8419 32 00 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely :—

“8419 33 00 | \- - Lyophilisation apparatus, freeze drying units and spray dryers | u | 7.5% -”;  
---|---|---|---  
8419 34 00 | \- - Other, for agricultural products | u | 7.5% -”;  
8419 35 00 | \- - Other, for wood, paper pulp, paper or paperboard | U | 7.5% -  
  
(ix)in heading 8421, after tariff item 8421 31 00 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely :—

“8421 32 00 | \- - Catalytic converters or particulate filters, whether or not combined, for purifying or filtering exhaust gases from internal combustion engines | U | 15% -”;  
---|---|---|---  
  
(x)in heading 8428, after tariff item 8428 60 00 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely :—

“8428 70 00 | \- Industrial robots | U | 7.5% -”;  
---|---|---|---  
  
xi) in heading 8438, in the entry in column (2) occurring against heading
8438, for the words “VEGETABLE FATS” the words “VEGETABLE OR MICROBIAL FATS”
shall be substituted;(xii)for heading 8462 and the entries relating to, the
following heading, sub-headings, tariff item and entries shall be substituted,
namely:–“8462 MACHINE-TOOLS (INCLUDING PRESSES) FOR WORKING METAL BY FORGING,
HAMMERING OR DIE FORGING (EXCLUDING ROLLING MILLS); MACHINE-TOOLS (INCLUDING
PRESSES, SLITTING LINES AND CUT-TO-LENGTH LINES) FOR WORKING METAL BY BENDING,
FOLDING, STRAIGHTENING, FLATTENING, SHEARING, PUNCHING, NOTCHING OR NIBBLING
(EXCLUDING DRAW-BENCHES); PRESSES FOR WORKING METAL OR METAL CARBIDES, NOT
SPECIFIED ABOVE;

| \- Hot forming machines for forging, die forging (including presses) and hot
hammers:  
---|---  
  
8462 11 00 | \- - Closed die forging machines | u | 7.5%  
---|---|---|---  
8462 19 00 | \- - Other | u | 7.5%  
| \- Bending, folding, straightening or flattening machines (including press brakes) for flat products : |  |   
8462 22 00 | \- - Profile forming machines | u | 7.5%  
8462 23 00 | \- - Numerically controlled press brakes | u | 7.5%  
8462 24 00 | \- - Numerically controlled panel benders | u | 7.5%  
8462 25 00 | \- - Numerically controlled roll forming machines | u | 7.5%  
8462 26 00 | \- - Other numerically controlled bending, folding, straightening or flattening machines | u | 7.5%  
8462 29 00 | \- - Other | u | 7.5%  
| \- Slitting lines, cut-to-length lines and other shearing machines (excluding presses) for flat products, other than combined punching and shearing machines : |  |   
8462 32 00 | \- - Slitting lines and cut-to-length lines | u | 7.5%  
8462 33 00 | \- - Numerically controlled shearing machines | u | 7.5%  
8462 39 00 | \- - Other | u | 7.5%  
| \- Punching, notching or nibbling machines (excluding presses) for flat products including combined punching and shearing machines : |  |   
84624200 | \- - Numerically controlled | u | 7.5%  
8462 49 00 | \- - Other | u | 7.5%  
| \- Machines for working tube, pipe, hollow section and bar (excluding presses) : |  |   
8462 51 00 | \- - Numerically controlled | u | 7.5%  
8462 59 00 | \- - Other | u | 7.5%  
| \- Cold metal working presses : |  |   
8462 61 00 | \- - Hydraulic presses | u | 7.5%  
8462 62 00 | \- - Mechanical presses | u | 7.5%  
8462 63 00 | \- - Servo-presses | u | 7.5%  
846269 00 | \- - Other | u | 7.5%  
8462 90 00 | \- Other | u | 7.5%  
  
(xvi)in heading 8486, in the entry in column (2), —(a)occurring against
heading 8486, for the word, figure, brackets and letter “Note 9 (C)”, the
word, figures, brackets and letter “Note 11 (C)” shall be
substituted;(b)occurring against tariff item 8486 40 00, for the word, figure,
brackets and letter “Note 9 (C)”, the word, figures, brackets and letter “Note
11 (C)” shall be substituted;(61)in Chapter 85,—(i)after Note 4, the following
Note shall be inserted, namely: —‘5. For the purposes of heading 8517, the
term "smartphones” means telephones for cellular networks, equipped with a
mobile operating system designed to perform the functions of an automatic data
processing machine such as downloading and running multiple applications
simultaneously, including third-party applications, and whether or not
integrating other features such as digital cameras and navigational aid
systems.’;(ii)the existing Note 5 shall be re-numbered as Note 6 thereof, and
after Note 6 as so re­numbered, the following Note shall be inserted, namely:
—‘7. For the purposes of heading 8524, “flat panel display modules” refer to
devices or apparatus for the display of information, equipped at a minimum
with a display screen, which are designed to be incorporated into articles of
other headings prior to use. Display screens for flat panel display modules
include, but are not limited to, those which are flat, curved, flexible,
foldable or stretchable in form. Flat panel display modules may incorporate
additional elements, including those necessary for receiving video signals and
the allocation of those signals to pixels on the display. However, heading
8524 does not include display modules which are equipped with components for
converting video signals (e.g., a scaler IC, decoder IC or application
processer) or have otherwise assumed the character of goods of other
headings.For the classification of flat panel display modules defined in this
Note, heading 8524 shall take precedence over any other heading in the
Nomenclature.’;(iii)the existing Notes 6 and 7 shall respectively be re-
numbered as Notes 8 and 9;(iv)the existing Note 8 shall be re-numbered as Note
10 thereof, and ––the existing Note 10 shall be omitted;after Note 10 as so
re-numbered, the following Note shall be inserted, namely: —‘11. For the
purposes of heading 8539, the expression “light-emitting diode (LED) light
sources” covers––(a)“Light-emitting diode (LED) modules” which are electrical
light sources based on light-emitting diodes (LED) arranged in electrical
circuits and containing further elements like electrical, mechanical, thermal
or optical elements. They also contain discrete active elements, discrete
passive elements, or articles of heading 8536 or 8542 for the purposes of
providing power supply or power control. Light-emitting diode (LED) modules do
not have a cap designed to allow easy installation or replacement in a
luminaire and ensure mechanical and electrical contact.(b)“Light-emitting
diode (LED) lamps” which are electrical light sources containing one or more
LED modules containing further elements like electrical, mechanical, thermal
or optical elements. The distinction between light-emitting diode (LED)
modules and light-emitting diode (LED) lamps is that lamps have a cap designed
to allow easy installation or replacement in a luminaire and ensure mechanical
and electrical contact.’;(v)the exiting Note 9 shall be re-numbered as Note 12
thereof and in Note 12 as so re­numbered, —(A)for the clause (a), the
following clause shall be substituted, namely : —‘(a) (i) “Semiconductor
devices” are semiconductor devices, the operation of which depends on
variations in resistivity on the application of an electric field or
semiconductor-based transducers.Semiconductor devices may also include
assembly of plural elements, whether or not equipped with active and passive
device ancillary functions.“Semiconductor-based transducers” are, for the
purposes of this definition, semiconductor-based sensors, semiconductor-based
actuators, semiconductor-based resonators and semiconductor-based oscillators,
which are types of discrete semiconductor-based devices, which perform an
intrinsic function, which are able to convert any kind of physical or chemical
phenomena or an action into an electrical signal or an electrical signal into
any type of physical phenomenon or an action.All the elements in
semiconductor-based transducers are indivisibly combined, and may also include
necessary materials indivisibly attached, that enable their construction or
function.The following expressions mean,––(1)“Semiconductor-based” means built
or manufactured on a semiconductor substrate or made of semiconductor
materials, manufactured by semiconductor technology, in which the
semiconductor substrate or material plays a critical and unreplaceable role of
transducer function and performance, and the operation of which is based on
semiconductor properties including physical, electrical, chemical and optical
properties.(2)“Physical or chemical phenomena” relate to phenomena, such as
pressure, acoustic waves, acceleration, vibration, movement, orientation,
strain, magnetic field strength, electric field strength, light,
radioactivity, humidity, flow, chemicals concentration, etc.(3)“Semiconductor-
based sensor” is a type of semiconductor device, which consists of
microelectronic or mechanical structures that are created in the mass or on
the surface of a semiconductor and that have the function of detecting
physical or chemical quantities and converting these into electric signals
caused by resulting variations in electric properties or displacement of a
mechanical structure.(4)“Semiconductor-based actuator” is a type of
semiconductor device, which consists of microelectronic or mechanical
structures that are created in the mass or on the surface of a semiconductor
and that have the function of converting electric signals into physical
movement.(5)“Semiconductor-based resonator” is a type of semiconductor device,
which consists of microelectronic or mechanical structures that are created in
the mass or on the surface of a semiconductor and that have the function of
generating a mechanical or electrical oscillation of a predefined frequency
that depends on the physical geometry of these structures in response to an
external input.(6)“Semiconductor-based oscillator” is a type of semiconductor
device, which consists of microelectronic or mechanical structures that are
created in the mass or on the surface of a semiconductor and that have the
function of generating a mechanical or electrical oscillation of a predefined
frequency that depends on the physical geometry of these
structures.(ii)“Light-emitting diodes (LED)” are semiconductor devices based
on semiconductor materials which convert electrical energy into visible,
infra-red or ultra-violet rays, whether or not electrically connected among
each other and whether or not combined with protective diodes.Light-emitting
diodes (LED) of heading 85.41 do not incorporate elements for the purposes of
providing power supply or power control;’(b)in clause (b), in sub-clause (iv),
in sub-paragraph (3), for item (a), the following item shall be substituted,
namely:—‘(a) “Silicon-based sensors” consist of microelectronic or mechanical
structures that are created in the mass or on the surface of a semiconductor
and that have the function of detecting physical or chemical phenomena and
transducing these into electric signals, caused by resulting variations in
electric properties or displacement of a mechanical structure. “Physical or
chemical phenomena” relates to phenomena, such as pressure, acoustic waves,
acceleration, vibration, movement, orientation, strain, magnetic field
strength, electric field strength, light, radioactivity, humidity, flow,
chemicals concentration, etc.’;(vi)for Sub-heading Note, the following Sub-
heading Notes shall be substituted, namely:—‘Sub-heading Notes :

### 1\. Sub-heading 8525 81 covers only high-speed television cameras, digital
cameras and video camera recorders having one or more of the following
characteristics:––

\- writing speed exceeding 0.5 mm per microsecond;\- time resolution 50
nanoseconds or less;\- frame rate exceeding 225,000 frames per second.

### 2\. In respect of sub-heading 8525 82, radiation-hardened or radiation-
tolerant television cameras, digital cameras and video camera recorders are
designed or shielded to enable operation in a high-radiation environment.
These cameras are designed to withstand a total radiation dose of at least 50
× 103 Gy(silicon) (5 × 106 RAD (silicon)), without operational degradation.

### 3\. Sub-heading 8525 83 covers night vision television cameras, digital
cameras and video camera recorders which use a photocathode to convert
available light to electrons, which can be amplified and converted to yield a
visible image. This sub-heading excludes thermal imaging cameras (generally
subheading 8525 89).

### 4\. Sub-heading 8527 12 covers only cassette-players with built-in
amplifier, without built-in loudspeaker, capable of operating without an
external source of electric power and the dimensions of which do not exceed
170 mm x 100 mm x 45 mm.

### 5\. For the purposes of subheadings 8549 11 to 8549 19, “spent primary
cells, spent primary batteries and spent electric accumulators” are those
which are neither usable as such because of breakage, cutting-up, wear or
other reasons, nor capable of being recharged.’;

(vii)in heading 8501,—(a)for the entry in column (2) occurring after tariff
item 8501 20 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following entry shall be
substituted, namely :—“- Other DC motors; DC generators, other than
photovoltaic generators :”;(b)for the entry in column (2) occurring after
tariff item 8501 53 90 and the entries relating thereto, the following entry
shall be substituted, namely :—“- AC generators (alternators), other than
photovoltaic generators :”(c)after tariff item 8501 64 80 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely :—

“- Photovoltaic DC generators :  
---  
  
8501 71 00 | \- - Of an output not exceeding 50 W | u | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
8501 72 00 | \- - Of an output exceeding 50 W | u | 10%  
8501 80 00 | \- Photovoltaic AC generators | u | 10%  
  
(viii)in heading 8507, tariff item 8507 40 00 and the entries relating thereto
shall be omitted;(ix)in heading 8514, —(a)for tariff item 8514 10 00 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely : —

“- Resistance heated furnaces and ovens :  
---  
  
8514 11 00 | \- - Hot isostatic presses | u | 7.5%  
---|---|---|---  
8514 19 00 | \- - Other | u | 7.5%  
  
(b)for sub-heading 8514 30, tariff items 8514 30 10 and 8514 30 90 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely : —

“- Other furnaces and ovens :  
---  
  
8514 31 00 | \- - Electron beam furnaces | u | 7.5%  
---|---|---|---  
8514 32 00 | \- - Plasma and vacuum arc furnaces | u | 7.5%  
8514 39 00 | \- - Other | u | 7.5%  
  
(x)in heading 8517, —(a)in the entry in column (2) occurring against the
heading 8517, for the words “including TELEPHONES”, the words “including
SMARTPHONES AND OTHER TELEPHONES” shall be substituted;(b)in the entry in
column (2) occurring after the heading 8517 and the entry relating thereto,
for the words “including telephones”, the words “including smartphones and
other telephones” shall be substituted;(c)for sub-heading 8517 12, tariff
items 8517 12 11 to 8517 12 90 and the entries relating thereto, the following
shall be substituted, namely :—

“8517 13 00 | \- - Smartphones | u | 20%  
---|---|---|---  
8517 14 00 | \- - Other telephones for cellular networks or for other wireless networks | u | 20%  
  
(d)for sub-heading 8517 70, tariff items 8517 70 10 and 8517 70 90 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely :—

“- Parts :  
---  
  
8517 71 00 | \- - Aerials and aerial reflectors of all kinds; parts suitable for use therewith | u | 20%  
---|---|---|---  
8517 79 | \- - Other : |  |   
8517 79 10 | \- - - Populated, loaded or stuffed printed circuit boards | u | 20%  
8517 79 90 | \- - - Other | u | 15%  
  
(xi)in heading 8519, tariff item 8519 50 00 and the entries relating thereto
shall be omitted;(xii)after tariff item 8523 80 90, the following shall be
inserted, namely :—

“8524 | FLAT PANEL DISPLAY MODULES, WHETHER OR NOT INCORPORATING TOUCH-SENSITIVE SCREENS  
---|---  
| \- Without drivers or control circuits :  
  
8524 11 00 | \- - Of liquid crystals |  |   
---|---|---|---  
8524 12 00 | \- - Of organic light-emitting diodes (OLED) | u | 15%  
8524 19 00 | \- - Other | u | 15%  
| \- Other : |  |   
8524 91 00 | \- - Of liquid crystals | u | 15%  
8524 92 00 | \- - Of organic light-emitting diodes (OLED) | u | 15%  
8524 99 00 | \- - Other | u | 15%  
  
(xiii)in heading 8525, for sub-heading 8525 80, tariff items 8525 80 10 to
8528 80 90 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
substituted, namely : —

“- Television cameras, digital cameras and video camera recorders :  
---  
  
8525 81 00 | \- - High-speed goods as specified in Sub­heading Note 1 to this Chapter | u | 20%  
---|---|---|---  
8525 82 00 | \- - Other, radiation-hardened or radiation-tolerant goods as specified in Sub-heading Note 2 to this Chapter | u | 20%  
8525 83 00 | \- - Other, night vision goods as specified in Sub-heading Note 3 to this Chapter | u | 20%  
8525 89 00 | \- - Other | u | 20%  
  
(xiv)in heading 8529, —(a)in the entry in column (2) occurring against the
heading 8529, for the figures “8525”, the figures “8524” shall be
substituted;(b)tariff item 8529 90 30 and the entries relating thereto shall
be omitted;(xv)in heading 8539, —(a)in the entry in column (2) occurring
against the heading 8539, for the words and brackets “LIGHT-EMITTING DIODE
(LED) LAMPS”, the words and brackets “LIGHT-EMITTING DIODE (LED) LIGHT
SOURCES” shall be substituted;(b)for tariff item 8539 50 00 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely :—

“- Light-emitting diode (LED) light sources :  
---  
  
8539 51 00 | \- - Light-emitting diode (LED) modules | u | 20%  
---|---|---|---  
8539 52 00 | \- - Light-emitting diode (LED) lamps | u | 20%  
  
(xvi)in heading 8541, —(a)for the entry in column (2) occurring against the
heading 8541 , the following entry shall be substituted, namely
:—“SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES (FOR EXAMPLE, DIODES, TRANSISTORS, SEMICONDUCTOR
BASED TRANSDUCERS); PHOTOSENSITIVE SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES, INCLUDING
PHOTOVOLTAIC CELLS WHETHER OR NOT ASSEMBLED IN MODULES OR MADE UP INTO PANELS;
LIGHT-EMITTING DIODES (LED), WHETHER OR NOT ASSEMBLED WITH OTHER LIGHT-
EMITTING DIODES (LED); MOUNTED PIEZO-ELECTRIC CRYSTALS”;(b)for sub-heading
8541 40, tariff items 8541 40 11 to 8541 50 00 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely : —

“- Photosensitive semiconductor devices, including photovoltaic cells whether or not assembled in modules or made up into panels; light-emitting diodes (LED) : |   
---|---  
  
8541 41 00 | \- - Light-emitting diodes (LED) | u | free  
---|---|---|---  
8541 42 00 | \- - Photovoltaic cells not assembled in modules or made up into panels | u | 20%  
8541 43 00 | \- - Photovoltaic cells assembled in modules or made up into panels | u | 20%  
8541 49 00 | \- - Other | u | 20%  
| \- Other semiconductor devices : |  |   
8541 51 00 | \- - Semiconductor-based transducers | u | 20%  
8541 59 00 | \- - Other | u | 20%  
  
(xvii)in heading 8543, after tariff item 8543 30 00 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be inserted , namely :—

“8543 40 00 | \- Electronic cigarettes and similar personal electric vaporising devices | u | 7.5%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(xviii)for heading 8548, sub-heading 8548 10, tariff items 8548 10 10 to 8548
90 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely :—

“8548 00 00 | electrical parts of machinery or apparatus, not specified or included elsewhere in this chapter | u | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
8549 | ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC WASTE AND SCRAP |  |   
| \- Waste and scrap of primary cells, primary batteries and electric accumulators; spent primary cells, spent primary batteries and spent electric accumulators : |  |   
8549 11 00 | \- - Waste and scrap of lead-acid accumulators; spent lead-acid accumulators | kg. | 10%  
8549 12 00 | \- - Other, containing lead, cadmium or mercury | kg. | 10%  
8549 13 00 | \- - Sorted by chemical type and not containing lead, cadmium or mercury | kg. | 10%  
8549 14 00 | \- - Unsorted and not containing lead, cadmium or mercury | kg. | 10%  
8549 19 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
| \- Of a kind used principally for the recovery of precious metal : |  |   
8549 21 00 | \- - Containing primary cells, primary batteries, electric accumulators, mercury-switches, glass from cathode ray tubes or other activated glass, or electrical or electronic components containing cadmium, mercury, lead or polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) | kg. | 10%  
8549 29 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
| \- Other electrical and electronic assemblies and printed circuit boards : |  |   
8549 31 00 | \- - Containing primary cells, primary batteries, electric accumulators, mercury-switches, glass from cathode ray tubes or other activated glass, or electrical or electronic components containing cadmium, mercury, lead or polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) | kg. | 10%  
8549 39 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
| \- Other : |  |   
8549 91 00 | \- - Containing primary cells, primary batteries, electric accumulators, mercury-switches, glass from cathode ray tubes or other activated glass, or electrical or electronic components containing cadmium, mercury, lead or polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) | kg. | 10%  
8549 99 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 10%  
  
(62)in Section XVII, in Note 1, in clause (k), for the words “lamps or
lighting fittings”, the words “luminaires and lighting fittings and parts
thereof” shall be substituted;(63)in Chapter 87, —(i)after Note 4, the
following shall be inserted, namely : —“Sub-heading Note:

### 1\. Sub-heading 8708 22 covers :

(a)front windscreens (windshields), rear windows and other windows, framed;
and(b)front windscreens (windshields), rear windows and other windows, whether
or not framed, incorporating heating devices or other electrical or electronic
devices,when suitable for use solely or principally with the motor vehicles of
headings 8701 to 8705.”;(ii)in heading 8701, for sub-heading 8701 20, tariff
items 8701 20 10 and 8701 20 90 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely :—

“- Road tractors for semi-trailers :  
---  
  
8701 21 00 | \- - With only compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel) | u | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
8701 22 00 | \- - With both compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel) and electric motor as motors for propulsion | u | 10%  
8701 23 00 | \- - With both spark-ignition internal combustion piston engine and electric motor as motors for propulsion | u | 10%  
8701 24 00 | \- - With only electric motor for propulsion | u | 10%  
8701 29 00 | \- - Other | u | 10%  
  
(iii)in heading 8702, in the entry in column (2) occurring against sub-heading
8702 30, the word “reciprocating” shall be omitted;(iv)in heading 8703, in the
entry in column (2),—(a)occurring after tariff item 8703 10 90 and the entries
relating thereto, the word “reciprocating” shall be omitted;(b)occurring
against sub-heading 8703 40, the word “reciprocating” shall be
omitted;(c)occurring against sub-heading 8703 60, the word “reciprocating”
shall be omitted;(v)in heading 8704, for tariff item 8704 10 90, sub-heading
8704 21, tariff items 8704 21 10 to 8704 21 90, sub-heading 8704 22, tariff
items 8704 22 11 to 8704 22 90, sub­heading 8704 23, tariff items 8704 23 11
to 8704 23 90, sub-heading 8704 31, tariff items 8704 31 10 to 8704 31 90,
sub-heading 8704 32, tariff items 8704 32 11 to 8704 32 90 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely :—

\- Other, with only compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel) : |  |   
---|---|---  
  
8704 21 00 | \- - g.v.w. not exceeding 5 tonnes | u | 40%  
---|---|---|---  
8704 22 00 | \- - g.v.w. exceeding 5 tonnes but not exceeding 20 tonnes | u | 40%  
8704 23 00 | \- - g.v.w. exceeding 20 tonnes | u | 40%  
  
\- Other, with only spark-ignition internal combustion piston engine :  
---  
  
8704 31 00 | \- - g.v.w. not exceeding 5 tonnes | u | 40%  
---|---|---|---  
8704 32 00 | \- - g.v.w. exceeding 5 tonnes | u | 40%  
| \- Other, with both compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel) and electric motor as motors for propulsion : |  |   
8704 41 00 | \- - g.v.w. not exceeding 5 tonnes | u | 40%  
8704 42 00 | \- - g.v.w. exceeding 5 tonnes but not exceeding 20 tonnes | u | 40%  
8704 43 00 | \- - g.v.w. exceeding 20 tonnes | u | 40%  
| \- Other, with both spark-ignition internal combustion piston engine and electric motor as motors for propulsion : |  |   
8704 51 00 | \- - g.v.w. not exceeding 5 tonnes | u | 40%  
8704 52 00 | \- - g.v.w. exceeding 5 tonnes | u | 40%  
8704 60 00 | \- Other with only electric motor for propulsion | u | 40%  
  
(vi)in heading 8708, after tariff item 8708 21 00 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely :-

“8708 22 00 | \- - Front windscreens (windshields), rear windows and other windows specified in Sub­heading Note 1 to this Chapter | kg. | 15%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(vii)in heading 8711, in the entry in column (2),—(a)occurring against sub-
heading 8711 10, the word “reciprocating” shall be omitted;(b)occurring
against sub-heading 8711 20, the word “reciprocating” shall be
omitted;(c)occurring against sub-heading 8711 30, the word “reciprocating”
shall be omitted;(d)occurring against sub-heading 8711 40, the word
“reciprocating” shall be omitted;(e)) occurring against tariff item 8711 50
00, the word “reciprocating” shall be omitted;(64)in Chapter 88, —(i)for the
Note, the following shall be substituted, namely :—‘Note:

### 1\. For the purposes of this Chapter, the expression “unmanned aircraft”
means any aircraft, other than those of heading 8801, designed to be flown
without a pilot on board. They may be designed to carry a payload or equipped
with permanently integrated digital cameras or other equipment which would
enable them to perform utilitarian functions during their flight.

The expression “unmanned aircraft”, however, does not cover flying toys,
designed solely for amusement purposes (heading 9503).Sub-heading Notes:

### 1\. For the purposes of sub-headings 8802 11 to 8802 40, the expression
“unladen weight” means the weight of the machine in normal flying order,
excluding the weight of the crew and of fuel and equipment other than
permanently fitted items of equipment.

### 2\. For the purposes of sub-headings 8806 21 to 8806 24 and 8806 91 to
8806 94, the expression "maximum take-off weight" means the maximum weight of
the machine in normal flying order, at take-off, including the weight of
payload, equipment and fuel.’;

(ii)in heading 8802, in the entry in column (2) occurring against the heading
8802, for the word “AIRCRFT”, the words “AIRCRAFT, EXCEPT UNMANNED AIRCRAFT OF
HEADING 8806” shall be substituted;(iii)heading 8803, tariff items 8803 10 00
to 8803 90 00 and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted;(iv)after
tariff item 8805 29 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall
be inserted, namely :—

“8806 | UNMANNED AIRCRAFT |  |   
---|---|---|---  
8806 10 00 | \- Designed for the carriage of passengers | u | 10%  
| \- Other, for remote-controlled flight only : |  |   
8806 21 00 | \- - With maximum take-off weight not more than 250 g | u | 10%  
8806 22 00 | \- - With maximum take-off weight more than 250 g but not more than 7 kg | u | 10%  
8806 23 00 | \- - With maximum take-off weight more than 7 kg but not more than 25 kg | u | 10%  
8806 24 00 | \- - With maximum take-off weight more than 25 kg but not more than 150 kg | u | 10%  
8806 29 00 | \- - Other | u | 10%  
| \- Other : |  |   
8806 91 00 | \- - With maximum take-off weight not more than 250 g | u | 10%  
8806 92 00 | \- - With maximum take-off weight more than | u | 10%  
| 250 g but not more than 7 kg |  |   
8806 93 00 | \- - With maximum take-off weight more than 7 kg but not more than 25 kg | u | 10%  
8806 94 00 | \- - With maximum take-off weight more than 25 kg but not more than 150 kg | u | 10%  
8806 99 00 | \- - Other | u | 10%  
8807 | PARTS OF GOODS OF HEADING 8801, 8802 OR 8806 |  |   
8807 10 00 | \- Propellers and rotors and parts thereof | kg. | 3%  
8807 20 00 | \- Under-carriages and parts thereof | kg. | 3%  
8807 30 00 | \- Other parts of airplanes, helicopters or unmanned aircraft | kg. | 3%  
8807 90 00 | \- Other | kg. | 10%  
  
(65)in Chapter 89, in heading 8903, for tariff items 8903 10 00 to 8903 92 00,
sub-heading 8903 99, tariff items 8903 99 10 and 8903 99 90 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely :—

“- Inflatable (including rigid hull inflatable) boats :  
---  
  
8903 11 00 | \- - Fitted or designed to be fitted with a motor, unladen (net) weight (excluding the motor) not exceeding 100 kg | u | 25%  
---|---|---|---  
8903 12 00 | \- - Not designed for use with a motor and unladen (net) weight not exceeding 100 kg | u | 25%  
8903 19 00 | \- - Other | u | 25%  
| \- Sailboats, other than inflatable, with or without auxiliary motor : |  |   
8903 21 00 | \- - Of a length not exceeding 7.5 m | u | 25%  
8903 22 00 | \- - Of a length exceeding 7.5 m but not exceeding 24 m | u | 25%  
8903 23 00 | \- - Of a length exceeding 24 m | u | 25%  
| \- Motorboats, other than inflatable, not including outboard motorboats : |  |   
8903 31 00 | \- - Of a length not exceeding 7.5 m | u | 25%  
8903 32 00 | \- - Of a length exceeding 7.5 m but not exceeding 24 m | u | 25%  
8903 33 00 | \- - Of a length exceeding 24 m | u | 25%  
| \- Other : |  |   
8903 93 00 | \- - Of a length not exceeding 7.5 m | u | 25%  
8903 99 00 | \- - Other | u | 25%  
  
(66)in Chapter 90, —(i)in Note 1, for clause (f), the following clause shall
be substituted, namely :–“(f) parts of general use, as defined in Note 2 to
Section XV, of base metal (Section XV) or similar goods of plastics (Chapter
39); however, articles specially designed for use exclusively in implants in
medical, surgical, dental or veterinary sciences are to be classified in
heading 9021;”;(ii)in heading 9006, —(a)tariff items 9006 51 00 and 9006 52
00, and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted;(b)for the entry in
column (2) occurring against sub-heading 9006 53, the following entry shall be
substituted, namely:—“- - For roll film of a width of 35 mm:”;(iii)in heading
9013, —(a)for the entry in column (2) occurring against heading 9013, the
following entry shall be substituted, namely: —“LASERS, OTHER THAN LASER
DIODES; OTHER OPTICAL APPLIANCES AND INSTRUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIED OR INCLUDED
ELSEWHERE IN THIS CHAPTER”;(b)for sub-heading 9013 80, tariff items 9013 80 10
and 9013 80 90, sub-heading 9013 90 and tariff items 9013 90 10 and 9013 90
90, the following shall be substituted, namely: —

“9013 80 00 | \- Other devices, appliances and instrument | u | 7.5%  
---|---|---|---  
9013 90 00 | \- Parts and accessories | u | 7.5%  
  
(iv)in heading 9022, —(a)in the entry in column (2) occurring against heading
9022, for the words “OR GAMMA”, the words “, GAMMA OR OTHER IONISING” shall be
substituted;(b)in the entry in column (2) occurring after tariff item 9022 19
00 and the entries relating thereto, for the words “or gamma”, the words “,
gamma or other ionising” shall be substituted;(v)in heading 9027, for sub-
heading 9027 80, tariff items 9027 80 10 to 9027 80 90 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely :—

“- Other instruments and apparatus :  
---  
  
9027 81 00 | \- - Mass spectrometers | u | Free  
---|---|---|---  
9027 89 | \- - Other: |  |   
9027 89 10 | \- - - Viscometers | u | Free  
9027 89 20 | \- - - Calorimeters | u | Free  
9027 89 30 | \- - - Instruments and apparatus for measuring the surface or interfacial tension of liquids | u | Free  
9027 89 | \- - - Other | u | Free  
  
(vi)in heading 9030, —(a)in the entry in column (2) occurring after tariff
item 9030 20 00 and the entries relating thereto, for the word “power”, the
words and brackets “power (other than those for measuring or checking
semiconductor wafers or devices)” shall be substituted;(b)for the entry in
column (2) occurring against tariff item 9030 82 00, the following shall be
substituted, namely :—“- - For measuring or checking semiconductor wafers or
devices (including integrated circuits)”;(vii)in heading 9031, for the entry
in column (2) occurring against tariff item 9031 41 00, the following entry
shall be substituted, namely :—“- - For inspecting semiconductor wafers or
devices (including integrated circuits) or for inspecting photomasks or
reticles used in manufacturing semiconductor devices (including integrated
circuits)”;(67)in Chapter 91, —(i)sub-heading 9114 10, tariff items 9114 10 10
and 9114 10 20 and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted;(ii)after
tariff item 9114 90 30 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall
be inserted, namely :—

“9114 90 40 | \- - - Springs, including hair-springs | kg. | 10%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(68)in Chapter 94, —(i)in the Chapter heading, for the words “lamps and
lighting fittings”, the words “luminaires and lighting fittings” shall be
substituted;(ii)in Note 1,–(A)in clause (f), for the words “lamps and lighting
fittings”, the words “lamps or light sources and parts thereof” shall be
substituted;(B)in clause (l),-(a)for the words “lamps or lighting fittings”,
the words “luminaires and lighting fittings” shall be substituted;(b)for the
words “electric garlands”, the words “lighting strings” shall be
substituted;(iii)for Note 4, the following Note shall be substituted, namely
:—‘4. For the purposes of heading 9406, the expression “prefabricated
buildings” means buildings which are finished in the factory or put up as
elements, presented together, to be assembled on site, such as housing or
worksite accommodation, offices, schools, shops, sheds, garages or similar
buildings.“Prefabricated buildings include "modular building units" of steel,
normally presented in the size and shape of a standard shipping container, but
substantially or completely pre-fitted internally. Such modular building units
are normally designed to be assembled together to form permanent
buildings.’;(iv)in heading 9401, —(a)for tariff items 9401 30 00 and 9401 40
00 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely :—“- Swivel seats with variable height adjustment :

9401 31 00 | \- - Of wood | u | 25%  
---|---|---|---  
9401 39 00 | \- - Other | u | 25%  
| \- Seats other than garden seats or camping equipment, convertible into beds : |  |   
9401 41 00 | \- - Of wood | u | 25%  
9401 49 00 | \- - Other | u | 25%  
  
(b)for tariff item 9401 90 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following
shall be substituted, namely :—

| “- Parts : |  |   
---|---|---|---  
9401 91 00 | \- - Of wood | kg. | 25%  
9401 99 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 25%  
  
(v)in heading 9403, for tariff item 9403 90 00 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely :—

| “- Parts : |  |   
---|---|---|---  
9401 91 00 | \- - Of wood | kg. | 25%  
9401 99 00 | \- - Other | kg. | 25%  
  
(vi)in heading 9404, —(a)after tariff item 9404 30 90 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely :—

“9404 40 | \- Quilts, bedspreads, eiderdowns and duvets (comforters): |  |   
---|---|---|---  
9404 40 10 | \- - - Quilts | u | 25%  
9404 40 20 | \- - - Bedspreads | u | 25%  
9404 40 30 | \- - - Eiderdowns | u | 25%  
9404 40 40 | \- - - Duvets (comforters) | u | 25%  
  
(b)for sub-heading 9404 90, tariff items 9404 90 11 to 9404 90 99 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely :—

“9404 90 00 | \- Other | kg. | 25%  
---|---|---|---  
  
(vii)in heading 9405, —(a)in the entry in column (2) occurring against heading
9405, for the words “LAMPS AND LIGHTING FITTINGS”, the words “LUMINAIRES AND
LIGHTING FITTINGS” shall be substituted;(b)for sub-heading 9405 10, tariff
items 9405 10 10 to 9405 10 90, sub-heading 9405 20, tariff items 9405 20 10
to 9405 30 00, sub-heading 9405 40, tariff items 9405 40 10 and 9405 40 90,
sub-heading 9405 50, tariff items 9405 50 10 to 9405 50 59, subheading 9405
60, tariff items 9405 60 10 and 9405 60 90 and the entries relating thereto,
the following shall be substituted, namely :—“- Chandeliers and other electric
ceiling or wall lighting fittings, excluding those of a kind used for lighting
public open spaces or thoroughfares :

9405 11 00 | \- - Designed for use solely with light-emitting diode (LED) light sources | U | 25% -  
---|---|---|---  
9405 19 00 | \- - Other | u | 25% -  
| \- Electric table, desk, bedside or floor-standing luminaires : |  | 25% -  
9405 21 00 | \- - Designed for use solely with light-emitting diode (LED) light sources | u |   
9405 39 00 | \- - Other | u | 25% -  
| \- Other electric luminaires and lighting fittings : | u |   
9405 41 00 | \- - Photovoltaic, designed for use solely with light- emitting diode (LED) light sources | u | 25% -  
9405 42 00 | \- - Other, designed for use solely with light-emitting diode (LED) light sources | u | 25% -  
9405 49 00 | \- - Other | u | 25% -  
9405 50 00 | \- Non-electrical luminaires and lighting fittings | u | 25% -  
| \- Illuminated signs, illuminated name-plates and the like : |  |   
9405 61 00 | \- - Designed for use solely with light-emitting diode (LED) light sources | u | 25% -  
9405 69 00 | \- - Other | U | 25% -”;  
  
(viii)in heading 9406, after tariff item 9406 10 90 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely :—

“9406 20 00 | \- Modular building units, of steel | U | 10% -”;  
---|---|---|---  
  
(69)in Chapter 95, —(i)in Note 1, —(A)after clause (o), the following clause
shall be inserted, namely :—“(p) unmanned aircraft (heading 8806);”;(B)the
existing clauses (p), (q), (r), (s), (t), (u), (v) and (w) shall respectively
be relettered as clauses (q), (r), (s), (t), (u), (v), (w) and (x);(b)after
Note 5, the following Note shall be inserted, namely :—‘6. For the purposes of
heading 9508 :(a)The expression “amusement park rides” means a device or
combination of devices or equipment that carry, convey, or direct a person or
persons over or through a fixed or restricted course, including watercourses,
or within a defined area for the primary purposes of amusement or
entertainment. Such rides may be combined within an amusement park, theme
park, water park or fairground. These amusement park rides do not include
equipment of a kind commonly installed in residences or playgrounds;(b)The
expression “water park amusements” means a device or combination of devices or
equipment that are characterized by a defined area involving water, with no
purposes built path. Water park amusements only include equipment designed
specifically for water parks; and(c)The expression “fairground amusements”
means games of chance, strength or skill, which commonly employ an operator or
attendant and may be installed in permanent buildings or independent
concession stalls. Fairground amusements do not include equipment of heading
9504.This heading does not include equipment more specifically classified
elsewhere in the Nomenclature.’;(ii)in heading 9504, for the entry in column
(2) occurring against the heading 9504, the following entry shall be
substituted, namely :—“VIDEO GAME CONSOLES AND MACHINES, TABLE OR PARLOUR
GAMES, INCLUDING PINTABLES, BILLIARDS, SPECIAL TABLES FOR CASINO GAMES AND
AUTOMATIC BOWLING EQUIPMENT, AMUSEMENT MACHINES OPERATED BY COINS, BANK NOTES,
BANK CARDS, TOKENS OR BY ANY OTHER MEANS OF PAYMENT”;(iii)for heading 9508,
tariff items 9508 10 00 and 9508 90 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely :—“9508 TRAVELLING CIRCUSES AND
TRAVELLING MENAGERIES; AMUSEMENT PARK RIDES AND WATER PARK AMUSEMENTS;
FAIRGROUND AMUSEMENTS, INCLUDING SHOOTING GALLERIES; TRAVELLING THEATRES

9508 10 00 - | \- Travelling circuses and travelling menageries | kg. | 20% -  
---|---|---|---  
| \- Amusement park rides and water park amusements : |  |   
9508 21 00 | \- - Roller coasters | U | 20% -  
9508 22 00 | \- - Carousels, swings and roundabouts | U | 20% -  
9508 23 00 | \- - Dodge’em cars |  | 20% -  
9508 24 00 | \- - Motion simulators and moving theatres |  | 20% -  
9508 25 00 | \- - Water rides | u | 20% -  
9508 26 00 | \- - Water park amusements | u | 20% -  
9508 29 00 | \- - Other | u | 20% -  
9508 30 00 | \- Fairground amusements | u | 20% -  
9508 40 00 | \- Travelling theatres | U | 20% -”;  
  
(70)in Chapter 96, —(i)in Note 1, in clause (k), for the words “lamps and
lighting fittings”, the words “luminaires and lighting fittings” shall be
substituted;(ii)for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff item 9609
10 00, the following entry shall be substituted, namely :—“- Pencils and
crayons, with leads encased in a sheath”;(iii)for heading 9617, sub-heading
9617 00, tariff item 9617 00 11 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely :—

“9617 | VACUUM FLASKS AND OTHER VACUUM VESSELS, COMPLETE; PARTS THEREOF OTHER THAN GLASS INNERS |  |   
---|---|---|---  
9617 00 | \- Vacuum flasks and other vacuum vessels, complete; parts thereof other than glass inners: |  |   
| \- - - Vacuum flasks and other vacuum vessels, complete: |  |   
9617 00 11 | \- - - - Vacuum flasks having a capacity not exceeding 0.75 l | kg. | 20% -”;  
  
(iv)for heading 9619, sub-heading 9619 00 and the entries relating thereto,
the following shall be substituted, namely :—“9619 SANITARY TOWELS (PADS) AND
TAMPONS, NAPKINS (DIAPERS), NAPKIN LINERS AND SIMILAR ARTICLES, OF ANY
MATERIAL

### 9619. 00 - Sanitary towels (pads) and tampons, napkins (diapers), napkin
liners and similar articles, of any material:”;

(71)in Chapter 97, —(i)after Note 1, the following Note shall be inserted,
namely :—“2. Heading 9701 does not apply to mosaics that are mass-produced
reproductions, casts or works of conventional craftsmanship of a commercial
character, even if these articles are designed or created by artists.”;(ii)the
existing Notes 2, 3, 4 and 5 shall respectively be re-numbered as Notes 3, 4,
5 and 6;(iii)for heading 9701, sub-heading 9701 10, tariff items 9701 10 10 to
9701 10 90, subheading 9701 90, tariff items 9701 90 91 to 9701 90 99, and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely :—“9701
PAINTINGS, DRAWINGS AND PASTELS, EXECUTED ENTIRELY BY HAND, OTHER THAN
DRAWINGS OF HEADING 4906 AND OTHER THAN HAND- PAINTED OR HANDDECORATED
MANUFACTURED ARTICLES; COLLAGES, MOSAICS AND SIMILAR DECORATIVE PLAQUES\- Of
an age exceeding 100 years :

\- Of an age exceeding 100 years :  
---  
  
9701 21 00 | \- - Paintings, drawings and pastels | U | 10% -  
---|---|---|---  
9701 22 00 | \- - Mosaics | u | 10% -  
9701 29 00 | \- - Other | U | 10% -  
| \- Other : |  | 10% -  
9701 91 00 | \- - Paintings, drawings and pastels | u | 10% -  
9701 92 00 | \- - Mosaics | u | 10% -  
9701 99 00 | \- - Other | u | 10% -”;  
  
(iv)for tariff item 9702 00 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following
shall be substituted, namely :—

9702 | ORIGINAL ENGRAVINGS, PRINTS AND LITHOGRAPHS |  |   
---|---|---|---  
9702 10 00 | \- Of an age exceeding 100 years | u | 10% -  
9702 90 00 | \- Other | u | 10% -”;  
  
(v)for heading 9703, sub-heading 9703 00, tariff items 9703 00 10 to 9703 00
90 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely :—

9703 10 | \- Of an age exceeding 100 years : |  |   
---|---|---|---  
9703 10 10 | \- - - Of metal | u | 10% -  
9703 10 20 | \- - - Of stone | u | 10% -  
9703 10 90 | \- - - Other | u | 10% -  
9703 90 | \- Other : | u | 10% -  
9703 90 10 | \- - - Of metal | u | 10% -  
9703 90 20 | \- - - Of stone | u | 10% -  
9703 90 90 | \- - - Other | u | 10% -”;  
  
(vi)for heading 9705, sub-heading 9705 00, tariff items 9705 00 10 and 9705 00
90 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely :—“9705 COLLECTIONS AND COLLECTORS’ PIECES OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL,
ETHNOGRAPHIC, HISTORICAL, ZOOLOGICAL, BOTANICAL, MINERALOGICAL, ANATOMICAL,
PALEONTOLOGICAL, OR NUMISMATIC INTEREST

9705 10 00 | \- Collections and collectors' pieces of archaeological, ethnographic or historical interest | U | 10% -  
---|---|---|---  
| \- Collections and collectors' pieces of zoological, botanical, mineralogical, anatomical or paleontological interest : |  |   
9705 21 00 | \- - Human specimens and parts thereof | U | 10% -  
9705 22 00 | \- - Extinct or endangered species and parts thereof | u | 10% -  
9705 29 00 | \- - Other | U | 10% -  
| \- Collections and collectors' pieces of numismatic interest : |  |   
9705 31 00 | \- - Of an age exceeding 100 years | u | 10% -  
9705 39 00 | \- - Other | u | 10% -”;  
  
(vii)for tariff item 9706 00 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely :—

“9706 | ANTIQUES OF AN AGE EXCEEDING 100 YEARS |  |   
---|---|---|---  
9706 10 00 | \- Of an age exceeding 250 years | u | 10% -  
9709 90 00 | \- Other | u | 10% -”  
  
THE FIFTH SCHEDULE[See section 96(i)]In the Fourth Schedule to the Central
Excise Act, in Chapter 27, for heading 2709, tariff items 2709 10 00 and 2709
20 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely :––

Tariff Item | Description of goods | Unit | Rate of Duty  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | _(3) | (4)  
  
2709 00 | \-- Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous minerals, crude |  |   
---|---|---|---  
2709 00 10 | \--- Petroleum crude | kg. | Nil  
2709 00 90 | \--- Other | kg. | ….. ”.  
  
THE SIXTH SCHEDULE[See section 96 (ii)]In the Fourth Schedule to the Central
Excise Act,––

Tariff Item | Description of goods | Unit | Rate of Duty  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | _(3) | (4)  
  
(a)in SECTION IV, for Section heading, the following Section heading shall be
substituted, namely:––“TOBACCO AND MANUFACTURED TOBACCO SUBSTITUTES; PRODUCTS,
WHETHER OR NOT CONTAINING NICOTINE, INTENDED FOR INHALATION WITHOUT
COMBUSTION; OTHER NICOTINE CONTAINING PRODUCTS INTENDED FOR THE INTAKE OF
NICOTINE INTO THE HUMAN BODY”;(b)in Chapter 24,––(i)for Chapter heading, the
following Chapter heading shall be substituted, namely:––“Tobacco and
manufactured tobacco substitutes; products, whether or not containing
nicotine, intended for inhalation without combustion; other nicotine
containing products intended for the intake of nicotine into the human
body”;(ii)after Note 3, the following Notes shall be inserted, namely:––“4.
Any products classifiable in heading 2404 and any other heading of the Chapter
are to be classified in heading 2404.

### 5\. For the purposes of heading 2404, the expression “inhalation without
combustion” means inhalation through heated delivery or other means, without
combustion.”;

(iii)after tariff item 2403 99 90 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely :—“2404 PRODUCTS CONTAINING TOBACCO,
RECONSTITUTED TOBACCO, NICOTINE, OR TOBACCO OR NICOTINE SUBSTITUTES, INTENDED
FOR INHALATION WITHOUT COMBUSTION; OTHER NICOTINE CONTAINING PRODUCTS INTENDED
FOR THE INTAKE OF NICOTINE INTO THE HUMAN BODY

2404 11 00 | \- Containing tobacco or reconstituted tobacco | kg. | 81%  
---|---|---|---  
2404 12 00 | \- - Other, containing nicotine | kg. | …..  
2404 19 00 | \- Other: | kg. | 81%  
2404 91 00 | \- Other: | kg. | …..  
2404 92 00 | \- - For transdermal application | kg. | …..  
2404 99 00 | \- -Other | kg. | …..  
  
THE SEVENTH SCHEDULE[See section 125 (1)]

Item No | Description of goods | Rate  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
1. | Motor spirit commonly known as petrol | Rs. 2.50 per litre  
2. | High speed diesel | Rs. 4.00 per litre

