## Union of India - Act

## The First Statutes of the National Institutes of Technology

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The First Statutes of the National Institutes of Technology

## Rule THE-FIRST-STATUTES-OF-THE-NATIONAL-INSTITUTES-OF-TECHNOLOGY of 2009

  * Published on 23 April 2009 
  * Commenced on 23 April 2009 
  * [This is the version of this document from 23 April 2009.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The First Statutes of the National Institutes of TechnologyPublished vide
Notification No. G.S.R. 280(E), dated 23rd April, 2009Ministry of Human
Resource Development(Department of Higher Education)G.S.R. 280(E). - In
exercise of powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 26 of the National
Institutes of Technology Act, 2007, (29 of 2007) the Central Government, with
the prior approval of the Visitor, hereby frames the following First Statutes
for all National Institutes of Technology, namely:-

### 1. Short Title, Extent and Commencement.

(1)These Statutes may be called the First Statutes of the National Institutes
of Technology.(2)They shall apply to all National Institutes of
Technology.(3)They shall come into force on the date of their publication in
the Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these First Statutes, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act"
means the National Institutes of Technology Act, 2007;(b)"Authorities",
"Officers" and "Faculty Members" in relation to an Institute mean,
respectively, the authorities, officers and faculty members of the
Institute;(c)"Building and Works Committee" means the Building and Works
Committee of the Institute constituted under First Statute No. 12.(d)"Centre"
in relation to an Institute means an academic unit of the Institute engaged in
academic activities (like teaching, research, etc.) generally of an inter-
disciplinary nature;(e)"Department" in relation to an Institute means an
academic unit of the Institute engaged in academic activities (like teaching,
research, etc.) generally relating to a particular discipline or
area;(f)"Finance Committee" means the Finance Committee of the Institute
constituted under First Statute No. 10;(g)"Head of a Department or Centre", by
whatever name called, means the person appointed to head the Department or
Centre, as the case may be, under First Statute No. 20;(h)"Programme" means an
academic programme of the Institute;(i)"rules" means the rules made under
Chapter-III of the Act;(j)"Schedule" means Schedule annexed to these
Statutes.(2)Words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in
the Act, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Authorities.

\- The following shall be the authorities of the Institute, namely-(i)the
Board of Governors as constituted under Section 11 of the Act;(ii)the Senate
as constituted under section 14 of the Act;(iii)the Finance Committee, as
constituted under First Statute 10; and(iv)the Building and works Committee as
constituted under First Statute No 12.

### 4. Board of Governors and Meetings Thereof.

(1)The bodies entitled to nominate or elect representatives of the Board shall
be invited by the Registrar to do so within a period not exceeding eight weeks
from the date on which such invitations are issued by him.(2)Casual vacancies
on the Board shall be filled up by following the procedure specified under
sub-statue (1).(3)The Board shall ordinarily meet four times during a calendar
year.(4)Meetings of the Board shall be convened by the Chairperson either on
his own motion or at the request of the Director or on a requisition signed by
not less than four members of the Board(5)Six members shall form a quorum for
a meeting of the Board.provided that if a meeting is adjourned for want of
quorum, it shall be held on the same day in the next week at the same time and
place or on such other day time and place, as the Chairperson may determine
and if at such a meeting a quorum is not present within half-an-hour from the
scheduled time for holding a meeting the members present shall form the
quorum(6)All questions considered at the meetings of the Board shall be
decided by a majority of the votes of the members present including the
Chairperson and if the votes be equally divided the Chairperson shall have a
casting vote.(7)The Chairperson if present, Present preside over every meeting
of the Board:Provided that in the absence of the Chairperson the members
present shall elect a member from amongst themselves to preside at the
meeting.(8)A written notice of every meeting shall be sent by the Registrar to
every member at least fifteen days before the date of the meeting mentioning
therein the place, date and time of the meeting:Provided that the Chairperson
may call a special meeting of the Board at short notice to consider urgent
issues.(9)The notice may be delivered either by hand or sent by registered
post or E-mail or Fax, at the address of each member as recorded in the office
of the Board and if so sent, shall be deemed to be duly delivered at the time
at which notice would be delivered in the ordinary course of post.(10)Agenda
shall be circulated by the Registrar to all members at least ten days before
the meeting.(11)Notice of motions for inclusion of any item on the agenda must
reach the Registrar at least one week before the meeting:Provided that the
Chairperson may, permit inclusion of any item for which due notice has not
been received.(12)The ruling of the Chairperson with regard to all questions
of procedure shall be final.(13)The minutes of the proceedings of a meeting of
the Board shall be drawn up by the Registrar and circulated to all members of
the Board shall be drawn up by the Registrar along with any amendment
suggested shall be placed before the Board in its next meeting for
confirmation and after the minutes are confirmed and signed by the
Chairperson, they shall be recorded in the minute book.(14)The minute book
shall be kept open for inspection of the members of the Board and the Council
at all times during office hours.(15)If a member of the Board fails to attend
three consecutive meetings without leave of absence from the Board, he shall
cease to be a member of the Board.(16)No matter concerned with finance shall
be placed before the Board unless the same has been considered by the Finance
Committee.(17)No matter which should be first considered by the Building and
Works Committee shall be placed before the Board unless the same has been
considered by the Building and works Committee after obtaining the
administrative approval of the Board.

### 5. Powers of the Board.

\- In addition to the powers provided under sub-section (1) of section 13 of
the Act, the Board shall be empowered :-(i)to abolish, re-designate or change
the nomenclature of any post in the institute;(ii)to make, modify or cancel
the statutes with the approval of the visitor from time to time:Provided that
the new Statute, additions or amendments of existing Statutes shall be
applicable only after the assent of the visitor; and(iii)to make, modify and
cancel all or any ordinances on recommendation of the Finance Committee or
Senate of the Institute subject to the condition that making, modification and
cancellation shall not be in contravention of the Act and (or) Statutes.

### 6. Authentication of orders of the board.

\- [All orders and decisions of the Board shall be authenticated by the
signature of the Director. In absence of Director, the Registrar or any
person-authorised by the Board in this behalf.] [Substituted 'All orders and
decisions of the Board shall be authenticated by the signature of the Director
or Registrar or any person-authorised by the Board in this behalf.' by
Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).]

### 7. Senate.

(1)The Senate shall meet as often as necessary but ordinarily not less than
four times during a calendar year.(2)Meetings of the Senate shall be convened
by the Chairman of the Senate either on his own motion or on a requisition
signed by not less than one fifth of the members of the Senate.(3)Requisition
meeting shall be a special meeting to discuss only those items of agenda for
which requisition is given and shall necessarily be chaired by the Director
and the requisition meeting shall be convened by the Chairman of the Senate on
convenient date and time.(4)One third of the total number of members of the
Senate shall form a quorum for a meeting of the Senate.(5)The Director shall
preside over every meeting of the Senate:Provided that in absence of the
Director, Deputy Director shall preside and in the absence of both the
Director and the Deputy Director, the senior most profess present shall
preside at the meeting.(6)A written notice of every meeting together with the
agenda shall be circulated by the Registrar to the members of the Senate at
least a week before the meeting:Provided that the Chairman of the Senate may
permit inclusion of any item for which due notice has not been
given.(7)Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-statute (6), the Director may
call an emergency meeting of the Senate at short notice to consider urgent
special issues.(8)The ruling of the Chairman of the Senate with regard to all
questions of procedure shall be final.(9)The minutes of the proceedings of a
meeting of the Senate shall be drawn up by the Registrar in consultation with
Dean Academics and circulated to all the members of senate present in
India:Provided that any such minutes shall not be circulated if the Senate
considers such circulation prejudicial to the interests of the Institute or
the Government of India.(10)The minutes, along with amendments, if any,
suggested shall be placed for confirmation at the next meeting of the Senate
and after the minutes are confirmed and signed by the Chairman of the Senate,
they shall be recorded in a minute book which shall be kept open for
inspection of the members of the Senate, the Board and the Council at all
times during office hours.

### 8. Power of the Senate.

\- Subject the provisions of the Act the Senate shall have the power
to:-(i)frame and revise curricula and syllabi for the courses of studies for
the various Departments and Centres;(ii)make arrangements for the conduct of
examinations: appointment of examiners, moderators, tabulators and other
matters relating to the examinations;(iii)declare the results of the
examinations or to appoint Committees or Officers to do so and to make
recommendations to the Board regarding conferment or grant of degree, diplomas
and other academic distinctions or titles;(iv)appoint Advisory Committees or
Expert Committees or both for the Departments or both of the institute to make
recommendations on academic matters connected with the working of the
Departments or Centres;(v)appoint Committees from amongst the members of the
Senate, other teachers of the Institute and experts from outside to advise on
such specific and important academic matters as may be referred to any such
Committee by the Senate;(vi)consider the recommendations of the Advisory
Committees attached to various Departments or Centres and that of Expert and
other Committees and take such action (including the making of recommendations
to the Board) as warranted by each case;(vii)make periodical review of the
activities of the Departments or Centres and take appropriate action
(including the making of recommendations to the Board);(viii)supervise the
working of the Library of the Institute;(ix)promote research and academic
development or activity within the Institute and seek reports on such research
or academic development or activity from the persons engaged
therein;(x)provide for the inspection of the class rooms, Laboratories,
Library and the Residential Hostels;(xi)plan co-curricular activities of the
students of the Institute;(xii)award stipends, scholarships, medals and prizes
and make other awards in accordance with such conditions as may be attached to
the awards;(xiii)[ make recommendations to the Board to disseminate knowledge
through distance learning mode to various parts of the State or country or
abroad and in the cases of signing of agreement with the foreign agency,
agreement may be signed with the approval of the Ministry;] [Substituted 'make
recommendations to the Board with regard to the creation or restructuring of
Departments or Programmes or Centres and the abolition of existing Departments
or centres thereof;' by Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f.
23.4.2009).](xiv)make recommendations to the Board to disseminate knowledge
through distance learning mode to various parts of the State or country or
abroad; and(xv)invite up to two student representatives during discussion of
general nature not involving policy or disciplinary matters in the Senate
meetings.

### 9. Chairman of the Senate to Exercise Powers in Emergency.

\- If, in the opinion of the Chairman of the Senate, any emergency has arisen
which requires immediate action, he may take such action as he deems necessary
and shall report the same for approval to the Senate in its next meeting.

### 10. Finance Committee.

(1)There shall be a Finance Committee for each Institute consisting of the
following members, namely:-(i)the Chairperson Board of Governors, ex-officio
Chairman;(ii)the Director, ex-officio member;(iii)Joint Secretary dealing with
National Institutes of Technology or his nominee and Financial Advisor (Human
Resource Development) or his nominee members;(iv)two persons nominated by the
Board from amongst its members; and(v)[ the Registrar, ex-officio, Member-
Secretary: [Substituted by Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017
(w.e.f. 23.4.2009).]Provided that in addition to the above, the Chairman may
invite an expert as special invitee, however, the special invitee may not have
voting rights;(2)All financial proposals shall be placed before the Finance
Committee prior to being placed before the Board for consideration and
approval;(3)The Finance Committee shall meet ordinarily four times in a year
preferably before the meeting of the Board of Governors;(4)Four Members of the
Finance Committee shall form a quorum for a meeting of the Finance
Committee;(5)The Chairman, shall preside over the meetings of the Finance
Committee and in his absence, the Director shall preside over the
meetings;(6)The provisions in these First Statutes regarding notices of the
meeting, inclusion of items in the agenda and confirmation of the minutes
applicable to the meetings of the Board shall, so far as practicable may be,
followed in connection with the meetings of the Finance Committee;(7)A copy of
the minutes of every meeting of the Finance Committee shall be placed before
the Board;]

(v) the Registrar, ex-officio, Member-Secretary:Provided that in addition to
the above, the Chairman may, in consultation with the Director, co-opt a
member as and when found necessary.(2) The Finance Committee shall meet
ordinarily four times in a year preferably before the meeting of the Board of
Governors.(3) Three members of the Finance Committee shall form a quorum for a
meeting of the Finance Committee.(4) The Chairman, shall preside over the
meetings of the Finance Committee and in his absence, the Director shall
preside over the meetings.(5) The provisions in these First Statutes regarding
notices of the meeting, inclusion of items in the agenda and confirmation of
the minutes applicable to the meetings of the Board shall, so far as
practicable may be, followed in connection with the meetings of the Finance
Committee.(6) A copy of the minutes of every meeting of the Finance Committee
shall be placed before the Board.(7) All financial proposals shall be placed
before the Finance Committee prior to being placed before the Board for
consideration and approval.  
---  
  
### 11. Powers of the Finance Committee.

\- The Finance Committee shall have power to:-(i)examine and scrutinize the
annual budget of the Institute prepared by the Director and make
recommendations to the Board; and(ii)[ give its views and make its
recommendations on any financial proposals or issues affecting the Institute
to the Board either on the initiative of the Board or of the Director, or on
its own motion.] [Substituted 'give its views and make its recommendations on
any financial question affecting the Institute to the Board either on the
initiative of the Board or of the Director, or on its own motion.' by
Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).]

### 12. Building and Works Committee.

(1)There shall be a Building and Works Committee for each of the Institute,
consisting of following members, namely:-(i)the Director, ex-officio
Chairman;(ii)[ Director or Deputy Secretary or his nominee dealing with the
National Institutes of Technology in the Ministry and Director or Deputy
Secretary or his nominee dealing with Finance of the National Institutes of
Technology in the Ministry as Ex-Officio Members of the Central Government.]
[Substituted 'one member nominated by the Central Government not below the
rank of Director or Deputy Secretary;' by Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated
21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).](iii)one member nominated by the Board of
Governors;(iv)Registrar, ex-officio, Member Secretary;(v)Dean, planning and
development or similar position - Member; and(vi)one expert each from Civil
and Electrical Engineering Wing of Central or State Government or any
autonomous body of repute - Member.(2)The Building and Works Committee shall
meet as often as necessary but ordinarily not less than four times a year(3)[
Four members shall form a quorum for a meeting of the Building and Works
Committee.] [Substituted 'Three members shall form a quorum for a meeting of
the Building and Works Committee.' by Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated
21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).](4)The provisions in these Statutes regarding
notice of meeting, inclusion of items in the agenda and confirmation of the
minutes applicable to the meeting of the Board shall, as far as practicable
may be followed in connection with meetings of the Building and Works
Committee also.(5)[ A copy of the minutes of every meeting of the Building and
Works Committee shall be placed before the Board together with the
recommendations of the Finance Committee on specific proposal or proposals
which requires approval of the Board.] [Substituted 'A copy of the minutes of
every meeting of the Building and Works Committee shall be placed before the
Board.' by Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).]

### 13. Powers and functions of the Building and Works Committee.

(1)The Building and Works Committee shall-(i)under the directions of the Board
shall carry on construction of all major works, after the necessary
administrative approval and expenditure sanction from the Board;(ii)[ have the
power to give the necessary administrative approval and expenditure sanction
for minor works and works pertaining to repair and maintenance, within the
approved budgetary provision of the Institute and the Board will define the
minor work and minor repair and maintenance in terms of quantum or
expenditure;] [Substituted 'have the power to give the necessary
administrative approval and expenditure sanction for minor works and works
pertaining to repair and maintenance, within the approved budgetary provision
of the Institute;' by Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f.
23.4.2009).](iii)[ cause to prepare estimates of cost of buildings and other
capital works, minor works, repairs, maintenance and the like. The Building
and Works Committee shall approve the cost estimates for minor works, minor
repairs and maintenance.] [Substituted 'cause to prepare estimates of cost of
buildings and other capital works, minor works, repairs, maintenance and the
like;' by Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f.
23.4.2009).](iv)be responsible for making technical scrutiny of the design,
estimates and specifications of the material as may be considered
necessary;(v)[ be responsible for enlistment of suitable contractors and
acceptance of tenders and shall have the power to give directions for
departmental works where necessary duly recommended by the Dean (P&D) of the
Institute.] [Substituted 'be responsible for enlistment of suitable
contractors and acceptance of tenders and shall have the power to give
directions for departmental works where necessary,' by Notification No. S.O.
947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).](vi)have the power to settle rates
not covered by tender and settle claims and disputes with contractors;(2)If,
in the opinion of the Chairman of the Building and Works Committee, any
emergency has arisen which requires immediate action to be taken, he shall
take such action and report the same to the Building and Works Committee and
the Board at their next meeting.(3)The Building and Works Committee shall also
perform such function and exercise such powers as may be entrusted by the
Board, from time to time.

### 14. Powers of the Chairperson, Board of Governors.

\- In addition to the powers provided in the Act, the Chairperson of the Board
of Governors shall have the following powers, namely-(i)he shall have the
power to fix, on the recommendations of the Selection Committee, the initial
pay of an incumbent at a stage higher than the minimum of the scale in respect
of posts to which the appointments can be made by the Board under the
provisions of the Act;(ii)[ he shall have the power to send members of the
staff, except the Director, of the Institute for training or for a course of
instruction, outside India subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid
down by the Board from time to time and the visit abroad by the Director shall
be approved by the Chairman, National Institutes of Technology Council;
[[Substituted 'he shall have the Power to send members of the staff except the
Director of the Institute for training or for a course of instruction outside
India subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Board
from time to time. Incidentally the visit abroad by the Director shall be
approved by the Chairman, National Institutes of Technology Council;he shall
execute the contract of service between the Institute and the Director or
Deputy Director on behalf of the Central Government but he shall not be
personally liable of anything under such contract; and' by Notification No.
S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).]](iii)he shall execute the
contract of service between the Institute and the Director on behalf of the
Central Government, but he shall not be personally liable of anything under
such contract; and](iv)In emergent cases, the Chairperson may exercise the
powers of the Board and inform the Board of the action taken by him for
confirmation and ratification.

### 15. Travelling Allowances of Members of the Authorities of Institute.

\- Members of the Board and other authorities of the Institute and members of
the Committees constituted under the Act or these Statutes or appointed by the
Board and other authorities shall be entitled to travelling allowance, daily
allowance and sitting fee for attending the meetings of the authorities and
their Committees as laid down by the Board from time to time.

### 16. Departments and Centres.

\- The Institute shall be organized into such number of Departments and
Centres, to be known by such names, as the Board may, within the budgetary
provision, approve from time to time, on the recommendations of the Senate.

### 17. The Director and his Powers.

\- [(1) The Director of the Institute shall be appointed by the Visitor on
contract basis on the recommendations of a Search-cum-Selection Committee
constituted by him consisting of atleast five members. The Chairperson of the
Council shall be its Chairperson and the Secretary of the Department of Higher
Education or his representative shall be one of its members besides three
other experts in the field of technical education with experience at national
and international level.] [Substituted 'The Director of the Institute shall be
appointed by the Visitor on contract basis on the recommendation of a
Selection Committee constituted by him consisting of at least five members
including the Chairman who are experts in the field of technical education
with experience at national and international level.' by Notification No. S.O.
947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).](2)The Director shall be appointed
for a period of five years and shall be governed by the terms and conditions
of the Contract of Service entered into between the Institute and the Director
in form specified in Schedule-A.(3)Subject to the budget provisions made for
the specific purpose, the Director shall have the power to incur expenditure
in accordance with the procedure as may be laid down in the ordinances.(4)The
Director shall have the power to appropriate funds with respect to different
items constituting the recurring budget up to a limit specified for the Head
of Department in the Central Government for each item:Provided that such
appropriation shall not involve any increase in the budget and any liability
in future yearsProvided further that every such appropriation shall, as soon
as possible, be reported to the Board.(5)The Director shall have the power to
write off irrecoverable losses up to a limit of ten thousand rupees and of
irrecoverable value of store items lost or rendered unserviceable due to
normal wear and tear or obsolete up to a limit of twenty five thousand rupees
subject to such stipulations as may be made by the Board from time to
time.(6)The Director shall have the power to donate obsolete equipment or
store items, as Identified by a Committee constituted for this purpose by the
Director, to any educational institution in the vicinity of the Institute up
to such limits as may be decided by the Board from time to time.(7)The
Director, where he is the appointing authority shall have the power to fix, on
the recommendations of the Selection Committee, the initial pay of an
incumbent at a stage higher than the minimum of the scale, but not involving
more that five increments, in respect of posts to which appointment can be
made by him under the powers vested in him by the provision of the Act or
these statutes.(8)The Director shall have the power to employ Teaching
Supporting Staff in the Laboratories, Technicians or Technical Instructors and
Skilled Workmen, paid from contingencies from time to time, for not more than
one year on such remuneration as may be decided by the Board.(9)The Director
shall have the power to send members of the staff for training or to attend
course of Instruction Inside India subject to such terms and conditions as may
be specified by the ordinances.(10)The Director shall have the power to
sanction temporary allocation of any building for any purpose other than that
for which it was constructed.(11)If for any reason the Registrar is
temporarily absent for a period not exceeding one month the Director may take
over or assign to any faculty member or member of staff of the Institute, any
of the functions of the Registrar as he deems fit:Provided that If at any time
the temporary absence of the Registrar exceeds one month, the Board may if it
thinks fit, authorise the Director to take over or assign the function of the
Registrar, for a period exceeding one month.(12)All contracts for and on
behalf of the Institute except the one between the Institute and the Director
shall when authorised by a resolution of the Board passed in that behalf be in
writing and be expressed to be made in the name of the Institute and every
such contract shall be executed on behalf of the Institute by the Director,
but the Director shall not be personally liable in respect of anything under
such contract.(13)The Director may, during his absence from headquarters,
specifically authorise in writing the Deputy Director or in his absence, one
of the Deans or the Senior most Professor present to sanction advances for
travelling allowance, contingencies and medical treatment of the staff and
sign and counter-sign bills on his behalf.(14)The Director may, at his
discretion, constitute such committees, as he may consider appropriate for
smooth functioning of the Institute.(15)In the event of the occurrence of any
vacancy in the office of the Chairperson by reason of his death, resignation
or otherwise or in the event of the Chairperson being unable to discharge his
functions owing to absence, illness or any other cause, the Director may
discharge the functions assigned to the Chairperson under section 16 of the
Act.(16)The Director may, with the approval of the Board delegate any of his
powers, authorities or responsibilities vested in him by virtue of the Act and
Statutes to one or more members of Academic or Administrative Staff of the
Institute.(17)[ The disciplinary powers for Director of the Institute shall be
decided by the Board of Governors of the respective National Institute of
Technology from time to time.] [Inserted by Notification No. S.O. 947(E),
dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).]

### 18. The Deputy Director.

\- [(1) The appointment of the Deputy Director shall be made by the Board on
the recommendations of the Selection Committee constituted in terms of
provisions under Statutes 23 (5) (a) of the First Statutes of National
Institutes of Technology.] [Substituted 'The appointment of the Deputy
Director shall be made by the visitor on the recommendation of the Selection
Committee constituted by the Central Government with prior approval of the
visitor consisting of at least five members including the Chairman who are
experts in the field of technical education with experience at National and
International level.' by Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f.
23.4.2009).](2)The appointment shall be for a period of three years initially
which may be extended by two times for one year each on recommendation of the
Board.(3)The Deputy Director shall be governed by the terms and conditions of
the Contract of Service entered into between the Institute and the Deputy
Director in the form specified in Schedule-B.(4)The Deputy Director shall have
all the powers of the Director during the vacancy in the post of Director of
the Institute.(5)The Deputy Director shall assist the Director in academic and
administrative work and in maintaining liaison with other institutions of
higher learning and research, and also with industrial undertakings and other
employers.

### 19. Deans.

(1)The Institute shall establish not more than six Deanships.(2)The Director
shall appoint the Deans with intimation to the Chairperson Board of
Governors.(3)The Dean shall hold his post for two years extendable by one more
year.(4)Only Professors or Associate Professors shall be eligible for becoming
Deans.(5)Broad functions of Deans are enumerated in the Schedule 'C'.

### 20. Head of the Department or Centre.

(1)Each Department and Centre of the Institute shall be placed in charge of a
Head, who shall be selected by the Director, from amongst the Professors and
Associate Professors of that Department or Centre.Provided that if a
Department or Centre has no Professor or Associate Professor, the Director may
appoint an Assistant Professor of that Department or Centre to head the
Department or Centre.(2)The Head of a Department or Centre shall hold his post
for a term of two years:Provided that after the expiry of his term of office,
he shall continue to hold office till the appointment of his
successor:Provided further that no person shall head a Department or Centre
continuously for a period exceeding three years unless he is specially
appointed at least for a second term.(3)The Director may himself take
temporary charge of a Department or place it under the charge of the Deputy
Director or a Professor from another Department for a period not exceeding six
months.(4)The Head of Department shall be responsible for the entire working
of the Department subject to the general control and supervision of the
Director.(5)The Head of Department shall be duty bound to see that the
decisions of the authorities of the Institute and of Director are faithfully
carried out. He shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by
the Director or Senate.(6)When appointment to the post of Head of Department
or Centre becomes due, the Director shall ascertain the willingness, of the
persons eligible to be appointed as Head, for being so appointed, and shall
generally select a person by rotation from among eligible and willing
persons.(7)Whenever it is proposed to deviate from the principle of rotation,
such appointment shall be made only with the prior approval of the Chairperson
Board of Governors and for reasons to be recorded in writing and shall also be
reported to the Senate and the Board, along with reasons for deviation, in
their next meetings.

### 21. Registrar.

(1)The Registrar shall be appointed for a fixed term of not exceeding five
years on deputation or contract basis.(2)The Registrar shall act as Secretary
of the Board, Senate and such other Committees to which he may be required by
the Statutes to act as such.(3)[ The review of performance of the Registrar
upon completion of one years of service may be carried out by the Committee to
be constituted by the Board.] [Inserted by Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated
21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).]

### 22. Classification of the Members of the Staff.

(1)Except in the case of employees paid from contingencies, the members of
staff of the Institute shall be classified as under:-(i)Academic Staff: -
Director, Deputy Director, Professor, Associate Professor, Assistant
Professor, Lecturer, Professor Training and Placement, and such other academic
posts as may be decided by the Board from time to time.(ii)Technical Staff: -
System Manager, System Analyst, Programmer Librarian, Workshop Superintendent
Assistant Workshop Superintendent Foreman, Technician Instructor, Laboratory
Assistant, Mechanic Overseer Technical Assistant, Drafts man and such other
technical posts as may be decided by the Board from time to time
and(iii)Administrative and others staff: - Registrar, Deputy Registrar and
Assistant Registrar, Accounts Officer, Audit Officer, Estate Officer,
Executive Engineer, Assistant and Junior Engineer, Medical Officer, Medical
Assistant, Horticultural Assistant Officer, Office Superintendent, Security
Officer, Stores Officer, Store Keeper, Office Assistants, Data Entry Operators
and such other Administrative and other staff as may be decided by the Board
from time to time.(2)Posts classified as Academic staff shall be vacation
posts only.

### 23. Appointments.

(1)The posts at the Institute shall be filled by advertisement on all India
basis:Provided that the ratio between the Direct Recruitment and Promotion
posts for posts other than that of the Director or the Deputy Director shall
be as per the recruitment rules.(2)The reservation of posts shall be in
accordance with the rules of the Central Government.(3)[ For the purposes of
appointments in the Institute, the rules as approved by the Council or Central
Government shall apply.(4)The Selection Committees, for filling posts under
the Institute (other than the posts on contract basis) by advertisement or by
promotion from amongst the members of staff of the Institute, shall be
constituted in such manner as laid down by the Central Government or Board
from time to time by ordinances.] [[Substituted 'For the purposes of
appointments, the rules applicable to of the Central Government employees
shall apply.The Selection Committees, for filling posts under the Institute
(other than the posts on contract basis) by advertisement or by promotion from
amongst the members of staff of the Institute shall be constituted in such
manner as laid down by Ministry of Human Resource Development, Department of
Higher and Secondary Education, Government of India or Board from time to time
by ordinances.' by Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f.
23.4.2009).]](5)Selection Committees for filling up of posts under the
Institute (other than on contract basis) by advertisement or by promotion from
amongst the members of staff of the Institute shall be constituted in the
following manner, namely-(a)[ The qualification and other terms and conditions
of appointment of Academic Staff (excluding Director), or promotion shall be
as specified in Schedule 'E' and the Selection Committee for making
recommendations for appointment of Academic Staff (excluding Director) shall
consist of the following members, namely:- [Substituted 'the Selection
committee for recruitment of Academic Staff (excluding the Director and the
Deputy Director), or for promotion shall be as under.' by Notification No.
S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).]

(1) | Director or Deputy Director | \- Chairman  
---|---|---  
(2) | Visitor's Nominee | \- Member  
(3) |  two nominee of the Board one being an expert, but other thana member of the Board | \- Member  
(4) | one expert nominee of Senate from outside the institute | \- Member  
(5) |  Head of Department concerned (for other than the post ofDeputy Director and Professor) | \- Member]  
  
(b)The Selection Committee for Technical posts shall be as follows:

(1) | Director or Deputy Director | \- Chairman  
---|---|---  
(2) | one Expert from outside the Institute | \- Member  
(3) | Nominee of Ministry of Human Resource Development | \- Member  
(4) | Concerned Head of Department | \- Member  
(5) | Registrar | \- Member  
  
(c)The Selection Committee for Administrative and Ministerial Staff shall be
as under:

(1) | Director or Deputy Director | \- Chairman  
---|---|---  
(2) | One Expert from outside the Institute | \- Member  
(3) | Nominee of Ministry of Human Resource Development | \- Member  
(4) | Registrar | \- Member,  
  
(d)[ The Selection Committee for Senior Administrative and other comparable
posts carrying pay scale of Assistant Professor and above shall consist of the
following members, namely:- [Substituted 'The Selection Committee for Senior
Administrative and other comparable posts carrying pay scale of Lecturer and
above shall be as under:-' by Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017
(w.e.f. 23.4.2009).]

(1) | Director or Deputy Director | \- Chairman  
---|---|---  
(2) | one Expert from outside the Institute | \- Member  
(3) | Nominee of Ministry of Human Resource Development | \- Member.  
(4) | Nominee of Board | \- Member  
(5) | Registrar | \- Member]  
  
(6)The Registrar shall be substituted by another nominee of the Board in case
the Selection is made for the Registrar or the equivalent post.(7)In the
absence of the Deputy Director, the Director may nominate any member of the
staff of the Institute to be the member of the Selection Committees in his
place.(8)Where a post is to be filled on contract basis or by invitation, the
Board may, constitute such Adhoc Selection Committee, as circumstances of each
case may require.(9)Where a post is to be filled by promotion from amongst the
members of the Institute or temporarily for a period not exceeding twelve
months, the procedure for the same shall be as specified by ordinances.(10)[
Notwithstanding anything contained in these Statutes, the Board shall have the
power to make appointments of persons having special skill or knowledge to
suit the emergent need of the department or centre and in such emergent
situations, the appointments shall be for a period of twelve months.]
[Substituted 'Notwithstanding anything contained in these Statutes, the Board
shall have the power to make appointments of persons having special skill or
knowledge to suit the emergent need of the department(s) or centre(s).' by
Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).](11)If the
post is to be filled by advertisement, the Registrar shall advertise the terms
and conditions of the post and the screening committee for the purpose of
short listing the eligible and most desirable candidates and shall screen all
applications received within the date specified in the advertisement.(12)At
the time of interview, the Selection Committee shall examine credentials of
all candidates who have been called for the interview, interview the eligible
candidates and recommend the appointment of the most suitable candidate to the
competent authority for approval.(13)The recommendations of the Selection
Committee shall remain valid for a period of one year from the date of
interview and if for any reason the recommendations are not approved by the
competent authority or appointment orders not issued after the approval of
recommendations within the said period of one year, the recommendations shall
lapse and fresh advertisement shall be issued.(14)No act or proceeding of any
Selection Committee shall be called in question on the ground merely of the
absence of any member or members of the Selection Committee.(15)Unless
otherwise provided for under these Statutes, the Selection Committee
constituted for the purpose of making recommendations for appointment to a
post shall continue to exercise its functions in relation to that post till
the appointment is made against that post.(16)All appointments made at the
Institute shall be reported to the Board at its next meeting.(17)The
applications of the employees eligible for promotion under Assured Career
Progression (ACP) shall be considered by the Departmental Promotion Committees
before any promotion or up-gradation is recommended.(18)The Departmental
Promotion Committee shall be as follows:

1. | Director or Deputy Director | \- Chairman  
---|---|---  
2. | Concerned Head of Department | \- Member  
3. | Head of Department from other Department | \- Member  
4. | Registrar | \- Member  
  
### 24. General, Terms and Conditions of Service of Permanent Employees.

\- Permanent employees of the Institute shall be governed by the following
terms and conditions:-(i)[ Subject to the provisions of the Act and the
Statutes, all appointments to posts under the Institute shall be made on
probation for a period of one year after which period the appointee, if
confirmed, shall continue to hold his office subject to the provisions of the
Act and the Statutes, till the end of the month in which he attains the
specified maximum age for teaching posts, for technical non-teaching and
ministerial and administrative posts as the case may be: [[Substituted
'Subject to the provisions of the Act and the Statutes, all appointments to
posts under the Institute shall be made on probation for a period of one year
after which period the appointee, if confirmed, shall continue to hold his
office subject to the provisions of the Act and the Statutes, till the end of
the month in which he attains the prescribed maximum age for teaching posts,
for technical non-teaching and ministerial and administrative posts as the
case may be:Provided that the appointing authority shall have the power to
extend the period of probation of any employee of the Institute for such
periods as may it may deem fit.' by Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated
21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).]]Provided that the appointing authority shall
have the power to extend the period of probation of any employee of the
Institute for a period not exceeding one year.](ii)The age of superannuation
shall be as specified for various classes and categories of the employees of
the institute by the Central Government.(iii)The employees of the Institute
shall be entitled to allowances in addition to pay, as admissible to Central
Government Employees.(iv)The employees of the Institute shall be entitled to
reimbursement of medical expenses incurred on themselves and their families as
per Central Civil Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944.(v)The employees
of the Institute shall be governed by the Central Civil Services (Conduct)
Rules, 1964.(vi)The employee appointed on or after 01.01.2004 shall be
governed by the new pension scheme announced by the Government of
India.(vii)The application of the employees of the Institute shall be
forwarded for employment outside the Institute only three times in a year in
accordance with the procedure specified in Schedule-D.(viii)The employees of
the Institute will be entitled to Leave Travel Concession (LTC) as admissible
to Central Government Employees.(ix)Overtime and night allowance shall be paid
to the eligible employee of the Institute as is admissible to the Central
Government Employees.

### 25. Code of Conduct For Permanent Employees.

\- [The code of conduct for employees shall be made by each Institute in
consultation with the Central Government and till such time the code of
conduct for employees is framed, the Institute shall follow the Central Civil
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965.] [Substituted 'The
code of conduct for employees shall be made by each Institute in consultation
with the Central Government.' by Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017
(w.e.f. 23.4.2009).]

### 26. [ Suspension, Penalties, Disciplinary Proceedings. [Substituted '' by
Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).]

\- The Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965
shall apply to all the employees.]

26\. Suspension, Penalties, Disciplinary Proceedings.- (1) The Director may
place a member of the staff appointed at the Institute under suspension:-(i)
where a disciplinary proceeding against him is contemplated or is pending;
or(ii) where a case against him in respect of any criminal offence is under
investigation, inquiry or trial:Provided that where a member of the staff is
detained in custody, whether on a criminal charge or otherwise, for a period
exceeding forty-eight hours, such member of the staff shall be deemed to have
been placed by an order of the competent authority under suspension with
effect from the date on which he was so detained.(2) During the period of
suspension, the member of the staff shall be entitled to the following
payments, namely:-(a) a subsistence allowance at an amount equal to the Leave
Salary which the staff member would have drawn had he been on leave on half
pay and Dearness Allowance, if admissible on the basis of such leave
salary:Provided that where the period of suspension exceeds six months, the
subsistence allowance shall be as follows:(i) the amount of subsistence
allowance may be increased by a suitable amount not exceeding fifty percent of
the subsistence allowance admissible during the period of the first six
months, if, in the opinion of the Competent Authority the period of suspension
has been prolonged for reasons to be recorded in writing, not directly
attributable to the employee concerned;(ii) the amount of subsistence
allowance may be reduced by a suitable amount, not exceeding fifty percent of
the subsistence allowance admissible during the period of the first six
months, if, in the opinion of the Competent Authority, the period of
suspension has been prolonged due to reasons, to be recorded in. writing,
directly attributable to the employee.(b) The rate of dearness allowance will
be based on the increased or as the case may be the decreased amount of
subsistence allowance admissible under sub-statute 2.(c) Any other
compensatory allowance admissible from time to time on the basis of pay of
which the staff member was in receipt of on the date of suspension subject to
the fulfilment of other conditions laid down for the drawal of such
allowances.(3) No payment shall be made unless the staff member furnished a
certificate that he is not engaged in any other employment, business,
profession or vocation.(4) The Board of Governors may, if it is of the
opinion, that the circumstances of the case do not warrant the suspension of
the member of the staff, revoke such order.(5) The following penalties may be
imposed on any employee:-(i) censure;(ii) withholding of increments or
pay;(iii) withholding of promotion;(iv) recovery from his pay of the whole or
part of any pecuniary loss caused to the Institute by negligence or breach of
orders;(v) reduction to lower grade or post or to a lower time-scale of pay,
or to a lower stage in a time-scale for a period of three years without
cumulative effect and not adversely affecting his pension (where ever
applicable) ;(vi) compulsory retirement;(vii) removal from service which shall
not be a disqualification for future employment under the Institute;(viii)
dismissal from service, which shall ordinarily be a disqualification for
future employment under the Institute;(6) No Order imposing on any member of
the staff any of the penalties specified at (v) to (viii) above shall be
passed by any authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed and
except after an enquiry has been held and the member of the staff has been
given reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to
be taken in this regard,(7) No order imposing on any member of the staff any
of the penalties specified at (i) to (iv) above shall be passed by any
authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed and unless the member
of the staff concerned has been given an opportunity to make a representation
to the appointing authority:Provided that the provisions of sub-statute (5)
and (6) shall not apply to the following :-(a) where an employee is dismissed
or removed or reduced in rank on the ground of conduct which has led to his
conviction on a criminal charge;(b) where the authority empowered to dismiss
or remove the person or to reduce him in rank is satisfied that for some
reason to be recorded by that authority in writing, it is not reasonably
practicable to give to that person such opportunity; or(c) where the Visitor
is satisfied that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not
expedient to give to that person such opportunity,(8) If, in respect of such
person as aforesaid, any question arises whether it is reasonably practicable
to give to an opportunity referred to under clause (b), the decision thereon
of the authority empowered to dismiss or remove such person or to reduce him
in rank, as the case may be, shall be, final.(9) A member of the staff
aggrieved by any order imposing penalty passed by the Director against him
shall be entitled to prefer an appeal to Board of Governors against the order
and there shall be no further appeal from the decision of the Board,(10) A
member of the staff aggrieved by any order passed by the Board inflicting a
penalty on him shall be entitled to prefer an appeal to the Visitor against
such order.(11) No appeal shall be entertained by the Board of Governors or
the Visitor, as the case may be, unless it is made within a period of three
months from the, date on which member of the staff aggrieved by such order
receives a copy of the order appealed against:Provided that the appellate
authority may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said period, if it
is satisfied that the appellant has sufficient cause for not submitting the
appeal in time,(12) The authority to whom an appeal against an order imposing
penalty lies may, of its own motion or otherwise call for the records of the
case from the Director or the Board, as the case may be, review any order
passed in such a case and pass such orders as it deems fit.(13)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Statute, the Visitor may, on his
own motion or otherwise after calling for the records of the case, review any
order which is made under this Statute, and-(a) confirm, modify or set aside
the order;(b) impose any penalty or set aside, reduce, confirm or enhance the
penalty imposed by the order;(c) remit the case to the authority which made
the order or to any other authority directing such further action or enquiry
as he considers proper in the circumstances of the case, or(d) pass such other
orders as he deems fit:Provided that an order imposing or enhancing a penalty
shall not be passed unless the person concerned has been given an opportunity
of making any representation which he may wish to make against such enhanced
penalty.(14) (a) When a member of the staff of the Institute who has been
dismissed, removed or suspended is reinstated, the authority competent to
order the reinstatement shall consider and make a specific order: -(i)
regarding the pay and allowances to be paid to the member of the staff of the
Institute for the period of his absence from duty and(ii) whether or not the
said period shall be treated as a period spent on duty;(b) where such
competent authority holds that the member of the staff of the Institute has
been fully exonerated or in case of suspension, that it was wholly
unjustified, the member of the staff of the Institute shall be given the full
pay to which he would have been entitled had he not been dismissed, removed or
suspended, as the case may be, together with any allowance of which he was in
receipt prior to his dismissal, removal or suspension;(c) In other cases, the
member of the staff of the Institute shall be given such proportion of such
pay and allowances as the competent authority may specify:Provided that the
payment of allowances under clause (b) or clause (c) shall be subject to all
other conditions under which such allowances are admissible;(d) In cases
falling under clause (b) the period of absence from duty shall be treated as a
period spent on duty for all purposes;(e) In cases falling under clause (c)
the period of absence from duty shall not be treated as a period spent on duty
unless such competent authority specifically directs that it shall be so
treated for any specified purpose.  
---  
  
### 27. General Terms and Conditions of Services of Temporary Employees.

(1)The services of a temporary employee shall be liable to termination at any
time by notice of one month in writing given either by the employee to the
appointing authority, or by the appointing authority to the employee.(2)The
other terms and conditions of service of such employee shall be such as may be
specified by the appointing authority in his letter of appointment.

### 28. Appointments on Contract.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in these Statutes, the Board with the
prior approval of the Visitor may in special circumstances appoint an eminent
person on contract for a period not exceeding 5 years.(2)Subject to the
provisions of the Act, the Board may appoint any person on contract in the
prescribed scales of pay and on terms and conditions applicable to the
relevant post for a period not exceeding 3 years.(3)For making such
appointments, the Chairperson, Board of Governors shall constitute such adhoc
Selection Committee, as the circumstances of each case may require:Provided
that such constitution of committee shall be reported to the Board for
confirmation.

### 29. Provident Fund and Pension Schemes.

\- [Employees of the Institute appointed prior to 01.01.2004 will be governed
by Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972 and General Provident Fund
(Central Services) Rules, 1960 and the Employees appointed on or after
01.01.2004 will be governed by New Pension Scheme of the Central Government.]
[Substituted 'Employees of the Institute appointed prior to 1.1.2004 will be
governed by Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972 and Central Provident
Fund (Central Services) Rules, 1960 and the Employees appointed on or after
1.1.2004 will be governed by New Pension Scheme of Central Government.' by
Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated 21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).]

### 30. Resignation.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of these
first Statutes, a member of the staff of Institute may resign:(i)if he is a
permanent employee, only after giving three months' notice in writing to his
appointing authority, or by paying three months salary in lieu thereof;
and(ii)if he is not a permanent employee, only after giving one month's notice
in writing to the appointing authority or by paying one month's salary in lieu
thereof:Provided that such resignation shall take effect only on the date on
which the resignation is accepted by the appointing authority.

### 31. Retirement.

(1)At any time after an employee has completed twenty years qualifying
service, he may, by giving notice, of not less than three months, in writing
to the appointing authority, retire from service as per the terms and
conditions laid down by the Central Government, from time to time, for its own
employees.(2)The appointing authority has the right to retire the employee
before superannuation as premature retirement in accordance with the provision
of Central Civil Services (Retirement) Rules, 1964.(3)An employee can retire
form service on account of any bodily or mental infirmity that permanently
incapacitates him from service subject to the following conditions,
namely:-(i)The employee shall submit his application to the Registrar through
proper channel and produce a medical certificate from medical authority as may
be specified by the ordinances;(ii)If the medical authority grants fitness
certificate for a lower post, the employee, if willing may be appointed on
such post only if available; and(iii)The medical report should precede or
coincide with the date of retirement.

### 32. Advances.

\- The permanent employees of the Institute shall be having facility of
drawing advances for various purposes as admissible to Central Government
Employees.

### 33. Deputation.

\- Deputation is permissible for appointment (temporary transfer) in public
interest outside National Institute of Technology to other National Institute
of Technology, Central Government, State Government, Universities or
Autonomous Bodies including Public Sector undertaking and subject to the terms
and conditions specified in the recruitment rules.

### 34. Residential Accommodation for Employees.

(1)Every employee of the Institute may be allotted an unfurnished house within
the campus of the Institute for residential use only, if available, in which
he shall be required to reside, subject to such conditions as may be laid down
by the House Allotment Rules of the institute.(2)An employee of the Institute
who has been allotted house for residential use, shall be charged license fee
at the rate as fixed by the Board from time to time.(3)In addition to the
license fee, water, electricity and charges for any other service rendered
shall be recovered from an employee on actual basis or at such rates as may be
determined by the Board from time to time.(4)The Board may, allot furnished or
unfurnished accommodation without levying any license fee or levying such fee
at concessional rates to any category of staff, if it considers it necessary
to do so in the interest of the Institute.

### 35. Leave and Vacation Rules.

\- The leave for all the employees of the Institute shall be governed by the
Central Civil Services (Leave) Rules 1972.

### 36. Scholarships, Fellowships, Medals and Prizes.

\- The Board may, on the recommendation of the Senate institute such
scholarships, fellowships medals and prizes as it may consider necessary.

### 37. Fees.

\- The Institute shall charge the following fees, namely:-(i)The tuition and
the hostel fee shall comprise of two parts (a) fees determined by the National
Institutes of Technology Council which shall be the common for all National
Institutes of Technology and (b) fees which will be determined by the
concerned Boards of Governors which shall be applicable to the concerned
institute.(ii)the caution Money shall be refundable to student, scholars and
fellows at the time of finally leaving the Institute, after deduction of
relevant dues, if any and where no claim for a refund is received within two
years of finally leaving the Institute, the Caution Money shall be credited
into the Student Welfare Fund.(iii)The fee concession and scholarships as may
be determined by the Central Government from time to time shall be applicable
to an National Institutes of Technology.

### 38. Students' Hostels and Halls.

(1)Every Institute shall be a residential institution and all students and
research scholars shall reside in the hostels and halls of residence built by
the Institutes for the purpose:Provided that in exceptional cases, for reasons
to be recorded in writing, the Director may permit a student or scholar to
reside with his parent or guardian, but where any such permission is accorded
to a student or scholar, such student or scholar, as the case may be, shad be
liable for the payment of such seat rent as he would have been liable for the
payment of seat rent had he resided in the hostel.(2)Every resident in the
hostels and halls shall conform to rules laid down by the Institute for the
purpose.(3)For each hostel or hall of residence there shall be a Warden and
such number of Assistant Wardens and other staff as may be determined by the
Board from time to time.(4)The members of the Academic Staff shall be
appointed by the Director as Warden and Assistant Warden.(5)Wardens and
Assistant Wardens shall be entitled to rent free unfurnished quarters
corresponding to the type of quarters to which they are normally
entitled.(6)The Board shall lay down rules for the management of the hostels
and halls of residence.

### 39. Conferment of Honorary Degrees.

\- The Institute may confer honorary degrees for a few exceptional and
outstanding persons for their illustrious contribution in their respective
fields:Provided that all proposals for the conferment of honorary degrees
shall be made by the Senate and shall be approved by the Board.The National
Institutes of Technology

## 'A'

[See Statute 17(2))"Whereas in terms of Section 17 (1) of the National
Institute of Technology Act, 2007(hereinafter called the Act) and Statute
17(2) (in case of NIT,________) (hereinafter called Statutes), the Visitor has
been pleased to approve the appointment of the appointee as the Director of
the Institute on contract for five years and the appointee has accepted such
appointment upon the terms and conditions hereinafter appearing. Now these
presents Witnesseth and the parties hereto respectively agree as follows:-[1]
This agreement of service shall be deemed to have been entered into subject at
all times to the provisions of the Act, and Statutes covering the Institutes
as in force from time to time as applicable to permanent confirmed
employees.[2] The appointee shall be on service under the agreement for a
period of five years with effect from date of joining the post. Provided that
if the appointee on conclusion of the period of service mentioned above is
[below 70 years of age] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 837(E), dated
15.10.2015 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).], his service shall continue till the 30th June
of the year in which the appointee concludes the said period of service or
till he attains [the age of 70] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 78(E),
dated 31.12.2015 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).], whichever is earlier.[3] The appointee
shall be the Principal academic and Executive Officer of the Institute and
serve the Institute as the whole time Director of the Institute with powers
and duties provided in the said Act and Statutes.[4] The appointee shall
devote hiS whole time to the service of the Institute and will be subject to
the Conduct Rules and other provisions of the said Act and the Statutes. Any
information obtained by appointee during or in connection with his service and
the work upon which he is engaged shall be treated as secret and confidential
and appointee shall be deemed in all respects to be subject to the Indian
Officials Secrets Act, 1923, as amended from time to time.[5] During the
period of his service except in respect of any period of suspension and also
of any period of leave without pay, the appointee shall be entitled subject to
the Indian Income Tax to an initial pay of Rs ..... in the scale of
Rs.......provided that if any time the appointee proceeds on deputation out of
India, his pay and allowances during the period his deputation will be such as
may be decided by the Board of Governors. In addition, the appointee shall
draw allowances like Dearness Allowance, City Compensator allowance etc. as
may be admissible from time to time as per rules of the Institute.[6] During
his service under these presents the appointee shall subscribe to the
Contributory Provident Fund-cum-Gratuity of the Institute according to the
provisions made in the Statutes and subject to such modifications in these
provisions as may be made from time to time and shall also be entitled to the
contribution of the Institute as admissible to the permanent confirmed
employees as per the Statutes. In the event of the appointee being employer of
any other National Institute of Technology and enjoying the benefits either
under Contributory Provident Fund-cum-Gratuity Scheme or General Provident
Fund-cum-Pension-cum-Gratuity Scheme, he shall join the corresponding Scheme
of the Institute with transfer of this accumulation as admissible under the
Statutes. In case the apPointee is the employee of the Institute he shall
continue to be governed by Contributory Provident Fund-cum-Gratuity Scheme or
General Provident Fund-cum-Pension-cum-Gratuity Scheme as immediately prior to
this contract appointment and shall be entitled to benefits of the scheme for
the period of his service under this contract like other permanent employees
of the institutes as per the Statutes.[7] Notwithstanding anything
hereinbefore contained, the appointee shall unless otherwise decided by the
Institute be entitled to receive the whole or in part as may be determined by
the Institute the benefits of any improvements in the revision of scale of pay
and in retirement benefits that may be affected by the Institute subject to
the date of these presents in the terms and conditions of the service of
members of the branch of Institute, service to which he may for the time being
belong, the decision of the Institute in respect of such improvement in the
terms and conditions of their service of appointee shall operate so as to
modify to that extent the provisions of these presents.[8] The appointee shall
be entitled to leave as admissible to permanent non-vacation employees of the
Institute under the Statutes.[9] The appointee shall be entitled to furnished
free of license fee office cum residential accommodation in the campus of the
Institute as may be sanctioned by the Board of Governors of the Institute.[10]
The appointee shall be eligible for privilege in relation to medical
attendance and treatment as provided for in the Statutes.[11] The appointee
shall be paid travelling expenses for joining the Institute as admissible to
an officer of the Central Government of equivalent rank under the Transfer
Travelling Allowances Rules of the Central Government deeming the appointment
of the appointee as on transfer in the public interest.If the appointee is
required to travel in the interest of Institute work, he shall be entitled to
travelling allowance and the scale provided for in the T.A. Rules of the
institute in force from time to time. Similarly the appointee shall be
entitled to leave travel concession for visiting his hometown as per the Rules
of the Institute.[12] Any amount received by the appointee from books and
articles published by him at his cost shall be left to him as an encouragement
for continuing his work in that line. He would also be allowed to do
consultancy and retain benefits of the same as per rules laid down by the
Board from time to time.[13] The service of appointee may during the period of
contract, be terminated by the Institute at any time by three calendar months
notice in writing given at any time during service under this contract without
any cause assigned. Provided always the Institute may in lieu of the notice
herein provided to give the appointee a sum equivalent to the amount of his
basic pay for three months. The appointee may terminate his service by giving
to the Institute three calendar months notice in writing.[14] The appointee
will be allowed the status of Professor of the Department of his speciality
and take part in teaching and research in the said Department subject to his
Convenience.[15] In respect of any matter for which no provision has been made
in this agreement the appointee will be governed by the said National
Institutes of Technology Act, 2007 or any modification thereof for the time
being in force and the Statutes made thereunder for time being in force.In
witness where of on the day and the year first above written, the Chairman of
the Board of Governors of the Institute has hereinto set his hand and the
appointee has hereinto set his hand.Signed and delivered for theNational
Institute of Technology,by the Chairperson,Board of Governors of the
InstituteIn the presence of Signature of witnesses with addresses signed and
delivered by the said appointee in the presence of ................ Signature
of...................... witnesses with addressesDirector, NIT
.............................. ..

## 'B'

[See Statute 18(3)]Contract of Service for the Post of Deputy DirectorAn
Agreement for service made this.................................day
........................... date of ..................... one thousand nine
hundred .................. between....................... (herein after called
the appointee) of the one part and the National Institute of Technology
incorporated under the National Institutes of Technology Act, 2007 (29 of
2007)."Whereas in terms of Section 17(1) of the National Institute of
Technology Act, 2007 (hereinafter called the Act) and Statute 18(3) (in case
of NIT,_________) (hereinafter called Statutes), the Visitor has been pleased
to approve the appointment of the appointee as the Deputy Director of the
Institute on contract for a period of three years initially which may be
extended by two times for one year each on the recommendation of the Board and
the appointee has accepted such appointment upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter appearing. Now these presents Witnesseth and the parties hereto
respectively agree as follows:-[1] This agreement of service shall be deemed
to have been entered into subject at all times to the provisions of the Act,
and Statutes covering the Institutes as in force from time to time as
applicable to permanent confirmed employees.[2] The appointee shall be on
service under the agreement for a period of three years extendable by two
years on year to year basis with effect from .....(that is date of joining the
post) provided that if the appointee on conclusion of the period of service
mentioned above is below 65 years of age, his service shall continue till the
30th June of the year in which the appointee concludes the said period of
service or till he attains the age of 65, whichever is earlier.[3] The
appointee shall serve the Institute as the whole time Deputy Director of the
Institute with powers and duties provided in the Act and Statutes. He shall
report to the Director for discharge of his duties.[4] The appointee shall
devote his whole time to the service of the Institute and will be subject to
the Conduct Rules and other provisions of the said Act and the Statutes. Any
information obtained by appointee during or in connection with his service and
the work upon which he is engaged shall be treated as secret and confidential
and appointee shall be deemed in all respects to be subject to the Indian
Officials Secrets Act, 1923, as amended from time to time.[5] During the
period of his service except in respect of any period of suspension and also
of any period of leave without pay the appointee shall be entitled subject to
the Indian Income Tax to an initial pay of Rs ...... in the scale of Rs
....... provided that if any time the appointee proceeds on deputation out of
India his pay and allowances during the period his deputation will be such as
may be decided by the Board of Governors. In addition the appointee shall draw
allowances like Dearness Allowance, City Compensatory Allowance etc. as may be
admissible from time to time as per rules of the Institute.[6] During his
service under these presents the appointee shall subscribe to the Contributory
Provident Fund-cum-Gratuity of the Institute according to the provisions made
in the Statutes and subject to such modifications in these provisions as may
be made from time to time and, shall also be entitled to the contribution of
the Institute as admissible to the permanent confirmed employees as per the
Statutes. In the event of the appointee being employer of any other National
Institutes of Technology and enjoying the benefits either under Contributory
Provident Fund-cum-Gratuity Scheme or General Provident Fund-cum-Pension-cum-
Gratuity Scheme, he shall join the corresponding Scheme of the Institute with
transfer of this accumulation as admissible under the Statutes. In case the
appointee is the employee of the Institute he shall continue to be governed by
Contributory Provident Fund-cum-Gratuity Scheme or General Provident Fund-cum-
Pension-cum-Gratuity Scheme as immediately prior to this contract appointment
and shall be entitled to benefits of the scheme for the period of his service
under this contract like other permanent employees of the institutes as per
the Statutes.[7] Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained the appointee
shall unless otherwise decided by the Institute be entitled to receive the
whole or in part as may be determined by the Institute the benefits of any
improvements in the revision of scale of pay and in retirement benefits that
may be affected by the Institute subject to the date of these presents in the
terms and conditions of the service of members of the branch of Institute,
service to which he may for the time being belong, the decision of the
Institute in respect of such improvement in the terms and conditions of their
service of appointee shall operate so as to modify to that extent the
provisions of these presents.[8] The appointee shall be entitled to leave as
admissible to permanent non-vacation employees of the Institute under the
Statutes.[9] The appointee shall be entitled to furnished free of license fee
accommodation in the campus of the Institute as may be sanctioned by the Board
of Governors of the Institute.[10] The appointee shall be eligible for
privilege in relation to medical attendance and treatment as provided for in
the Statutes.[11] The appointee shall be paid travelling expenses for joining
the Institute as admissible to an officer of the Central Government of
equivalent rank under the Transfer Travelling Allowance Rules of the Central
Government deeming the appointment of the appointee as on transfer in the
public interest.If the appointee is required to travel in the interest of
Institute work, he shall be entitled to travelling allowance an the scale
provided for in the T.A. Rules of the institute in force from time to time.
Similarly the appointee shall be entitled to leave travel concession for
visiting his hometown as per the Rules of the Institute.[12] Any amount
received by the appointee from books and articles published by him at his cost
shall be left to him as an encouragement for continuing his work in that line.
He would also be allowed to do consultancy and retain benefits of the same as
per rules laid down by the Board from time to time.[13] The service of
appointee may during the period of contract, be terminated by the Institute at
any time by three calendar months notice in writing given at any time during
service under this contract without any cause assigned. Provided always the
Institute may in lieu of the notice herein provided to give the appointee a
sum equivalent to the amount of his basic pay for three months. The appointee
may terminate his service by giving to the Institute three calendar months
notice in writing.[14] The appointee will be allowed the status of Professor
of department of his specialization to the part in teaching and research in
the Department of................................subject to his
Convenience.[15] In respect of any matter for which no provision has been made
in this agreement the appointee will be governed by the said National
Institutes of Technology Act, 2007 or any modification thereof for the time
being in force and the Statutes made thereunder for time being in force,In
witness whereof on the day and the year first above written, the Chairman of
the Board of Governors of the institute has hereinto set his hand and the
appointee has hereinto set his handSigned and delivered for theNational
institute of Technology,by the Chairperson,Board of Governors of the
InstituteIn the presence ofSignature of Witnesses with addresses.Signed and
delivered by the said appointeein the presence of Signature
of........................witnesses with addressesDeputy Director,
NIT...........................

## 'C'

[See Statute 19 (5)]DeanshipsThe institute may have not more than six
Deanships. There may be following Deanships in National institute of
Technology with the approval of the Board of Governors:Dean AcademicDean
Planning and DevelopmentDean Student WelfareDean Faculty WelfareDean (Research
and Consultancy)Deanship is of functional position and not administrative one
and such be discharged in its right spirit Dean must be nominated by the
Director only from amongst the Professors/Associate Professors, but should not
be Head of the Department,The Tenure of Deanship shall ordinarily be two years
extendable by one more year, but Director with the approval of the
Chairperson, Board of Governors may relieve any or all Dean before such
period.Duties and Responsibilities of Deans.The following duties and
responsibilities have been entrusted to the and Deans

### 1\. Dean (Academic)

He/she will advice the Director in:(a)Admission and enrolment of
students;(b)Finalisation of academic calendar, time-tables, registration of
students for course work and examinations, class room arrangements and all
other requirements for proper conduct of class work;(c)Conduct of class tests
and co-coordinating the finalization of session's evaluations and for ensuring
the timely declaration of results;(d)Supervision of the maintenance of up-to-
date academic records of all categories of students;(e)Publication and
distribution of the syllabi;(f)Organizing meeting of all the Institute level
academic bodies;(g)Arranging the issue of all academic certificates, medals
and prizes to the students;(h)To arrange for conduct of those examinations
which are to be conducted by the Institute as stipulated in the Institute
regulations.(i)To formulate policies for the conduct of research and steps to
maintain suitable standard by implementing the Board of Governors/Senate
decision.(j)To execute the policy of the Senate in the conduct of P.G., Ph.D.
and other research programmes including the examination of the thesis.(k)To
co-ordinate for the conduct of Convocation.(l)All proposals to modify the
teaching programmes will be considered by BOAC, for which Dean (Academic) i.e.
the Chairman and if approved will be sent to the Senate for formal
approval.(m)To admit sponsored Early Faculty Induction Programme and Quality
Improvement Programme candidates.(n)To suggest the Director to take suitable
steps from time to time to strive for the high academic standards.

### 2\. Dean (Planning and Development)

He/she will advice the Director in the following:(a)Planning the expansion and
diversification of institutional activities and preparation of all
developmental proposals, to the extent up to submission of plan & estimates
related to Civil, electrical, Works, sanitary, network system,
etc.(b)Maintenance of all necessary statistical data regarding plan & projects
required for compilation of various reports periodically required to be sent
to Ministry of Human Resource Development and other agencies.(c)Monitoring the
physical targets and utilisation of funds in respect of Projects & Consultancy
and in the preparation of relevant papers for submission of progress
reports.(d)Formulating proposal for new courses and in, organizing meetings of
faculty members and external experts for this purpose in this regard;(e)In the
efforts to expand and monitor the activities of consultancy, testing and
sponsored research of Institute and to ensure submission of progress
reports;(f)In coordinating the formulation and conduct of non-formal and
continuing education and extension programmes.(g)To arrange for the agenda and
organization of the meeting for procurement of equipments related to projects
and testing & consultancy.(h)Providing necessary data for the budget and new
estimates & plans to the Building & Works Committee to the Registrar

### 3\. Dean (Students Welfare)

(a)He/she will advice the Director in organising the students'
counselling.(b)He/she will be responsible for the publication of students'
Magazines, News Bulletins, News letters etc.(c)He/she will advice the Director
in matters related to students; discipline and welfare.(d)He/she will assist
the Director in matters related to the Students
Union/Association/Council.(e)He/she will co-ordinate the NCC, NSS, Games,
Swimming Pool, Sports, Cultural and Co curricular and Extra-curricular
activities of the students.(f)He/she will keep a record of Alumni and
correspond with them.(g)He/she will conduct the enquiries of students indulged
in indiscipline.(h)He/she will correspond with Parents/Guardians of Students
about their progress and individual problems/welfare.

### 4\. Dean Faculty welfare

He/she will advice the Director in matters related to:(a)Deputation of faculty
to various institutions under Quality Improvement Programme under rules
applicable to them.(b)He/she will advice the Director for deputation of the
faculty members to various conferences, seminars, short-term courses, training
programmes, foreign teaching/training assignments etc.(c)He/she will chair the
committee meetings of the evaluation of papers submitted or to be submitted to
the conferences/seminar by the faculty members.(d)He/she will assist the
Director in organizing training programmes for faculty.(e)He/she will assist
the Director in the supervision of the construction and the maintenance work
of buildings, roads, water supply, sanitation, lawns and gardens,
communication networks, water coolers, air conditioners, telephones,
etc.(f)He/she will assist the Director in maintaining the discipline and work
ethos among the various departments and between the faculty members.(g)He/she
will assist the Director in maintaining the high academic standards and
achieving academic excellence in the institution.(h)Supervision over faculty
discipline, integrity and commitment.

### 5\. Dean (Research and Consultancy)

He/she will advice the Director in matters related to:(a)Frame rules for
industrial sponsored research and consultancy.(b)Create and maintain database
regarding faculty expertise.(c)Facilitate through his/her office faculty in
procuring equipments necessary to conduct research/consultancy work,
recruitment of project staff.(d)Coordinate co-curricular activities (technical
festivals, quizzes etc,) for the students.(e)Provide guidance for submitting
proposals to funding agencies such as Department of Science and Technology
(DST), Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), Board of Research in Nuclear
Sciences (BRNS), Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), Defence Research
and Development Organisation (DRDO), Aeronautics Research and Development
Board (AR&DB), Ministry of Information Technology, etc.

## 'D'

[See Statute 24(vii)]Forwarding of Applications For Employment
ElsewhereApplications for employment shall be forwarded only as per the norms
approved by the Board of Governors:All employees are under terms of their
service, required to observe following norms for applying for other jobs in
Government/private or elsewhere;

### 1\. General Principles:

(i)A permanent employee, having good promotion prospects, is under a normal
obligation to devote his energies whole-heartedly to the duties of his post.
It will not be unjust if his application for other employment is withheld and
not forwarded.(ii)Application of a temporary employee should not be withheld
unless there are compelling grounds to be recorded and communicated to such
temporary employee. Application from a temporary employee, who may have good
prospects of being made permanent in due course, should be dealt with on
merits.(iii)Employees who have been given some technical training at
Government/Institute expense, should continue to serve the institute at least
for the bond period and withholding of application in such a case is
justifiable. Board may decide the policy in such cases.(iv)Where an employee
cannot be spared without serious detriment to important work in hand, his
application can be withheld.

### 2\. Application for posts advertised by Union Public Service Commission
Institute employees can apply directly to posts advertised by Union Public
Service Commission but should keep the Head of the Department and Director
informed. Subsequently, he should seek the permission for such appointment,
but before appearing for the interview.

### 3\. Posts in the other National Institutes of Technology/Central
Universities and other comparable Institutions of Higher Education:

(a)The application from permanent employee should accompany with an
undertaking that he will either join back to the concerned National Institutes
of Technology or resign from post held by him in that National Institute of
Technology after 3 years.(b)Temporary employee should give an undertaking to
resign in the event of his selection and acceptance of the new
appointment.Foreign assignments against open advertisements:(a)The employee
can apply with prior permission of the Chairperson, Board of Governors to be
confirmed by the Board of Governors.(b)If the time is short, an advance copy
can be sent to the concerned agency with a copy to the Chairperson, Board of
Governors for approval through proper channel.(c)Such employee shall not be
considered as an official nominee of National Institute of Technology
concerned.Posts not Advertised or Circulated.The application shall not be
forwarded.Registration with Employment Exchange.Temporary employees can
register with permission, but should resign when selectedPermanent employee
can register:(a)only for higher post under the Government/ Public Sector
Undertaking/ Autonomous Body,(b)on production of a No Objection Certificate,
from the National Institute of Technology, and(c)an undertaking that he will
after the completion of three years of joining the new post either rejoin to
the concerned National institute of Technology or resign.(d)when an employee
rejoins his parent office, he will not be granted a "no objection certificate"
for a period of three years to register his name with the Employment Exchange
again.Employee under Suspension or Charge Sheeted.No application should be
forwarded if the employee is under suspension or a charge sheet has been
issued/filed in the court or sanction for his prosecution has been
accorded.Employees whose conduct is under investigation.An application of an
employee whose conduct is under investigation may be forwarded with brief
comments on the nature of allegations and with a note that he would not be
released if the employee is placed under suspension or a charge sheet is
issued/filed in the court or sanction for his prosecution is accorded before
his selection.[Schedule 'E'] [Inserted by Notification No. S.O. 947(E), dated
21.7.2017 (w.e.f. 23.4.2009).][See Statute 23 (5) (a)]Qualification and other
terms and conditions of appointment of Academic Staff

Sl.No. | Designation, Pay Band and Academic Grade Pay | Essential Qualification | Essential Requirements | Cumulative Essential Credit Points  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
1. |  *Assistant Professor(On contract)Pay Band-3 with Grade Pay of Rs. 6000 | Ph.D. | NIL | NIL  
2. |  *Assistant Professor(On contract)Pay Band-3 with Grade Pay of Rs. 7000 | Ph.D. |  one year post Ph.D. experience of Teaching andResearch in Institution of repute or Industry | 10  
3. |  *Assistant ProfessorPay Band-3 with Grade Pay of Rs. 8000 with aminimum pay of Rs. 30000 | Ph.D. |  three years after Ph.D. or six years totalteaching and research experience in reputed academic Institute orResearch and Development Labs or relevant industry. | 20  
4. |  Associate ProfessorPay Band-4 with Grade Pay of Rs. 9500 with aminimum pay of Rs. 42800 | Ph.D. |  six years after Ph.D.of which at least three years at the level of Assistant Professorwith Academic Grade Pay of Rs. 8000;Ornine years total working experience, of whichthree years should be after Ph.D., with at least three years atthe level of Assistant Professor with Academic Grade Pay of Rs.8000. | 50  
5. |  ProfessorPay Band-4 with Grade Pay of Rs. 10500 withminimum pay of Rs. 48000 | Ph.D. |  ten years after Ph.D. or thirteen years totalworking experience, out of which seven years should be afterPh.D. At least three years at the level of Associate professorwith Academic Grade Pay of Rs. 9500 or four years at the level ofAssociate Professor with Academic Grade Pay of Rs. 9000 orcombination of Rs. 9000 and Rs. 9500 or equivalent in anInstitution of repute or Research & Development lab orrelevant industry. | 80  
6. |  Professor(HigherAdministrative Grade Scale)Rs. 67000-79000 | Ph.D. |  Six years as Professor with Academic Grade Payof Rs. 10000 or Rs. 10500 or a combination of Rs.10000 and Rs.10500 in an Institute of National Importance. | 150  
  
Note 1 :(1)Any change in the grade pay will be through open advertisement and
on recommendation of duly constituted selection committee, except where
specifically exempted in these rules.(2)All new entrants shall have Ph.D. in
the relevant or equivalent discipline and shall have first class in the
preceding degrees.(3)For existing faculty members who completed their Ph.D.
along-with their normal teaching load of Institute or quality improvement
programme, the enrolment period of Ph.D. will be counted as teaching
experience.(4)Contribution to Institute Administration shall be recommended by
concerned Head or Chairman and approved by the Director. Contribution to
departmental Administration shall be recommended by concerned Head and
approved by the Director.(5)For the departments which are not having any
vacancy, movement in higher Academic Grade Pay or cadre shall be carried out
as per specified selection process but it will be restricted to only for
serving faculty members of the respective departments.(6)The permanent faculty
members who have put in more than ten years experience, but have not acquired
Ph.D. qualification as on the date of these notification shall be mapped into
four-tier flexible system as one time measure as per following
norms:(a)Permanent faculty with age fifty or above:(i)The Assistant Professors
with Academic Grade Pay of Rs.7000 shall be mapped at the level of Assistant
Professor with Academic Grade Pay of Rs.8000, provided they have at least 10
credit points in their lifetime.(ii)The Assistant Professors with Academic
Grade Pay of Rs.8000 shall be mapped at the level of Associate Professor with
Academic Grade Pay of Rs.9500, provided they have at least 25 credit points in
their lifetime.(iii)The Associate Professors with Academic Grade Pay of
Rs.9000 shall be mapped at the level of Associate Professor with Academic
Grade Pay of Rs.9500, provided they have at least 25 credit points in their
lifetime:Provided, they have been found suitable through a Selection Committee
duly constituted under the Statutes.(b)Permanent faculty members less than
fifty years of age shall be sponsored for Ph.D. in any of the Indian
Institutes of Technology or National Institutes of Technology duly provided a
facility to take study leave of threeyears from their respective National
Institute of Technology and on completion of the Ph.D., they shall compete to
get into the four tier system as per the new recruitment rules.(7)For faculty
in the Department of Architecture, following shall be essential qualification
without insisting on credit point requirements at Assistant Professor
level:(i)M.Arch. or M.Plan. with one year professional experience: Assistant
Professor at Academic Grade Pay of Rs. 6000;(ii)M.Arch. or M.Plan. with two
years of professional experience: Assistant Professor at Academic Grade Pay of
Rs. 7000;(iii)For higher cadres the educational qualifications and credit
point requirement shall remain same as given in the table for Engineering and
Sciences.Note 2 : Credit Point SystemThe following shall be the credit point
system:

S. No. | Activity | Credits points  
---|---|---  
1. |  One external Sponsored Research and DevelopmentProjects completed or ongoing or Patent granted |  8 credit points per project or 8 credit pointsper patent as inventor (in case of more than one person in aProject, the Principal Investigator gets 5 credit points and therest to the divided equally among other members)  
2. | Consultancy projects |  2 credit points @ Rs.5 lakhs of consultancy,subject to maximum of 10 Credit points  
3. |  Ph.D. completed (including thesis submittedcases) |  8 credit points per Ph.D. student (in case thereare more than one supervisor, then the Guide (1st Supervisor)gets 5 credit points per student and the rest to be dividedequally among other supervisor  
4. |  One Journal papers in Science Citation Index orScopus (Paid Journals not allowed) |  4 point per paper since the last promotion.First author or Main supervisor will get 2 point and rest will bedivided among others.  
5. |  One Conference paper indexed in Science CitationIndex or Scopus or Web of science Conference or anyinternationally renowned conference |  1 credit points per paper up to a maximum of 10credit points. First author or Main Supervisor will get 0.6 andrest will be divided among the rest.  
6. |  Head of the Department, Dean, Chief Warden,Professor Incharge (Training and Placement), Advisor (Estate),Chief Vigilance Officer, PI (Exam), TEQIP (Coordinator) |  2 points per semester up to a max of 16 creditspoints since the last promotion.  
7. |  Warden, Assistant wardens, Associate Dean,Chairman or Convener institute academic committees, Faculty Incharge Computer Center or Information and Technology Services orLibrary or Admission or student activities and otherInstitutional activities |  1 credit point per semester up to a maximum of 8credits points since the last promotion.  
8. |  Chairman and Convener of different standingcommittee and special committee (Ex officio status will not beconsidered). Faculty incharges (Each for one year duration) ofdifferent Units or equivalent |  0.5 credit point per Semesters up to a maximumof 3 credits points since the last promotion.  
9. |  Departmental activities identified by Head ofthe Department like lab in charges, or department level committeefor a minimum period of one year. |  0.5 credit point per Semesters up to a maximumof 3 credits points since the last promotion.  
10. |  Workshop or Faculty Development Program or shortterm courses of min 05 working days duration offered ascoordinator or convener |  2 credit points per course up to a maximum of 8credits points since the last promotion.  
11. |  For conductingnational programs like Global Initiative of Academic Networksetc. as course coordinatorProgram of two weeksdurationProgram of one week duration |  2 credit points percourse up to a maximum of 4 credit points since the lastpromotion.1 credit point per course up to a maximum of 2credit points since the last promotion.  
12. |  National or International conference organizedas Chairman or Secretary |  3 credit points per program up a maximum of 6credits points since the last promotion.  
13. |  Length of service over and above the relevantminimum teaching experience required for a given cadre |  2 credit points per semester with maximum of 10credit points since the last promotion.  
14. | Establishment of New Lab(s) | 4 credit points since the last promotion.  
15. |  Theory Teaching of over and above 6 credit hrs.course |  1 credit point or credit hrs. up to a maximum of6 credit points since the last promotion.  
16. | Post Graduate Dissertation guided |  0.5 credit point per project to a maximum of 10points since the last promotion.  
17. | Under Graduate Projects |  0.25 credit point per project up to a maximum of4 points since the last promotion.  
18. |  Text or Reference Books published on relevantsubjects from reputed international publishers |  6 credit points per book up to a maximum of 18points since the last promotion.  
19. |  Text or Reference book published on relevantsubjects from reputed national publishers or book chapters in thebooks published by reputed international publishers |  2 credit points per unit up to a maximum of 6points since the last promotion.  
20. | Significant outreach Institute out activities |  1 credit point per activity up to a maximum of 4credit points since the last promotion.  
21. | Fellow IEEE, FNA, FNAE, FNASc | 10 credit points  
22. |  Placement percentage (only for the placementcell officers or Faculty incharge of Placement)  
Above 85% |  4 credit points per year upto a maximum of 20points since the last promotion.  
75% - 84%(% to be based on total number of studentspassing out and single job offer) |  2 credit points per year upto a maximum of 10points since the last promotion.

