## Union of India - Act

## The Foreign Awards (Recognition And Enforcement) Act, 1961

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Foreign Awards (Recognition And Enforcement) Act, 1961

## Act 45 of 1961

  * Published on 30 November 1961 
  * Commenced on 30 November 1961 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 November 1961.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Repealed by The Arbitration And Conciliation Act, 1996 (Act 26 of 1996) on 22 August 1996] 

The Foreign Awards (Recognition And Enforcement) Act, 1961(45 OF 1961)

### 11.

/551Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The procedure for settlement, through
arbitration, of disputes arising from international trade was first regulated
by the Geneva Protocol of Arbitration Clauses, 1923, and the Geneva Convention
of 1927 to which India was a party and which were given effect to in India by
the Arbitration (Protocol and Convention) Act, 1937. This Act was, therefore,
enacted to adopt the then prevailing practices of arbitration in India to the
regulations of the Geneva Protocol on Arbitration Clauses of 1923 and Geneva
Convention on the Execution of Foreign Arbitral Awards of 1927.(2) It was,
however, felt that the Geneva Convention hampered the speedy settlement of
disputes through arbitration and hence no longer met the requirements of the
international trade due to the following principal defects:-(a) it placed an
undue emphasis on the law of the land, the selection of arbitrators, the
procedure to be followed by these tribunals, etc., and(b) it laid too much
emphasis on the remedies that were open to parties to invoke the law of the
country for the purposes of setting aside the awards.Therefore, in order to
remedy, inter alia, the above-mentioned defects, a draft Convention was
prepared by the International Chambers of Commerce, which was considered by
the United Nations Economic and Social Council in consultation with the
Governments of various countries and non-Governmental organisations and
finally a new International Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of
Arbitral Awards was adopted at New York on the 10th June 1958. This Convention
was duly ratified by the Government of India and was deposited with the
Secretary-General of the United Nations on the 13th July, 1960.(3) The Geneva
Convention shall cease to have effect between the contracting States on their
becoming bound by the New York Convention. It was, therefore, considered
desirable to replace Act 6 of 1937 by a new piece of legislation. This Bill
provides for the filing and enforcement of foreign awards in Courts in
accordance with New York Convention.(4) The new Bill, when brought into
operation, will apply only to foreign awards made on or after the 11th day of
October, 1960, and the foreign awards made before that date will continue to
be governed by the 1937 Act.Amendment Act 47 of 1973-Statement of Objects and
Reasons.-The Foreign Awards (Recognition and Enforcement) Act, 1961 was
enacted to give effect to the International Convention on Recognition and
Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, done at New York on the 10th day of
June, 1958. Article 11 of this Convention provides for recognition by
contracting States of agreements, including arbitral clauses in writing, by
which the parties to the agreement undertake to submit to arbitration all or
any differences which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect
of defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not, concerning a
subject-matter capable of settlement by arbitration. The article also provides
that when the Court of a contracting State is seized of a matter in respect of
which the parties have made an agreement to which the article applies, the
Court shall, at the request of one of the parties, refer the parties to
arbitration, unless it finds that the said agreement is null and void,
inoperative or incapable of being performed. In such cases, according to the
article, the mere existence of a valid arbitration agreement would render it
mandatory for the Court to refer the parties to arbitration and stay the
proceedings before it. In V/O Tractors Export Moscow v. Tarapore & Co. [(1970)
2 S.C.A. 316] the Supreme Court has, however, held, by a majority of 2 : 1,
that section 3 of the Act does not give full effect to Article 11 of the
Convention. According to the Court, the section is applicable only in a case
where not only is there an arbitration agreement in force between the parties,
but there has also been an actual reference to arbitration. It is, therefore,
proposed to amend the section suitably to bring out the intention clearly.2\.
The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.[30th November, 1961]An Act to
enable effect to be given to the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement
of Foreign Arbitral Awards, done at New York on the tenth day of June, 1958,
to which India is a party and for purposes connected therewith.Be it enacted
by Parliament in the Twelfth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

The Act has been extended to the Union territory of Pondicherry by Act 26 of
1968, Section 3 and Schedule (w.e.f. 18.12.1968).  
---  
  
### 1. Short title and extent .-(1) This Act may be called The Foreign Awards
(Recognition and Enforcement) Act, 1961.

(2)It extends to the whole of India.

### 2. Definition .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,
"foreign award" means an award on differences between persons arising out of
legal relationships, whether contractual or not, considered as commercial
under the law in force in India, made on or after the 11th day of October,
1960-

Convention set forth in the Schedule applies, and( b ) in one of such
territories as the Central Government, being satisfied that reciprocal
provisions have been made, may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
declare to be territories to which the said Convention applies.

### 3. [ Stay of proceedings in respect of matters to be referred to
arbitration

.-Notwithstanding anything contained in the Arbitration Act, 1940, or in the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, if any party to an agreement to which Article
II of the Convention set forth in the Schedule applies, or any person claiming
through or under him commences any legal proceedings in any Court against any
other party to the agreement or any person claiming through or under him in
respect of any matter agreed to be referred to arbitration in such agreement,
any party to such legal proceedings may, at any time after appearance and
before filing a written statement or taking any other step in the proceedings,
apply to the Court to stay the proceedings and the Court, unless satisfied
that the agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being
performed or that there is not, in fact, any dispute between the parties with
regard to the matter agreed to be referred, shall make an order staying the
proceedings.]

### 4. Effect of foreign awards .-(1) A foreign award shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act, be enforceable in India as if it were an award made on
a matter referred to arbitration in India.

(2)Any foreign award which would be enforceable under this Act shall be
treated as binding for all purposes on the persons as between whom it was
made, and may accordingly be relied on by any of those persons by way of
defence, set off or otherwise in any legal proceedings in India and any
references in this Act to enforcing a foreign award shall be construed as
including references to relying on an award.

### 5. Filing of foreign awards in Court .-(1) Any person interested in a
foreign award may apply to any Court having jurisdiction over the subject-
matter of the award that the award be filed in Court.

(2)The application shall be in writing and shall be numbered and registered as
a suit between the applicant as plaintiff and the other parties as
defendants.(3)The Court shall direct notice to be given to the parties to the
arbitration, other than the applicant, requiring them to show cause, within a
time specified why the award should not be filed.

### 6. Enforcement of foreign award .-(1) Where the Court is satisfied that
the foreign award is enforceable under this Act, the Court shall order the
award to be filed and shall proceed to pronounce judgment according to the
award.

(2)Upon the judgment so pronounced a decree shall follow, and no appeal shall
lie from such decree except in so far as the decree is in excess of or not in
accordance with the award.

### 7. Conditions for enforcement of foreign awards .-(1) A foreign award may
not be enforced under this Act-

( a ) if the party against whom it is sought to enforce the award proves to
the Court dealing with the case that-( i ) the parties to the agreement were,
under the law applicable to them, under some incapacity, or the said agreement
is not valid under the law to which the parties have subjected it, or failing
any indication thereon, under the law of the country where the award was made;
or( ii ) the party was not given proper notice of the appointment of the
arbitrator or of the arbitration proceedings or was otherwise unable to
present his case; or( iii ) the award deals with questions not referred or
contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the agreement:Provided that
if the decisions on matters submitted to arbitration can be separated from
those not submitted, that part of the award which contains decisions on
matters submitted to arbitration may be enforced; or( iv ) the composition of
the arbitral authority or the arbitral procedure was not in accordance with
the agreement of the parties or, failing such agreement was not in accordance
with the law of the country where the arbitration took place; or( v ) the
award has not yet become binding on the parties or has been set aside or
suspended by a competent authority of the country in which, or under the law
of which, that award was made; or( b ) if the Court dealing with the case is
satisfied that-( i ) the subject-matter of the difference is not capable of
settlement by arbitration under the law of India; or( ii ) the enforcement of
the award will be contrary to public policy.(2)If the Court before which a
foreign award is sought to be relied upon is satisfied that an application for
the setting aside or suspension of the award has been made to a competent
authority referred to in sub-clause ( v ) of clause ( a ) of sub-section (1),
the Court may, if it deems proper, adjourn the decision on the enforcement of
the award and may also, on the application of the party claiming enforcement
of the award, order the other party to furnish suitable security.

### 8. Evidence .-(1) The party applying for the enforcement of a foreign
award shall, at the time of the application, produce-

( a ) the original award or a copy thereof, duly authenticated in the manner
required by the law of the country in which it was made;( b ) the original
agreement for arbitration or a duly certified copy thereof; and( c ) such
evidence as may be necessary to prove that the award is a foreign award.(2)If
the award or agreement requiring to be produced under sub-section (1) is in a
foreign language, the party seeking to enforce the award shall produce a
translation into English certified as correct by a diplomatic or consular
agent of the country to which that party belongs or certified as correct in
such other manner as may be sufficient according to the law in force in India.

### 9. Saving .-Nothing in this Act shall-

( a ) prejudice any rights which any person would have had of enforcing in
India of any award or of availing himself in India of any award if this Act
had not been passed; or( b ) apply to any award made on an arbitration
agreement governed by the law of India.

### 10. Repeal .-The Arbitration (Protocol and Convention) Act, 1937 (6 of
1937), shall cease to have effect in relation to foreign awards to which this
Act applies.

### 11\. Rule making power of the High Court .-The High Court may make rules
consistent with this Act as to-

( a ) the filing of foreign awards and all proceedings consequent thereon or
incidental thereto;( b ) the evidence which must be furnished by a party
seeking to enforce a foreign award under this Act; and( c ) generally, all
proceedings in Court under this Act.THE SCHEDULE(See sections 2 and
3)CONVENTION ON THE RECOGNITION AND ENFORCEMENT OF FOREIGN ARBITRAL
AWARDSArticle I

### 1\. This convention shall apply to the recognition and enforcement of
arbitral awards made in the territory of a State other than the State where
the recognition and enforcement of such awards are sought, and arising out of
differences between persons, whether physical or legal. It shall also apply to
arbitral awards not considered as domestic awards in the State where their
recognition and enforcement are sought.

### 2\. The term "arbitral awards" shall include not only awards made by
arbitrators appointed for each case but also those made by permanent arbitral
bodies to which the parties have submitted.

### 3\. When signing, ratifying or acceding to this Convention, or notifying
extension under article X hereof, any State may on the basis of reciprocity
declare that it will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement
of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State. It may also
declare that it will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of
legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as
commercial under the national law of the State making such declaration.

Article II

### 1\. Each Contracting State shall recognise an agreement in writing under
which the parties undertake to submit to arbitration all or any differences
which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of defined legal
relationship, whether contractual or not, concerning a subject-matter capable
of settlement by arbitration.

### 2\. The term "agreement in writing" shall include an arbitral clause in a
contract or an arbitration agreement, signed by the parties or contained in an
exchange of letters or telegrams.

### 3\. The court of a Contracting State, when seized of an action in a matter
in respect of which the parties have made an agreement within the meaning of
this article, shall, at the request of one of the parties, refer the parties
to arbitration, unless it finds that the said agreement is null and void,
inoperative or incapable of being performed.

Article IIIEach Contracting State shall recognize arbitral awards as binding
and enforce them in accordance with the rules of procedure of the territory
where the award is relied upon, under the conditions laid down in the
following articles. There shall not be imposed substantially more onerous
conditions or higher fees or charges on the recognition or enforcement of
arbitral awards to which this Convention applies than are imposed on the
recognition or enforcement of domestic arbitral/awards.Article IV

### 1\. To obtain the recognition and enforcement mentioned in the preceding
article, the party applying for recognition and enforcement shall, at the time
of the application, supply-

(a)the duly authenticated original award or a duly certified copy thereof
;(b)the original agreement referred to in article II or a duly certified copy
thereof.

### 2\. If the said award or agreement is not made in an official language of
the country in which the award is relied upon, the party applying for
recognition and enforcement of the award shall produce a translation of these
documents into such language. The translation shall be certified by an
official or sworn translator or by a diplomatic or consular agent.

Article V

### 1\. Recognition and enforcement of the award may be refused, at the
request of the party against whom it is invoked, only if that party furnishes
to the competent authority where the recognition and enforcement is sought,
proof that-

(a)the parties to the agreement referred to in article II were, under the law
applicable to them, under some incapacity, or the said agreement is not valid
under the law to which the parties have subjected it or, failing any
indication thereon, under the law of the country where the award was made ;
or(b)the party against whom the award is invoked was not given proper notice
of the appointment of the arbitrator or of the arbitration proceedings or was
otherwise unable to present his case ; or(c)the award deals with a difference
not contemplated by or not falling within the terms of the submission to
arbitration, or it contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the
submission to arbitration, provided that, if the decisions on matters
submitted to arbitration can be separated from those not so submitted, that
part of the award which contains decisions on matters submitted to arbitration
may be recognized and enforced; or(d)the composition of the arbitral authority
or the arbitral procedure was not in accordance with the agreement of, the
parties or, failing such agreement, was not in accordance with the law of the
country where the arbitration took place ; or(e)the award has not yet become
binding on the parties, or has been set aside or suspended by a competent
authority of the country in which, or under the law of which, that award was
made.

### 2\. Recognition and enforcement of an arbitral award may be refused if the
competent authority in the country where recognition and enforcement is sought
finds that-

(a)the subject-matter of the difference is not capable of settlement by
arbitration under the law of that country; or(b)the recognition or enforcement
of the award would be contrary to the public policy of that country.Article
VIIf an application for the setting aside or suspension of the award has been
made to a competent authority referred to in Article V(1)(e), the authority
before which the award is sought to be relied upon may, if it considers it
proper, adjourn the decision on the enforcement of the award and may also, on
the application of the party claiming enforcement of the award, order other
party to give suitable security.Article VII

### 1\. The provisions of the present Convention shall not affect the validity
of multilateral or bilateral agreements concerning the recognition and
enforcement of arbitral awards entered into by the Contracting States nor
deprive any interested party of any right he may have to avail himself of an
arbitral award in the manner and to the extent allowed by the law or the
treaties of the country where such award is sought to be relied upon.

### 2\. The Geneva Protocol on Arbitration Clauses of 1923 and the Geneva
Convention on the Execution of Foreign Arbitral Awards of 1927 shall cease to
have effect between Contracting States on their becoming bound and to the
extent that they become bound, by this Convention.

Article VIII

### 1\. This Convention shall be open until 31st December, 1958 for signature
on behalf of any Member of the United Nations and also on behalf of any other
State which is or hereafter becomes member of any specialised agency of the
United Nations, or which is or hereafter becomes a party to the Statute of the
International Court of Justice, or any other State to which an invitation has
been addressed by the General Assembly of the United Nations.

### 2\. This Convention shall be ratified and the instrument of ratification
shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

Article IX

### 1\. This Convention shall be open for accession to all States referred to
in article VIII.

### 2\. Accession shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument of
accession with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

Article X

### 1\. Any State may, at the time of signature, ratification or accession,
declare that this Convention shall extend to all or any of the territories for
the international relations of which it is responsible. Such a declaration
shall take effect when the Convention enters into force for the State
concerned.

### 2\. At any time thereafter any such extension shall be made by
notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and
shall take effect as from the ninetieth day after the day of receipt by the
Secretary-General of the United Nations of this notification, or as from the
date of entry into force of the Convention for the State concerned, whichever
is the later.

### 3\. With respect to those territories to which this Convention is not
extended at the time of signature, ratification or accession, each State
concerned shall consider the possibility of taking the necessary steps in
order to extend the application of this Convention to such territories,
subject, where necessary for constitutional reasons, to the consent of the
Governments of such territories.

Article XIIn the case of a federal or non-unitary State, the following
provisions shall apply:-(a)with respect to those articles of this Convention
that come within the legislative jurisdiction of the federal authority, the
obligations of the federal Government shall to this extent be the same as
those of Contracting States which are not federal States ;(b)with respect to
those articles of this Convention that come within the legislative
jurisdiction of constituent States or Provinces which are not, under the
constitutional system of the federation, bound to take legislative action, the
federal Government shall bring such articles with a favourable recommendation
to the notice of the appropriate authorities of constituent States or
Provinces at the earliest possible moment;(c)a federal State party to this
Convention shall, at the request of any other contracting State transmitted
through the Secretary-General of the United Nations, supply a statement of the
law and practice of the federation and its constituent units in regard to any
particular provision of this Convention, showing the extent to which effect
has been given to that provision by legislative or other action.Article XII

### 1\. This Convention shall come into force on the ninetieth day following
the date of deposit of the third instrument of ratification or accession.

### 2\. For each State ratifying or acceding to this Convention after the
deposit of the third instrument of ratification or accession, this convention
shall enter into force on the ninetieth day after deposit by such State of its
instrument of ratification or accession.

Article XIII

### 1\. Any contracting State may denounce this Convention by a written
notification to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Denunciation
shall take effect one year after the date of receipt of the notification by
the Secretary-General.

### 2\. Any State which has made a declaration or notification under article X
may, at any time thereafter, by notification to the Secretary-general of the
United Nations, declare that this Convention shall cease to extend to the
territory concerned one year after the date of the receipt of the notification
by the Secretary-General.

### 3\. This Convention shall continue to be applicable to arbitral awards in
respect of which recognition or enforcement proceedings have been instituted
before the denunciation takes effect.

Article XIVA contracting State shall not be entitled to avail itself of the
present Convention against other contracting States except to the extent that
it is itself bound to apply the Convention.Article XVThe Secretary-General of
the United Nations shall notify the States contemplated in article VIII of the
following:-(a)Signatures and ratifications in accordance with article VIII
;(b)Accessions in accordance with article IX;(c)Declarations and notifications
under articles I, X and XI;(d)The date upon which this Convention enters into
force in accordance with article XII ;(e)Denunciations and notifications in
accordance with article XIII.Article XVI

### 1\. This Convention, of which the Chinese, English, French, Russian and
Spanish texts shall be equally authentic, shall be deposited in the archives
of the United Nations.

### 2\. The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall transmit a certified
copy of this Convention to the States contemplated in Article XIII.

