## Union of India - Act

## The Finance Act, 2023

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Finance Act, 2023

## Act 8 of 2023

  * Published in GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 8 on 31 March 2023 
  * Commenced on 31 March 2023 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 March 2023.] 

MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE(Legislative Department) New Delhi, the 31st March,
2023 / Chaitra 10, 1945 (Saka) The following Act of Parliament received the
assent of the President on the 31st March, 2023 and is hereby published for
general information:—An Act to give effect to the financial proposals of the
Central Government for the financial year 2023-2024.BE it enacted by
Parliament in the Seventy-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

## Chapter I

### 1. PRELIMINARY

(1)This Act may be called the Finance Act, 2023.(2)Save as otherwise provided
in this Act,—(a)sections 2 to 127 shall come into force on the 1st day of
April, 2023;(b)sections 128 to 163 shall come into force on such date as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

## Chapter II

### 2. RATES OF INCOME-TAX

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3), for the assessment
year commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2023, income-tax shall be charged at
the rates specified in Part I of the First Schedule and such tax shall be
increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated in each
case in the manner provided therein.(2)In the cases to which Paragraph A of
Part I of the First Schedule applies, where the assessee has, in the previous
year, any net agricultural income exceeding five thousand rupees, in addition
to total income, and the total income exceeds two lakh fifty thousand rupees,
then,—(a)the net agricultural income shall be taken into account, in the
manner provided in clause (b) (that is to say, as if the net agricultural
income were comprised in the total income after the first two lakh fifty
thousand rupees of the total income but without being liable to tax), only for
the purpose of charging income-tax in respect of the total income; and(b)the
income-tax chargeable shall be computed as follows:—(i)the total income and
the net agricultural income shall be aggregated and the amount of income-tax
shall be determined in respect of the aggregate income at the rates specified
in the said Paragraph A, as if such aggregate income were the total
income;(ii)the net agricultural income shall be increased by a sum of two lakh
fifty thousand rupees, and the amount of income-tax shall be determined in
respect of the net agricultural income as so increased at the rates specified
in the said Paragraph A, as if the net agricultural income as so increased
were the total income;(iii)the amount of income-tax determined in accordance
with sub-clause (i) shall be reduced by the amount of income-tax determined in
accordance with sub-clause (ii) and the sum so arrived at shall be the income-
tax in respect of the total income:Provided that in the case of every
individual, being a resident in India, who is of the age of sixty years or
more but less than eighty years at any time during the previous year, referred
to in item (II) of Paragraph A of Part I of the First Schedule, the provisions
of this sub-section shall have effect as if for the words "two lakh fifty
thousand rupees", the words "three lakh rupees" had been substituted:Provided
further that in the case of every individual, being a resident in India, who
is of the age of eighty years or more at any time during the previous year,
referred to in item (III) of Paragraph A of Part I of the First Schedule, the
provisions of this sub-section shall have effect as if for the words "two lakh
fifty thousand rupees", the words "five lakh rupees" had been
substituted.(3)In cases to which the provisions of Chapter XII or Chapter
XII-A or section 115JBor section 115JC or Chapter XII-FAor Chapter XII-FB or
sub-section (1A) of section 161 or section 164 or section 164Aor section 167B
of the Income-taxAct, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Income-tax Act)
apply, the tax chargeable shall be determined as provided in that Chapter or
that section, and with reference to the rates imposed by sub-section (1) or
the rates as specified in that Chapter or section, as the case may be:Provided
that the amount of income-tax computed in accordance with the provisions of
section 111A or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-tax Act shall be
increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, as provided in
Paragraph A, B, C, D or E, as the case may be, of Part I of the First
Schedule, except in case of a domestic company whose income is chargeable to
tax under section 115BAAor section 115BAB of the Income-taxAct or in case of
co-operative society whose income is chargeable to tax under section 115BAD of
the Income-taxAct:Provided further that in respect of any income chargeable to
tax under section 115A,
115AB,115AC,115ACA,115AD,115B,115BA,115BB,115BBA,115BBC,115BBF,115BBG, 115BBH,
115BBI, 115E, 115JB or 115JC of the Income-tax Act, the amount of income-tax
computed under this sub-section shall be increased by a surcharge, for the
purposes of the Union, calculated,—(a)in the case of every individual or Hindu
undivided family or association of persons except in a case of an association
of persons consisting of only companies as its members, or body of
individuals, whether incorporated or not, or every artificial juridical person
referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of section 2 of the Income-
taxAct, not having any income under section 115AD of the Income-
taxAct,—(i)having a total income exceeding fifty lakh rupees but not exceeding
one crore rupees, at the rate of ten per cent. of such income-tax;(ii)having a
total income exceeding one crore rupees, but not exceeding two crore rupees,
at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such income-tax;(iii)having a total income
exceeding two crore rupees, but not exceeding five crore rupees, at the rate
of twenty-five per cent. of such income-tax; and(iv)having a total income
exceeding five crore rupees, at the rate of thirty-seven per cent. of such
income-tax;(b)in the case of every individual or association of persons,
except in a case of an association of persons consisting of only companies as
its members or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or every
artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of
section 2 of the Income-tax Act, having income under section 115AD of the
Income-tax Act,—(i)having a total income exceeding fifty lakh rupees but not
exceeding one crore rupees, at the rate of ten per cent. of such income-
tax;(ii)having a total income exceeding one crore rupees, but not exceeding
two crore rupees, at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such income-
tax;(iii)having a total income [excluding the income by way of dividend or
income of the nature referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section
115AD of the Income-tax Act] exceeding two crore rupees but not exceeding five
crore rupees, at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of such income-
tax;(iv)having a total income [excluding the income by way of dividend or
income of the nature referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section
115AD of the Income-tax Act] exceeding five crore rupees, at the rate of
thirty-seven per cent. of such income-tax; and(v)having a total income
[including the income by way of dividend or income of the nature referred to
in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 115AD of the Income-tax Act]
exceeding two crore rupees, but is not covered in sub-clauses (iii) and (iv),
at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in case
where the total income includes any income by way of dividend or income
chargeable under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 115AD of the Income-
tax Act, the rate of surcharge on the income-tax calculated on that part of
income shall not exceed fifteen per cent.;(c)in the case of an association of
persons consisting of only companies as its members,—(i)at the rate of ten per
cent. of such income-tax, where the total income exceeds fifty lakh rupees but
does not exceed one crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such
income-tax, where the total income exceeds one crore rupees;(d)in the case of
every co-operative society except a co-operative society whose income is
chargeable to tax under section 115BAD of the Income-tax Act,—(i)at the rate
of seven per cent. of such income-tax, where the total income exceeds one
crore rupees but does not exceed ten crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of twelve
per cent. of such income-tax, where the total income exceeds ten crore
rupees;(e)in the case of every firm or local authority, at the rate of twelve
per cent. of such income-tax, where the total income exceeds one crore
rupees;(f)in the case of every domestic company except such domestic company
whose income is chargeable to tax under section 115BAA or section 115BAB of
the Income-tax Act,—(i)at the rate of seven per cent. of such income-tax,
where the total income exceeds one crore rupees but does not exceed ten crore
rupees;(ii)at the rate of twelve per cent. of such income-tax, where the total
income exceeds ten crore rupees;(g)in the case of every company, other than a
domestic company,—(i)at the rate of two per cent. of such income-tax, where
the total income exceeds one crore rupees but does not exceed ten crore
rupees;(ii)at the rate of five per cent. of such income-tax, where the total
income exceeds ten crore rupees:Provided also that in the case of persons
mentioned in (a) and (b) above, having total income chargeable to tax under
section 115JC of the Income-tax Act, and such income exceeds,—(i)fifty lakh
rupees but does not exceed one crore rupees, the total amount payable as
income-tax and surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total amount payable as
income-tax on a total income of fifty lakh rupees by more than the amount of
income that exceeds fifty lakh rupees;(ii)one crore rupees but does not exceed
two crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge thereon
shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a
total income of one crore rupees by more than the amount of income that
exceeds one crore rupees;(iii)two crore rupees but does not exceed five crore
rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge thereon shall not
exceed the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income
of two crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds two crore
rupees;(iv)five crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and
surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax and
surcharge on a total income of five crore rupees by more than the amount of
income that exceeds five crore rupees:Provided also that in the case of
association of persons mentioned in (c) above, having total income chargeable
to tax under section 115JC of the Income-taxAct exceeds,—(i)fifty lakh rupees
but does not exceed one crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax
and surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax
on a total income of fifty lakh rupees by more than the amount of income that
exceeds fifty lakh rupees;(ii)one crore rupees, the total amount payable as
income-tax and surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total amount payable as
income-tax and surcharge on a total income of one crore rupees by more than
the amount of income that exceeds one crore rupees:Provided also that in the
case of a co-operative society mentioned in (d) above, having total income
chargeable to tax under section 115JC of the Income-taxAct, and such income
exceeds,—(i)one crore rupees but does not exceed ten crore rupees, the total
amount payable as income-tax and surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total
amount payable as income-tax on a total income of one crore rupees by more
than the amount of income that exceeds one crore rupees;(ii)ten crore rupees,
the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge thereon shall not exceed
the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income of ten
crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds ten crore
rupees:Provided also that in the case of persons mentioned in (e) above,
having total income chargeable to tax under section 115JC of the Income-
taxAct, and such income exceeds one crore rupees, the total amount payable as
income-tax on such income and surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total
amount payable as income-tax on a total income of one crore rupees by more
than the amount of income that exceeds one crore rupees:Provided also that in
the case of every company having total income chargeable to tax under section
115JB of the Income-tax Act, and such income exceeds one crore rupees but does
not exceed ten crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax on such
income and surcharge thereon, shall not exceed the total amount payable as
income-tax on a total income of one crore rupees by more than the amount of
income that exceeds one crore rupees:Provided also that in the case of every
company having total income chargeable to tax under section 115JB of the
Income-tax Act, and such income exceeds ten crore rupees, the total amount
payable as income-tax on such income and surcharge thereon, shall not exceed
the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income of ten
crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds ten crore
rupees:Provided also that in respect of any income chargeable to tax under
clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 115BBE of the Income-taxAct, the
amount of income-tax computed under this sub-section shall be increased by a
surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated at the rate of twenty-
five per cent. of such income-tax:Provided also that in case of every domestic
company whose income is chargeable to tax under section 115BAAor section
115BAB of the Income-taxAct, the income-tax computed under this sub-section
shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated
at the rate of ten per cent. of such income-tax:Provided also that in case of
every individual or Hindu undivided family, whose income is chargeable to tax
under section 115BAC of the Income-tax Act, the income-tax computed under this
sub-section shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union,
as provided in Paragraph A of Part I of the First Schedule:Provided also that
in case of every resident co-operative society, whose income is chargeable to
tax under section 115BAD of the Income-tax Act, the income-tax computed under
this sub-section shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the
Union, calculated at the rate of ten per cent. of such income-tax.(4)In cases
in which tax has to be charged and paid under sub-section (2A) of section 92CE
or section 115QA or section 115TD of the Income-tax Act, the tax shall be
charged and paid at the rates as specified in those sections and shall be
increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated at the
rate of twelve per cent. of such tax.(5)In cases in which tax has to be
deducted under sections 193, 194A, 194B, 194BA,194BB, 194D, 194LBA, 194LBB,
194LBC and 195 of the Income-taxAct, at the rates in force, the deductions
shall be made at the rates specified in Part II of the First Schedule and
shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated
in cases wherever prescribed, in the manner provided therein.(6)In cases in
which tax has to be deducted under sections 192A, 194, 194C, 194DA,
194E,194EE,194F,194G,194H,194-I,194-IA,194-IB,194-IC,194J,194LA,194LB,194LBA,
196C -
194LBB,194LBC,194LC,194LD,194K,194M,194N,194-O,194Q,194R,194S,196A,196B, and
196D of the Income-taxAct, the deductions shall be made at the rates specified
in those sections and shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of
the Union,—(a)in the case of every individual or Hindu undivided family or
association of persons, except in case of an association of persons consisting
of only companies as its members, or body of individuals, whether incorporated
or not, or every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii)
of clause (31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, being a non-resident except
in case of deduction on income by way of dividend under section 196D of the
Income-tax Act, calculated,—(i)at the rate of ten per cent. of such tax, where
the income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and
subject to the deduction exceeds fifty lakh rupees but does not exceed one
crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such tax, where the
income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject
to the deduction exceeds one crore rupees but does not exceed two crore
rupees;(iii)at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of such tax, where the income
or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the
deduction exceeds two crore rupees but does not exceed five crore
rupees;(iv)at the rate of thirty-seven per cent. of such tax, where the income
or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the
deduction exceeds five crore rupees:Provided that where the income of such
person is chargeable to tax under sub-section (1A) of section 115BAC of the
Income-taxAct, the rate of surcharge shall not exceed twenty-five per
cent.;(b)in the case of every individual or Hindu undivided family or
association of persons except in case of association of persons consisting of
only companies as its members, or body of individuals, whether incorporated or
not, or every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of
clause (31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, being a non-resident, in case
of deduction on income by way of dividend under section 196D of the Act,
calculated,—(i)at the rate of ten per cent. of such tax, where the income or
the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the
deduction exceeds fifty lakh rupees but does not exceed one crore
rupees;(ii)at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such tax, where the income or
the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the
deduction exceeds one crore rupees;(c)in the case of an association of persons
being a non-resident, and consisting of only companies as its members,
calculated,—(i)at the rate of ten per cent. of such tax, where the income or
the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the
deduction exceeds fifty lakh rupees but does not exceed one crore
rupees;(ii)at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such tax, where the income or
the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the
deduction exceeds one crore rupees;(d)in the case of every co-operative
society, being a non-resident, calculated,—(i)at the rate of seven per cent.
of such tax, where the income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely
to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds one crore rupees but does not
exceed ten crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of twelve per cent. of such tax, where
the income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and
subject to the deduction exceeds ten crore rupees;(e)in the case of every
firm, being a non-resident, calculated at the rate of twelve per cent. of such
tax, where the income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be
paid and subject to the deduction exceeds one crore rupees;(f)in the case of
every company, other than a domestic company, calculated,—(i)at the rate of
two per cent. of such tax, where the income or the aggregate of such incomes
paid or likely to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds one crore
rupees but does not exceed ten crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of five per cent.
of such tax, where the income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely
to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds ten crore rupees.(7)In cases
in which tax has to be collected under the proviso to section 194B of the
Income-tax Act, the collection shall be made at the rates specified in Part II
of the First Schedule, and shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes
of the Union, calculated, in cases wherever prescribed, in the manner provided
therein.(8)In cases in which tax has to be collected under section 206C of the
Income-taxAct, the collection shall be made at the rates specified in that
section and shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the
Union,—(a)in the case of every individual or Hindu undivided family or
association of persons, except in case of an association of persons consisting
of only companies as its members, or body of individuals, whether incorporated
or not, or every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii)
of clause (31) of section 2 of the Income-taxAct, being a non-resident,
calculated,—(i)at the rate of ten per cent. of such tax, where the amount or
the aggregate of such amounts collected or likely to be collected and subject
to the collection exceeds fifty lakh rupees but does not exceed one crore
rupees;(ii)at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such tax, where the amount or
the aggregate of such amounts collected or likely to be collected and subject
to the collection exceeds one crore rupees but does not exceed two crore
rupees;(iii)at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of such tax, where the income
or the aggregate of such amounts collected or likely to be collected and
subject to the collection exceeds two crore rupees but does not exceed five
crore rupees;(iv)at the rate of thirty-seven per cent. of such tax, where the
income or the aggregate of such amounts collected or likely to be collected
and subject to the collection exceeds five crore rupees:Provided that where
the income of such person is chargeable to tax under sub-section (1A) of
section 115BAC of the Income-taxAct, the rate of surcharge shall not exceed
twenty-five per cent.;(b)in the case of an association of persons, being a
non-resident, and consisting of only companies as its members,
calculated,—(i)at the rate of ten per cent. of such tax, where the amount or
the aggregate of such amounts collected or likely to be collected and subject
to the collection exceeds fifty lakh rupees but does not exceed one crore
rupees;(ii)at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such tax, where the amount or
the aggregate of such amounts collected or likely to be collected and subject
to the collection exceeds one crore rupees;(c)in the case of every co-
operative society, being a non-resident, calculated,—(i)at the rate of seven
per cent. of such tax, where the amount or the aggregate of such amounts
collected or likely to be collected and subject to the collection exceeds one
crore rupees but does not exceed ten crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of twelve
per cent. of such tax, where the amount or the aggregate of such amounts
collected or likely to be collected and subject to the collection exceeds ten
crore rupees;(d)in the case of every firm, being a non-resident, calculated at
the rate of twelve per cent. of such tax, where the amount or the aggregate of
such amounts collected or likely to be collected and subject to the collection
exceeds one crore rupees;(e)in the case of every company, other than a
domestic company, calculated,—(i)at the rate of two per cent. of such tax,
where the amount or the aggregate of such amounts collected or likely to be
collected and subject to the collection exceeds one crore rupees but does not
exceed ten crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of five per cent. of such tax, where
the amount or the aggregate of such amounts collected or likely to be
collected and subject to the collection exceeds ten crore rupees.(9)Subject to
the provisions of sub-section (10), in cases in which income-tax has to be
charged under sub-section (4) of section 172 or sub-section (2) of section 174
or section 174A or section 175 or sub-section (2) of section 176 of the
Income-tax Act or deducted from, or paid on, income chargeable under the head
"Salaries" under section 192 of the saidAct or deducted under section 194P of
the saidAct or in which the "advance tax"payable under Chapter XVII-C of the
said Act has to be computed at the rate or rates in force, such income-tax or,
as the case may be, "advance tax" shall be charged, deducted or computed at
the rate or rates specified in Part III of the First Schedule and such tax
shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated
in such cases and in such manner as provided therein:Provided that in cases to
which the provisions of Chapter XII or Chapter XII-A or section 115JB or
section 115JC or Chapter XII-FAor Chapter XII-FB or sub-section (1A) of
section 161 or section 164 or section 164A or section 167B of the Income-tax
Act apply,"advance tax" shall be computed with reference to the rates imposed
by this sub-section or the rates as specified in that Chapter or section, as
the case may be:Provided further that the amount of "advance tax" computed in
accordance with the provisions of section 111Aor sections 112 or 112Aof the
Income-taxAct shall be increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the
Union, as provided in Paragraph A, B, C, D or E, as the case may be, of Part
III of the First Schedule except in case of a domestic company whose income is
chargeable to tax under section 115BAA or section 115BAB of the Income-tax Act
or in case of an individual or Hindu undivided family or association of
persons, or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or an artificial
juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of section 2
of the Income-tax Act whose income is chargeable to tax under sub-section (1A)
of section 115BAC of the Income-tax Act, or in case of a resident co-operative
society whose income is chargeable to tax under section 115BAD or under
section 115BAE of the Income-taxAct:Provided also that in respect of any
income chargeable to tax under section 115A,
115AB,115AC,115ACA,115AD,115B,115BA,115BB,115BBA,115BBC,115BBF,115BBG, 115BBH,
115BBI, 115BBJ, 115E, 115JB or 115JC of the Income-tax Act, "advance tax"
computed in accordance with the first proviso shall be increased by a
surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated,—(a)in the case of every
individual or Hindu undivided family or association of persons, except in a
case of an association of persons consisting of only companies as its members,
or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or every artificial
juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of section 2
of the Income-tax Act, not having any income under section 115AD of the
Income-tax Act, and not having any income chargeable to tax under sub-section
(1A) of section 115BAC of the Income-taxAct,—(i)at the rate of ten per cent.
of such "advance tax", where the total income exceeds fifty lakh rupees but
does not exceed one crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such
"advance tax", where the total income exceeds one crore rupees but does not
exceed two crore rupees;(iii)at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of such
"advance tax", where the total income exceeds two crore rupees but does not
exceed five crore rupees;(iv)at the rate of thirty-seven per cent. of such
"advance tax", where the total income exceeds five crore rupees;(b)in the case
of every individual or association of persons, except in case of an
association of persons consisting of only companies as its members, or body of
individuals, whether incorporated or not, or every artificial juridical person
referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of section 2 of the Income-tax
Act, having income under section 115AD of the Income-taxAct, and not having
any income chargeable to tax under sub-section (1A) of section 115BAC of the
Income-taxAct,—(i)at the rate of ten per cent. of such "advance tax", where
the total income exceeds fifty lakh rupees, but does not exceed one crore
rupees;(ii)at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such "advance tax", where the
total income exceeds one crore rupees but does not exceed two crore
rupees;(iii)at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of such "advance tax", where
the total income [excluding the income by way of dividend and income of the
nature referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 115AD of the
Income-taxAct] exceeds two crore rupees but does not exceed five crore
rupees;(iv)at the rate of thirty-seven per cent. of such "advance tax", where
the total income [excluding the income by way of dividend or income of the
nature referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 115AD of the
Income-tax Act] exceeds five crore rupees;(v)at the rate of fifteen per cent.
of such "advance tax", where the total income [including the income by way of
dividend or income of the nature referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1)
of section 115AD of the Income-tax Act] exceeds two crore rupees but is not
covered in sub-clauses (iii) and (iv):Provided that in case where the total
income includes any income by way of dividend or income chargeable under
clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 115AD of the Income-taxAct, the rate
of surcharge on the advance tax computed on that part of income shall not
exceed fifteen per cent.:Provided further that where the total income of a
person, being a specified fund referred to in clause (c) of the Explanation to
clause (4D) of section 10 of the Income-tax Act, includes any income under
clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 115AD of the Income-tax Act, the
advance tax computed on that part of income shall not be increased by any
surcharge;(c)in the case of an association of persons consisting of only
companies as its members,—(i)at the rate of ten per cent. of such "advance
tax", where the total income exceeds fifty lakh rupees but does not exceed one
crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such "advance tax", where
the total income exceeds one crore rupees;(d)in the case of every co-operative
society except such co-operative society whose income is chargeable to tax
under section 115BAD or section 115BAE of the Income-tax Act,—(i)at the rate
of seven per cent. of such "advance tax", where the total income exceeds one
crore rupees but does not exceed ten crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of twelve
per cent. of such "advance tax", where the total income exceeds ten crore
rupees;(e)in the case of every firm or local authority, at the rate of twelve
per cent. of such "advance tax", where the total income exceeds one crore
rupees;(f)in the case of every domestic company except such domestic company
whose income is chargeable to tax under section 115BAA or section 115BAB of
the Income-tax Act,—(i)at the rate of seven per cent. of such "advance tax",
where the total income exceeds one crore rupees but does not exceed ten crore
rupees;(ii)at the rate of twelve per cent. of such "advance tax", where the
total income exceeds ten crore rupees;(g)in the case of every company, other
than a domestic company,—(i)at the rate of two per cent. of such "advance
tax", where the total income exceeds one crore rupees but does not exceed ten
crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of five per cent. of such "advance tax", where
the total income exceeds ten crore rupees:Provided also that in the case of
persons mentioned in (a) and (b) above, having total income chargeable to tax
under section 115JC of the Income-tax Act, and such income exceeds,—(a)fifty
lakh rupees but does not exceed one crore rupees, the total amount payable as
"advance tax" on such income and surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total
amount payable as "advance tax" on a total income of fifty lakh rupees by more
than the amount of income that exceeds fifty lakh rupees;(b)one crore rupees
but does not exceed two crore rupees, the total amount payable as "advance
tax" on such income and surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total amount
payable as "advance tax" and surcharge on a total income of one crore rupees
by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore rupees;(c)two crore
rupees but does not exceed five crore rupees, the total amount payable as
"advance tax" on such income and surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total
amount payable as "advance tax" and surcharge on a total income of two crore
rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds two crore rupees;(d)five
crore rupees, the total amount payable as "advance tax" on such income and
surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total amount payable as "advance tax"
and surcharge on a total income of five crore rupees by more than the amount
of income that exceeds five crore rupees:Provided also that in the case of
persons mentioned in (c) above, having total income chargeable to tax under
section 115JC of the Income-taxAct, and such income exceeds,—(a)fifty lakh
rupees, but does not exceed one crore rupees, the total amount payable as
"advance tax" on such income and surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total
amount payable as "advance tax" on a total income of fifty lakh rupees by more
than the amount of income that exceeds fifty lakh rupees;(b)one crore rupees,
the total amount payable as "advance tax" on such income and surcharge thereon
shall not exceed the total amount payable as "advance tax" and surcharge on a
total income of one crore rupees by more than the amount of income that
exceeds one crore rupees:Provided also that in the case of persons mentioned
in (d) above, having total income chargeable to tax under section 115JC of the
Income-taxAct, and such income exceeds,—(a)one crore rupees, but does not
exceed ten crore rupees, the total amount payable as "advance tax" on such
income and surcharge thereon, shall not exceed the total amount payable as
"advance tax" on a total income of one crore rupees by more than the amount of
income that exceeds one crore rupees;(b)ten crore rupees, the total amount
payable as "advance tax" on such income and surcharge thereon, shall not
exceed the total amount payable as "advance tax" and surcharge on a total
income of ten crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds ten
crore rupees:Provided also that in the case of persons mentioned in (e) above,
having total income chargeable to tax under section 115JC of the Income-
taxAct, and such income exceeds one crore rupees, the total amount payable as
"advance tax" on such income and surcharge thereon, shall not exceed the total
amount payable as "advance tax" on a total income of one crore rupees by more
than the amount of income that exceeds one crore rupees:Provided also that in
the case of every company having total income chargeable to tax under section
115JB of the Income-tax Act, and such income exceeds one crore rupees but does
not exceed ten crore rupees, the total amount payable as "advance tax" on such
income and surcharge thereon, shall not exceed the total amount payable as
"advance tax" on a total income of one crore rupees by more than the amount of
income that exceeds one crore rupees:Provided also that in the case of every
company having total income chargeable to tax under section 115JB of the
Income-tax Act, and such income exceeds ten crore rupees, the total amount
payable as "advance tax" on such income and surcharge thereon, shall not
exceed the total amount payable as "advance tax" and surcharge on a total
income of ten crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds ten
crore rupees:Provided also that in respect of any income chargeable to tax
under clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 115BBE of the Income-tax Act,
the "advance tax" computed in accordance with the first proviso shall be
increased by a surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated at the
rate of twenty-five per cent. of such "advance tax":Provided also that in case
of every domestic company whose income is chargeable to tax under section
115BAA or section 115BAB of the Income-tax Act, the "advance tax" computed in
accordance with the first proviso shall be increased by a surcharge, for the
purposes of the Union, calculated at the rate of ten per cent. of such
"advance tax":Provided also that in respect of income chargeable to tax under
sub-section (1A) of section 115BAC of the Income-taxAct, the "advance tax"
computed in accordance with the first proviso shall be increased by a
surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated, in the case of an
individual or Hindu undivided family or association of persons or body of
individuals, whether incorporated or not, or every artificial juridical person
referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of section 2 of the Income tax
Act,—(i)having a total income (including the income by way of dividend or
income under the provisions of section 111A, section 112 and section 112A of
the Income-tax Act) exceeding fifty lakh rupees but not exceeding one crore
rupees, at the rate of ten per cent. of such "advance tax";(ii)having a total
income (including the income by way of dividend or income under the provisions
of section 111A, section 112 and section 112A of the Income-tax Act) exceeding
one crore rupees but not exceeding two crore rupees, at the rate of fifteen
per cent. of such "advance tax";(iii)having a total income (excluding the
income by way of dividend or income under the provisions of section 111A,
section 112 and section 112A of the Income-tax Act) exceeding two crore
rupees, at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of such "advance tax";
and(iv)having a total income (including the income by way of dividend or
income under the provisions of section 111A, section 112 and section 112A of
the Income-tax Act) exceeding two crore rupees, but is not covered under
clause (iii) above, at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such "advance
tax":Provided also that in case where the provisions of sub-section (1A) of
section 115BAC are applicable and the total income includes any income by way
of dividend or income chargeable under section 111A, section 112 and section
112A of the Income-tax Act, the rate of surcharge on the "advance tax" in
respect of that part of income shall not exceed fifteen per cent.:Provided
also that in the case of a specified fund, referred to in clause (c) of the
Explanation to clause (4D) of section 10 of the Income-taxAct, whose income is
chargeable to tax under sub-section (1A) of section 115BAC and where such
income includes any income under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section
115AD of the Income-tax Act, the advance tax computed on that part of income
shall not be increased by any surcharge:Provided also that in case an
association of persons consisting of only companies as its members, and having
its income chargeable to tax under sub-section (1A) of section 115BAC, the
rate of surcharge on the "advance tax" shall not exceed fifteen per
cent.:Provided also that in case of every individual or Hindu undivided family
or association of persons, or body of individuals, whether incorporated or
not, or every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of
clause (31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, whose income is chargeable to
tax under section 115BAC of the Income-taxAct having total income
exceeding,—(a)fifty lakh rupees but does not exceed one crore rupees, the
total amount payable as "advance tax" on such income and surcharge thereon
shall not exceed the total amount payable as "advance tax" on a total income
of fifty lakh rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds fifty lakh
rupees;(b)one crore rupees but does not exceed two crore rupees, the total
amount payable as "advance tax" on such income and surcharge thereon shall not
exceed the total amount payable as "advance tax" and surcharge on a total
income of one crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one
crore rupees;(c)two crore rupees, the total amount payable as "advance tax" on
such income and surcharge thereon shall not exceed the total amount payable as
"advance tax" and surcharge on a total income of two crore rupees by more than
the amount of income that exceeds two crore rupees:Provided also that in case
of every resident co-operative society whose income is chargeable to tax under
section 115BAD or section 115BAE of the Income-tax Act, the "advance tax"
computed in accordance with the first proviso shall be increased by a
surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated at the rate of ten per
cent. of such "advance tax".(10)In cases to which ParagraphAof Part III of the
First Schedule applies, or in case of an individual or Hindu undivided family
or association of persons or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not,
or every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause
(31) of section 2 of the Income-taxAct, being a resident, whose income is
chargeable to tax under sub-section (1A) of section 115BAC of the Income-
taxAct, where the assessee has, in the previous year or, if by virtue of any
provision of the Income-taxAct, income-tax is to be charged in respect of the
income of a period other than the previous year, in such other period, any net
agricultural income exceeding five thousand rupees, in addition to total
income and the total income exceeds two lakh fifty thousand rupees, then, in
charging income-tax under sub-section (2) of section 174 or section 174A or
section 175 or sub-section (2) of section 176 of the said Act or in computing
the "advance tax" payable under Chapter XVII-C of the said Act, at the rate or
rates in force,—(a)the net agricultural income shall be taken into account, in
the manner provided in clause (b) that is to say, as if the net agricultural
income were comprised in the total income after the first two lakh fifty
thousand rupees of the total income but without being liable to tax, only for
the purpose of charging or computing such income-tax or, as the case may be,
"advance tax" in respect of the total income; and(b)such income-tax or, as the
case may be, "advance tax" shall be so charged or computed as follows:—(i)the
total income and the net agricultural income shall be aggregated and the
amount of income-tax or "advance tax" shall be determined in respect of the
aggregate income at the rates specified in the said Paragraph A, or sub-
section (1A) of section 115BAC, as if such aggregate income were the total
income;(ii)the net agricultural income shall be increased by a sum of two lakh
fifty thousand rupees, and the amount of income-tax or "advance tax" shall be
determined in respect of the net agricultural income as so increased at the
rates specified in the said Paragraph A, or sub-section (1A) of section
115BAC, as if the net agricultural income were the total income;(iii)the
amount of income-tax or "advance tax" determined in accordance with sub-clause
(i) shall be reduced by the amount of income-tax or, as the case may be,
"advance tax" determined in accordance with sub-clause (ii) and the sum so
arrived at shall be the income-tax or, as the case may be, "advance tax" in
respect of the total income:Provided that in the case of every individual,
being a resident in India, who is of the age of sixty years or more but less
than eighty years at any time during the previous year, referred to in item
(II) of ParagraphAof Part III of the First Schedule, the provisions of this
sub-section shall have effect as if for the words "two lakh fifty thousand
rupees", the words "three lakh rupees" had been substituted:Provided further
that in the case of every individual, being a resident in India, who is of the
age of eighty years or more at any time during the previous year, referred to
in item (III) of ParagraphAof Part III of the First Schedule, the provisions
of this sub-section shall have effect as if for the words "two lakh fifty
thousand rupees", the words "five lakh rupees" had been substituted:Provided
also that in the case of every individual or Hindu undivided family or
association of persons or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or
every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause
(31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, being a resident, whose income is
chargeable to tax under sub-section (1A) of section 115BAC of the Income-tax
Act, the provisions of this sub-section shall have effect as if for the words
"two lakh fifty thousand rupees", the words "three lakh rupees" had been
substituted:Provided also that the amount of income-tax or "advance tax" so
arrived at, shall be increased by a surcharge for the purposes of the Union,
calculated in each case, in the manner provided in this section.(11)The amount
of income-tax as specified in sub-sections (1) to (3) and as increased by the
applicable surcharge, for the purposes of the Union, calculated in the manner
provided therein, shall be further increased by an additional surcharge, for
the purposes of the Union, to be called the "Health and Education Cess on
income-tax", calculated at the rate of four per cent. of such income-tax and
surcharge so as to fulfil the commitment of the Government to provide and
finance quality health services and universalised quality basic education and
secondary and higher education.(12)The amount of income-tax as specified in
sub-sections (4) to (10) and as increased by the applicable surcharge, for the
purposes of the Union, calculated in the manner provided therein, shall be
further increased by an additional surcharge, for the purposes of the Union,
to be called the "Health and Education Cess on income-tax", calculated at the
rate of four per cent. of such income-tax and surcharge so as to fulfil the
commitment of the Government to provide and finance quality health services
and universalised quality basic education and secondary and higher
education:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply to
cases in which tax is to be deducted or collected under the sections of the
Income-tax Act mentioned in sub-sections (5), (6), (7) and (8), if the income
subjected to deduction of tax at source or collection of tax at source is paid
to a domestic company and any other person who is resident in India:Provided
further that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply in respect of
income-tax as specified in sub-section (9), calculated on income, referred to
in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 115AD of the Income-tax Act, of
specified fund referred to in clause (c) of the Explanation to clause (4D) of
section 10 of the Income-tax Act.(13)For the purposes of this section and the
First Schedule,—(a)"domestic company" means an Indian company or any other
company which, in respect of its income liable to income-tax under the Income-
taxAct, for the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2023, has
made the prescribed arrangements for the declaration and payment within India
of the dividends (including dividends on preference shares) payable out of
such income;(b)"insurance commission" means any remuneration or reward,
whether by way of commission or otherwise, for soliciting or procuring
insurance business (including business relating to the continuance, renewal or
revival of policies of insurance);(c)"net agricultural income" in relation to
a person, means the total amount of agricultural income, from whatever source
derived, of that person computed in accordance with the rules contained in
Part IV of the First Schedule;(d)all other words and expressions used in this
section and the First Schedule but not defined in this sub-section and defined
in the Income-tax Act shall have the meanings, respectively, assigned to them
in that Act.

## Chapter III  
DIRECT TAXES, Income-tax

### 3. In section 2 of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)in clause (19B), the words and brackets "or anAdditional Commissioner of
Income-tax (Appeals)" shall be omitted;(b)in clause (24), after sub-clause
(xviib), the following sub-clauses shall be inserted with effect from the 1st
day ofApril, 2024, namely:—"(xviic) any sum referred to in clause (xii) of
sub-section (2) of section 56;(xviid) any sum referred to in clause (xiii) of
sub-section (2) of section 56;";(c)after clause (28C), the following clause
shall be inserted, namely:—'(28CA) "Joint Commissioner (Appeals)" means a
person appointed to be a Joint Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals) or
anAdditional Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals) under sub-section (1) of
section 117;';(d)in clause (37A), in sub-clause (ii), after the figures and
letter “194B,”, the figures and letters “194BA,” shall be inserted;(e)in
clause (42A), in Explanation 1, in clause (i), after sub-clause (hh), the
following sub-clause shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April,
2024, namely:—"(hi) in the case of a capital asset, being—(a)Electronic Gold
Receipt issued in respect of gold deposited as referred to in clause (viid) of
section 47, there shall be included the period for which such gold was held by
the assessee prior to conversion into the Electronic Gold Receipt;(b)gold
released in respect of an Electronic Gold Receipt as referred to in clause
(viid) of section 47, there shall be included the period for which such
Electronic Gold Receipt was held by the assessee prior to its conversion into
gold;".

### 4. In section 9 of the Income-taxAct, in sub-section (1), for clause
(viii), the following clause shall be substituted with effect from the 1st day
of April, 2024, namely:—

"(viii) income arising outside India, being any sum of money referred to in
sub-clause (xviia) of clause (24) of section 2, paid by a person resident in
India—(a)on or after the 5th day of July, 2019 to a non-resident, not being a
company, or to a foreign company; or(b)on or after the 1st day ofApril, 2023
to a person not ordinarily resident in India within the meaning of clause (6)
of section 6.".

### 5. In section 10 of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)in clause (4D), in the Explanation, in clause (c), in sub-clause (i), in
item (I), after the words and figures "Securities and Exchange Board of India
Act, 1992, or", the words, brackets and figures "regulated under the
International Financial Services Centres Authority (Fund Management)
Regulations, 2022, made under the" shall be inserted;(b)for clause (4E), the
following shall be substituted with effect from the 1st day ofApril,
2024,—"(4E) any income accrued or arisen to, or received by a non-resident as
a result of—(i)transfer of non-deliverable forward contracts or offshore
derivative instruments or over-the-counter derivatives; or(ii)distribution of
income on offshore derivative instruments, entered into with an offshore
banking unit of an International Financial Services Centre referred to in sub-
section (1A) of section 80LA, which fulfils such conditions as may be
prescribed;";(c)for clause (4G), the following clauses shall be substituted
with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2024, namely:—'(4G) any income received
by a non-resident from,—(i)portfolio of securities or financial products or
funds, managed or administered by any portfolio manager on behalf of such non-
resident; or(ii)such activity carried out by such person, as may be notified
by the Central Government in the Official Gazette, in an account maintained
with an Offshore Banking Unit in any International Financial Services Centre,
as referred to in sub-section (IA) of section 80LA, to the extent such income
accrues or arises outside India and is not deemed to accrue or arise in
India.Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, “portfolio manager” shall
have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (z) of sub-regulation (1) of
regulation 2 of the International Financial Services Centres Authority
(Capital Market Intermediaries) Regulations, 2021, made under the
International Financial Services CentresAuthorityAct, 2019;(4H)any income of a
non-resident or a Unit of an International Financial Services Centre, as
referred to in sub-section (1A) of section 80LA, engaged primarily in the
business of leasing of an aircraft, by way of capital gains arising from the
transfer of equity shares of domestic company, being a Unit of an
International Financial Services Centre, as referred to in sub-section (1A) of
section 80LA, engaged primarily in the business of lease of an aircraft which
has commenced operations on or before the 31st day of March, 2026:Provided
that the provisions of this clause shall apply for capital gains arising from
the transfer of equity shares of such domestic company in a previous year
relevant to an assessment year falling within the—(a)period of ten assessment
years beginning with the assessment year relevant to the previous year in
which the domestic company has commenced operations; or(b)period of ten
assessment years beginning with the assessment year commencing on the 1st day
ofApril, 2024, where the period referred to in clause (a) ends before the 1st
day of April, 2034.Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, “aircraft”
means an aircraft or a helicopter, or an engine of an aircraft or a
helicopter, or any part thereof;';(d)in clause (10D),—(i)in the second
proviso, the words, brackets, figures and letter "or the Explanation to sub-
section (2A) of section 88, as the case may be" shall be omitted;(ii)for the
sixth proviso, the following provisos shall be substituted with effect from
the 1st day ofApril, 2024, namely:—"Provided also that nothing contained in
this clause shall apply with respect to any life insurance policy, other than
a unit linked insurance policy, issued on or after the 1st day of April, 2023,
if the amount of premium payable for any of the previous years during the term
of such policy exceeds five lakh rupees:Provided also that if the premium is
payable by a person for more than one life insurance policy, other than unit
linked insurance policy, issued on or after the 1st day of April, 2023, the
provisions of this clause shall apply only with respect to those life
insurance policies, other than unit linked insurance policies, where the
aggregate amount of premium does not exceed the amount referred to in the
sixth proviso in any of the previous years during the term of any of those
policies:Provided also that the provisions of the fourth, fifth, sixth and
seventh provisos shall not apply to any sum received on the death of a
person:";(e)after clause (12B), the following shall be inserted,
namely:—'(12C) any payment from the Agniveer Corpus Fund to a person enrolled
under the Agnipath Scheme, or to his nominee.Explanation.—For the purposes of
this clause "Agniveer Corpus Fund"and "Agnipath Scheme" shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in section 80CCH;';(f)in clause (22B),
after the third proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted with effect
from the 1st day ofApril, 2024, namely:—"Provided also that nothing contained
in this clause shall apply to any income of the news agency of the previous
year relevant to the assessment year beginning on or after the 1st day of
April, 2024;";(g)clause (23BBF) shall be omitted;(h)in clause (23C),—(I)with
effect from the 1st day of October, 2023,—(i)in the first proviso, for clause
(iv), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—"(iv) in any other
case, where activities of the fund or trust or institution or university or
other educational institution or hospital or other medical institution
have—(A)not commenced, at least one month prior to the commencement of the
previous year relevant to the assessment year from which the said approval is
sought;(B)commenced and no income or part thereof of the said fund or trust or
institution or university or other educational institution or hospital or
other medical institution has been excluded from the total income on account
of applicability of sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) or sub-clause (vi) or
sub-clause (via) or section 11 or section 12 for any previous year ending on
or before the date of such application, at any time after the commencement of
such activities,";(ii)in the second proviso,—(a)in clause (ii),—(A)in the
opening portion, after the word, brackets and figures "clause (iii)", the
words, brackets, letter and figures"or sub-clause (B) of clause (iv)" shall be
inserted;(B)in sub-clause (b), for item (B), the following item shall be
substituted, namely:—"(B) if he is not so satisfied, pass an order in
writing,—(I)in a case referred to in clause (ii) or clause (iii) of the first
proviso, rejecting such application and also cancelling its approval;(II)in a
case referred to in sub-clause (B) of clause (iv) of the first proviso,
rejecting such application, after affording it a reasonable opportunity of
being heard;";(b)for clause (iii), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:—"(iii) where the application is made under sub-clause (A) of clause
(iv) of the said proviso or the application made under clause (iv) of the said
proviso, as it stood immediately before its amendment by the Finance Act,
2023, pass an order in writing granting approval to it provisionally for a
period of three years from the assessment year from which the approval is
sought, and send a copy of such order to the fund or trust or institution or
university or other educational institution or hospital or other medical
institution:";(II)in the third proviso,—(i)in Explanation 2,—(a)in clause
(i),—(A)in the proviso, the word "and" shall be omitted;(B)after the proviso,
the following provisos shall be inserted, namely:—"Provided further that the
provisions of the first proviso shall apply only if there was no violation of
the conditions specified in the twelfth, thirteenth and twenty-first provisos,
and those specified in Explanation 2 and Explanation 3, of this clause, at the
time the application was made from the corpus:Provided also that the amount
invested or deposited back shall not be treated as application for charitable
or religious purposes under the first proviso unless such investment or
deposit is made within a period of five years from the end of the previous
year in which such application was made from the corpus:Provided also that
nothing contained in the first proviso shall apply where the application from
the corpus is made on or before the 31st day of March, 2021;";(b)in clause
(ii), after the proviso, the following provisos shall be inserted,
namely:—"Provided further that the provisions of the first proviso shall apply
only if there was no violation of the conditions specified in the twelfth,
thirteenth and twenty-first provisos, and those specified in Explanation 2 and
Explanation 3, of this clause at the time the application was made from loan
or borrowing:Provided also that the amount repaid shall not be treated as
application for charitable or religious purposes under the first proviso
unless such repayment is made within a period of five years from the end of
the previous year in which such application was made from loan or
borrowing:Provided also that nothing contained in the first proviso shall
apply where the application from any loan or borrowing is made on or before
the 31st day of March, 2021; and";(c)after clause (ii), the following clause
shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2024, namely:—"(iii)
any amount credited or paid out of the income of any fund or trust or
institution or any university or other educational institution or any hospital
or other medical institution referred to in sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v)
or sub-clause (vi) or sub-clause (via), other than the amount referred to in
the twelfth proviso, to any other fund or trust or institution or any
university or other educational institution or any hospital or other medical
institution referred to in sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) or sub-clause
(vi) or sub-clause (via), or trust or institution registered under
section12AB, as the case may be, shall be treated as application for
charitable or religious purposes only to the extent of eighty-five per cent.
of such amount credited or paid.";(ii)in Explanation 3, in clause (c), for the
words "furnished on or before", the words "furnished at least two months prior
to" shall be substituted;(III)in the fifteenth proviso, in Explanation
2,—(A)in clause (d), for the words "attained finality.", the words"attained
finality; or" shall be substituted;(B)after clause (d), the following clause
shall be inserted, namely:—"(e) the application referred to in the first
proviso of this clause is not complete or it contains false or incorrect
information.";(IV)in the nineteenth proviso, in the Explanation, with effect
from the day ofApril, 2024,—(a)after the words, brackets and figures "notified
under clause (46)", the word, brackets, figures and letter "or (46A)" shall be
inserted;(b)for the words, brackets and figures "under clause (46)", the
words, brackets, figures and letter "under clause (46) or clause (46A)" shall
be substituted;(V)in the twentieth proviso, for the words "within the time
allowed under that section", the words, brackets and figures "within the time
allowed under sub-section (1) or sub-section (4) of that section" shall be
substituted;(i)clause (23EB) shall be omitted;(j)in clause (23FE), in the
opening paragraph, for the word "interest", the words, brackets and figures
"interest, any sum referred to in clause (xii) of sub-section (2) of section
56" shall be substituted with effect from the 1st day of April, 2024;(k)clause
(26A) shall be omitted;(l)for clause (26AAA), the following clause shall be
substituted and shall be deemed to have been substitued with effect from the
1st day of April, 1990, namely:—‘(26AAA) in case of an individual, being a
Sikkimese, any income which accrues or arises to him—(a)from any source in the
State of Sikkim; or(b)by way of dividend or interest on
securities.Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause “Sikkimese” shall
mean—(i)an individual, whose name is recorded in the register maintained under
the Sikkim Subjects Regulation, 1961 read with the Sikkim Subject Rules, 1961
(hereinafter referred to as the “Register of Sikkim Subjects”), immediately
before the 26th day ofApril, 1975; or(ii)an individual, whose name is included
in the Register of Sikkim Subjects by virtue of the Government of India Order
No. 26030/36/90- I.C.I., dated the 7thAugust, 1990 and Order of even number
dated the 8th April, 1991; or(iii)any other individual, whose name does not
appear in the Register of Sikkim Subjects, but it is established beyond doubt
that the name of such individual’s father or husband or paternal grand-father
or brother from the same father has been recorded in that register; or(iv)any
other individual, whose name does not appear in the Register of Sikkim
Subjects but it is established that such individual was domiciled in Sikkim on
or before the 26th day of April, 1975; or(v)any other individual, who was not
domiciled in Sikkim on or before the 26th day of April, 1975, but it is
established beyond doubt that such individual’s father or husband or paternal
grand-father or brother from the same father was domiciled in Sikkim on or
before the 26th day of April, 1975;’;(m)after clause (34A), the following
clause shall be inserted with effect from the day ofApril, 2024,
namely:—‘(34B) any income of a Unit of any International Financial Services
Centre, primarily engaged in the business of leasing of an aircraft, by way of
dividends from a company being a Unit of any International Financial Services
Centre primarily engaged in the business of leasing of an
aircraft.Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, “International
Financial Services Centre” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
clause (q) of section 2 of the Special Economic ZonesAct, 2005;’;(n)clause
(41) shall be omitted;(o)in clause (46), for the words ", or a class thereof "
at both the places where they occur, the words, figures and letter "other than
those covered under clause (46A), or a class thereof" shall be substituted
with effect from the 1st day of April, 2024;(p)after clause (46), the
following clauses shall be inserted with effect from the day ofApril, 2024,
namely:—"(46A) any income arising to a body or authority or Board or Trust or
Commission, not being a company, which—(a)has been established or constituted
by or under a Central Act or State Act with one or more of the following
purposes, namely:—(i)dealing with and satisfying the need for housing
accommodation;(ii)planning, development or improvement of cities, towns and
villages;(iii)regulating, or regulating and developing, any activity for the
benefit of the general public; or(iv)regulating any matter, for the benefit of
the general public, arising out of the object for which it has been created;
and(b)is notified by the Central Government in the Official Gazette for the
purposes of this clause;(46B)any income accruing or arising to,—(i)National
Credit Guarantee Trustee Company Limited, being a company established and
wholly financed by the Central Government for the purposes of operating credit
guarantee funds established and wholly financed by the Central Government;
or(ii)a credit guarantee fund established and wholly financed by the Central
Government and managed by the National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company
Limited; or(iii)Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises,
being a trust created by the Government of India and the Small Industries
Development Bank of India established under sub-section (1) of section 3 of
the Small Industries Development Bank of IndiaAct, 1989;";(q)clause (49) shall
be omitted.

### 6. In section 10AA of the Income-tax Act, with effect from the 1st day of
April,2024,—

(a)in sub-section (1), after clause (ii) and before the Explanation, the
following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—"Provided that no such deduction
shall be allowed to an assessee who does not furnish a return of income on or
before the due date specified under sub-section (1) of section 139.";(b)after
sub-section (4), the following shall be inserted, namely:—'(4A) This section
applies to a Unit, if the proceeds from sale of goods or provision of services
is received in, or brought into, India by the assessee in convertible foreign
exchange, within a period of six months from the end of the previous year or,
within such further period as the competent authority may allow in this
behalf.Explanation 1.—For the purposes of this sub-section, the
expression"competent authority" means the Reserve Bank of India or the
authority authorised under any law for the time being in force for regulating
payments and dealings in foreign exchange.Explanation 2.—The sale of goods or
provision of services shall be deemed to have been received in India where
such export turnover is credited to a separate account maintained for that
purpose by the assessee with any bank outside India with the approval of the
Reserve Bank of India.';(c)in Explanation 1, for clause (i), the following
clauses shall be substituted, namely:—'(i) "convertible foreign exchange"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (ii) of the Explanation 2 to
section 10A;(ia)"export turnover" means the consideration in respect of export
by the undertaking, being the Unit of articles or things or services received
in, or brought into, India by the assessee in convertible foreign exchange in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (4A), but does not include
freight, telecommunication charges or insurance attributable to the delivery
of the articles or things outside India or expenses, if any, incurred in
foreign exchange in rendering of services (including computer software)
outside India;'.

### 7. In section 11 of the Income-tax Act,—

(A)in sub-section (1),—(a)in Explanation 1, in clause (2), in sub-clause (ii),
in the long line, for the words "before the expiry of the time allowed", the
words "at least two months prior to the due date specified" shall be
substituted;(b)in Explanation 4,—(I)in clause (i),—(a)in the proviso, for the
words "deposit; and", the word"deposit:" shall be substituted;(b)after the
proviso, the following provisos shall be inserted, namely:—"Provided further
that provisions of the first proviso shall apply only if there was no
violation of the conditions specified—(a)in clause (c) of this sub-
section;(b)in Explanations 2, 3 and 5 of this sub-section;(c)in the
Explanation to this section; and(d)in clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section
13, at the time the application was made from the corpus:Provided also that
the amount invested or deposited back shall not be treated as application for
charitable or religious purposes under the first proviso unless such
investment or deposit is made within a period of five years from the end of
the previous year in which such application was made from the corpus:Provided
also that nothing contained in the first proviso shall apply where application
from the corpus is made on or before the 31st day of March, 2021;";(II)in
clause (ii), after the proviso, the following provisos shall be inserted,
namely:—"Provided further that provisions of the first proviso shall apply
only if there was no violation of the conditions specified—(a)in clause (c) of
this sub-section;(b)in Explanations 2, 3 and 5 of this sub-section;(c)in the
Explanation to this section; and(d)in clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section
13, at the time the application was made from loan or borrowing:Provided also
that the amount repaid shall not be treated as application for charitable or
religious purposes under the first proviso unless such repayment is made
within a period of five years from the end of the previous year in which such
application was made from loan or borrowing:Provided also that nothing
contained in the first proviso shall apply where application from any loan or
borrowing is made on or before the 31st day of March, 2021; and";(III)after
clause (ii), the following clause shall be inserted with effect from the 1st
day ofApril, 2024, namely:—"(iii) any amount credited or paid, other than the
amount referred to in Explanation 2, to any fund or trust or institution or
any university or other educational institution or any hospital or other
medical institution referred to in sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) or sub-
clause (vi) or sub-clause (via) of clause (23C) of section 10, as the case may
be, or other trust or institution registered under section 12AB, as the case
may be, shall be treated as application for charitable or religious purposes
only to the extent of eighty-five per cent. of such amount credited or
paid.";(B)in sub-section (2), in clause (c), for the words "on or before", the
words "at least two months prior to" shall be substituted;(C)in sub-section
(7), with effect from the 1st day of April, 2024,—(a)or the words, brackets
and figures "and clause (46)", the words, brackets, figures and letters ",
clause (23EC), clause (46) and clause (46A)"shall be substituted;(b)in the
first proviso, for the words, brackets and figures "under clause (46)", the
words, brackets, figures and letters "under clause (23EC) or clause (46) or
clause (46A)" shall be substituted;(c)in the second proviso, for the words,
brackets and figures "under clause (46)", the words, brackets, figures and
letters "under clause (23EC) or clause (46) or clause (46A)" shall be
substituted.

### 8. In section 12A of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)in sub-section (1),—(I)in clause (ac), for sub-clause (vi), the following
sub-clause shall be substituted with effect from the 1st day of October, 2023,
namely:—"(vi) in any other case, where activities of the trust or institution
have—(A)not commenced, at least one month prior to the commencement of the
previous year relevant to the assessment year from which the said registration
is sought;(B)commenced and no income or part thereof of the said trust or
institution has been excluded from the total income on account of
applicability of sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) or sub-clause (vi) or sub-
clause (via) of clause (23C) of section 10, or section 11 or section 12, for
any previous year ending on or before the date of such application, at any
time after the commencement of such activities,";(II)in clause (ba), for the
words "within the time allowed under that section", the words, brackets and
figures "within the time allowed under sub-section (1) or sub-section (4) of
that section" shall be substituted;(b)in sub-section (2), the second, third
and fourth provisos shall be omitted

### 9. In section 12AB of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)in sub-section (1), with effect from the 1st day of October, 2023,—(A)in
clause (b),—(a)in the opening portion, after the word, brackets and
figure"sub-clause (v)", the words, brackets, letter and figures "or item (B)
of sub-clause (vi)" shall be inserted;(b)in sub-clause (ii), for item (B), the
following item shall be substituted, namely:—"(B) if he is not so satisfied,
pass an order in writing,—(I)in a case referred to in sub-clause (ii) or sub-
clause (iii) or sub-clause (v) of clause (ac) of sub-section (1) of section
12A rejecting such application and also cancelling its registration;(II)in a
case referred to in sub-clause (iv) or in item (B) of sub-clause (vi) of sub-
section (1) of section 12A, rejecting such application, after affording a
reasonable opportunity of being heard;";(B)for clause (c), the following
clause shall be substituted, namely:—"(c) where the application is made under
item (A) of sub-clause (vi) of the said clause or the application is made
under sub-clause (vi) of the said clause, as it stood immediately before its
amendment vide the Finance Act, 2023, pass an order in writing provisionally
registering the trust or institution for a period of three years from the
assessment year from which the registration is sought;";(b)in sub-section (4),
in the Explanation, in clause (f), for the words "attained finality.", the
words "attained finality; or" shall be substituted;(c)after clause (f), the
following clause shall be inserted, namely:—"(g) the application referred to
in clause (ac) of sub-section (1) of section 12A is not complete or it
contains false or incorrect information.".

### 10\. In section 17 of the Income-tax Act,—

(i)in clause (1), after sub-clause (viii), the following sub-clause shall be
inserted, namely:—"(ix) the contribution made by the Central Government in the
previous year, to the Agniveer Corpus Fund account of an individual enrolled
in the Agnipath Scheme referred to in section 80CCH;";(ii)in clause (2), with
effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2024,—(a)in sub-clause (i), after the word
"employer", the words "computed in such manner as may be prescribed" shall be
inserted;(b)for sub-clause (ii) and Explanations 1 to 4 thereto, the following
shall be substituted, namely:—"(ii) the value of any accommodation provided to
the assessee by his employer at a concessional rate.Explanation.—For the
purposes of this sub-clause, it is clarified that accommodation shall be
deemed to have been provided at a concessional rate, if the value of
accommodation computed in such manner as may be prescribed, exceeds the rent
recoverable from, or payable by, the assessee;".

### 11\. In section 28 of the Income-tax Act, for clause (iv), the following
clause shall be substituted with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2024,
namely:—

"(iv) the value of any benefit or perquisite arising from business or the
exercise of a profession, whether—(a)convertible into money or not; or(b)in
cash or in kind or partly in cash and partly in kind;".

### 12\. In section 35D of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (2), in clause
(a), for the proviso, the following proviso shall be substituted with effect
from the 1st day of April, 2024, namely:—

"Provided that the assessee shall furnish a statement containing the
particulars of expenditure specified in this clause within such period, to
such income-tax authority, in such form and manner, as may be prescribed.".

### 13\. In section 43B of the Income-taxAct, with effect from the 1st day
ofApril, 2024,—

(i)in clause (da), for the words "a deposit taking non-banking financial
company or systemically important non-deposit taking non-banking financial
company", the words "such class of non-banking financial companies as may be
notified by the Central Government in the Official Gazette in this behalf"
shall be substituted;(ii)in clause (g), after the word "assets,", the word
"or" shall be inserted;(iii)after clause (g), the following clause shall be
inserted, namely:—"(h) any sum payable by the assessee to a micro or small
enterprise beyond the time-limit specified in section 15 of the Micro, Small
and Medium Enterprises DevelopmentAct, 2006,";(iv)in the proviso, after the
words "nothing contained in this section", the brackets, words and letter
"[except the provisions of clause (h)]" shall be inserted;(v)in Explanation
4,—(I)for clause (e), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—'(e)
"micro enterprise" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (h) of
section 2 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises DevelopmentAct,
2006;';(II)for clause (g), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:—'(g) "small enterprise" shall have the meaning assigned to it in
clause (m) of section 2 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
DevelopmentAct, 2006.'.

### 14. In section 43D of the Income-taxAct, with effect from the 1st day
ofApril, 2024,—

(i)in clause (a), for the words "a deposit taking non-banking financial
company or a systemically important non-deposit taking non-banking financial
company", the words "such class of non-banking financial companies as may be
notified by the Central Government in the Official Gazette in this behalf"
shall be substituted;(ii)in the long line, for the words "a deposit taking
non-banking financial company or a systemically important non-deposit taking
non-banking financial company", the words "such class of non-banking financial
companies as may be notified by the Central Government in the Official Gazette
in this behalf," shall be substituted;(iii)in the Explanation, for clause (h),
the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—'(h) the expression "non-
banking financial company" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause
(vii) of the Explanation to clause (viia) of sub-section (1) of section 36.'.

### 15. In section 44AB of the Income-taxAct, for the first proviso, the
following proviso shall be substituted with effect from the 1st day ofApril,
2024, namely:—

"Provided that this section shall not apply to a person, who declares profits
and gains for the previous year in accordance with the provisions of sub-
section (1) of section 44AD or sub-section (1) of section 44ADA:".

### 16. In section 44AD of the Income-tax Act, in the Explanation, in clause
(b), after sub-clause (ii), the following provisos shall be inserted with
effect from the 1st day of April, 2024, namely:—

'Provided that where the amount or aggregate of the amounts received during
the previous year, in cash, does not exceed five per cent. of the total
turnover or gross receipts of such previous year, this sub-clause shall have
effect as if for the words"two crore rupees", the words "three crore rupees"
had been substituted:Provided further that for the purposes of the first
proviso, the receipt of amount or aggregate of amounts by a cheque drawn on a
bank or by a bank draft, which is not account payee, shall be deemed to be the
receipt in cash.'.

### 17. In section 44ADA of the Income-tax Act, after sub-section (1), the
following provisos shall be inserted with effect from the1st day ofApril,
2024, namely:—

'Provided that in case of an assessee where the amount or aggregate of the
amounts received during the previous year, in cash, does not exceed five per
cent. of the total gross receipts of such previous year, this sub-section
shall have effect as if for the words "fifty lakh rupees", the words "seventy-
five lakh rupees" had been substituted:Provided further that for the purposes
of the first proviso, the receipt of amount or aggregate of amounts by a
cheque drawn on a bank or by a bank draft, which is not account payee, shall
be deemed to be the receipt in cash.'.

### 18. In section 44BB of the Income-tax Act, after sub-section (3) and
before the Explanation, the following sub-section shall be inserted with
effect from the 1st day of April, 2024, namely:—

"(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2) of section 32 and
sub-section (1) of section 72, where an assessee declares profits and gains of
business for any previous year in accordance with the provisions of sub-
section (1), no set off of unabsorbed depreciation and brought forward loss
shall be allowed to the assessee for such previous year.".

### 19. In section 44BBB of the Income-tax Act, after sub-section (2), the
following sub-section shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April,
2024, namely:—

"(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2) of section 32 and
sub-section (1) of section 72, where an assessee declares profits and gains of
business for any previous year in accordance with the provisions of sub-
section (1), no set off of unabsorbed depreciation and brought forward loss
shall be allowed to the assessee for such previous year.".

### 20. In section 45 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (5A), for the
words "the consideration received in cash, if any,", the words "any
consideration received in cash or by a cheque or draft or by any other mode"
shall be substituted with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2024.

### 21. In section 47 of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)in clause (viiad), in the Explanation,—(i)for clause (a), the following
clause shall be substituted, namely:—'(a) "original fund" means—(A)a fund
established or incorporated or registered outside India, which collects funds
from its members for investing it for their benefit and fulfils the following
conditions, namely:—(i)the fund is not a person resident in India;(ii)the fund
is a resident of a country or a specified territory with which an agreement
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 90 or sub-section (1) of section 90A
has been entered into; or is established or incorporated or registered in a
country or a specified territory as may be notified by the Central Government
in this behalf;(iii)the fund and its activities are subject to applicable
investor protection regulations in the country or specified territory where it
is established or incorporated or is a resident;and(iv)fulfils such other
conditions as may be prescribed;(B)an investment vehicle, in which Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority is the direct or indirect sole shareholder or unit holder
or beneficiary or interest holder and such investment vehicle is wholly owned
and controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority
or the Government of Abu Dhabi; or(C)a fund notified by the Central Government
in the Official Gazette in this behalf subject to such conditions as may be
specified;';(ii)in clause (b), for the figures "2023", the figures "2025"
shall be substituted;(iii)in clause (c), in sub-clause (i), after the words
and figures "Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 or", the words,
brackets and figures"regulated under the International Financial Services
Centres Authority (Fund Management) Regulations, 2022, made under the" shall
be inserted;(b)after clause (viic), the following clause shall be inserted
with effect from the day ofApril, 2024, namely:—'(viid) any transfer of a
capital asset, being conversion of gold into Electronic Gold Receipt issued by
a Vault Manager, or conversion of Electronic Gold Receipt into
gold.Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, the expressions "Electronic
Gold Receipt" and "Vault Manager" shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in clauses (h) and (l) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Vault Managers) Regulations,
2021 made under the Securities and Exchange Board of IndiaAct, 1992;";(c)after
clause (xix), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—'(xx) any
transfer of a capital asset, being an interest in a joint venture, held by a
public sector company, in exchange of shares of a company incorporated outside
India by the Government of a foreign State, in accordance with the laws of
that foreign State.Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, "joint
venture" shall mean a business entity, as may be notified by the Central
Government in the Official Gazette.'.

### 22. In section 48 of the Income-taxAct, in clause (ii), the following
shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2024, namely:—

"Provided that the cost of acquisition of the asset or the cost of improvement
thereto shall not include the deductions claimed on the amount of interest
under clause (b) of section 24 or under the provisions of Chapter
VIA.Explanation 1.—For the removal of doubt, it is hereby clarified that the
cost of acquisition of a unit of a business trust shall be reduced and shall
be deemed to have always been reduced by any sum received by a unit holder
from the business trust with respect to such unit, which is not in the nature
of income as referred to in clause (23FC) or clause (23FCA) of section 10 and
which is not chargeable to tax under clause (xii)of sub-section (2) of section
56 and under sub-section (2) of section 115UA.Explanation 2.—For the purposes
of Explanation 1, it is clarified that where transaction of transfer of a unit
is not considered as transfer under section 47 and cost of acquisition of such
unit is determined under section 49, sum received with respect to such unit
before such transaction as well as after such transaction shall be reduced
from the cost of acquisition under the said Explanation;".

### 23. In section 49 of the Income-taxAct,—

(a)after sub-section (2AH), the following sub-section shall be inserted,
namely:—"(2AI) Where the capital asset, being shares as referred to in clause
(xx) of section 47, became the property of the assessee, the cost of
acquisition of such asset shall be deemed to be the cost of acquisition to it
of the interest in the joint venture referred to in the said clause.";(b)after
sub-section (9), the following sub-section shall be inserted with effect from
the 1st day ofApril, 2024, namely:—"(10) Where the capital asset, being—(i)an
Electronic Gold Receipt issued by a Vault Manager, became the property of the
person as consideration of a transfer, referred to in clause (viid) of section
47, the cost of acquisition of the asset for the purposes of the said
transfer, shall be deemed to be the cost of gold in the hands of the person in
whose name Electronic Gold Receipt is issued;(ii)gold released against an
Electronic Gold Receipt, which became the property of the person as
consideration for a transfer, referred to in clause (viid) of section 47, the
cost of acquisition of the asset for the purposes of the said transfer shall
be deemed to be the cost of the Electronic Gold Receipt in the hands of such
person.".

### 24. After section 50A of the Income-tax Act, the following section shall
be inserted with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2024, namely:—

'50AA. Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (42A) of section 2 or
section 48, where the capital asset is a unit of a Specified Mutual Fund
acquired on or after the 1st day of April, 2023 or a Market Linked Debenture,
the full value of consideration received or accruing as a result of the
transfer or redemption or maturity of such debenture or unit as reduced
by—(i)the cost of acquisition of the debenture or unit; and(ii)the expenditure
incurred wholly and exclusively in connection with such transfer or redemption
or maturity, shall be deemed to be the capital gains arising from the transfer
of a short-term capital asset:Provided that no deduction shall be allowed in
computing the income chargeable under the head "Capital gains" in respect of
any sum paid on account of securities transaction tax under the provisions of
Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004.Explanation.—For the purposes of
this section—(i)"Market Linked Debenture" means a security by whatever name
called, which has an underlying principal component in the form of a debt
security and where the returns are linked to market returns on other
underlying securities or indices and include any security classified or
regulated as a Market Linked Debenture by the Securities and Exchange Board of
India;(ii)"Specified Mutual Fund" means a Mutual Fund by whatever name called,
where not more than thirty five per cent. of its total proceeds is invested in
the equity shares of domestic companies:Provided that the percentage of equity
shareholding held in respect of the Specified Mutual Fund shall be computed
with reference to the annual average of the daily closing figures.'.

### 25. In section 54 of the Income-taxAct, with effect from the 1st day
ofApril, 2024,—

(a)in sub-section (1), after the second proviso, the following proviso shall
be inserted, namely:—"Provided also that where the cost of new asset exceeds
ten crore rupees, the amount exceeding ten crore rupees shall not be taken
into account for the purposes of this sub-section.";(b)in sub-section
(2),—(i)after the words "amount so deposited shall", the words, brackets and
figure ", subject to the third proviso to sub-section (1)" shall be
inserted;(ii)after the proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted,
namely:—"Provided further that the capital gains in excess of ten crore rupees
shall not be taken into account for the purposes of this sub-section.".

### 26. In section 54EA of the Income-tax Act, sub-section (3) shall be
omitted.

### 27. In section 54EB of the Income-taxAct, sub-section (3) shall be omitted

### 28. In section 54EC of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (3), clause (a)
shall be omitted.

### 29. In section 54ED of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (3), clause (a)
shall be omitted.

### 30. In section 54F of the Income-taxAct, with effect from the 1st day
ofApril, 2024,—

(a)in sub-section (1), after the proviso and before the Explanation, the
following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—"Provided further that where the
cost of new asset exceeds ten crore rupees, the amount exceeding ten crore
rupees shall not be taken into account for the purposes of this sub-
section.";(b)in sub-section (4),—(i)after the words "amount so deposited
shall", the words, brackets and figure ", subject to the second proviso to
sub-section (1)" shall be inserted;(ii)after the proviso, the following
proviso shall be inserted, namely:—"Provided further that the net
consideration in excess of ten crore rupees shall not be taken into account
for the purposes of this sub-section.".

### 31. In section 55 of the Income-taxAct, with effect from the 1st day
ofApril, 2024,—

(a)in sub-section (1), in clause (b), in sub-clause (1),—(i)after the word
"goodwill", the words "or any other intangible asset" shall be
inserted;(ii)after the word "profession", the words "or any other right" shall
be inserted;(b)in sub-section (2), in clause (a),—(i)for the words
"profession, or a right", the words "profession, or any other intangible asset
or a right" shall be substituted;(ii)for the word "hours,", the words "hours,
or any other right" shall be substituted.

### 32. In section 56 of the Income-taxAct, in sub-section (2),—

(a)in clause (viib),—(i)with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2024, the words
"being a resident" shall be omitted;(ii)in the Explanation, in clause (aa),
after the words and figures "Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992
or regulated under the", the words, brackets and figures "International
Financial Services Centre Authority (Fund Management) Regulations, 2022 made
under the" shall be inserted;(b)after clause (xi), with effect from the 1st
day of April, 2024, the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:—'(xii)
any specified sum received by a unit holder from a business trust during the
previous year, with respect to a unit held by him at any time during the
previous year.Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, "specified sum"
shall be computed in accordance with the following formula, namely:—Specifed
sum=A-B-C (which shall be deemed to be zero if sum of B and C is greater than
A), where—A=aggregate of sum distributed by the business trust with respect to
such unit, during the previous year or during any earlier previous year or
years, to such unit holder, who holds such unit on the date of distribution of
sum or to any other unit holder who held such unit at any time prior to the
date of such distribution, which is,—(a)not in the nature of income referred
to in clause (23FC) or clause (23FCA) of section 10; and(b)not chargeable to
tax under sub-section (2) of section 115UA;B=amount at which such unit was
issued by the business trust; and C=amount charged to tax under this clause in
any earlier previous year;';(xiii)where any sum is received, including the
amount allocated by way of bonus, at any time during a previous year, under a
life insurance policy, other than the sum,—(a)received under a unit linked
insurance policy;(b)being the income referred to in clause (iv), which is not
to be excluded from the total income of the previous year in accordance with
the provisions of clause (10D) of section 10, the sum so received as exceeds
the aggregate of the premium paid, during the term of such life insurance
policy, and not claimed as deduction under any other provision of this Act,
computed in such manner as may be prescribed.Explanation.—For the purposes of
this clause "unit linked insurance policy" shall have the meaning assigned to
it in Explanation 3 to clause(10D)ofsection 10.'

### 33. In section 72A of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), in clause
(d), in the Explanation, for clause (iii), the following clause shall be
substituted, namely:—

'(iii) "strategic disinvestment" means sale of shareholding by the Central
Government or any State Government or a public sector company, in a public
sector company or in a company, which results in—(a)reduction of its
shareholding to below fifty-one per cent.; and(b)transfer of control to the
buyer:Provided that the condition laid down in sub-clause (a) shall apply only
in a case where shareholding of the Central Government or the State Government
or the public sector company was above fifty-one per cent. before such sale of
shareholding:Provided further that requirement of transfer of control referred
to in sub-clause (b) may be carried out by the Central Government or the State
Government or the public sector company or any two of them or all of them.'.

### 34. In section 72AA of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)for clause (i), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—"(i) one
or more banking company with—(a)any other banking institution under a scheme
sanctioned and brought into force by the Central Government under sub-section
(7) of section 45 of the Banking RegulationAct, 1949; or(b)any other banking
institution or a company subsequent to a strategic disinvestment, wherein the
amalgamation is carried out within a period of five years from the end of the
previous year during which such strategic disinvestment is carried out;
or";(b)in the long line, after the words "such banking institution or", the
words "company or" shall be inserted;(c)in the Explanation, after clause (vi),
the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—'(via) "strategic
disinvestment" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (iii) of the
Explanation to clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 72A;'.

### 35. In section 79 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), in the
proviso, for the word "seven", the word "ten" shall be substituted.

### 36. In section 80C of the Income-tax Act, sub-section (7) shall be omitted

### 37. In section 80CCC of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (3), clause (a)
shall be omitted.

### 38. In section 80CCD of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (4), clause (a)
shall be omitted.

### 39. After section 80CCG of the Income-taxAct, the following section shall
be inserted, namely:—

'80CCH.(1) Where an assessee, being an individual enrolled in the Agnipath
Scheme and subscribing to the Agniveer Corpus Fund on or after the 1st day of
November, 2022, has in the previous year paid or deposited any amount in his
account in the said Fund, he shall be allowed a deduction in the computation
of his total income, of the whole of the amount so paid or deposited.(2)Where
the Central Government makes any contribution to the account of an assessee in
the Agniveer Corpus Fund referred to in sub-section (1), the assessee shall be
allowed a deduction in the computation of his total income of the whole of the
amount so contributed.Explanation.—For the purposes of this
section,—(a)"Agnipath Scheme" means the scheme for enrolment in IndianArmed
Forces introduced vide letter No.1(23)2022/D(Pay/Services), dated the 29th
December, 2022 of the Government of India in the Ministry of
Defence;(b)"Agniveer Corpus Fund" means a fund in which consolidated
contributions of all the Agniveers and matching contributions of the Central
Government along with interest on both these contributions are held.'.

### 40. In section 80G of the Income-tax Act,—

(I)in sub-section (2), in clause (a), sub-clauses (ii), (iiic) and (iiid)
shall be omitted with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2024;(II)in sub-section
(5),—(A)with effect from the 1st day of October, 2023,—(i)in the first
proviso, for clause (iv), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:—"(iv) in any other case, where activities of the institution or fund
have—(A)not commenced, at least one month prior to the commencement of the
previous year relevant to the assessment year from which the said approval is
sought;(B)commenced and where no income or part thereof of the said
institution or fund has been excluded from the total income on account of
applicability of sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) or sub-clause (vi) or sub-
clause (via) of clause (23C) of section 10 or section 11 or section 12 for any
previous year ending on or before the date of such application, at any time
after the commencement of such activities:";(ii)in the second proviso,—(a)in
clause (ii),—(1)in the opening portion, after the word, brackets and figures
"clause (iii)", the words, brackets, letter and figures"or sub-clause (B) of
clause (iv)" shall be inserted;(2)in sub-clause (b), for item (B), the
following item shall be substituted, namely:—"(B) if he is not so satisfied,
pass an order in writing,—(I)in a case referred to in clause (ii) or clause
(iii) of the first proviso, rejecting such application and cancelling its
approval; or(II)in a case referred to in sub-clause (B) of clause (iv) of the
first proviso, rejecting such application, after affording it a reasonable
opportunity of being heard;";(b)for clause (iii), the following clause shall
be substituted, namely:—"(iii) where the application is made under sub-clause
(A) of clause (iv) of the said proviso or the application is made under clause
(iv) of the said proviso as it stood immediately before its amendment vide the
Finance Act, 2023, pass an order in writing granting it approval provisionally
for a period of three years from the assessment year from which the approval
is sought;";(B)in the third proviso, for the words "first proviso", the words
"second proviso" shall be substituted.

### 41. In section 80-IAC of the Income-tax Act, in the Explanation, in clause
(ii), in sub-clause (a), for the figures "2023", the figures "2024" shall be
substituted.

### 42. In section 80LA of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), after
clause (b), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—

"Provided that for the assessment year commencing on or after the 1st day of
April, 2023, the deduction under this clause shall be one hundred per cent. of
such income.".

### 43. In section 87 of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)in sub-section (1), the figures and letters ", 88, 88A, 88B, 88C, 88D"
shall be omitted;(b)in sub-section (2), the words, figures and letters "or
section 88 or section 88A or section 88B or section 88C or section 88D" shall
be omitted.

### 44. In section 87Aof the Income-taxAct, the following proviso shall be
inserted with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2024, namely:—

"Provided that where the total income of the assessee is chargeable to tax
under sub-section (1A) of section 115BAC, and the total income—(a)does not
exceed seven hundred thousand rupees, the assessee shall be entitled to a
deduction from the amount of income-tax (as computed before allowing for the
deductions under this Chapter) on his total income with which he is chargeable
for any assessment year, of an amount equal to one hundred per cent. of such
income-tax or an amount of twenty-five thousand rupees, whichever is
less;(b)exceeds seven hundred thousand rupees and the income-tax payable on
such total income exceeds the amount by which the total income is in excess of
seven hundred thousand rupees, the assessee shall be entitled to a deduction
from the amount of income-tax (as computed before allowing the deductions
under this Chapter) on his total income, of an amount equal to the amount by
which the income-tax payable on such total income is in excess of the amount
by which the total income exceeds seven hundred thousand rupees.".

### 45. Section 88 of the Income-taxAct shall be omitted

### 46. In section 92BA of the Income-tax Act, after clause (va), the
following clause shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2024,
namely:—

"(vb) any business transacted between the assessee and other person as
referred to in sub-section (4) of section 115BAE;".

### 47. In section 92D of the Income-taxAct, in sub-section (3), for the words
"period of thirty days" at both the places where they occur, the words "period
of ten days" shall be substituted.

### 48. In section 94B of the Income-taxAct, with effect from the 1st day
ofApril, 2024,—

(i)in sub-section (3), after the words "banking or insurance", the words "or
such class of non-banking financial companies as may be notified by the
Central Government in the Official Gazette in this behalf" shall be
inserted;(ii)in sub-section (5), after clause (ii), the following clause shall
be inserted, namely:—'(iia) "non-banking financial company" shall have the
meaning assigned to it in clause (vii) of the Explanation to clause (viia) of
sub-section (1) of section 36;'.

### 49. In section 111A of the Income-tax Act, sub-section (3) shall be
omitted.

### 50. In section 112 of the Income-tax Act, sub-section (3) shall be
omitted.

### 51. In section 115A of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), with effect
from the 1st day of April, 2024,—

(i)in clause (a), in sub-clause (A), the following proviso shall be inserted,
namely:—"Provided that the amount of income-tax calculated on the amount of
income by way of dividend received from a Unit in an International Financial
Services Centre, as referred to in sub-section (1A) of section 80LA, shall be
ten per cent.;";(ii)in clause (b), in sub-clauses (A) and (B), for the word
"ten", the word "twenty" shall be substituted

### 52. In section 115BAC of the Income-tax Act,—

(A)with effect from the 1st day of April, 2024,—(a)in the marginal heading,
for the words "and Hindu undivided family", the words ", Hindu undivided
family and others" shall be substituted;(b)in sub-section (1), for the
figures, letters and words "1st day of April, 2021", the figures, letters and
words "1st day of April, 2021 but before the 1st day of April, 2024" shall be
substituted;(c)after sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be
inserted, namely:—"(1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act but
subject to the provisions of this Chapter, the income-tax payable in respect
of the total income of a person, being an individual or Hindu undivided family
or association of persons (other than a co-operative society), or body of
individuals, whether incorporated or not, or an artificial juridical person
referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of section 2, other than a
person who has exercised an option under sub-section (6), for any previous
year relevant to the assessment year beginning on or after the 1st day of
April, 2024, shall be computed at the rate of tax given in the following
Table, namely:—TABLESl.No. Total income Rate of tax(1)(2) (3)1.Upto
Rs.3,00,000 Nil2.From Rs.3,00,001 to Rs.6,00,000 5 per cent.3.From Rs.6,00,001
to Rs.9,00,000 10 per cent.4.From Rs.9,00,001 to Rs.12,00,000 15 per
cent.5.From Rs.12,00,001 to Rs.15,00,000 20 per cent6.Above Rs.15,00,000 30
per cent.";(B)with effect from the 1st day of April, 2023, in sub-section (2),
in clause (i), after the words, figures and letters "section 80CCD or", the
words, brackets, figures and letters "sub-section (2) of section 80CCH or"
shall be inserted;(C)with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2024,—(a)in sub-
section (2), for the opening portion and clause (i) thereof, the following
shall be substituted, namely:—"(2) For the purposes of sub-section (1A), the
total income of the person referred to therein, shall be computed—(i)without
any exemption or deduction under the provisions of clause (5) or clause (13A)
or prescribed under clause (14) (other than those as may be prescribed for
this purpose) or clause (17) or clause (32), of section 10 or section 10AA or
clause (ii) or clause (iii) of section 16 or clause (b) of section 24 [in
respect of the property referred to in sub-section (2) of section 23] or
clause (iia) of sub-section (1) of section 32 or section 32AD or section 33AB
or section 33ABA or sub-clause (ii) or sub-clause (iia) or sub-clause (iii) of
sub-section (1) or sub-section(2AA)of section 35 or section 35AD or section
35CCC or under any of the provisions of Chapter VI-A other than the provisions
of sub-section (2) of section 80CCD or sub-section (2) of section 80CCH or
section 80JJAA;";(b)in sub-section (3), after the proviso, the following
proviso shall be inserted, namely:—"Provided further that in a case
where,—(i)the assessee has not exercised the option under sub-section (5) for
any previous year relevant to the assessment year beginning on or before the
1st day of April, 2023;(ii)the income-tax on the total income of the assessee
is computed under sub-section (1A); and(iii)there is a depreciation allowance
in respect of a block of assets which has not been given full effect prior to
the assessment year beginning on the 1st day of April, 2024, corresponding
adjustment shall be made to the written down value of such block of assets as
on the 1st day ofApril, 2023 in the manner as may be prescribed.";(c)for sub-
section (4), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:—'(4) In
case of a person, having a Unit in the International Financial Services
Centre, as referred to in sub-section (1A) of section 80LA,—(i)who has
exercised option under sub-section (5) for any previous year relevant to the
assessment year beginning on or after the 1st day ofApril, 2021 but before the
1st day ofApril, 2024;(ii)whose total income is computed under sub-section
(1A), the conditions contained in sub-section (2) shall be modified to the
extent that the deduction under section 80LA shall be available to such Unit
subject to fulfilment of the conditions contained in the said
section.Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, the term
"Unit"shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (zc) of section 2 of the
Special Economic ZonesAct, 2005.';(d)in sub-section (5), after the proviso,
the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—"Provided further that the
provisions of this sub-section shall not apply for any previous year relevant
to the assessment year beginning on or after the 1st day of April,
2024.";(e)after sub-section (5), the following sub-section shall be inserted,
namely:—"(6) Nothing contained in sub-section (1A) shall apply to a person
where an option is exercised by such person, in the manner as may be
prescribed, for any assessment year, and such option is exercised,—(i)on or
before the due date specified under sub-section (1) of section 139 for
furnishing the return of income for such assessment year, in case of a person
having income from business or profession, and such option once exercised
shall apply to subsequent assessment years; or(ii)along with the return of
income to be furnished under sub-section (1) of section 139 for such
assessment year, in case of a person not having income referred to in clause
(i):Provided that the option under clause (i), once exercised for any previous
year can be withdrawn only once for a previous year other than the year in
which it was exercised and thereafter, the person shall never be eligible to
exercise the option under this sub-section, except where such person ceases to
have any income from business or profession in which case, option under clause
(ii) shall be available.".

### 53. In section 115BAD of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), after the
words

"provisions of this Chapter,", the words, figures and letters "other than
those mentioned under section 115BAE," shall be inserted with effect from the
1st day ofApril, 2024.

### 54. After section 115BAD of the Income-tax Act, with effect from the 1st
day of April, 2024, the following section shall be inserted, namely:—

"115BAE. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act but subject to the
provisions of this Chapter, other than those mentioned under section 115BAD,
the income-tax payable in respect of the total income of an assessee, being a
co-operative society resident in India, for any previous year relevant to the
assessment year beginning on or after the 1st day of April, 2024, shall, at
the option of such assessee, be computed at the rate of fifteen per cent. if
the conditions contained in sub-section (2) are satisfied:Provided that where
the total income of the assessee includes any income, which has neither been
derived from nor is incidental to, manufacturing or production of an article
or thing and in respect of which no specific rate of tax has been provided
separately under this Chapter, such income shall be taxed at the rate of
twenty-two per cent. and no deduction or allowance in respect of any
expenditure or allowance shall be made in computing such income:Provided
further that the income-tax payable in respect of the income, of the assessee
deemed so under the second proviso to sub-section (4) shall be computed at the
rate of thirty per cent.:Provided also that the income-tax payable in respect
of income, being short term capital gains derived from transfer of a capital
asset on which no depreciation is allowable under the Act shall be computed at
the rate of twenty-two per cent.:Provided also that where the assessee fails
to satisfy the conditions contained in sub-section (2) in any previous year,
the option shall become invalid in respect of the assessment year relevant to
that previous year and subsequent assessment years and other provisions of the
Act shall apply to the assessee as if the option had not been exercised for
the assessment year relevant to that previous year and subsequent assessment
years.(2)For the purposes of sub-section (1), the following conditions shall
apply, namely:—(a)the co-operative society has been set-up and registered on
or after the 1st day ofApril, 2023, and has commenced manufacturing or
production of an article or thing on or before the 31st day of March, 2024
and,—(i)the business is not formed by splitting up, or the reconstruction, of
a business already in existence;(ii)does not use any machinery or plant
previously used for any purpose.Explanation 1.—For the purposes of sub-clause
(ii), any machinery or plant which was used outside India by any other person
shall not be regarded as machinery or plant previously used for any purpose,
if the following conditions are fulfilled, namely:—(A)such machinery or plant
was not, at any time previous to the date of the installation, used in
India;(B)such machinery or plant is imported into India from any country
outside India; and(C)no deduction on account of depreciation in respect of
such machinery or plant has been allowed or is allowable under the provisions
of thisAct in computing the total income of any person for any period prior to
the date of installation of machinery or plant by the person.Explanation
2.—Where any machinery or plant or any part thereof previously used for any
purpose is put to use by the assessee and the total value of such machinery or
plant or part thereof does not exceed twenty per cent. of the total value of
the machinery or plant used by the assessee, then, for the purposes of sub-
clause (ii), the condition specified therein shall be deemed to have been
complied with;(b)the assessee is not engaged in any business other than the
business of manufacture or production of any article or thing and research in
relation to, or distribution of, such article or thing manufactured or
produced by it.Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified
that the business of manufacture or production of any article or thing shall
include the business of generation of electricity, but not include a business
of,—(i)development of computer software in any form or in any
media;(ii)mining;(iii)conversion of marble blocks or similar items into
slabs;(iv)bottling of gas into cylinder;(v)printing of books or production of
cinematograph film; or(vi)any other business as may be notified by the Central
Government in this behalf;(c)the total income of the assessee has been
computed,—(i)without any deduction under the provisions of section 10AAor
clause (iia) of sub-section (1) of section 32 or section 33AB or section 33ABA
or sub-clause (ii) or sub-clause (iia) or sub-clause (iii) of sub-section (1)
or sub-section (2AA) of section 35 or section 35AD or section 35CCC or under
any of the provisions of Chapter VI-A other than the provisions of section
80JJAA;(ii)without set off of any loss carried forward or depreciation from
any earlier assessment year, if such loss or depreciation is attributable to
any of the deductions referred to in clause (i); and(iii)by claiming the
depreciation, if any, under section 32, other than clause (iia) of sub-section
(1) of the said section, determined in such manner as may be prescribed.(3)The
loss and depreciation referred to in sub-clause (ii) of clause (c) of sub-
section (2) shall be deemed to have been given full effect to and no further
deduction for such loss shall be allowed for any subsequent year.(4)Where it
appears to theAssessing Officer that, owing to the close connection between
the assessee to which this section applies and any other person, or for any
other reason, the course of business between them is so arranged that the
business transacted between them produces to the assessee more than the
ordinary profits which might be expected to arise in such business, the
Assessing Officer shall, in computing the profits and gains of such business
for the purposes of this section, take the amount of profits as may be
reasonably deemed to have been derived therefrom:Provided that in case the
aforesaid arrangement involves a specified domestic transaction referred to in
section 92BA, the amount of profits from such transaction shall be determined
having regard to arm's length price as defined in clause (ii) of section
92F:Provided further that the amount, being profits in excess of the amount of
the profits determined by the Assessing Officer, shall be deemed to be the
income of the assessee.(5)Nothing contained in this section shall apply unless
the option is exercised by the person in the prescribed manner on or before
the due date specified under sub-section (1) of section 139 for furnishing the
first of the returns of income for any previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on or after the 1st day of April, 2024, and such
option once exercised shall apply to subsequent assessment years:Provided that
once the option has been exercised for any previous year shall not be allowed
to be withdrawn for the same or any other previous year.".

### 55. In section 115BB of the Income-taxAct, for the Explanation, the
following shall be substituted with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2024,
namely:—

'Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply to income by way
of winnings from any online game for the assessment year beginning on or after
the 1st - day of April, 2024Explanation.—For the purposes of this
section,—(i)"horse race" shall have the meaning assigned to it in section
74A;(ii)"online game" shall have the meaning assigned to it in section
115BBJ.'.

### 56. After section 115BBI of the Income-taxAct, the following section shall
be inserted with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2024, namely:—

'115BBJ. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provisions of this
Act, where the total income of an assessee includes any income by way of
winnings from any online game, the income-tax payable shall be the aggregate
of—(i)the amount of income-tax calculated on net winnings from such online
games during the previous year, computed in the manner as may be prescribed,
at the rate of thirty per cent.; and(ii)the amount of income-tax with which
the assessee would have been chargeable had his total income been reduced by
the net winnings referred to in clause (i).Explanation.—For the purposes of
this section,—(i)"computer resource" shall have the same meaning as assigned
to it in clause (e) of the Explanation to section 144B;(ii)"internet" means
the combination of computer facilities and electromagnetic transmission media,
and related equipment and software, comprising the interconnected worldwide
network of computer networks that transmits information based on a protocol
for controlling such transmission;(iii)"online game" means a game that is
offered on the internet and is accessible by a user through a computer
resource including any telecommunication device.'.

### 57. In section 115JC of the Income-tax Act, for sub-section (5), the
following sub-section shall be substituted with effect from the 1st day
ofApril, 2024, namely:—

"(5) The provisions of this section shall not apply to a person, where—(i)such
person has exercised the option referred to in sub-section (5) of section
115BAC or sub-section (5) of section 115BAD or sub-section (5) of section
115BAE; or(ii)income-tax payable in respect of the total income of such person
is computed under sub-section (1A) of section 115BAC.".

### 58. In section 115JD of the Income-tax Act, for sub-section (7), the
following sub-section shall be substituted with effect from the 1st day
ofApril, 2024, namely:—

"(7) The provisions of this section shall not apply to a person, where—(i)such
person has exercised the option referred to in sub-section (5) of section
115BAC or sub-section (5) of section 115BAD or sub-section (5) of section
115BAE; or(ii)income-tax payable in respect of the total income of such person
is computed under sub-section (1A) of section 115BAC.".

### 59. In section 115TD of the Income-tax Act,—

(i)in sub-section (3),—(a)in clause (ii), in sub-clause (b), for the word
"rejected.", the words "rejected; or" shall be substituted;(b)after clause
(ii), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—"(iii) it fails to make
an application in accordance with the provisions of clause (i) or clause (ii)
or clause (iii) of the first proviso to clause (23C) of section 10 or sub-
clause (i) or sub-clause (ii) or sub-clause (iii) of clause (ac) of sub-
section (1) of section 12A, within the period specified in the said clauses or
sub-clauses, as the case may be, which expires in the said previous
year.";(ii)in sub-section (5), in clause (ii), after the word, brackets and
figures "clause (ii)", the words, brackets and figures "clause (ii), or clause
(iii)," shall be inserted;(iii)in the Explanation, in clause (i),—(a)in sub-
clause (b), after the word, brackets and figure "sub-section (3);", the word
"or" shall be inserted;(b)after sub-clause (b), the following sub-clause shall
be inserted, namely:—"(c) the last date for making an application for
registration under sub-clause (i) or sub-clause (ii) or sub-clause (iii) of
clause (ac) of sub-section (1) of section 12A or for making an application for
approval under clause (i) or clause (ii) or clause (iii) of the first proviso
to clause (23C) of section 10, as the case may be, in a case referred to in
clause (iii) of sub-section (3);".

### 60. In section 115UA of the Income-tax Act, after sub-section (3), the
following sub-section shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April,
2024, namely:—

"(3A) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply in respect of any sum
referred to in clause (xii) of sub-section (2) of section 56, received by a
unit holder from a business trust.".

### 61. In section 115UB of the Income-tax Act, in Explanation 1, in clause
(a), after the words and figures "Securities and Exchange Board of IndiaAct,
1992 or", the words, brackets and figures "regulated under the International
Financial Services Centres Authority (Fund Management) Regulations, 2022 made"
shall be inserted.

### 62. In section 115VP of the Income-tax Act,—

(i)In sub-section (2), after the proviso, the following proviso shall be
inserted, namely:—"Provided further that a Unit of an International Financial
Services Centre which has availed of deduction under section 80LA may make an
application within three months from the date on which such deduction
ceases.";(ii)after sub-section (5), the following Explanation shall be
inserted, namely:—'Explanation.—For the purposes of this section
"International Financial Services Centre" shall have the same meaning as
assigned to it in clause (q) of section 2 of the Special Economic ZonesAct,
2005.'.

### 63. In section 116 of the Income-tax Act, in clause (cca), after the words
"Joint Commissioners of Income-tax", the words and brackets "or Joint
Commissioners of Income-tax (Appeals)" shall be inserted.

### 64. In section 119 of the Income-tax Act, for the words and brackets "the
Commissioner (Appeals)" and "a Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and brackets
"the Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)" and "a Joint
Commissioner (Appeals) or a Commissioner (Appeals)" shall respectively be
substituted.

### 65. In section 131 of the Income-tax Act, for the words and brackets ",
Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and brackets ", Joint Commissioner
(Appeals), Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be substituted.

### 66. In section 132 of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)for sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be substituted,
namely:—"(2) The authorised officer may requisition the services of,—(i)any
police officer or of any officer of the Central Government, or of both;
or(ii)any person or entity as may be approved by the Principal Chief
Commissioner or the Chief Commissioner or the Principal Director General or
the Director General, in accordance with the procedure, as may be prescribed,
in this regard, to assist him for all or any of the purposes specified in sub-
section (1) or sub-section (1A) and it shall be the duty of every such officer
or person or entity to comply with such requisition.";(b)for sub-section (9D),
the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:—"(9D) The authorised
officer may, during the course of the search or seizure or within a period of
sixty days from the date on which the last of the authorisations for search
was executed, make a reference to,—(i)a Valuation Officer referred to in
section 142A; or(ii)any other person or entity or any valuer registered by or
under any law for the time being in force, as may be approved by the Principal
Chief Commissioner or the Chief Commissioner or the Principal Director General
or the Director General, in accordance with the procedure, as may be
prescribed, in this regard, who shall estimate the fair market value of the
property in the manner as may be prescribed, and submit a report of the
estimate to the authorised officer or the Assessing Officer, as the case may
be, within a period of sixty days from the date of receipt of such
reference.";(c)for Explanation 1, the following Explanation shall be
substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted with effect from the
1st day of April, 2022, namely:—"Explanation 1.—For the purposes of sub-
sections (9A), (9B) and (9D), the last of authorisation for search shall be
deemed to have been executed,—(a)in the case of search, on the conclusion of
search as recorded in the last panchnama drawn in relation to any person in
whose case the warrant of authorisation has been issued; or(b)in the case of
requisition under section 132A, on the actual receipt of the books of account
or other documents or assets by the authorised officer.".

### 67. In section 133 of the Income-taxAct, for the words and brackets "the
Commissioner (Appeals)" wherever they occur, the words and brackets "the Joint
Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be substituted.

### 68. In section 134 of the Income-taxAct, for the words and brackets "the
Commissioner (Appeals)" at both the places where they occur, the words and
brackets "the Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)"
shall be substituted.

### 69. In section 135A of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (2), after the
proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have
been inserted with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2022, namely:—

"Provided further that the Central Government may amend any direction, issued
under this sub-section on or before the 31st day of March, 2022, by
notification in the Official Gazette.".

### 70. In section 140B of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (4), with effect
from the 1st day of April, 2022,—

(i)in the opening portion, the words "or, as the case may be, on the amount by
which the advance tax paid falls short of the assessed tax," shall be omitted
and shall be deemed to have been omitted;(ii)in clause (a), in sub-clause (i),
after the words "earlier return", the words ", if any" shall be inserted and
shall be deemed to have been inserted

### 71. In section 142 of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)for sub-section (2A), the following sub-section shall be substituted,
namely:—"(2A) If, at any stage of the proceedings before him, theAssessing
Officer, having regard to the nature and complexity of the accounts, volume of
the accounts, doubts about the correctness of the accounts, multiplicity of
transactions in the accounts or specialised nature of business activity of the
assessee, and the interests of the revenue, is of the opinion that it is
necessary so to do, he may, with the previous approval of the Principal Chief
Commissioner or Chief Commissioner or Principal Commissioner or Commissioner,
direct the assessee to get either or both of the following, namely:—(i)to get
the accounts audited by an accountant, as defined in the Explanation below
sub-section (2) of section 288, nominated by the Principal Chief Commissioner
or Chief Commissioner or Principal Commissioner or Commissioner in this behalf
and to furnish a report of such audit in the prescribed form duly signed and
verified by such accountant and setting forth such particulars, as may be
prescribed, and such other particulars as the Assessing Officer may
require;(ii)to get the inventory valued by a cost accountant, nominated by the
Principal Chief Commissioner or Chief Commissioner or Principal Commissioner
or Commissioner in this behalf and to furnish a report of such inventory
valuation in the prescribed form duly signed and verified by such cost
accountant and setting forth such particulars, as may be prescribed, and such
other particulars as the Assessing Officer may require:Provided that the
Assessing Officer shall not direct the assessee to get the accounts so audited
or inventory so valued unless the assessee has been given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard.";(i)for the words, brackets, figure and letter
"audit under sub-section (2A)(including the remuneration of the accountant)",
the words, brackets, figure and letter "audit or inventory valuation under
sub-section (2A) (including the remuneration of the accountant or the cost
accountant, as the case may be)"shall be substituted;(ii)in the
proviso,—(I)for the words "audit under", the words "audit or inventory
valuation under" shall be substituted;(II)for the words and brackets "such
audit (including remuneration of the accountant)", the words and brackets
"such audit or inventory valuation (including the remuneration of the
accountant or the cost accountant, as the case may be)" shall be
substituted;(c)in sub-section (3), after the word "audit", the words "or
inventory valuation"shall be inserted;(d)after sub-section (4), the following
Explanation shall be inserted, namely:—'Explanation.—For the purposes of this
section, "cost accountant" means a cost accountant as defined in clause (b) of
sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959 and
who holds a valid certificate of practice under sub-section (1) of section 6
of the said Act.'.

### 72. In section 148 of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)for the words "such period, as may be specified in such notice", the
words"a period of three months from the end of the month in which such notice
is issued, or such further period as may be allowed by the Assessing Officer
on the basis of an application made in this regard by the assessee" shall be
substituted;(b)after the second proviso and before Explanation 1, the
following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—"Provided also that any return of
income, required to be furnished by an assessee under this section and
furnished beyond the period allowed shall not be deemed to be a return under
section 139.".

### 73. In section 149 of the Income-taxAct, in sub-section (1),—

(I)after the second proviso, the following provisos shall be inserted,
namely:—"Provided also that for cases referred to in clauses (i), (iii) and
(iv) of Explanation 2 to section 148, where,—(a)a search is initiated under
section 132; or(b)a search under section 132 for which the last of
authorisations is executed; or(c)requisition is made under section 132A, after
the 15th day of March of any financial year and the period for issue of notice
under section 148 expires on the 31st day of March of such financial year, a
period of fifteen days shall be excluded for the purpose of computing the
period of limitation as per this section and the notice issued under section
148 in such case shall be deemed to have been issued on the 31st day of March
of such financial year:Provided also that where the information as referred to
in Explanation 1 to section 148 emanates from a statement recorded or
documents impounded under section 131 or section 133A, as the case may be, on
or before the 31st day of March of a financial year, in consequence of,—(a)a
search under section 132 which is initiated; or(b)a search under section 132
for which the last of authorisations is executed; or(c)a requisition made
under section 132A, after the 15th day of March of such financial year, a
period of fifteen days shall be excluded for the purpose of computing the
period of limitation as per this section and the notice issued under clause
(b) of section 148A in such case shall be deemed to have been issued on the
31st day of March of such financial year:";(II)in the sixth proviso, for the
words "less than seven days", the words "does not exceed seven days" shall be
substituted.

### 74. In section 151 of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)in clause (ii), the words "where there is no Principal Chief Commissioner
or Principal Director General," shall be omitted;(b)after clause (ii), the
following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—"Provided that the period of
three years for the purposes of clause (i) shall be computed after taking into
account the period of limitation as excluded by the third or fourth or fifth
provisos or extended by the sixth proviso to sub-section (1) of section 149.".

### 75. In section 153 of the Income-tax Act,—

(I)in sub-section (1),—(a)in the third proviso, the words "or after" shall be
omitted;(b)after the third proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted,
namely:—"Provided also that in respect of an order of assessment relating to
the assessment year commencing on or after the 1st day of April, 2022, the
provisions of this sub-section shall have effect, as if for the words "twenty-
one months", the words "twelve months" had been substituted.";(II)in sub-
section (1A), for the words "nine months", the words "twelve months"Shall be
substituted;(III)in sub-section (3),—(a)for the words, brackets and figures
"sub-sections (1) and (2)", the words, brackets, figures and letter "sub-
sections (1), (1A) and (2)" shall be substituted;(b)for the words "Principal
Commissioner or Commissioner" at both the places where they occur, the words
"Principal Chief Commissioner or Chief Commissioner or Principal Commissioner
or Commissioner, as the case may be," shall be substituted;(IV)after sub-
section (3), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—"(3A)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1), (1A), (2) and (3),
where an assessment or reassessment is pending on the date of initiation of
search under section 132 or making of requisition under section 132A, the
period available for completion of assessment or reassessment, as the case may
be, under the said sub-sections shall,—(a)in a case where such search is
initiated under section 132 or such requisition is made under section
132A;(b)in the case of an assessee, to whom any money, bullion, jewellery or
other valuable article or thing seized or requisitioned belongs to;(c)in the
case of an assessee, to whom any books of account or documents seized or
requisitioned pertains or pertain to, or any information contained therein,
relates to, be extended by twelve months.";(V)in sub-section (4), for the
words, brackets and figures "sub-sections (1), (2) and (3)" at both the places
where they occur, the words, brackets, figures and letters"sub-sections (1),
(1A), (2), (3) and (3A)" shall be substituted;(VI)in sub-section (5), for the
words "the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner", the words "the Principal
Chief Commissioner or Chief Commissioner or Principal Commissioner or
Commissioner, as the case may be," shall be substituted;(VII)in sub-section
(6),—(a)in the opening portion, for the words, brackets and figures"sub-
sections (1) and (2)", the words, brackets, figures and letter "sub-sections
(1), (1A) and (2)" shall be substituted;(b)in clause (i), after the words
"passed by the", the words "Principal Chief Commissioner or Chief Commissioner
or" shall be inserted;(VIII)in Explanation 1,—(a)in clause (iv),—(i)in the
opening portion, after the word "audited", the words "or inventory valued"
shall be inserted;(ii)in sub-clause (a), after the words "such audit", the
words "or inventory valuation" shall be inserted;(b)in the first proviso, for
the word, brackets and figures"sub-sections (1), (2)", the word, brackets,
figures and letter "sub-sections (1),(1A), (2)" shall be substituted.

### 76. In section 154 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (2), in clause
(b), for the words and brackets "the Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and
brackets "the Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)"
shall be substituted.

### 77. In section 155 of the Income-taxAct,—

(a)in sub-section (11A), after the words, figures and letter "section 10A or"
at both the places where they occur, the words, figures and letters "section
10AA or" shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April,
2024;(b)after sub-section (18), the following sub-section shall be inserted,
namely:—"(19) Where any deduction in respect of any expenditure incurred for
the purchase of sugarcane has been claimed by an assessee, being a co-
operative society engaged in the business of manufacture of sugar, and such
deduction has been disallowed wholly or partly in any previous year commencing
on or before the 1st day ofApril, 2014, the Assessing Officer shall, on the
basis of an application made by such assessee in this regard, recompute the
total income of the assessee for such previous year after allowing deduction
to the extent such expenditure is incurred at a price which is equal to or
less than the price fixed or approved by the Government for that previous
year, and the provisions of section 154 shall, so far as may be, apply
thereto, and the period of four years specified in sub-section (7) of that
section shall be reckoned from the end of previous year commencing on the 1st
day ofApril, 2022.";(c)after sub-section (19) and before the Explanation, the
following sub-section shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of
October, 2023, namely:—"(20) Where any income has been included in the return
of income furnished by an assessee under section 139 for any assessment year
(herein referred to as the relevant assessment year) and tax on such income
has been deducted at source and paid to the credit of the Central Government
in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XVII-B in a subsequent financial
year, the Assessing Officer shall, on an application made by the assessee in
such form, as may be prescribed, within a period of two years from the end of
the financial year in which such tax was deducted at source, amend the order
of assessment or any intimation allowing credit of such tax deducted at source
in the relevant assessment year, and the provisions of section 154 shall, so
far as may be, apply thereto and the period of four years specified in sub-
section (7) of that section shall be reckoned from the end of the financial
year in which such tax has been deducted:Provided that the credit of such tax
deducted at source shall not be allowed in any other assessment year.".

### 78. In section 158A of the Income-tax Act, in the Explanation, for the
words and brackets "the Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and brackets "the
Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be
substituted.

### 79. In section 158AB of the Income-tax Act, for the words and brackets
"the Commissioner (Appeals)" wherever they occur, the words and brackets "the
Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be
substituted.

### 80. For section 170Aof the Income-taxAct, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:—

'170A.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in section 139,
in a case of business reorganisation, where prior to the date of order of a
High Court or tribunal or an Adjudicating Authority as defined in clause (1)
of section 5 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (hereinafter referred
to as order in respect of business reorganisation), as the case may be, any
return of income has been furnished by an entity to which such order applies
under the provisions of section 139 for any assessment year relevant to the
previous year to which such order applies, the successor shall furnish, within
a period of six months from the end of the month in which the order was
issued, a modified return in such form and manner, as may be prescribed, in
accordance with and limited to the said order.(2)Where the assessment or
reassessment proceedings for an assessment year relevant to a previous year to
which the order in respect of the business reorganisation applies,—(a)have
been completed on the date of furnishing of the modified return in accordance
with the provisions of sub-section (1), the Assessing Officer shall pass an
order modifying the total income of the relevant assessment year determined in
such assessment or reassessment, in accordance with such order and taking into
account the modified return so furnished;(b)are pending on the date of
furnishing of the modified return in accordance with the provisions of sub-
section (1), the Assessing Officer shall pass an order assessing or
reassessing the total income of the relevant assessment year in accordance
with the order of the business reorganisation and taking into account the
modified return so furnished.(3)Save as otherwise provided in this section, in
an assessment or reassessment made in respect of an assessment year under this
section, all other provisions of this Act shall apply and the tax shall be
chargeable at the rate or rates as applicable to such assessment
year.Explanation.—In this section, the expressions—(i)"business
reorganisation" means the reorganisation of business involving the
amalgamation or demerger or merger of business of one or more
persons;(ii)"successor" means all resulting companies in a business
reorganisation, whether or not the company was in existence prior to such
business reorganisation.'.

### 81. In section 177 of the Income-taxAct, in sub-section (2), for the words
and brackets "the Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and brackets "the Joint
Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be substituted.

### 82. In section 189 of the Income-taxAct, in sub-section (2), for the words
and brackets "the Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and brackets "the Joint
Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be substituted.

### 83. In section 192A of the Income-tax Act, the second proviso shall be
omitted

### 84. In section 193 of the Income-taxAct, in the proviso, for clause (ix),
the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—

'(ix) any interest payable to a "business trust", as defined in clause (13A)
of section 2, in respect of any securities, by a special purpose vehicle
referred to in the Explanation to clause (23FC) of section 10.'.

### 85. In section 194B of the Income-tax Act,—

(i)for the marginal heading, the following marginal heading shall be
substituted, namely:—"Winnings from lottery or crossword puzzle, etc.";(ii)for
the words "in an amount exceeding ten thousand rupees", the words"or from
gambling or betting of any form or nature whatsoever, being the amount or the
aggregate of amounts exceeding ten thousand rupees during the financial
year"shall be substituted;(iii)after the proviso, the following shall be
inserted, namely:—'Provided further that nothing contained in this section
shall apply to deduction of income-tax on winnings from any online game on or
after the 1st - day of April, 2023Explanation.—For the purposes of this
section,"online game" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (iii) of
the Explanation to section 115BBJ.'.

### 86. After section 194B of the Income-taxAct, the following section shall
be inserted, namely:—

'194BA.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provisions of this
Act, any person responsible for paying to any person any income by way of
winnings from any online game during the financial year shall deduct income-
tax on the net winnings in his user account, computed in the manner as may be
prescribed, at the end of the financial year at the rates in force:Provided
that in a case where there is a withdrawal from user account during the
financial year, the income-tax shall be deducted at the time of such
withdrawal on the net winnings comprised in such withdrawal, as well as on the
remaining amount of net winnings in the user account, computed in the manner
as may be prescribed, at the end of the financial year.(2)In a case where the
net winnings are wholly in kind or partly in cash, and partly in kind but the
part in cash is not sufficient to meet the liability of deduction of tax in
respect of whole of the net winnings, the person responsible for paying shall,
before releasing the winnings, ensure that tax has been paid in respect of the
net winnings.(3)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of
this section, the Board may, with the previous approval of the Central
Government, issue guidelines for the purposes of removing the
difficulty.(4)Every guideline issued by the Board under sub-section (3) shall,
as soon as may be after it is issued, be laid before each House of Parliament,
and shall be binding on the income-tax authorities and on the person liable to
deduct income-tax.Explanation.—For the purposes of this section—(a)"computer
resource", "internet" and "online game" shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in section 115BBJ;(b)"online gaming intermediary" means an
intermediary that offers one or more online games;(c)"user" means any person
who accesses or avails any computer resource of an online gaming
intermediary;(d)"user account" means account of a user registered with an
online gaming intermediary.'.

### 87. In section 194BB of the Income-taxAct, for the words "in an amount
exceeding ten thousand rupees", the words ", being the amount or aggregate of
amounts exceeding ten thousand rupees during the financial year," shall be
substituted.

### 88. In section 194LC of the Income-taxAct, with effect from the 1st day of
July, 2023,—

(i)in sub-section (1), after the proviso, the following proviso shall be
inserted, namely:—“Provided further that in case of income by way of interest
referred to in clause (ic) of sub-section (2), the income-tax shall be
deducted at the rate of nine per cent.”;(ii)in sub-section (2),—(I)in clause
(ib), for the word “and”, the word “or” shall be substituted;(II)after clause
(ib), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—“(ic) in respect of
money borrowed by it from a source outside India by way of issuance of any
long-term bond or rupee denominated bond on or after the 1st day of July,
2023, which is listed only on a recognised stock exchange located in an
International Financial Services Centre; and”.

### 89. In section 194N of the Income-tax Act, after the second proviso, the
following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—

'Provided also that where the recipient is a co-operative society, the
provisions of this section shall have effect, as if for the words "one crore
rupees", the words

### 90. "three crore rupees" had been substituted.'

In section 194R of the Income-tax Act, the Explanation shall be numbered as
Explanation 1 thereof, and after Explanation 1 as so renumbered, the following
Explanation shall be inserted, namely:—"Explanation 2.—For the removal of
doubts, it is clarified that the provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply to
any benefit or perquisite, whether in cash or in kind or partly in cash and
partly in kind.".

### 91. In section 196A of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), the
following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—

"Provided that where an agreement referred to in sub-section (1) of section 90
or sub-section (1) of section 90A applies to the payee and if the payee has
furnished a certificate referred to in sub-section (4) of section 90 or sub-
section (4) of section 90A, as the case may be, then, income-tax thereon shall
be deducted at the rate of twenty per cent. or at the rate or rates of income-
tax provided in such agreement for such income, whichever is lower.".

### 92. In section 197 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), after the
figures and letters "194LA,", the figures and letters "194LBA," shall be
inserted.

### 93. In section 206AB of the Income-tax Act,—

(i)in sub-section (1), after the figures and letter "194B,", the figures and
letters "194BA," shall be inserted;(ii)in sub-section (3), for the proviso,
the following proviso shall be substituted, namely:—"Provided that the
specified person shall not include—(i)a non-resident who does not have a
permanent establishment in India; or(ii)a person who is not required to
furnish the return of income for the assessment year relevant to the said
previous year and is notified by the Central Government in the Official
Gazette in this behalf.".

### 94. In section 206C of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1G), with
effect from the 1st day of July, 2023,—

(i)in clause (a), the words “out of India” at both the places where they occur
shall be omitted;(ii)in the long line, for the word "five", the word "twenty"
shall be substituted;(iii)in the first proviso, for the words "and is for a
purpose other than purchase of overseas tour program package", the words "and
is for the purposes of education or medical treatment" shall be
substituted;(iv)in the second proviso, for the words "is for a purpose other
than purchase of overseas tour program package", the words "is for the
purposes of education or medical treatment" shall be substituted.

### 95. In section 206CC of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), the
following proviso shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of July,
2023, namely:—

“Provided that the rate of tax collection at source under this section shall
not exceed twenty per cent.”.

### 96. In section 206CCAof the Income-tax Act,—

(i)in sub-section (1), the following proviso shall be inserted with effect
from the day of July, 2023, namely:—“Provided that the rate of tax collection
at source under this section shall not exceed twenty per cent.”;(ii)in sub-
section (3), for the proviso, the following proviso shall be substituted,
namely:—"Provided that the specified person shall not include—(i)a non-
resident who does not have a permanent establishment in India; or(ii)a person
who is not required to furnish the return of income for the assessment year
relevant to the said previous year and is notified by the Central Government
in the Official Gazette in this behalf.".

### 97. In section 241A of the Income-tax Act, the following proviso shall be
inserted, namely:—

"Provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply from the 1st day
of April, 2023.".

### 98. In section 244A of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)in sub-section (1), in clause (a), after sub-clause (ii), the following
proviso shall be inserted with effect from the1st day of October, 2023,
namely:—"Provided that where refund arises as a result of an order passed by
the Assessing Officer in consequence of an application made by the assessee
under sub-section (20) of section 155, such interest shall be calculated at
the rate of one-half per cent. for every month or part of a month comprised in
the period from the date of such application to the date on which the refund
is granted;";(b)in sub-section (1A), the following proviso shall be inserted,
namely:—"Provided that where proceedings for assessment or reassessment are
pending in respect of an assessee, in computing the period for determining the
additional interest payable to such assessee under this sub-section, the
period beginning from the date on which such refund is withheld by the
Assessing Officer in accordance with and subject to provisions of sub-section
(2) of section 245 and ending with the date on which such assessment or
reassessment is made, shall be excluded.".

### 99. For section 245 of the Income-taxAct, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:—

"245.(1) Where under any of the provisions of this Act, a refund becomes due
or is found to be due to any person, the Assessing Officer or Commissioner or
Principal Commissioner or Chief Commissioner or Principal Chief Commissioner,
as the case may be, may, in lieu of payment of the refund, set off the amount
to be refunded or any part of that amount, against the sum, if any, remaining
payable under thisAct by the person to whom the refund is due, after giving an
intimation in writing to such person of the action proposed to be taken under
this sub-section.(2)Where a part of the refund is set off under the provisions
of sub-section (1), or where no such amount is set off, and refund becomes due
to a person, and the Assessing Officer, having regard to the fact that
proceedings for assessment or reassessment are pending in the case of such
person, is of the opinion that the grant of refund is likely to adversely
affect the revenue, he may, for reasons to be recorded in writing and with the
previous approval of the Principal Commissioner or the Commissioner, as the
case may be, withhold the refund up to the date on which such assessment or
reassessment is made.".

### 100. In section 245D of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (9), for clause
(iv), the following clause shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have
been substituted with effect from the 1st day of February, 2021, namely:—

"(iv) where the time-limit for amending any order or filing of rectification
application under sub-section (6B) expires on or after the 1st day of
February, 2021, but before the 1st day of February, 2022, such time-limit
shall be extended to the 30th - day of September, 2023."

### 101. In section 245MA of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (4), after the
proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—

"Provided further that the Central Government may amend any direction, issued
under this sub-section on or before the 31st day of March, 2023, by
notification in the Official Gazette.".

### 102. In section 245R of the Income-taxAct, in sub-section (10), after the
proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—

"Provided further that the Central Government may amend any direction, issued
under this sub-section on or before the 31st day of March, 2023, by
notification in the Official Gazette.".

### 103. In Chapter XX of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)for the sub-heading "A.—Appeals to the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) and
Commissioner (Appeals)", the sub-heading "A.—Appeals to the Joint Commissioner
(Appeals) and Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be substituted;(b)for section 246,
the following section shall be substituted, namely:—'246.(1) Any assessee
aggrieved by any of the following orders of an Assessing Officer (below the
rank of Joint Commissioner) may appeal to the Joint Commissioner (Appeals)
against—(a)an order being an intimation under sub-section (1) of section 143,
where the assessee objects to the making of adjustments, or any order of
assessment under sub-section (3) of section 143 or section 144, where the
assessee objects to the amount of income assessed, or to the amount of tax
determined, or to the amount of loss computed, or to the status under which he
is assessed;(b)an order of assessment, reassessment or recomputation under
section 147;(c)an order being an intimation under sub-section (1) of section
200A;(d)an order under section 201;(e)an order being an intimation under sub-
section (6A) of section 206C;(f)an order under sub-section (1) of section
206CB;(g)an order imposing a penalty under Chapter XXI; and(h)an order under
section 154 or section 155 amending any of the orders mentioned in clauses (a)
to (g):Provided that no appeal shall be filed before the Joint Commissioner
(Appeals) if an order referred to in this sub-section is passed by or with the
prior approval of, an income-tax authority above the rank of Deputy
Commissioner.(2)Where any appeal filed against an order referred to in sub-
section (1) is pending before the Commissioner (Appeals), the Board or an
income-tax authority so authorised by the Board in this regard, may transfer
such appeal and any matter arising out of or connected with such appeal and
which is so pending, to the Joint Commissioner (Appeals) who may proceed with
such appeal or matter, from the stage at which it was before, it was so
transferred.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) and sub-
section (2), the Board or an income-tax authority so authorised by the Board
in this regard, may transfer any appeal which is pending before a Joint
Commissioner (Appeals) and any matter arising out of or connected with such
appeal and which is so pending, to the Commissioner (Appeals) who may proceed
with such appeal or matter, from the stage at which it was before, it was so
transferred.(4)Where an appeal is transferred under the provisions of sub-
section (2) or sub-section (3), the appellant shall be given an opportunity of
being reheard.(5)For the purposes of disposal of appeal by the Joint
Commissioner (Appeals), the Central Government may make a scheme, by
notification in the Official Gazette, so as to dispose of appeals in an
expedient manner with transparency and accountability, by eliminating the
interface between the Joint Commissioner (Appeals) and the appellant, in the
course of appellate proceedings to the extent technologically feasible and
direct that any of the provisions of this Act relating to jurisdiction and
procedure for disposal of appeals by the Joint Commissioner (Appeals), shall
not apply or shall apply with such exceptions, modifications and adaptations
as may be specified in the notification.(6)For the purposes of sub-section
(1), the Board may specify that the provisions of that sub-section shall not
apply to any case or any class of cases.Explanation.—For the purposes of this
section, "status" means the category under which the assessee is assessed as
"individual", "Hindu undivided family" and so on.'.

### 104. In section 249 of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)in sub-section (1), in the opening portion, after the figures, letters and
words "1st day of October, 1998", the words, brackets, figures and letters "or
to the Joint Commissioner (Appeals) on or after the 1st day ofApril, 2023,"
shall be inserted;(b)in sub-section (3), for the words and brackets
"Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and brackets "Joint Commissioner (Appeals)
or the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be substituted;(c)in sub-section (4), in
the proviso, for the words and brackets "Commissioner (Appeals)", the words
and brackets "Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)"
shall be substituted.

### 105. In section 250 of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)in sub-sections (1), (3), (4), (5), (6) and (7), for the words and brackets
"Commissioner (Appeals)" wherever they occur, the words and brackets "Joint
Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be
substituted;(b)for sub-section (6A), the following sub-section shall be
substituted, namely:—"(6A) In every appeal, the Joint Commissioner (Appeals)
or the Commissioner (Appeals), as the case may be, where it is possible, may
hear and decide such appeal within a period of one year from the end of the
financial year in which such appeal is filed before him under sub-section (1)
or transferred to him under sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) of section 246
or filed before him under sub-section (1) of section 246A, as the case may
be.";(c)in sub-section (6C), after the proviso, the following proviso shall be
inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with effect from the 1st
day ofApril, 2022, namely:—"Provided further that the Central Government may
amend any direction, issued under this sub-section on or before the 31st day
of March, 2022, by notification in the Official Gazette.".

### 106. In section 251 of the Income-taxAct,—

(i)for the marginal heading, the following marginal heading "Powers of the
Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)." shall be
substituted;(ii)after sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be
inserted, namely:—"(1A) In disposing of an appeal, the Joint Commissioner
(Appeals) shall have the following powers—(a)in an appeal against an order of
assessment, he may confirm, reduce, enhance or annul the assessment;(b)in an
appeal against an order imposing a penalty, he may confirm or cancel such
order or vary it so as either to enhance or to reduce the penalty;(c)in any
other case, he may pass such orders in the appeal as he thinks fit.";(iii)in
sub-section (2), for the words and brackets "Commissioner (Appeals)", the
words and brackets "Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner
(Appeals), as the case may be," shall be substituted;(iv)in the
Explanation,—(a)for the words and brackets "an appeal, the Commissioner
(Appeals),", the words and brackets "an appeal, the Joint Commissioner
(Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)," shall be substituted;(b)for the
words and brackets "raised before the Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and
brackets "raised before the Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner
(Appeals), as the case may be," shall be substituted.

### 107. In section 253 of the Income-taxAct,—

(a)in sub-section (1),—(A)in clause (a), after the word, figures and letter
"section 271A,", the words, figures and letters "section 271AAB, section
271AAC, section 271AAD," shall be inserted;(B)after clause (a), the following
clause shall be inserted, namely:—"(aa) an order passed by a Joint
Commissioner (Appeals) under section 154, section 250, section 270A, section
271, section 271A, section 271AAC, section 271AAD or section 271J; or";(C)for
clause (c), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—"(c) an order
passed by,—(i)a Principal Commissioner or Commissioner under section 12AA or
section 12AB or under clause (vi) of sub-section (5) of section 80G or under
section 263 or under section 270A or under section 271 or under section 272A
or an order passed by him under section 154 amending any such order; or(ii)a
Principal Chief Commissioner or Chief Commissioner or
aPrincipalDirectorGeneralorDirectorGeneraloraPrincipalDirector or Director
under section 263 or under section 272A or an order passed by him under
section 154 amending any such order; or";(b)in sub-section (2), for the words
and brackets "Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and brackets "the Joint
Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be
substituted;(c)in sub-section (4),—(i)for the words and brackets "against the
order of the Commissioner (Appeals)", the words "against an order" shall be
substituted;(ii)for the words and brackets "any part of the order of the
Commissioner (Appeals)", the words "any part of such order" shall be
substituted.

### 108. In section 264 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (4), for the
words and brackets "the Commissioner (Appeals)" wherever they occur, the words
and brackets "the Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)"
shall be substituted.

### 109. In section 267 of the Income-tax Act, for the words and brackets "the
Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and brackets "the Joint Commissioner
(Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be substituted.

### 110. In section 269SS of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)after the second proviso and before the Explanation, the following proviso
shall be inserted, namely:—'Provided also that the provisions of this section
shall have effect, as if for the words "twenty thousand rupees", the words
"two lakh rupees" had been substituted in the case of any deposit or loan
where,—(a)such deposit is accepted by a primary agricultural credit society or
a primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank from its
member; or(b)such loan is taken from a primary agricultural credit society or
a primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank by its
member.';(b)in the Explanation, for clause (ii), the following clause shall be
substituted, namely:—'(ii) "co-operative bank", "primary agricultural credit
society" and "primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank"
shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Explanation to
sub-section (4) of section 80P;'.

### 111. In section 269T of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)after the second proviso and before the Explanation, the following proviso
shall be inserted, namely:—'Provided also that the provisions of this section
shall have effect, as if for the words "twenty thousand rupees", the words
"two lakh rupees" had been substituted in the case of any deposit or loan
where,—(a)such deposit is paid by a primary agricultural credit society or a
primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank to its member;
or(b)such loan is repaid to a primary agricultural credit society or a primary
co-operative agricultural and rural development bank by its member.';(b)in the
Explanation, for clause (ii), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:—'(ii) "co-operative bank", "primary agricultural credit society" and
"primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank" shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in Explanation to sub-section (4) of
section 80P;'.

### 112. In section 270A of the Income-tax Act, for the words and brackets
"the Commissioner (Appeals)" wherever they occur, the words and brackets "the
Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be
substituted.

### 113. In section 270AA of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (6), after the
words

### 114. "No appeal under", the words and figures "section 246 or" shall be
inserted In section 271 of the Income-tax Act, for the words and brackets "the
Commissioner (Appeals)" wherever they occur, the words and brackets "the Joint
Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be substituted.

### 115. In section 271A of the Income-tax Act, for the words and brackets
"the Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and brackets "the Joint Commissioner
(Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be substituted.

### 116. In section 271AAC of the Income-tax Act, for the words and brackets
"the Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and brackets "the Joint Commissioner
(Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be substituted.

### 117. In section 271AAD of the Income-tax Act, for the words and brackets
"the Commissioner (Appeals)" at both the places where they occur, the words
and brackets "the Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)"
shall be substituted.

### 118. In section 271C of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1),—

(A)in clause (b),—(I)for the words "pay the whole", the words "pay or ensure
payment of, the whole" shall be substituted;(II)in sub-clause (i), the word
"or" shall be omitted;(III)after sub-clause (ii), the following sub-clauses
shall be inserted, namely:—"(iii) the first proviso to sub-section (1) of
section 194R; or(iv)the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 194S;
or";(IV)after sub-clause (iv) as inserted by the FinanceAct, 2023, the
following sub-clause shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of July,
2023, namely:—"(v) sub-section (2) of section 194BA,";(B)in the long line,
after the words "deduct or pay", the words "or ensure payment of," shall be
inserted.

### 119. Section 271FAA of the Income-tax Act shall be numbered as sub-section
(1) thereof and in sub-section (1) as so renumbered, for the long line, the
following shall be substituted, namely:—

"then, the prescribed income-tax authority under sub-section (1) of section
285BA may direct that such person shall pay, by way of penalty, a sum of fifty
thousand rupees.(2)Where in the case of a person, referred to in clause (k) of
sub-section (1) of section 285BA, who is required to furnish a statement under
that section (herein referred to as the reporting financial institution)
provides inaccurate information in the statement and the inaccuracy in such
statement is due to false or inaccurate information furnished by the holder or
holders of the relevant reportable account or accounts, the prescribed income-
tax authority under sub-section (1) of section 285BA, shall direct that the
reporting financial institution shall, in addition to the penalty under sub-
section (1), if any, pay a sum of five thousand rupees for every inaccurate
reportable account and the reporting financial institution shall be entitled
to recover the sum so paid on behalf of such reportable account holder, or to
retain out of any moneys that may be in its possession, or may come to it from
every such reportable account holder, an amount equal to the sum so paid.".

### 120. In section 271J of the Income-tax Act, for the words and brackets
"the Commissioner (Appeals)" at both the places where they occur, the words
and brackets "the Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)"
shall be substituted.

### 121. In section 274 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (2B), after the
proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have
been inserted with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2022, namely:—

"Provided further that the Central Government may amend any direction, issued
under this sub-section on or before the 31st day of March, 2022, by
notification in the Official Gazette".

### 122. In section 275 of the Income-tax Act,—

(a)for the words and brackets "the Commissioner (Appeals)" wherever they
occur, the words and brackets "the Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the
Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be substituted;(b)for the words and brackets "to
the Commissioner (Appeals)" wherever they occur, the words and brackets "to
the Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or to the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be
substituted.

### 123. In section 276A of the Income-tax Act, after the proviso, the
following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—

"Provided further that no proceeding shall be initiated under this section on
or after the 1st day ofApril, 2023.".

### 124. In section 276B of the Income-tax Act,—

(A)in the opening portion, the words "pay to the credit of the Central
Government" shall be omitted;(B)in clause (a), for the words "the tax
deducted", the words "pay to the credit of the Central Government, the tax
deducted" shall be substituted;(C)for clause (b), the following clause shall
be substituted, namely:—'(b) pay tax or ensure payment of tax to the credit of
the Central Government, as required by or under—(i)sub-section (2) of section
115-O;(ii)the proviso to section 194B;(iii)the first proviso to sub-section
(1) of section 194R;(iv)the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 194S;
or';(D)after sub-clause (iv) of clause (b) as substituted by the Finance Act,
2023, the following sub-clause shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day
of July, 2023, namely:—"(v) sub-section (2) of section 194BA,".

### 125. In section 279 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), for the
words and brackets "or Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and brackets "or
Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be substituted.

### 126. In section 287 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (2), for the
words and brackets "to the Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and brackets "to
the Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or to the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be
substituted.

### 127. In section 295 of the Income-taxAct, in sub-section (2),—

(i)in clause (eec), after the word "audit", the words "or inventory
valuation"shall be inserted;(ii)in clause (mm), for the words and brackets
"the Commissioner (Appeals)", the words and brackets "the Joint Commissioner
(Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals)" shall be substituted.

## Chapter IV  
INDIRECT TAXES

### 128. Customs

In the Customs Act, 1962 (hereinafter referred to as the Customs Act), in
section 25, in sub-section (4A), after the proviso, the following proviso
shall be inserted, namely:—"Provided further that nothing contained in this
sub-section shall apply to any such exemption granted to, or in relation
to,—(a)any multilateral or bilateral trade agreement;(b)obligations under
international agreements, treaties, conventions or such other obligations
including with respect to United Nations agencies, diplomats and international
organisations;(c)privileges of constitutional authorities;(d)schemes under the
Foreign Trade Policy;(e)the Central Government schemes having validity of more
than two years;(f)re-imports, temporary imports, goods imported as gifts or
personal baggage;(g)any duty of customs under any law for the time being in
force, including integrated tax leviable under sub-section (7) of section 3 of
the Customs Tariff Act, 1975, other than duty of customs leviable under
section 12.".

### 129. In the Customs Act, in section 65, in sub-section (1), for the words
"subject to", the words, figures and letter "subject to the provisions of
section 65A and" shall be substituted.

### 130. After section 65 of the Customs Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:—

'65A.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act or the
Customs TariffAct, 1975, the following provisions shall, with effect from such
date as may be notified by the Central Government, apply to goods in relation
to which any manufacturing process or other operations in terms of section 65
may be carried out, namely:—(A)the dutiable goods, which are deposited in the
warehouse shall be goods on which the integrated tax under sub-section (7) and
the goods and services tax compensation cess under sub-section (9), of section
3 of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 have been paid, and only for the purpose of
the duty payable, other than the said tax and cess paid, such dutiable goods
shall be warehoused goods;(B)the dutiable goods shall be permitted to be
removed for the purpose of deposit in the warehouse, where—(i)in respect of
the goods, an entry thereof has been made by presenting electronically on the
customs automated system, a bill of entry for home consumption under section
46 and the goods have been assessed to duty under section 17 or section 18, as
the case may be, in accordance with clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section
15;(ii)the integrated tax under sub-section (7) and the goods and services tax
compensation cess under sub-section (9), of section 3 of the Customs
TariffAct, 1975 have been paid in accordance with section 47;(iii)on removal
of the goods from another warehouse in terms of section 67, a bill of entry
for home consumption under clause (a) of section 68 has been presented and the
integrated tax under sub-section (7), and the goods and services tax
compensation cess under sub-section (9), of section 3 of the Customs Tariff
Act, 1975 have been paid before the goods are so removed from that other
warehouse;(iv)the provisions of section 59, subject to the following
modifications therein, have been complied with, namely:—(a)for the words "bill
of entry for warehousing", the words"bill of entry for home consumption" shall
be substituted; and(b)for the words "amount of the duty assessed", the
words"amount of duty assessed, but not paid" shall be substituted;(C)the duty
payable in respect of warehoused goods referred to in clause (A), to the
extent not paid, is paid before the goods are removed from the warehouse in
such manner as may be prescribed.(2)The provisions of sub-section (1) shall
not apply for the purpose of manufacturing process or other operations in
terms of section 65 to dutiable goods which have been deposited in the
warehouse or permitted to be removed for deposit in the warehouse prior to the
date notified under that sub-section.(3)The Central Government may, if it
considers necessary or expedient, and having regard to such criteria,
including but not limited to, the nature or class or categories of goods, or
class of importers or exporters, or industry sector, exempt, by notification,
such goods in relation to which any manufacturing process or other operations
in terms of section 65 may be carried out, as may be specified in the
notification, from the application of this section.'.

### 131. In the Customs Act, in section 127C, after sub-section (8), the
following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—

"(8A) The order under sub-section (5) shall be passed within a period of nine
months from the last day of the month in which the application under section
127B is made, and if, no order is passed within the said period, the
settlement proceedings shall abate, and the adjudicating authority before whom
the proceeding at the time of making the application was pending shall dispose
of the application in accordance with the provisions of this Act as if no
application under the said section had been made:Provided that the period
specified under this sub-section may, for reasons to be recorded in writing,
be extended by the Settlement Commission for a further period not exceeding
three months:Provided further that in respect of any application pending under
sub-section (5) as on the date on which the Finance Bill, 2023 receives the
assent of the President, the said period of nine months shall be reckoned from
the date on which the said Finance Bill receives the assent of the
President.".

### 132. In the Customs Act, in section 157, in sub-section (2), after clause
(c), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—

"(ca) the manner and conditions for payment of duty and removal of goods under
clause (C) of sub-section (1) of section 65A;".

### 133. In the Customs Act, in section 159, after the figures "43,", the
figures and letter "65A," shall be inserted.

### 134. Customs tariff

In the Customs Tariff Act, 1975, (hereinafter referred to as the Customs
Tariff Act), with effect from the 1st day of January, 1995,—(i)in section
9,—(a)in sub-section (6), in the first proviso, for the words "in a review",
the words "on consideration of a review" shall be substituted;(b)in sub-
section (7), the words "and determined" shall be omitted;(ii)in section
9A,—(a)in sub-section (5), in the first proviso, for the words "in a review",
the words "on consideration of a review" shall be substituted;(b)in sub-
section (6), the words "and determined" shall be omitted;(iii)in section
9C,—(a)in sub-section (1), the words "order of" shall be omitted;(b)in sub-
section (2), for the word "order", the words "determination or review" shall
be substituted;(c)in sub-section (3), for the word "order", the words
"determination or review" shall be substituted;(d)after sub-section (5), the
following Explanation shall be inserted, namely:—'Explanation.—For the
purposes of this section, "determination"or "review" means the determination
or review done in such manner as may be specified in the rules made under
sections 8B, 9, 9A and 9B.'.

### 135. In the Customs Tariff Act, the First Schedule shall—

(a)be amended in the manner specified in the Second Schedule;(b)be also
amended in the manner specified in the Third Schedule;(c)with effect from the
1st May, 2023, be also amended in the manner specified in the Fourth
Schedule;(d)with effect from the 1stApril, 2023, be also amended in the manner
specified in the Seventh Schedule;

### 136. In the Customs Tariff Act, the Second Schedule shall, with effect
from the 1st May, 2023, be amended in the manner specified in the Fifth
Schedule.

### 137. Central Goods and Services Tax

In the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as
the Central Goods and Services TaxAct), in section 10,—(a)in sub-section (2),
in clause (d), the words "goods or" shall be omitted;(b)in sub-section (2A),
in clause (c), the words "goods or" shall be omitted

### 138. In section 16 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-
section (2),—

(i)in the second proviso, for the words "added to his output tax liability,
along with interest thereon", the words and figures "paid by him along with
interest payable under section 50" shall be substituted;(ii)in the third
proviso, after the words "made by him", the words "to the supplier" shall be
inserted.

### 139. In section 17 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act,—

(a)in sub-section (3), in the Explanation, for the words and figure "except
those specified in paragraph 5 of the said Schedule", the following shall be
substituted, namely:—"except,—(i)the value of activities or transactions
specified in paragraph 5 of the said Schedule; and(ii)the value of such
activities or transactions as may be prescribed in respect of clause(a)of
paragraph 8 of the said Schedule.";(b)in sub-section (5), after clause (f),
the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—"(fa) goods or services or
both received by a taxable person, which are used or intended to be used for
activities relating to his obligations under corporate social responsibility
referred to in section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013;".

### 140. In section 23 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, for sub-
section (2), the following sub-section shall be substituted and shall be
deemed to have been substituted with effect from the 1st day of July, 2017,
namely:—

"(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in sub-section (1) of
section 22 or section 24, the Government may, on the recommendations of the
Council, by notification, subject to such conditions and restrictions as may
be specified therein, specify the category of persons who may be exempted from
obtaining registration under this Act.".

### 141. In section 30 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-
section (1),—

(a)for the words "the prescribed manner within thirty days from the date of
service of the cancellation order:", the words "such manner, within such time
and subject to such conditions and restrictions, as may be prescribed." shall
be substituted;(b)the proviso shall be omitted.

### 142. In section 37 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, after sub-
section (4), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—

"(5) A registered person shall not be allowed to furnish the details of
outward supplies under sub-section (1) for a tax period after the expiry of a
period of three years from the due date of furnishing the said
details:Provided that the Government may, on the recommendations of the
Council, by notification, subject to such conditions and restrictions as may
be specified therein, allow a registered person or a class of registered
persons to furnish the details of outward supplies for a tax period under sub-
section (1), even after the expiry of the said period of three years from the
due date of furnishing the said details.".

### 143. In section 39 of the Central Goods and Services TaxAct, after sub-
section (10), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—

"(11)Aregistered person shall not be allowed to furnish a return for a tax
period after the expiry of a period of three years from the due date of
furnishing the said return:Provided that the Government may, on the
recommendations of the Council, by notification, subject to such conditions
and restrictions as may be specified therein, allow a registered person or a
class of registered persons to furnish the return for a tax period, even after
the expiry of the said period of three years from the due date of furnishing
the said return.".

### 144. Section 44 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act shall be
renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof, and after sub-section (1) as so
renumbered, the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—

"(2) Aregistered person shall not be allowed to furnish an annual return under
sub-section (1) for a financial year after the expiry of a period of three
years from the due date of furnishing the said annual return:Provided that the
Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by notification, and
subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be specified therein, allow
a registered person or a class of registered persons to furnish an annual
return for a financial year under sub-section (1), even after the expiry of
the said period of three years from the due date of furnishing the said annual
return.".

### 145. In section 52 of the Central Goods and Services TaxAct, after sub-
section (14), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—

"(15) The operator shall not be allowed to furnish a statement under sub-
section (4) after the expiry of a period of three years from the due date of
furnishing the said statement:Provided that the Government may, on the
recommendations of the Council, by notification, subject to such conditions
and restrictions as may be specified therein, allow an operator or a class of
operators to furnish a statement under sub-section (4), even after the expiry
of the said period of three years from the due date of furnishing the said
statement.".

### 146. In section 54 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-
section (6), the words "excluding the amount of input tax credit provisionally
accepted," shall be omitted.

### 147. In section 56 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, for the
words "from the date immediately after the expiry of sixty days from the date
of receipt of application under the said sub-section till the date of refund
of such tax", the words "for the period of delay beyond sixty days from the
date of receipt of such application till the date of refund of such tax, to be
computed in such manner and subject to such conditions and restrictions as may
be prescribed" shall be substituted.

### 148. In section 62 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-
section (2),—

(a)for the words "thirty days", the words "sixty days" shall be
substituted;(b)the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—"Provided that
where the registered person fails to furnish a valid return within sixty days
of the service of the assessment order under sub-section (1), he may furnish
the same within a further period of sixty days on payment of an additional
late fee of one hundred rupees for each day of delay beyond sixty days of the
service of the said assessment order and in case he furnishes valid return
within such extended period, the said assessment order shall be deemed to have
been withdrawn, but the liability to pay interest under sub-section (1) of
section 50 or to pay late fee under section 47 shall continue.".

### 149. For section 109 of the Central Goods and Services TaxAct, the
following section shall be substituted, namely:—

"109.(1) The Government shall, on the recommendations of the Council, by
notification, establish with effect from such date as may be specified
therein, an Appellate Tribunal known as the Goods and Services Tax Appellate
Tribunal for hearing appeals against the orders passed by
theAppellateAuthority or the Revisional Authority.(2)The jurisdiction, powers
and authority conferred on the Appellate Tribunal shall be exercised by the
Principal Bench and the State Benches constituted under sub-section (3) and
sub-section (4).(3)The Government shall, by notification, constitute a
Principal Bench of the Appellate Tribunal at New Delhi which shall consist of
the President, a Judicial Member, a Technical Member (Centre) and a Technical
Member (State).(4)On the request of the State, the Government may, by
notification, constitute such number of State Benches at such places and with
such jurisdiction as may be recommended by the Council, which shall consist of
two Judical Members, a Technial Member (Centre) and a Technical Member
(State).(5)The Principal Bench and the State Bench shall hear appeals against
the orders passed by the Appellate Authority or the Revisional
Authority:Provided that the cases in which any one of the issues involved
relates to the place of supply, shall be heard only by the Principal
Bench.(6)The President shall, from time to time, by a general or special
order, distribute the business of the Appellate Tribunal among the Benches and
may transfer cases from one Bench to another.(7)The senior-most Judicial
Member within the State Benches, as may be notified, shall act as the Vice-
President for such State Benches and shall exercise such powers of the
President as may be prescribed, but for all other purposes be considered as a
Member.(8)Appeals, where the tax or input tax credit involved or the amount of
fine, fee or penalty determined in any order appealed against, does not exceed
fifty lakh rupees and which does not involve any question of law may, with the
approval of the President, and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed
on the recommendations of the Council, be heard by a single Member, and in all
other cases, shall be heard together by one Judicial Member and one Technical
Member.(9)If, after hearing the case, the Members differ in their opinion on
any point or points, such Member shall state the point or points on which they
differ, and the President shall refer such case for hearing,—(a)where the
appeal was originally heard by Members of a State Bench, to another Member of
a State Bench within the State or, where no such other State Bench is
available within the State, to a Member of a State Bench in another
State;(b)where the appeal was originally heard by Members of the Principal
Bench, to another Member from the Principal Bench or, where no such other
Member is available, to a Member of any State Bench, and such point or points
shall be decided according to the majority opinion including the opinion of
the Members who first heard the case.(10)The Government may, in consultation
with the President, for the administrative efficiency, transfer Members from
one Bench to another Bench:Provided that a Technical Member (State) of a State
Bench may be transferred to a State Bench only of the same State in which he
was originally appointed, in consultation with the State Government.(11)No act
or proceedings of the Appellate Tribunal shall be questioned or shall be
invalid merely on the ground of the existence of any vacancy or defect in the
constitution of the Appellate Tribunal.".

### 150. For section 110 of the Central Goods and Services TaxAct, the
following section shall be substituted, namely:—

"110.(1) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as—(a)the President,
unless he has been a Judge of the Supreme Court or is or has been the Chief
Justice of a High Court;(b)a Judicial Member, unless he—(i)has been a Judge of
the High Court; or(ii)has, for a combined period of ten years, been a District
Judge or an Additional District Judge;(c)a Technical Member (Centre), unless
he is or has been a member of the Indian Revenue (Customs and Indirect Taxes)
Service, GroupA, or of theAll India Service with at least three years of
experience in the administration of an existing law or goods and services tax
in the Central Government, and has completed at least twenty-five years of
service in Group A;(d)a Technical Member (State), unless he is or has been an
officer of the State Government or an officer of All India Service, not below
the rank of Additional Commissioner of Value Added Tax or the State goods and
services tax or such rank, not lower than that of the FirstAppellateAuthority,
as may be notified by the concerned State Government, on the recommendations
of the Council and has completed twenty-five years of service in Group A, or
equivalent, with at least three years of experience in the administration of
an existing law or the goods and services tax or in the field of finance and
taxation in the State Government:Provided that the State Government may, on
the recommendations of the Council, by notification, relax the requirement of
completion of twenty-five years of service in Group A, or equivalent, in
respect of officers of such State where no person has completed twenty-five
years of service in Group A, or equivalent, but has completed twenty-five
years of service in the Government, subject to such conditions, and till such
period, as may be specified in the notification.(2)The President, Judicial
Member, Technical Member (Centre) and Technical Member (State) shall be
appointed or re-appointed by the Government on the recommendations of a
Search-cum-Selection Committee constituted under sub-section (4):Provided that
in the event of the occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the President
by reason of his death, resignation or otherwise, the Judicial Member or, in
his absence, the senior-most Technical Member of the PrincipaI Bench shall act
as the President until the date on which a new President, appointed in
accordance with the provisions of this Act to fill such vacancy, enters upon
his office:Provided further that where the President is unable to discharge
his functions owing to absence, illness or any other cause, the Judicial
Member or, in his absence, the senior-most Technical Member of the Principal
Bench, shall discharge the functions of the President until the date on which
the President resumes his duties.(3)While making selection for Technical
Member (State) of a State Bench, first preference shall be given to officers
who have worked in the State Government of the State to which the jurisdiction
of the Bench extends.(4)(a)The Search-cum-Selection Committee for Technical
Member (State) of a State Bench shall consist of the following members,
namely:—(i)the Chief Justice of the High Court in whose jurisdiction the State
Bench is located, to be the Chairperson of the Committee;(ii)the senior-most
JudiciaI Member in the State, and where no Judicial Member is available, a
retired Judge of the High Court in whose jurisdiction the State Bench is
located, as may be nominated by the Chief Justice of such High
Court;(iii)Chief Secretary of the State in which the State Bench is
located;(iv)one Additional Chief Secretary or Principal Secretary or Secretary
of the State in which the State Bench is located, as may be nominated by such
State Government, not in-charge of the Department responsible for
administration of State tax; and(v)Additional Chief Secretary or Principal
Secretary or Secretary of the Department responsible for administration of
State tax, of the State in which the State Bench is located — Member
Secretary; and(b)the Search-cum-Selection Committee for all other cases shall
consist of the following members, namely:—(i)the Chief Justice of India or a
Judge of Supreme Court nominated by him, to be the Chairperson of the
Committee;(ii)Secretary of the Central Government nominated by the Cabinet
Secretary — Member;(iii)Chief Secretary of a State to be nominated by the
Council — Member;(iv)one Member, who—(A)in case of appointment of a President
of a Tribunal, shall be the outgoing President of the Tribunal; or(B)in case
of appointment of a Member of a Tribunal, shall be the sitting President of
the Tribunal; or(C)in case of the President of the Tribunal seeking re-
appointment or where the outgoing President is unavailable or the removal of
the President is being considered, shall be a retired Judge of the Supreme
Court or a retired Chief Justice of a High Court nominated by the Chief
Justice of India; and(v)Secretary of the Department of Revenue in the Ministry
of Finance of the Central Government — Member Secretary.(5)The Chairperson
shall have the casting vote and the Member Secretary shall not have a
vote.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, order, or decree
of any court or any law for the time being in force, the Committee shall
recommend a panel of two names for appointment or re-appointment to the post
of the President or a Member, as the case may be.(7)No appointment or re-
appointment of the Members of theAppellate Tribunal shall be invalid merely by
reason of any vacancy or defect in the constitution of the Search-cum-
Selection Committee.(8)Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment,
order, or decree of any court or any law for the time being in force, the
salary of the President and the Members of the Appellate Tribunal shall be
such as may be prescribed and their allowances and other terms and conditions
of service shall be the same as applicable to Central Government officers
carrying the same pay:Provided that neither the salary and allowances nor
other terms and conditions of service of the President of Members of the
Appellate Tribunal shall be varied to their disadvantage after their
appointment:Provided further that, if the President or Member takes a house on
rent, he may be reimbursed a house rent higher than the house rent allowance
as are admissible to a Central Government officer holding the post carrying
the same pay, subject to such limitations and conditions as may be
prescribed.(9)Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, order, or
decree of any court or any law for the time being in force, the President of
theAppellate Tribunal shall hold office for a term of four years from the date
on which he enters upon his office, or until he attains the age of sixty-seven
years, whichever is earlier and shall be eligible for re-appointment for a
period not exceeding two years.(10)Notwithstanding anything contained in any
judgment, order, or decree of any court or any law for the time being in
force, the Judicial Member, Technical Member (Centre) or Technical Member
(State) of the Appellate Tribunal shall hold office for a term of four years
from the date on which he enters upon his office, or until he attains the age
of sixty-five years, whichever is earlier and shall be eligible for re-
appointment for a period not exceeding two years.(11)The President or any
Member may, by notice in writing under his hand addressed to the Government,
resign from his office:Provided that the President or Member shall continue to
hold office until the expiry of three months from the date of receipt of such
notice by the Government or until a person duly appointed as his successor
enters upon his office or until the expiry of his term of office, whichever is
the earliest.(12)The Government may, on the recommendations of the Search-cum-
Selection Committee, remove from the office President or a Member, who—(a)has
been adjudged an insolvent; or(b)has been convicted of an offence which
involves moral turpitude; or(c)has become physically or mentally incapable of
acting as such President or Member; or(d)has acquired such financial or other
interest as is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as such President
or Member; or(e)has so abused his position as to render his continuance in
office prejudicial to the public interest:Provided that the President or the
Member shall not be removed on any of the grounds specified in clauses (d) and
(e), unless he has been informed of the charges against him and has been given
an opportunity of being heard.(13)The Government, on the recommendations of
the Search-cum-Selection Committee, may suspend from office, the President or
a Judicial or Technical Member in respect of whom proceedings for removal have
been initiated under sub-section (12).(14)Subject to the provisions of article
220 of the Constitution, the President or other Members, on ceasing to hold
their office, shall not be eligible to appear, act or plead before the
Principal Bench or the State Bench in which he was the President or, as the
case may be, a Member.”.

### 151. For section 114 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, the
following section shall be subsituted, namely:—

“114. The President shall exercise such financial and administrative powers
over the Appellate Tribunal as may be prescribed.”.

### 152. In section 117 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act,—

(a)in sub-section (1), for the words “State Bench or Area Benches”, the words
“State Benches” shall be substituted;(b)in sub-section (5), in clauses (a) and
(b), for the words “State Bench orArea Benches”, the words “State Benches”
shall be substituted.

### 153. In section 118 of the Central Goods and Sevices Tax Act, in sub-
section (1), in clause (a), for the words “National Bench or Regional Bench”,
the words “Principal Bench” shall be substituted

### 154. In section 119 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act,—

(a)for the words “National or Regional Benches”, the words “Principal Bench”
shall be substituted;(b)for the words “State Bench or Area Benches”, the words
“State Benches” shall be substituted

### 155. In section 122 of the Central Goods and Services TaxAct, after sub-
section (1A), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—

"(1B)Any electronic commerce operator who—(i)allows a supply of goods or
services or both through it by an unregistered person other than a person
exempted from registration by a notification issued under this Act to make
such supply;(ii)allows an inter-State supply of goods or services or both
through it by a person who is not eligible to make such inter-State supply;
or(iii)fails to furnish the correct details in the statement to be furnished
under sub-section (4) of section 52 of any outward supply of goods effected
through it by a person exempted from obtaining registration under this Act,
shall be liable to pay a penalty of ten thousand rupees, or an amount
equivalent to the amount of tax involved had such supply been made by a
registered person other than a person paying tax under section 10, whichever
is higher.".

### 156. In section 132 of the Central Goods and Services TaxAct, in sub-
section (1),—

(a)clauses (g), (j) and (k) shall be omitted;(b)in clause (l), for the words,
brackets and letters "clauses (a) to (k)", the words, brackets and letters
"clauses (a) to (f) and clauses (h) and (i)" shall be substituted;(c)in clause
(iii), for the words "any other offence", the words, brackets and letter"an
offence specified in clause (b)," shall be substituted;(d)in clause (iv), the
words, brackets and letters "or clause (g) or clause (j)" shall be omitted

### 157. In section 138 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act,—

(a)in sub-section (1), in the first proviso,—(i)for clause (a), the following
clause shall be substituted, namely:—"(a) a person who has been allowed to
compound once in respect of any of the offences specified in clauses (a) to
(f), (h), (i) and (l) of sub-section (1) of section 132;";(ii)clause (b) shall
be omitted;(iii)for clause (c), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:—"(c) a person who has been accused of committing an offence under
clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 132;";(iv)clause (e) shall be
omitted;(b)in sub-section (2), for the words "ten thousand rupees or fifty per
cent. of the tax involved, whichever is higher, and the maximum amount not
being less than thirty thousand rupees or one hundred and fifty per cent. of
the tax, whichever is higher", the words "twenty-five per cent. of the tax
involved and the maximum amount not being more than one hundred per cent. of
the tax involved" shall be substituted.

### 158. After section 158 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, the
following section shall be inserted, namely:—

"158A. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 133, 152 and 158,
the following details furnished by a registered person may, subject to the
provisions of sub-section (2), and on the recommendations of the Council, be
shared by the common portal with such other systems as may be notified by the
Government, in such manner and subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed, namely:—(a)particulars furnished in the application for
registration under section 25 or in the return filed under section 39 or under
section 44;(b)the particulars uploaded on the common portal for preparation of
invoice, the details of outward supplies furnished under section 37 and the
particulars uploaded on the common portal for generation of documents under
section 68;(c)such other details as may be prescribed.(2)For the purposes of
sharing details under sub-section (1), the consent shall be obtained,
of—(a)the supplier, in respect of details furnished under clauses (a), (b)
and(c)of sub-section (1); and(b)the recipient, in respect of details furnished
under clause (b) of sub-section (1), and under clause (c) of sub-section (1)
only where such details include identity information of the recipient, in such
form and manner as may be prescribed.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in
any law for the time being in force, no action shall lie against the
Government or the common portal with respect to any liability arising
consequent to information shared under this section and there shall be no
impact on the liability to pay tax on the relevant supply or as per the
relevant return.".

### 159.

(1)In Schedule III to the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, paragraphs 7 and
8 and the Explanation 2 thereof (as inserted vide section 32 of Act 31 of
2018) shall be deemed to have been inserted therein with effect from the 1st
day of July, 2017.(2)No refund shall be made of all the tax which has been
collected, but which would not have been so collected, had sub-section (1)
been in force at all material times.

## Chapter  
Integrated Goods and Services Tax

### 160. In the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (hereinafter
referred to as the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act), in section 2,—

(a)for clause (16), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—'(16)
"non-taxable online recipient" means any unregistered person receiving online
information and database access or retrieval services located in taxable
territory.Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, the
expression"unregistered person" includes a person registered solely in terms
of clause (vi) of section 24 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act,
2017;';(b)in clause (17), the words "essentially automated and involving
minimal human intervention and" shall be omitted.

### 161. In section 12 of the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, in sub-
section (8), the proviso shall be omitted.

### 162. In section 13 of the Integrated Goods and Services TaxAct, sub-
section (9) shall be omitted.

### 163. Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act In the Schedule
to the Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, 2017,—

(a)in serial number 1, for the entry in column (4) occuring against tariff
item 2106 90 20, the entry "fifty-one per cent. of retail sale price per unit"
shall be substituted;(b)in serial number 2, for the entry in column (4)
occurring against Chapter 24, the entry "Four thousand one hundred and seventy
rupees per thousand sticks or two hundred and ninety per cent. ad valorem or a
combination thereof, but not exceeding four thousand one hundred and seventy
rupees per thousand sticks plus two hundred and ninety per cent. ad valorem or
hundred per cent. of retail sale price per unit" shall be substituted;(c)the
following Explanation shall be inserted at the end, namely:—‘Explanation.—For
the purposes of this Schedule,—(i)"retail sale price" means the maximum price
at which the concerned goods in packaged form may be sold to the ultimate
consumer and includes all taxes, local or otherwise, freight, transport
charges, commission payable to dealers, and all charges towards advertisement,
delivery, packing, forwarding and the like and the price is the sole
consideration for such sale:Provided that where the provisions of the Legal
MetrologyAct, 2009 or the rules made thereunder or any other law for the time
being in force require to declare on the package, the retail sale price
excluding any taxes, local or otherwise, the retail sale price shall be
construed accordingly;(ii)where on the package of any concerned goods more
than one retail sale price is declared, the maximum of such retail sale price
shall be deemed to be the retail sale price;(iii)where the retail sale price,
declared on the package of any concerned goods at the time of its clearance
from the place of manufacture, is altered to increase the retail sale price,
such altered retail sale price shall be deemed to be the retail sale
price;(iv)where different retail sale prices are declared on different
packages for the sale of any concerned goods in packaged form in different
areas, each such retail sale price shall be the retail sale prices for the
purposes of determination of the rate of cess for the said goods intended to
be sold in the area to which the retail sale price relates.'.

## Chapter V  
MISCELLANEOUS

## Part I – AMENDMENTS TO THE GOVERNMENT SAVINGS PROMOTION ACT, 1873

### 164. The provisions of this Part shall come into force on such date as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 165. In the Government Savings Promotion Act, 1873,—

(a)in section 4A, for sub-section (4), the following sub-section shall be
substituted, namely:—"(4) If a depositor dies and no nomination is in force at
the time of his death, and the probate of his will or letters of
administration of estate or a succession certificate granted under the Indian
Succession Act, 1925, or legal heir certificate issued by the revenue
authority not below the rank of Tahsildar having jurisdiction, is not produced
within six months from the date of death of the depositor to the Authorised
Officer, then, where the eligible balance does not exceed such limit as may be
prescribed, the Authorised Officer may, for reasons to be recorded in writing,
pay the eligible balance to the person legally entitled to receive it or to
administer the estate of the deceased in accordance with such procedure and
manner as may be prescribed.";(b)in section 15, in sub-section (2), for clause
(i), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—"(i) the limit,
procedure and manner under sub-section (4) of section 4A;";(c)in the Schedule,
in PART A, for serial numbers 7 and 8 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely:—"7. Public Provident Fund
Scheme8.National Savings Certificates (VIII Issue) Scheme, 20199.KisanVikas
Patra Scheme, 201910.PM CARES for Children Scheme, 2021"

## Part II – AMENDMENT TO THE INDIAN STAMP ACT, 1899

### 166. In the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, in Schedule I, in article 47, in
division D, under the heading "Exemption", for the portion beginning with
"Policies of life-insurance" and ending with "authority of the Central
Government.", the following shall be substituted, namely:—

"Policies of life insurance—(a)granted by the Director-General of Post Offices
in accordance with the rules for Postal Life-Insurance issued under the
authority of the Central Government; and(b)under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan
Jyoti BimaYojana (PMJJBY).".

## Part III – AMENDMENT TO THE SECURITIES CONTRACTS (REGULATION)ACT, 1956

### 167. In the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, in section 18A,
after clause (b), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—

'(ba) regulated by the International Financial Services Centres Authority
established under section 4 of the International Financial Services Centres
Authority Act, 2019, in an International Financial Services Centre and issued
by a Foreign Portfolio Investor.Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause,
the expression "Foreign Portfolio Investor" shall have the meaning assigned to
it in clause (u) of rule 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management (Non-debt
Instruments) Rules, 2019 made under section 46 of the Foreign Exchange
ManagementAct, 1999;'.

## Part IV – AMENDMENTS TO THE CENTRAL SALES TAX ACT, 1956

### 168. In the Central Sales TaxAct,1956 (hereinafter referred to as the
Central Sales Tax Act), for section 19, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:—

"19. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act or in any
other law for the time being in force, the Customs, Excise and Service Tax
Appellate Tribunal constituted under section 129 of the CustomsAct, 1962 shall
be theAuthority under this Act to settle inter-State disputes falling under
sections 6A and 9.".

### 169. Section 24 of the Central Sales Tax Act shall be omitted.

### 170. In the Central Sales Tax Act, in section 25, after sub-section (2),
the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—

"(3)All appeals filed under section 20 and pending before the
erstwhileAuthority for Advance Rulings as on the date on which the Finance
Bill, 2023 receives the assent of the President shall stand transferred to the
Authority referred to in section 19.".

## Part V – AMENDMENTS TO THE PROHIBITION OF BENAMI PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS ACT,
1988

### 171. In the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988, with
effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2023,—

(a)in section 2, in clause (18),—(I)in sub-clause (i), the word "and"
occurring at the end shall be omitted;(II)in sub-clause (ii), the word "and"
shall be inserted at the end;(III)after sub-clause (ii), the following sub-
clause shall be inserted, namely:—"(iii) the High Court within the
jurisdiction of which the office of the Initiating Officer is
located,—(a)where the aggrieved party does not ordinarily reside or carry on
business or personally work for gain in the jurisdiction of any High
Court;(b)where the Government is the aggrieved party and any of the
respondents do not ordinarily reside or carry on business or personally work
for gain in the jurisdiction of any High Court;";(b)in section 46,—(i)in sub-
section (1), for the words "of the order", the words "on which such order is
received by the Initiating Officer or received by such person."shall be
substituted;(ii)in sub-section (1A), for the words "of that order", the words
"on which such order is received by such person" shall be substituted.

## Part VI – AMENDMENT TO THE FINANCE ACT, 2001

### 172. In the FinanceAct, 2001, the Seventh Schedule shall be amended in the
manner specified in the Sixth Schedule.

## Part VII – AMENDMENTS TO THE UNIT TRUST OF INDIA (TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKING
AND REPEAL) ACT,2002

### 173. In the Unit Trust of India (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal)Act,
2002, with effect from the 1st day ofApril, 2023,—

(a)in section 8, in sub-section (1), for the words "investors, shall", the
words"investors or from such date as may be notified by the Central Government
in the Official Gazette, whichever is earlier," shall be substituted;(b)in
section 13, in sub-section (1), for the figures, letters and words "31st day
of March, 2023", the figures, letters and words "31st day of March, 2025"
shall be substituted.

## Part VIII – AMENDMENTS TO THE FINANCE (NO. 2)ACT, 2004

### 174. In the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004, in section 98, in the Table, in
serial number 4, in column (2)—

(i)against entry (a), in column (3), for the figures and word "0.05 per
cent.", the figures and word "0.0625 per cent." shall be substituted;
and(ii)against entry (c), in column (3), for the figures and word "0.01 per
cent.", the figures and word "0.0125 per cent." shall be substituted.THE FIRST
SCHEDULE(See section 2)

## Part I – INCOME-TAX

Paragraph A(I)In the case of every individual other than the individual
referred to in items (II) and(III)of this Paragraph or Hindu undivided family
or association of persons or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not,
or every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause
(31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, not being a case to which any other
Paragraph of this Part applies,—Rates of income-tax(1)where the total income
does not Nil;exceed Rs. 2,50,000(2)where the total income exceeds 5 per cent.
of the amount by which the Rs. 2,50,000 but does not exceed total income
exceeds Rs. 2,50,000;Rs.5,00,000(3)where the total income exceeds Rs.12,500
plus20 per cent. of the amount Rs. 5,00,000 but does not exceed by which the
total income exceeds Rs.10,00,000 Rs.5,00,000;(4)where the total income
exceeds Rs. 1,12,500 plus 30 per cent. of the Rs.10,00,000 amount by which the
total income exceedsRs.10,00,000.(II)In the case of every individual, being a
resident in India, who is of the age of sixty years or more but less than
eighty years at any time during the previous year,—Rates of income-tax(1)where
the total income does not Nil;exceed Rs. 3,00,000(2)where the total income
exceeds 5 per cent. of the amount by which the Rs. 3,00,000 but does not
exceed total income exceeds Rs. 3,00,000;Rs.5,00,000(3)where the total income
exceeds Rs.10,000 plus20 per cent. of the amount Rs. 5,00,000 but does not
exceed by which the total income exceeds Rs.10,00,000 Rs.5,00,000;(4)where the
total income exceeds Rs.1,10,000 plus 30 per cent. of the Rs.10,00,000 amount
by which the total income exceedsRs.10,00,000.(III)In the case of every
individual, being a resident in India, who is of the age of eighty years or
more at any time during the previous year,—Rates of income-tax(1)where the
total income does not Nil;exceed Rs. 5,00,000(2)where the total income exceeds
20 per cent. of the amount by which the Rs. 5,00,000 but does not exceed total
income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000;Rs.10,00,000(3)where the total income exceeds
Rs.1,00,000 plus 30 per cent. of the Rs.10,00,000 amount by which the total
income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000.Surcharge on income-tax The amount of income-tax
computed in accordance with the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the
provisions of section 111A or section 112 or section 112A or the provisions of
section 115BAC of the Income-tax Act, shall be increased by a surcharge for
the purposes of the Union, calculated, in the case of every individual or
Hindu undivided family or association of persons or body of individuals,
whether incorporated or not, or every artificial juridical person referred to
in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of section 2 of the Income-
taxAct,—(a)having a total income (including the income by way of dividend or
income under the provisions of section 111A, section 112 and section 112A of
the Income-tax Act) exceeding fifty lakh rupees but not exceeding one crore
rupees, at the rate of ten per cent. of such income-tax;(b)having a total
income (including the income by way of dividend or income under the provisions
of section 111A, section 112 and section 112A of the Income-tax Act) exceeding
one crore rupees, but not exceeding two crore rupees, at the rate of fifteen
per cent. of such income-tax;(c)having a total income (excluding the income by
way of dividend or income under the provisions of section 111A, section 112
and section 112A of the Income-tax Act) exceeding two crore rupees but not
exceeding five crore rupees, at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of such
income-tax;(d)having a total income (excluding the income by way of dividend
or income under the provisions of section 111A, section 112 and section 112A
of the Income-tax Act) exceeding five crore rupees, at the rate of thirty-
seven per cent. of such income-tax; and(e)having a total income (including the
income by way of dividend or income under the provisions of section 111A,
section 112 and section 112A) exceeding two crore rupees but is not covered
under clauses (c) and (d), shall be applicable at the rate of fifteen per
cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in case where the total income includes
any income by way of dividend or income under the provisions of section 111A,
section 112 and section 112A of the Income-tax Act, the rate of surcharge on
the amount of income-tax computed in respect of that part of income shall not
exceed fifteen per cent.:Provided further that in case of an association of
persons consisting of only companies as its members, the rate of surcharge on
the amount of income-tax shall not exceed fifteen per cent.:Provided also that
in the case of persons mentioned above having total income exceeding,—(a)fifty
lakh rupees but not exceeding one crore rupees, the total amount payable as
income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount
payable as income-tax on a total income of fifty lakh rupees by more than the
amount of income that exceeds fifty lakh rupees;(b)one crore rupees but does
not exceed two crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and
surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-
tax and surcharge on a total income of one crore rupees by more than the
amount of income that exceeds one crore rupees;(c)two crore rupees but does
not exceed five crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and
surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-
tax and surcharge on a total income of two crore rupees by more than the
amount of income that exceeds two crore rupees;(d)five crore rupees, the total
amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the
total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income of five
crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds five crore
rupees.Paragraph BIn the case of every co-operative society,—Rates of income-
tax(1)where the total income does not 10 per cent. of the total income;exceed
Rs. 10,000(2)where the total income exceeds Rs. 1,000 plus 20 per cent. of the
amount Rs. 10,000 but does not exceed by which the total income exceeds
Rs.20,000 Rs.10,000;(3)where the total income exceeds Rs. 3,000 plus 30 per
cent. of the amount Rs.20,000 by which the total income exceeds
Rs.20,000.Surcharge on income-tax The amount of income-tax computed in
accordance with the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the provisions
of section 111A or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-tax Act, shall,
be increased by a surcharge for the purposes of the Union, calculated in the
case of every co-operative society,—(a)having a total income exceeding one
crore rupees but not exceeding ten crore rupees, at the rate of seven per
cent. of such income-tax;(b)having a total income exceeding ten crore rupees,
at the rate of twelve per cent.:Provided that in the case of every co-
operative society having total income exceeding one crore rupees but not
exceeding ten crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and
surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-
tax on a total income of one crore rupees by more than the amount of income
that exceeds one crore rupees:Provided further that in the case of every co-
operative society having a total income exceeding ten crore rupees, the total
amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the
total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income of ten
crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds ten crore
rupees.Paragraph CIn the case of every firm,—Rate of income-tax On the whole
of the total income 30 per cent.Surcharge on income-tax The amount of income-
tax computed in accordance with the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or
the provisions of section 111A or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-
tax Act, shall, in the case of every firm, having a total income exceeding one
crore rupees, be increased by a surcharge for the purposes of the Union
calculated at the rate of twelve per cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in
the case of every firm mentioned above having total income exceeding one crore
rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income
shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax on a total income of
one crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees.Paragraph DIn the case of every local authority,—Rate of income-tax On
the whole of the total income 30 per cent.Surcharge on income-tax The amount
of income-tax computed in accordance with the preceding provisions of this
Paragraph, or the provisions of section 111A or section 112 or section 112A of
the Income-tax Act, shall, in the case of every local authority, having a
total income exceeding one crore rupees, be increased by a surcharge for the
purposes of the Union calculated at the rate of twelve per cent. of such
income-tax:Provided that in the case of every local authority mentioned above
having total income exceeding one crore rupees, the total amount payable as
income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount
payable as income-tax on a total income of one crore rupees by more than the
amount of income that exceeds one crore rupees.Paragraph EIn the case of a
company,—Rates of income-tax I. In the case of a domestic company,—(i)where
its total turnover or the 25 per cent. of the total income;gross receipt in
the previous year 2020-21 does not exceed four hundred crore rupees(ii)other
than that referred to in 30 per cent. of the total income.item (i) II. In the
case of a company other than a domestic company,—(i)on so much of the total
income as 50 per cent.;consists of,—(a)royalties received from Government or
an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government
or the Indian concern after the31stday of March, 1961 but before the 1st day
ofApril, 1976; or(b)fees for rendering technical services received from
Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with
the Government or the Indian concern after the 29th day of February, 1964 but
before the 1st day of April,1976, and where such agreement has, in either
case, been approved by the Central Government(ii)on the balance, if any, of
the total income 40 per cent.Surcharge on income-tax The amount of income-tax
computed in accordance with the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the
provisions of section 111A or section 112 or 112A of the Income-tax Act,
shall, be increased by a surcharge for the purposes of the Union
calculated,—(i)in the case of every domestic company,—(a)having a total income
exceeding one crore rupees but not exceeding ten crore rupees, at the rate of
seven per cent. of such income-tax; and(b)having a total income exceeding ten
crore rupees, at the rate of twelve per cent. of such income-tax;(ii)in the
case of every company other than a domestic company,—(a)having a total income
exceeding one crore rupees but not exceeding ten crore rupees, at the rate of
two per cent. of such income-tax; and(b)having a total income exceeding ten
crore rupees, at the rate of five per cent. of such income-tax:Provided that
in the case of every company having a total income exceeding one crore rupees
but not exceeding ten crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and
surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-
tax on a total income of one crore rupees by more than the amount of income
that exceeds one crore rupees:Provided further that in the case of every
company having a total income exceeding ten crore rupees, the total amount
payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total
amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income of ten crore
rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds ten crore rupees.

## Part II – RATES FOR DEDUCTION OF TAX AT SOURCE IN CERTAIN CASES

In every case in which under the provisions of sections 193, 194A, 194B,
194BA,194BB,194D,194LBA,194LBB,194LBCand195oftheIncome-
taxAct,taxistobededucted at the rates in force, deduction shall be made from
the income subject to the deduction at the following rates:—1.Rate of income-
taxIn the case of a person other than a company—(a)where the person is
resident in India—(i)on income by way of interest other than 10 per
cent.;"Interest on securities"(ii)on income by way of winnings from lotteries,
30 per cent.;puzzles, card games and other games of any sort(other than
winnings from online games)(iii)on income by way of winnings from horse races
30 per cent.;(iv)on income by way of winnings from online games 30 per
cent.;(v)on income by way of insurance commission 5 per cent.;(vi)on income by
way of interest payable on— 10 per cent.;(A)any debentures or securities for
money issued by or on behalf of any local authority or a corporation
established by a Central, State or Provincial Act;(B)any debentures issued by
a company where such debentures are listed on a recognised stock exchange in
India in accordance with the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42
of 1956) and any rules made thereunder;(C)any security of the Central or State
Government;(vii)on any other income 10 per cent.;(b)where the person is not
resident in India—(i)in the case of a non-resident Indian—(A)on any investment
income 20 per cent.;(B)on income by way of long-term capital gains 10 per
cent.;referred to in section 115E or sub-clause (iii) of clause (c) of sub-
section (1) of section 112(C)on income by way of long-term capital gains 10
per cent.;referred to in section 112A exceeding one lakh rupees(D)on other
income by way of long-term capital 20 per cent.;gains [not being long-term
capital gains referred to in clauses (33) and (36) of section 10](E)on income
by way of short-term capital gains 15 per cent.;referred to in section
111A(F)on income by way of interest payable by 20 per cent.;Government or an
Indian concern on moneys borrowed or debt incurred by Government or the Indian
concern in foreign currency (not being income by way of interest referred to
in section 194LB or section 194LC)(G)on income by way of royalty payable by 20
per cent.;Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by
it with the Government or the Indian concern where such royalty is in
consideration for the transfer of all or any rights (including the granting of
a licence) in respect of copyright in any book on a subject referred to in the
first proviso to sub-section (1A) of section 115A of the Income-tax Act, to
the Indian concern, or in respect of any computer software referred to in the
second proviso to sub-section (1A) of section 115Aof the Income-taxAct, to a
person resident in India(H)on income by way of royalty [not being 20 per
cent.;royalty of the nature referred to in sub-item (b)(i)(G)]payable by
Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with
the Government or the Indian concern and where such agreement is with an
Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the Central Government or where
it relates to a matter included in the industrial policy, for the time being
in force, of the Government of India, the agreement is in accordance with that
policy(I)on income by way of fees for technical services 20 per cent.;payable
by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it
with the Government or the Indian concern and where such agreement is with an
Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the Central Government or where
it relates to a matter included in the industrial policy, for the time being
in force, of the Government of India, the agreement is in accordance with that
policy(J)on income by way of winnings from lotteries, 30 per cent.;crossword
puzzles, card games and other games of any sort (other than winnings from
online games)(K)on income by way of winnings from horse 30 per
cent.;races(L)on income by way of winnings from online 30 per cent.;games(M)on
income by way of dividend, referred to in 10 per cent.;to in the proviso to
sub-clause (A) of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 115A(N)on income by
way of dividend other that 20 per cent.;the income referred to in sub-item
(b)(i)(M)(O)on the whole of the other income 30 per cent.;(ii)in the case of
any other person—(A)on income by way of interest payable by 20 per
cent.;Government or an Indian concern on moneys borrowed or debt incurred by
Government or the Indian concern in foreign currency (not being income by way
of interest referred to in section 194LB or section 194LC)(B)on income by way
of royalty payable by 20 per cent.;Government or an Indian concern in
pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern
where such royalty is in consideration for the transfer of all or any rights
(including the granting of a licence) in respect of copyright in any book on a
subject referred to in the first proviso to sub-section (1A) of section 115A
of the Income-tax Act, to the Indian concern, in respect of any computer
software referred to in the second proviso to sub-section (1A) of section
115Aof the Income-taxAct, to a person resident in India(C)on income by way of
royalty [not being 20 per cent.;royalty of the nature referred to in sub-item
(b)(ii)(B)]payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an
agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern and where such
agreement is with an Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the Central
Government or where it relates to a matter included in the industrial policy,
for the time being in force, of the Government of India, the agreement is in
accordance with that policy(D)on income by way of fees for technical 20 per
cent.;services payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an
agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern and where such
agreement is with an Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the Central
Government or where it relates to a matter included in the industrial policy,
for the time being in force, of the Government of India, the agreement is in
accordance with that policy(E)on income by way of winnings from lotteries, 30
per cent.;crossword puzzles, card games and other games of any sort (other
than winnings from online games)(F)on income by way of winnings from horse 30
per cent.;races(G)on income by way of winnings from online 30 per
cent.;games(H)on income by way of short-term capital 15 per cent.;gains
referred to in section 111A(I)on income by way of long-term capital gains 10
per cent.;referred to in sub-clause (iii) of clause (c) of sub-section (1) of
section 112(J)on income by way of long-term capital gains 10 per
cent.;referred to in section 112A exceeding one lakh rupees(K)on income by way
of other long-term capital 20 per cent.;gains [not being long-term capital
gains referred to in clauses (33) and (36) of section 10](L)on income by way
of dividend, referred to 10 per cent.;in the proviso to sub-clause (A) of
clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 115A(M)on income by way of dividend
other 20 per cent.;than the income referred to in sub-item (b)(ii)(L)(N)2.on
the whole of the other income 30 per centIn the case of a company—(a)where the
company is a domestic company—(i)on income by way of interest other than
"Interest 10 per cent.;on securities"(ii)on income by way of winnings from
lotteries, 30 per cent.;puzzles, card games and other games of any sort (other
than winnings from online games)(iii)on income by way of winnings from horse
races 30 per cent.;(iv)on income by way of winnings from online games 30 per
cent.;(v)on any other income 10 per cent.;(b)where the company is not a
domestic company—(i)on income by way of winnings from lotteries, 30 per
cent.;crossword puzzles, card games and other games of any sort(other than
winnings from online games)(ii)on income by way of winnings from horse races
30 per cent.;(iii)on income by way of winnings from online games 30 per
cent.;(iv)on income by way of interest payable by Government 20 per cent.;or
an Indian concern on moneys borrowed or debt incurred by Government or the
Indian concern in foreign currency (not being income by way of interest
referred to in section 194LBor section 194LC)(v)on income by way of royalty
payable by Government 20 per cent.;or an Indian concern in pursuance of an
agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern after the 31st
day of March, 1976 where such royalty is in consideration for the transfer of
all or any rights (including the granting of a licence) in respect of
copyright in any book on a subject referred to in the first proviso to sub-
section (1A) of section 115A of the Income-tax Act, to the Indian concern, or
in respect of any computer software referred to in the second proviso to sub-
section (1A) of section 115A of the Income-tax Act, to a person resident in
India(vi)on income by way of royalty [not being royalty of the nature referred
to in item (b)(v)] payable by Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of
an agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern and where
such agreement is with an Indian concern, the agreement is approved by the
Central Government or where it relates to a matter included in the industrial
policy, for the time being in force, of the Government of India, the agreement
is in with that policy—(A)where the agreement is made after the 31st 50 per
cent.;day of March, 1961 but before the 1st day ofApril, 1976(B)where the
agreement is made after the 31st 20 per cent.;day of March, 1976(vii)on income
by way of fees for technical services payable by Government or an Indian
concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or the
Indian concern and where such agreement is with an Indian concern, the
agreement is approved by the Central Government or where it relates to a
matter included in the industrial policy, for the time being in force, of the
Government of India, the agreement is in accordance with that policy—(A)where
the agreement is made after the 29th 50 per cent.;day of February, 1964 but
before the 1st day of April,1976(B)where the agreement is made after the 31st
20 per cent.;day of March, 1976(viii)on income by way of short-term capital
gains 15 per cent.;referred to in section 111A(ix)on income by way of long-
term capital gains referred 10 per cent.;to in sub-clause (iii) of clause (c)
of sub-section (1) of section 112(x)on income by way of long-term capital
gains referred 10 per cent.;to in section 112A exceeding one lakh rupees(xi)on
income by way of other long-term capital gains 20 per cent.;[not being long-
term capital gains referred to in clauses (33) and (36) of section 10](xii)on
income by way of dividend, referred to in the 10 per cent.;proviso to sub-
clause (A) of clause (a) of sub-section (I) of section 115A(xiii)on income by
way of dividend other than the 20 per cent.;income referred to in item
(b)(xii)(xiv)on any other income 40 per cent.Explanation.—For the purposes of
item 1(b)(i) of this Part, "investment income" and"non-resident Indian" shall
have the meanings assigned to them in Chapter XII-A of the Income-
taxAct.Surcharge on income-tax The amount of income-tax deducted in accordance
with the provisions of—(i)item 1 of this Part, shall be increased by a
surcharge, for the purposes of the Union,—(a)in the case of every individual
or Hindu undivided family or association of persons or body of individuals,
whether incorporated or not, or every artificial juridical person referred to
in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of section 2 of the Income-taxAct, being a
non-resident, calculated,—I.at the rate of ten per cent. of such tax, where
the income or the aggregate of such incomes (including the income by way of
dividend or income under the provisions of sections 111A, 112 and 112A of the
Income-tax Act) paid or likely to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds
fifty lakh rupees but does not exceed one crore rupees;II.at the rate of
fifteen per cent. of such tax, where the income or the aggregate of such
incomes (including the income by way of dividend or income under the
provisions of sections 111A, 112 and 112A of the Income-tax Act) paid or
likely to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds one crore rupees but
does not exceed two crore rupees;III.at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of
such tax, where the income or the aggregate of such incomes (excluding the
income by way of dividend or income under the provisions of sections 111A, 112
and 112A of the Income-tax Act) paid or likely to be paid and subject to the
deduction exceeds two crore rupees but does not exceed five crore rupees;IV.at
the rate of thirty-seven per cent. of such tax, where the income or the
aggregate of such incomes (excluding the income by way of dividend or income
under the provisions of sections 111A, 112 and 112A of the Income-tax Act)
paid or likely to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds five crore
rupees; and V. at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such tax, where the income
or the aggregate of such incomes (including the income by way of dividend or
income under the provisions of sections 111A, 112 and 112A of the Income-tax
Act) paid or likely to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds two crore
rupees, but is not covered under sub-clauses III and IV:Provided that in case
where the total income includes any income by way of dividend or income under
the provisions of sections 111A, 112 and 112A of the Income-taxAct, the rate
of surcharge on the amount of income-tax deducted in respect of that part of
income shall not exceed fifteen per cent.:Provided further that where the
income of such person is chargeable to tax under sub-section (1A) of section
115BAC of the Income-tax Act, the rate of surcharge shall not exceed twenty-
five per cent.;(b)in the case of every co-operative society, being a non-
resident, calculated,—I.at the rate of seven per cent. of such tax, where the
income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject
to the deduction exceeds one crore rupees but does not exceed ten crore
rupees;II.at the rate of twelve per cent. where the income or the aggregate of
such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds
ten crore rupees;(c)in the case of every firm, being a non-resident,
calculated at the rate of twelve per cent., where the income or the aggregate
of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds
one crore rupees;(ii)item 2 of this Part shall be increased by a surcharge,
for the purposes of the Union, in the case of every company other than a
domestic company, calculated,—(a)at the rate of two per cent. of such income-
tax where the income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be
paid and subject to the deduction exceeds one crore rupees but does not exceed
ten crore rupees; and(b)at the rate of five per cent. of such income-tax where
the income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid and
subject to the deduction exceeds ten crore rupees.

## Part III – RATES FOR CHARGING INCOME-TAX IN CERTAIN CASES, DEDUCTING
INCOME-TAX FROM

INCOME CHARGEABLE UNDER THE HEAD "SALARIES" AND COMPUTING "ADVANCE TAX"In
cases in which income-tax has to be charged under sub-section (4) of section
172 of the Income-tax Act or sub-section (2) of section 174 or section 174A or
section 175 or sub-section (2) of section 176 of the said Act or deducted
from, or paid on, from income chargeable under the head "Salaries" under
section 192 of the said Act or deducted under section 194P of the saidAct or
in which the "advance tax" payable under Chapter XVII-C of the said Act has to
be computed at the rate or rates in force, such income-tax or, as the case may
be, "advance tax" [not being "advance tax" in respect of any income chargeable
to tax under Chapter XII or Chapter XII-A or income chargeable to tax under
section 115JB or section 115JC or Chapter XII-FA or Chapter XII-FB or sub-
section (1A) of section 161 or section 164 or section 164A or section 167B of
the said Act at the rates as specified in that Chapter or section or
surcharge, wherever applicable, on such "advance tax" in respect of any income
chargeable to tax under section 115A or section 115AB or section 115AC or
section 115ACA or section 115AD or section 115B or section 115BA or section
115BAA or section 115BAB or section 115BAC or section 115BAD or section 115BAE
or section 115BBor section 115BBA or section 115BBC or section 115BBE or
section 115BBF or section 115BBG or section 115BBH or section 115BBI or
section 115BBJ or section 115E or section 115JB or section 115JC] shall be
charged, deducted or computed at the following rate or rates:—Paragraph A(I)In
the case of every individual other than the individual referred to in items
(II) and(III)of this Paragraph or Hindu undivided family or association of
persons or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or every
artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of
section 2 of the Income-tax Act, not being a case to which any other Paragraph
of this Part applies,—Rates of income-tax(1)where the total income does not
Nil;exceedRs.2,50,000(2)where the total income exceeds 5 per cent. of the
amount by which the Rs. 2,50,000 but does not exceed total income exceeds Rs.
2,50,000;Rs.5,00,000(3)where the total income exceeds
Rs.12,500plus20percent.oftheamount Rs. 5,00,000 but does not exceed by which
the total income exceeds Rs.10,00,000 Rs.5,00,000;(4)where the total income
exceeds Rs. 1,12,500 plus 30 per cent. of the Rs.10,00,000 amount by which the
total income exceedsRs.10,00,000.(II)In the case of every individual, being a
resident in India, who is of the age of sixty years or more but less than
eighty years at any time during the previous year,—Rates of income-tax(1)where
the total income does not Nil;exceed Rs. 3,00,000(2)where the total income
exceeds 5 per cent. of the amount by which the Rs. 3,00,000 but does not
exceed total income exceeds Rs.3,00,000;Rs.5,00,000(3)where the total income
exceeds Rs.10,000plus20percent.oftheamount Rs. 5,00,000 but does not exceed by
which the total income exceeds Rs.10,00,000 Rs.5,00,000;(4)where the total
income exceeds Rs. 1,10,000 plus 30 per cent. of the Rs.10,00,000 amount by
which the total income exceedsRs.10,00,000.(III)In the case of every
individual, being a resident in India, who is of the age of eighty years or
more at any time during the previous year,—Rates of income-tax(1)where the
total income does not Nil;exceedRs.5,00,000(2)where the total income exceeds
20 per cent. of the amount by which the total Rs. 5,00,000 but does not exceed
income exceeds Rs. 5,00,000;Rs.10,00,000(3)where the total income exceeds Rs.
1,00,000 plus 30 per cent. of the amount by Rs.10,00,000 which the total
income exceeds Rs. 10,00,000.Surcharge on income-tax The amount of income-tax
computed in accordance with the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the
provisions of section 111A or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-tax
Act, shall be increased by a surcharge for the purposes of the Union,
calculated, in the case of every individual or Hindu undivided family or
association of persons or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or
every artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause
(31) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act,—(a)having a total income (including
the income by way of dividend or income under the provisions of section 111A,
section 112 and section 112A of the Income-tax Act) exceeding fifty lakh
rupees but not exceeding one crore rupees, at the rate of ten per cent. of
such income-tax;(b)having a total income (including the income by way of
dividend or income under the provisions of section 111A, section 112 and
section 112A of the Income-tax Act) exceeding one crore rupees but not
exceeding two crore rupees, at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such income-
tax;(c)having a total income (excluding the income by way of dividend or
income under the provisions of section 111A, section 112 and section 112A of
the Income-tax Act) exceeding two crore rupees but not exceeding five crore
rupees, at the rate of twenty-five per cent. of such income-tax;(d)having a
total income (excluding the income by way of dividend or income under the
provisions of section 111A, section 112 and section 112A of the Income-tax
Act) exceeding five crore rupees, at the rate of thirty-seven per cent. of
such income-tax; and(e)having a total income (including the income by way of
dividend or income under the provisions of section 111A, section 112 and
section 112A of the Income-tax Act) exceeding two crore rupees, but is not
covered under clauses (c) and (d), shall be applicable at the rate of fifteen
per cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in case where the total income
includes any income by way of dividend or income under the provisions of
section 111A, section 112 and section 112Aof the income-taxAct, the rate of
surcharge on the amount of income-tax computed in respect of that part of
income shall not exceed fifteen per cent.:Provided further that in case of an
association of persons consisting of only companies as its members, the rate
of surcharge on the amount of income-tax shall not exceed fifteen per
cent.:Provided also that in the case of persons mentioned above having total
income exceeding,—(a)fifty lakh rupees but not exceeding one crore rupees, the
total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not
exceed the total amount payable as income-tax on a total income of fifty lakh
rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds fifty lakh rupees;(b)one
crore rupees but does not exceed two crore rupees, the total amount payable as
income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount
payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income of one crore rupees by
more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore rupees;(c)two crore
rupees but does not exceed five crore rupees, the total amount payable as
income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount
payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income of two crore rupees by
more than the amount of income that exceeds two crore rupees;(d)five crore
rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income
shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a
total income of five crore rupees by more than the amount of income that
exceeds five crore rupees.Paragraph BIn the case of every co-operative
society,—Rates of income-tax(1)where the total income does not 10 per cent. of
the total income;exceedRs.10,000(2)where the total income exceeds Rs. 1,000
plus 20 per cent. of the amount by Rs.10,000 but does not exceed which the
total income exceeds Rs. 10,000;Rs.20,000(3)where the total income exceeds Rs.
3,000 plus 30 per cent. of the amount by Rs.20,000 which the total income
exceeds Rs. 20,000.Surcharge on income-tax The amount of income-tax computed
in accordance with the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or the
provisions of section 111A or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-tax
Act, shall, be increased by a surcharge for the purposes of the Union,
calculated in the case of every co-operative society,—(a)having a total income
exceeding one crore rupees but not exceeding ten crore rupees, at the rate of
seven per cent. of such income-tax;(b)having a total income exceeding ten
crore rupees, at the rate of twelve per cent.:Provided that in the case of
every co-operative society having total income exceeding one crore rupees but
not exceeding ten crore rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and
surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-
tax on a total income of one crore rupees by more than the amount of income
that exceeds one crore rupees:Provided further that in the case of every co-
operative society having total income exceeding ten crore rupees, the total
amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the
total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income of ten
crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds ten crore
rupees.Paragraph CIn the case of every firm,—Rate of income-tax On the whole
of the total income 30 per cent.Surcharge on income-tax The amount of income-
tax computed in accordance with the preceding provisions of this Paragraph, or
the provisions of section 111A or section 112 or section 112A of the Income-
tax Act, shall, in the case of every firm, having a total income exceeding one
crore rupees, be increased by a surcharge for the purposes of the Union
calculated at the rate of twelve per cent. of such income-tax:Provided that in
the case of every firm mentioned above having total income exceeding one crore
rupees, the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income
shall not exceed the total amount payable as income-tax on a total income of
one crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds one crore
rupees.Paragraph DIn the case of every local authority,—Rate of income-tax On
the whole of the total income 30 per cent.;Surcharge on income-tax The amount
of income-tax computed in accordance with the preceding provisions of this
Paragraph, or the provisions of section 111A or section 112 or section 112A of
the Income-tax Act, shall, in the case of every local authority, having a
total income exceeding one crore rupees, be increased by a surcharge for the
purposes of the Union calculated at the rate of twelve per cent. of such
income-tax:Provided that in the case of every local authority mentioned above
having total income exceeding one crore rupees, the total amount payable as
income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount
payable as income-tax on a total income of one crore rupees by more than the
amount of income that exceeds one crore rupees.Paragraph EIn the case of a
company,—Rates of income-tax I. In the case of a domestic company,—(i)where
its total turnover or the 25 per cent. of the total income;gross receipt in
the previous year 2021-2022 does not exceed four hundred crore
rupees;(ii)other than that referred to in item (i) 30 per cent. of the total
income.II.In the case of a company other than a domestic company,—(i)on so
much of the total income 50 per cent.;as consists of,—(a)royalties received
from Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it
with the Government or the Indian concern after the31stday of March, 1961 but
before the 1st day ofApril, 1976; or(b)fees for rendering technical services
received from Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement
made by it with the Government or the Indian concern after the 29th day of
February, 1964 but before the 1st day of April,1976, and where such agreement
has, in either case, been approved by the Central Government;(ii)on the
balance, if any, of the 40 per cent.total income Surcharge on income-tax The
amount of income-tax computed in accordance with the preceding provisions of
this Paragraph, or the provisions of section 111A or section 112 or section
112A of the Income-taxAct, shall, be increased by a surcharge for the purposes
of the Union, calculated,—(i)in the case of every domestic company,—(a)having
a total income exceeding one crore rupees but not exceeding ten crore rupees,
at the rate of seven per cent. of such income-tax; and(b)having a total income
exceeding ten crore rupees, at the rate of twelve per cent. of such income-
tax;(ii)in the case of every company other than a domestic company,—(a)having
a total income exceeding one crore rupees but not exceeding ten crore rupees,
at the rate of two per cent. of such income-tax; and(b)having a total income
exceeding ten crore rupees, at the rate of five per cent. of such income-
tax:Provided that in the case of every company having a total income exceeding
one crore rupees but not exceeding ten crore rupees, the total amount payable
as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not exceed the total amount
payable as income-tax on a total income of one crore rupees by more than the
amount of income that exceeds one crore rupees:Provided further that in the
case of every company having a total income exceeding ten crore rupees, the
total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on such income shall not
exceed the total amount payable as income-tax and surcharge on a total income
of ten crore rupees by more than the amount of income that exceeds ten crore
rupees.

## Part IV – RULES FOR COMPUTATION OF NET AGRICULTURAL INCOME

[See section 2(13)(c)]Rule 1.—Agricultural income of the nature referred to in
sub-clause (a) of clause (1A) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act shall be
computed as if it were income chargeable to income-tax under thatAct under the
head "Income from other sources" and the provisions of sections 57 to 59 of
that Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly:Provided that sub-section
(2) of section 58 shall apply subject to the modification that the reference
to section 40A therein shall be construed as not including a reference to sub-
sections (3), (3A) and (4) of section 40A.Rule 2.—Agricultural income of the
nature referred to in sub-clause (b) or sub-clause (c) of clause (1A) of
section 2 of the Income-tax Act [other than income derived from any building
required as a dwelling-house by the receiver of the rent or revenue of the
cultivator or the receiver of rent-in-kind referred to in the said sub-clause
(c)] shall be computed as if it were income chargeable to income-tax under
that Act under the head "Profits and gains of business or profession" and the
provisions of sections 30, 31, 32, 36, 37, 38, 40, 40A[other than sub-sections
(3), (3A) and (4) thereof], 41, 43, 43A, 43B and 43C of the Income-tax Act
shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly.Rule 3.—Agricultural income of the
nature referred to in sub-clause (c) of clause (1A) of section 2 of the
Income-tax Act, being income derived from any building required as a dwelling-
house by the receiver of the rent or revenue or the cultivator or the receiver
of rent-in-kind referred to in the said sub-clause (c) shall be computed as if
it were income chargeable to income-tax under that Act under the head "Income
from house property" and the provisions of sections 23 to 27 of that Act
shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly.Rule 4.—Notwithstanding anything
contained in any other provisions of these rules, in a case—(a)where the
assessee derives income from sale of tea grown and manufactured by him in
India, such income shall be computed in accordance with rule 8 of the Income-
tax Rules, 1962, and sixty per cent. of such income shall be regarded as the
agricultural income of the assessee;(b)where the assessee derives income from
sale of centrifuged latex or cenex or latex based crepes (such as pale latex
crepe) or brown crepes (such as estate brown crepe, re-milled crepe, smoked
blanket crepe or flat bark crepe) or technically specified block rubbers
manufactured or processed by him from rubber plants grown by him in India,
such income shall be computed in accordance with rule 7A of the Income-tax
Rules, 1962, and sixty-five per cent. of such income shall be regarded as the
agricultural income of the assessee;(c)where the assessee derives income from
sale of coffee grown and manufactured by him in India, such income shall be
computed in accordance with rule 7B of the Income-tax Rules, 1962, and sixty
per cent. or seventy-five per cent., as the case may be, of such income shall
be regarded as the agricultural income of the assessee.Rule 5.—Where the
assessee is a member of an association of persons or a body of individuals
(other than a Hindu undivided family, a company or a firm) which in the
previous year has either no income chargeable to tax under the Income-taxAct
or has total income not exceeding the maximum amount not chargeable to tax in
the case of an association of persons or a body of individuals (other than a
Hindu undivided family, a company or a firm) but has any agricultural income
then, the agricultural income or loss of the association or body shall be
computed in accordance with these rules and the share of the assessee in the
agricultural income or loss so computed shall be regarded as the agricultural
income or loss of the assessee.Rule 6.—Where the result of the computation for
the previous year in respect of any source of agricultural income is a loss,
such loss shall be set off against the income of the assessee, if any, for
that previous year from any other source of agricultural income:Provided that
where the assessee is a member of an association of persons or a body of
individuals and the share of the assessee in the agricultural income of the
association or body, as the case may be, is a loss, such loss shall not be set
off against any income of the assessee from any other source of agricultural
income.Rule 7.—Any sum payable by the assessee on account of any tax levied by
the State Government on the agricultural income shall be deducted in computing
the agricultural income.Rule 8.—(1) Where the assessee has, in the previous
year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2023,
any agricultural income and the net result of the computation of the
agricultural income of the assessee for any one or more of the previous years
relevant to the assessment years commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2015 or
the 1st day of April, 2016 or the 1st day of April, 2017 or the 1st day of
April, 2018 or the1stday of April, 2019 or the 1st day of April, 2020 or the
1st day of April, 2021, or the1stday ofApril, 2022, is a loss, then, for the
purposes of sub-section (2) of section 2 of this Act,—(i)the loss so computed
for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st
day ofApril, 2015, to the extent, if any, such loss has not been set off
against the agricultural income for the previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2016 or the 1st day of
April, 2017 or the1stday ofApril, 2018 or the 1st day of April, 2019 or the
1st day ofApril, 2020 or the1stday ofApril, 2021 or the 1st day ofApril,
2022,(ii)the loss so computed for the previous year relevant to the assessment
year commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2016, to the extent, if any, such loss
has not been set off against the agricultural income for the previous year
relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2017 or
the 1st day of April, 2018 or the1stday ofApril, 2019 or the 1st day of April,
2020 or the 1st day of April, 2021 or the1stday ofApril, 2022,(iii)the loss so
computed for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on
the 1st day ofApril, 2017, to the extent, if any, such loss has not been set
off against the agricultural income for the previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2018 or the 1st day of
April, 2019 or the1stday ofApril, 2020 or the 1st day of April, 2021 or the
1st day ofApril, 2022,(iv)the loss so computed for the previous year relevant
to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2018, to the extent,
if any, such loss has not been set off against the agricultural income for the
previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of
April, 2019 or the 1st day of April, 2020 or the1stday ofApril, 2021 or the
1st day ofApril, 2022,(v)the loss so computed for the previous year relevant
to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2019, to the extent,
if any, such loss has not been set off against the agricultural income for the
previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of
April, 2020 or the 1st day of April, 2021 or the1stday ofApril, 2022,(vi)the
loss so computed for the previous year relevant to the assessment year
commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2020, to the extent, if any, such loss has
not been set off against the agricultural income for the previous year
relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2021 or the
1st day ofApril, 2022,(vii)the loss so computed for the previous year relevant
to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2021, to the extent,
if any, such loss has not been set off against the agricultural income for the
previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day
ofApril, 2022,(viii)the loss so computed for the previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2022, shall be set off
against the agricultural income of the assessee for the previous year relevant
to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2023.(2)Where the
assessee has, in the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing
on the 1st day ofApril, 2024, or, if by virtue of any provision of the Income-
tax Act, income-tax is to be charged in respect of the income of a period
other than the previous year, in such other period, any agricultural income
and the net result of the computation of the agricultural income of the
assessee for any one or more of the previous years relevant to the assessment
years commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2016 or the 1st day ofApril, 2017 or
the 1st day of April, 2018 or the 1st day ofApril, 2019 or the 1st day of
April, 2020 or the1stday ofApril, 2021 or the 1st day ofApril, 2022 or the 1st
day ofApril, 2023, is a loss, then, for the purposes of sub-section (10) of
section 2 of this Act,—(i)the loss so computed for the previous year relevant
to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2016, to the extent,
if any, such loss has not been set off against the agricultural income for the
previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of
April, 2017 or the 1st day of April, 2018 or the1stday ofApril, 2019 or the
1st day of April, 2020 or the 1st day ofApril, 2021 or the1stday ofApril, 2022
or the 1st day ofApril, 2023,(ii)the loss so computed for the previous year
relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2017, to
the extent, if any, such loss has not been set off against the agricultural
income for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the
1st day of April, 2018 or the 1st day of April, 2019 or the1stday ofApril,
2020 or the 1st day of April, 2021 or the 1st day ofApril, 2022 or the1stday
ofApril, 2023,(iii)the loss so computed for the previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2018, to the extent, if
any, such loss has not been set off against the agricultural income for the
previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of
April, 2019 or the 1st day of April, 2020 or the1stday ofApril, 2021 or the
1st day ofApril, 2022 or the 1st day of April, 2023,(iv)the loss so computed
for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st
day ofApril, 2019, to the extent, if any, such loss has not been set off
against the agricultural income for the previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2020 or the 1st day of
April, 2021 or the1stday ofApril, 2022 or the 1st day ofApril, 2023,(v)the
loss so computed for the previous year relevant to the assessment year
commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2020, to the extent, if any, such loss has
not been set off against the agricultural income for the previous year
relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2021 or
the 1st day of April, 2022 or the1stday ofApril, 2023,(vi)the loss so computed
for the previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st
day ofApril, 2021, to the extent, if any, such loss has not been set off
against the agricultural income for the previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2022 or the 1st day
ofApril, 2023,(vii)the loss so computed for the previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2022, to the extent, if
any, such loss has not been set off against the agricultural income for the
previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day
ofApril, 2023,(viii)the loss so computed for the previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day ofApril, 2023, shall be set off
against the agricultural income of the assessee for the previous year relevant
to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2024.(3)Where any
person deriving any agricultural income from any source has been succeeded in
such capacity by another person, otherwise than by inheritance, nothing in
sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) shall entitle any person, other than the person
incurring the loss, to have it set off under sub-rule (1) or, as the case may
be, sub-rule (2).(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule, no loss
which has not been determined by theAssessing Officer under the provisions of
these rules or the rules contained in the First Schedule to the FinanceAct,
2015 (20 of 2015) or the First Schedule to the Finance Act, 2016 (28 of 2016)
or the First Schedule to the Finance Act, 2017 (7 of 2017) or the First
Schedule to the Finance Act, 2018 (13 of 2018) or the First Schedule of the
Finance(No. 2) Act, 2019 (23 of 2019) or the First Schedule of the Finance
Act, 2020(12 of 2020) or the First Schedule of the FinanceAct, 2021 (13 of
2021) or the First Schedule of the FinanceAct, 2022 (6 of 2022) shall be set
off under sub-rule (1) or, as the case may be, sub-rule (2).Rule 9.—Where the
net result of the computation made in accordance with these rules is a loss,
the loss so computed shall be ignored and the net agricultural income shall be
deemed to be nil.Rule 10.—The provisions of the Income-tax Act relating to
procedure for assessment(including the provisions of section 288A relating to
rounding off of income) shall, with the necessary modifications, apply in
relation to the computation of the net agricultural income of the assessee as
they apply in relation to the assessment of the total income.Rule 11.—For the
purposes of computing the net agricultural income of the assessee,
theAssessing Officer shall have the same powers as he has under the Income-
taxAct for the purposes of assessment of the total income.THE SECOND
SCHEDULE[See section 135 (a)]In the First Schedule to the Customs Tariff
Act,––Tariff Item Description of goods Unit Rate of duty Standard
Preferential(1)(2) (3) (4) (5)(1)in Chapter 29,––(i)for the entry in column
(4) occurring against tariff item 2902 50 00, the entry“2.5%” shall be
substituted;(ii)for the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff item 2903
21 00, the entry“2.5%” shall be substituted;(2)in Chapter 40, for the entry in
column (4) occurring against all the tariff items of heading 4005, the entry
“25% or Rs. 30 per kg., whichever is lower” shall be substituted;(3)in Chapter
71,––(i)for the entry in column (4) occurring against all the tariff items of
headings 7113 and 7114, the entry “25%” shall be substituted;(ii)for the entry
in column (4) occurring against all the tariff items of heading 7117, the
entry “25% or Rs. 600 per kg., whichever is higher” shall be substituted;(4)in
Chapter 84, for the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff item 8414 60
00, the entry “15%” shall be substituted;(5)in Chapter 87, for the entry in
column (4) occurring against tariff item 8712 00 10, the entry “35%” shall be
substituted;(6)in Chapter 95, for the entry in column (4) occurring against
all the tariff items of heading 9503, the entry “70%” shall be substituted.THE
THIRD SCHEDULE[See section 135 (b)]In the First Schedule to the Customs Tariff
Act,––(1)in Chapter 40, for the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff
item 4011 30 00, the entry “2.5%” shall be substituted;(2)in Chapter
71,––(i)for the entry in column (4) occurring against all the tariff items of
heading 7106, the entry “10%” shall be substituted;(ii)for the entry in column
(4) occurring against tariff item 7107 00 00, the entry “10%” shall be
substituted;(iii)for the entry in column (4) occurring against all the tariff
items of heading 7108, the entry “10%” shall be substituted;(iv)for the entry
in column (4) occurring against tariff item 7109 00 00, the entry “10%” shall
be substituted;(v)for the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff items
7110 11 10,
71101120,71101900,71102100,71102900,71104100and71104900,theentry“10%” shall be
substituted;(vi)for the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff item 7111
00 00, the entry “10%” shall be substituted;(vii)for the entry in column (4)
occurring against all the tariff items of heading 7112, the entry “10%” shall
be substituted;(viii)for the entry in column (4) occurring against all the
tariff items of heading 7118, the entry “10%” shall be substituted;(3)in
Chapter 88, for the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff items 8802 20
00, 8802 30 00 and 8802 40 00, the entry “2.5%” shall be substituted;(4)in
Chapter 98,––(a)in heading 9801, in column (2),––(i)for item (3), the
following item shall be substituted, namely:––“(3) Power project, other than
solar power plant or solar power project”;(ii)in item (6), for the words “Such
other projects”, the words“Such other projects, other than solar power plant
or solar power project,”shall be substituted;(b)in sub-heading 9801 00, in
column (2),––(i)for item (3), the following item shall be substituted,
namely:––“(3) power project, other than solar power plant or solar power
project”;(ii)in item (6), for the words “such other projects”, the words“such
other projects, other than solar power plant or solar power project,”shall be
substituted;(c)for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff item 9801
00 13, the following entry shall be substituted, namely:––“- - - - For power
project, other than solar power plant or solar power project”;(d)for the entry
in column (2) occurring against tariff item 9801 00 19, the following entry
shall be substituted, namely:––“- - - - For other projects, other than solar
power plant or solar power project”.THE FOURTH SCHEDULE[See section 135 (c)]In
the First Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act,––(1)in the General Explanatory
Notes, in paragraph 1, after the portion beginning with the words ‘Where the
description of an article or group of articles’ and ending with the words ‘the
article or group of articles which has “-” or “- - ”.’, the following shall be
inserted, namely:—‘Where the description of an article or group of articles is
preceded by“- - - - ”, ‘in addition to being a sub-classification of “-” or “-
- ”, the said article or group of articles may also be taken to be a sub-
classification of the immediately preceding description of the article or
group of articles which has “- - -”.’;(2)for the List of Abbreviations Used,
the following shall be substituted, namely:––“LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
USEDAbbreviations For AC Alternating Current Amps Ampere(s) ASTMAmerican
Society for Testing Materials Bq Becquerel(s) Bq/g Becquerel(s) per gram°C
Degree(s) Celsius cc Cubic centimetre(s) cg Centigram(s) Ci/g Curie per gram
C.I.F. Cost, Insurance and Freight c/k Carats (1 metric carat = 2 x 10-4 kg)
cm Centimetre(s) cm² Square centimetre(s) cm³ Cubic centimetre(s) cN
Centinewton(s) DC Direct Current dyne/cm Dyne per centimetre g Gram(s) g/cm³
Gram per cubic centimetre g/m² Gram per square metre gi F/S Gram of fissile
isotopes g.v.w. Gross vehicle weight Gy Gray HP Horse Power Hz Hertz IR Infra-
red K Kelvin kcal Kilocalorie(s) kcal/kg Kilocalorie(s) per kilogram kg
Kilogram(s) kgf Kilogram force kN Kilonewton(s) kN/m Kilonewton(s) per metre
kPa Kilopascal(s) kPa. m²/g Kilopascal square metre per gram kV Kilovolt(s)
kVA Kilovolt(s) - ampere(s) kvar Kilovolt(s) - ampere(s) - reactive kW
Kilowatt(s) kWh Kilowatt hours l Litre(s) m Metre(s) m- Metam² Square metre(s)
m³ Cubic metre(s) m³/h Cubic metre(s) per hourµCi Microcurie mm Millimetre mN
Millinewton(s) mPa Millipascal(s) mT Metric tonne MW Megawatt(s) N Newton(s)
N/m Newton(s) per metre No. Number o- Orthop- Parapa Number of pairs RAD
Radiation absorbed dose Rs. Rupees sq. Square SWG Standard wire gauge t
Tonne(s) Tu Thousand in number u Number US$ US Dollar UV Ultra-violet V
Volt(s) vol. Volume W Watt(s)% Percent x° X degree(s) 1000kWh 1000 kilowatt
hours”;Tariff Item Description of goods Unit Rate of duty Standard
Preferential(1)(2) (3) (4) (5)(3)in Chapter 3,––(i)in heading 0302,––(a)for
sub-heading 0302 91, tariff item 0302 91 10 and the entries relating thereto,
the following shall be substituted, namely:—“03029100 - - Livers, roes and
milt kg. 30% -”;(b)for sub-heading 0302 92, tariff item 0302 92 10 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely:—“03029200 -- Shark fins kg. 30% -”;(ii)in heading 0303, for sub-
heading 0303 92, tariff item 0303 92 10 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely:—“03039200 -- Shark fins kg. 30%
-”;(iii)in heading 0307, after tariff item 0307 43 30 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:—“03074390 - - - Other kg.
30% -”;(iv)in heading 0308, after tariff item 0308 30 20 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:—“03083090 - - -
Other kg. 30% -”;(4)in Chapter 4, in heading 0406, for tariff item 0406 10 00
and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely:—“040610 - Fresh (unripened or uncured) cheese, including whey cheese,
and curd 04061010 - - - Mozzarella cheese kg. 30% - 04061090 - - - Other kg.
30% -”;(5)in Chapter 9, in heading 0910, for tariff items 0910 99 29 to 0910
99 39 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely:—“09109929 - - - - Other kg. 30% - 09109930 - - - Husk kg. 30% -”;(6)in
Chapter 10, in heading 1008,––(i)after tariff item 1008 21 30 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:—“10082140 - - -
Barnyard (Echinochloa kg. 50% - esculenta (L.)) 10082150 - - - Proso (Panicum
kg. 50% - miliaceum (L.)) 10082160 - - - Foxtail (Setaria italica (L.)) kg.
50% - 10082170 - - - Kodo (Paspalum kg. 50% - scrobiculatum (L.)) 10082180 - -
- Little (Panicum sumatrense (L.)) kg. 50% -\- - - Other :10082191\- - - -
Amaranth (Amaranthus (L.)) kg. 50% - 10082199 - - - - Other kg. 50%
-”;(ii)after tariff item 1008 29 30 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely:—“10082940 - - - Barnyard (Echinochloa kg.
50% - esculenta (L.)) 10082950 - - - Proso (Panicum miliaceum (L.)) kg. 50% -
10082960 - - - Foxtail (Setaria italica (L.)) kg. 50% - 10082970 - - - Kodo
(Paspalum kg. 50% - scrobiculatum (L.)) 10082980 - - - Little (Panicum
sumatrense (L.)) kg. 50% -\- - - Other :10082991\- - - - Amaranth (Amaranthus
(L.)) kg. 50% - 10082999 - - - - Other kg. 50% -”;(7)in Chapter 12, in heading
1211, for sub-heading 1211 90, tariff items 1211 90 11 to 1211 90 99 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“121190
- Other :\- - - Seeds, Kernel, Aril, Fruit, Pericarp, Fruit rind, Endosperm,
Mesocarp, Endocarp :12119011\- - - - Ambrette seeds kg. 30% - 12119012 - - - -
Nuxvomica, Dried ripe seeds kg. 30% - 12119013 - - - - Psyllium seeds
(isobgul) kg. 30% - 12119014 - - - - Neem seeds kg. 30% - 12119015 - - - -
Jojoba seeds kg. 30% - 12119016 - - - - Garcinia kg. 30% - 12119019 - - - -
Other kg. 30% -\- - - Leaves, Leaf bud, Galls, flowers, Inflorescence, Spadix,
Flower bud, Style and Stigma, Stamen and pods :12119021\- - - - Belladona
leaves kg. 30% - 12119022 - - - - Senna leaves and pods kg. 30% - 12119023 - -
- - Neem leaves kg. 30% - 12119024 - - - - Gymnema kg. 30% - 12119025 - - - -
Cubeb kg. 30% - 12119026 - - - - Pyrethrum kg. 30% - 12119029 - - - - Other
kg. 30% -\- - - Bark, Husk and Rind :12119031\- - - - Cascara sagrada bark kg.
30% - 12119032 - - - - Psyllium husk (isobgul husk) kg. 30% - 12119033 - - - -
Gamboge fruit rind kg. 30% - 1211 90 34 - - - - Ashoka (Saraca asoca.) kg. 30%
- 12119035 - - - - Arjuna (Terminalia arjuna) kg. 30% - 12119039 - - - - Other
kg. 30% -\- - - Roots, Root stalk, Bulb, Corn, Tuber, Stolon and rhizome
:12119041\- - - - Belladona roots kg. 30% - 12119042 - - - - Galangal rhizomes
and roots kg. 30% - 12119043 - - - - Ipecac dried rhizome and roots kg. 30% -
12119044 - - - - Serpentina roots (rowwalfia kg. 30% - serpentina and other
species of rowwalfias) 12119045 - - - - Zedovary roots kg. 30% - 12119046 - -
- - Kuth root kg. 30% - 12119047 - - - - Sarasaparilla roots kg. 30% -
12119048 - - - - Sweet flag rhizomes kg. 30% - 12119049 - - - - Other kg. 30%
-\- - - Whole Plant, Aerial Part, Stem, Shoot and Wood :12119051\- - - -
Sandalwood chips and dust kg. 30% - 12119052 - - - - Vinca rosea herbs kg. 30%
- 12119053 - - - - Mint kg. 30% - 12119054 - - - - Agarwood kg. 30% - 12119055
- - - - Chirata kg. 30% - 12119056 - - - - Basil, hyssop, rosemary, sage kg.
30% - and savory 12119057 - - - - Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) kg. 30% -
12119058 - - - - Giloy (Tinospora cordifolia) kg. 30% - 12119059 - - - - Other
kg. 30% - 12119090 - - - Other kg. 30% -”;(8)in Chapter 13,––(i)in the Note,
in clause (g), for the brackets, word and figures“(heading 3006)”, the
brackets, word and figures “(heading 3822)” shall be substituted;(ii)in
heading 1302,––(a)for tariff item 1302 32 30 and the entries relating thereto,
the following shall be substituted, namely:—“- - - Guargum:13023231\- - - -
Chemically treated kg. 30% - 13023239 - - - - Other kg. 30% -”;(b)tariff item
1302 32 40 and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted;(c)for tariff
item 1302 39 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
substituted, namely:—“1302 39 - - Other :13023910\- - - Tamarind Kernel Powder
kg. 30% - 13023920 - - - Kappa carrageenan kg. 30% - 13023990 - - - Other kg.
30% -”;(9)in Chapter 19, in heading 1904, for tariff item 1904 20 00 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“190420
- Prepared foods obtained from unroasted cereal flakes or from mixtures of
unroasted cereal flakes and roasted cereal flakes or swelled
cereals;19042010\- - - With millet content 15% or more by kg. 30% - weight
19042090 - - - Other kg. 30% -”;(10)in Chapter 27, in heading 2701, for tariff
item 2701 12 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
substituted, namely:—“270112 - - Bituminous coal :27011210\- - - Coking coal
kg. 5% - 27011290 - - - Other kg. 5% -”;(11)in Chapter 29,––(i)in heading
2916, after tariff item 2916 20 10 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely:—“29162020 - - - Bifenthrin (ISO) kg. 7.5%
-”;(ii)in heading 2924, after tariff item 2924 29 60 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:—“29242970 - - - Pretilachlor
(ISO) kg. 7.5% -”;(iii)in heading 2930,––(a)for tariff item 2930 20 00 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“293020
- Thiocarbamates and dithiocarbamates :29302010\- - - Cartap Hydrochloride
(ISO) kg. 7.5% - 29302090 - - - Other kg. 7.5% -”;(b)after tariff item 2930 90
91 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be inserted,
namely:—“29309092 - - - - Acephate (ISO) kg. 7.5% -”;(iv)in heading 2931,
after tariff item 2931 49 20 and the entries relating thereto, the following
shall be inserted, namely:—“29314930 - - - Glyphosate (ISO) kg. 7.5% -”;(v)in
heading 2932, after tariff item 2932 99 10 and the entries relating thereto,
the following shall be inserted, namely:—“29329920 - - - Emamectin Benzoate
(ISO) kg. 7.5% -”;(vi)in heading 2933,––(a)after tariff item 2933 29 50 and
the entries relating thereto, the following shall be inserted,
namely:—“29332960 - - - Imidacloprid (ISO) kg. 7.5% -”;(b)after tariff item
2933 39 16 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be inserted,
namely:—“29333917 - - - - Chlorantraniliprole (ISO) kg. 7.5% -”;(c)for tariff
item 2933 39 19 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
substituted, namely:—“29333921 - - - - Acetamiprid (ISO) kg. 7.5% - 29333922 -
- - - Imazethapyr (ISO) kg. 7.5% - 29333929 - - - - Other kg. 7.5% -”;(d)after
tariff item 2933 59 40 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall
be inserted, namely:—“29335950 - - - Bispyribac-sodium (ISO) kg. 10%
-”;(e)after tariff item 2933 99 10 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely:—“29339920 - - - Carbendazim (ISO) kg.
7.5% -”;(vii)in heading 2934, after tariff item 2934 99 20 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:—“29349930 - - -
Buprofezin (ISO) kg. 7.5% -”;(viii)in heading 2935, for tariff item 2935 50 00
and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely:—“293550 - Other perfluorooctane sulphonamides :29355010\- - -
Flubendiamide (ISO) kg. 7.5% - 29355090 - - - Other kg. 7.5% -”;(12)in Chapter
31,––(i)after Note 6, the following Supplementary Note shall be inserted,
namely:—“Supplementary Note :(1)In this Chapter, reference to any standard of
the Bureau of Indian Standards refers to the last published version of that
standard.Illustration:IS1459referstoIS1459:2018andnottoIS1459:1974.”;(ii)in
heading 3102, for tariff item 3102 10 00 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely:—“310210 - Urea, whether or not in
aqueous solution :31021010\- - - Fertilizer grade, conforming to kg. 10% -
Standard IS 5406 31021090 - - - Other kg. 10% -”;(13)in Chapter 38,––(i)after
Sub-heading Note 4, the following Supplementary Notes shall be inserted,
namely:—“Supplementary Notes:1.Tariff item 3808 91 41 covers one of the
following goods of sub-heading 3808 91 : Acephate (ISO) conforming to
IS-12915; Cartap Hydrochloride (ISO) conforming to IS-14159; Imidacloprid
(ISO) conforming to IS-15443;Acetamiprid (ISO) conforming to IS-15981.2.Tariff
item 3808 91 42 covers one of the following goods of sub-heading 3808 91 with
content by mass greater than 90% :Chlorantraniliprole (ISO); Buprofezin (ISO);
Flubendiamide (ISO);3.Emamectin Benzoate (ISO)Tariff item 3808 91 51 covers
only mixtures and preparations of goods of sub-heading 3808 91, containing one
or more of the following :Acephate (ISO) conforming to IS-12916; Cartap
Hydrochloride (ISO) conforming to IS-14183; Imidacloprid (ISO) conforming to
IS-15335;4.Acetamiprid (ISO) conforming to IS-16328Tariff item 3808 91 52
covers only mixtures and preparations of goods of sub-heading 3808 91 with
content by mass greater than 90%, containing one or more of the following :
Chlorantraniliprole (ISO);5.Buprofezin (ISO); Flubendiamide (ISO); Emamectin
Benzoate (ISO)Tariff item 3808 92 60 covers one of the following goods of sub-
heading 3808 92 : Carbendazim (ISO) conforming to IS-8445.6.Tariff item 3808
92 70 covers only mixtures and preparations of goods of sub-heading 3808 92,
containing one or more of the following :7.Carbendazim (ISO) conforming to
IS-8446Tariff item 3808 93 61 covers one of the following goods of sub-heading
3808 93 : Pretilachlor (ISO) conforming to IS-15158;Glyphosate (ISO)
conforming to IS-12502.8.Tariff item 3808 93 62 covers one of the following
goods of sub-heading 3808 93 with content by mass greater than 90% :
Bispyribac sodium (ISO); Imazethapyr (ISO).9.Tariff item 3808 93 71 covers
only mixtures and preparations of goods of sub-heading 3808 93, containing one
or more of the following :10.Pretilachlor (ISO) conforming to IS-15160Tariff
item 3808 93 72 covers only mixtures and preparations of goods of sub-heading
3808 93 with content by mass greater than 90%, containing one or more of the
following : Bispyribac sodium (ISO);Imazethapyr (ISO).”;(ii)in heading
3808,––(a)after tariff item 3808 91 37 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be inserted, namely:—“- - - Goods specified in Supplementary
Note 1 and 2 to this Chapter :38089141\- - - - Goods specified in
Supplementary kg. 10% - Note1 to this Chapter 38089142 - - - - Goods specified
in Supplementary kg. 10% - Note 2 to this Chapter\- - - Goods specified in
Supplementary Note 3 and 4 to this Chapter :38089151\- - - - Goods specified
in Supplementary kg. 10% - Note 3 to this Chapter 38089152 - - - - Goods
specified in Supplementary kg. 10% -”;Note 4 to this Chapter(b)after tariff
item 3808 92 50 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
inserted, namely:—“38089260 - - - Goods specified in Supplementary kg. 10% -
Note 5 to this Chapter 38089270 - - - Goods specified in Supplementary kg. 10%
-”;Note 6 to this Chapter(c)after tariff item 3808 93 50 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:—“- - - Goods
specified in Supplementary Note 7 and 8 to this Chapter :38089361\- - - -
Goods specified in Supplementary kg. 10% - Note 7 to this Chapter 38089362 - -
- - Goods specified in Supplementary kg. 10% - Note 8 to this Chapter\- - -
Goods specified in Supplementary Note 9 and 10 to this Chapter :38089371\- - -
- Goods specified in Supplementary kg. 10% - Note 9 to this Chapter 38089372 -
- - - Goods specified in Supplementary kg. 10% -”;Note 10 to this
Chapter(14)in Chapter 39, in heading 3915, after tariff item 3915 90 75 and
the entries relating thereto, the following shall be inserted,
namely:—“39159079 - - - - Others kg. 7.5% -”;(15)in Chapter 48, in heading
4811, for tariff item 4811 90 94 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely:—“48119094 - - - - Thermal paper in
jumbo rolls (of kg. 10% - size 1 m and above in width and 5,000 m and above in
length) 48119095 - - - - Thermal paper in jumbo rolls kg. 10% -(of size 1 m
and above in width and less than 5,000 m in length) 48119096 - - - - Thermal
paper in rolls of size kg. 10% -”;less than 1 m in width(16)in Chapter 52, in
heading 5201, for tariff item 5201 00 20 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely:—“- - - Other :52010021\- - - - Of
staple length not kg. 5% - exceeding20.0mm 52010022 - - - - Of staple length
exceeding 20.0 mm kg. 5% - but not exceeding 24.5 mm 52010023 - - - - Of
staple length exceeding 24.5 mm kg. 5% - but not exceeding 27.0 mm 52010024 -
- - - Of staple length exceeding 27.0 mm kg. 5% - but not exceeding 32.0 mm
52010025 - - - - Of staple length exceeding 32.0 mm kg. 5% -”;(17)in Chapter
54, in heading 5402,––(i)for tariff item 5402 11 10 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“54021100 -- Of aramids
kg. 5% -”;(ii)for sub-heading 5402 59, tariff item 5402 59 90 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“54025900 --
Other kg. 5% -”;(18)in Chapter 57, in heading 5702, after tariff item 5702 39
20 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be inserted,
namely:—“57023990 - - - Other m220% -”;(19)in Chapter 61, in heading 6115, for
sub-heading 6115 21 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
substituted, namely:—“- Other panty hose and tights :”;(20)in Chapter
62,––(i)in heading 6213,––(a)for the entry in column (2) occurring against
sub-heading 6213 90, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“- Of other
textile materials :”;(b)for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff
item 6213 90 90, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“- - - Other”
;(ii)in heading 6217,––(a)for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff
item 6217 10 10, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“- - - For
articles of apparel, of cotton”;(b)for the entry in column (2) occurring
against tariff item 6217 10 20, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“-
- - For articles of apparel, of synthetic fibres”;(c)for the entry in column
(2) occurring against tariff item 6217 10 30, the following shall be
substituted, namely:—“- - - For articles of apparel, of wool”;(d)for the entry
in column (2) occurring against tariff item 6217 10 40, the following shall be
substituted, namely:—“- - - For articles of apparel, of silk”;(e)for the entry
in column (2) occurring against tariff item 6217 10 50, the following shall be
substituted, namely:—“- - - For articles of apparel, of regenerated
fibres”;(f)for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff item 6217 10
60, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“- - - For articles of
apparel, of other fibres”;(g)for the entry in column (2) occurring against
tariff item 6217 10 70, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“- - -
Stockings, socks, sockettes and the like, of cotton”;(21)in Chapter 63,––(i)in
heading 6301, for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff item 6301
20 00, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“- Blankets (other than
electric blankets) and travelling rugs, of wool or of fine animal hair”;(ii)in
heading 6304, for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff item 6304
20 00, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“- Bed nets specified in
Sub-heading Note 1 to this Chapter”;(iii)in heading 6310, for tariff items
6310 10 90 to 6310 90 10 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall
be substituted, namely:—“63101090 - - - Other kg. 20% - 6310 90 - Other
:63109010\- - - Woollen rags kg. 20% -”;(22)in Chapter 69,––(i)in Note 1, in
introductive sentence, for the word “shaping:”, the word“shaping :” shall be
substituted;(ii)in heading 6907, for sub-heading 6907 30, tariff item 6907 30
10, sub-heading 6907 40, tariff item 6907 40 10 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“69073000 - Mosaic cubes
and the like, other m215% - than those of sub-heading 6907 40 69074000 -
Finishing ceramics m215% -”;(23)in Chapter 71,––(i)after Sub-heading Note 3,
the following Supplementary Note shall be inserted, namely:—‘Supplementary
Note:For the purposes of heading 7104, “Diamonds” means—(a)chemically produced
stones which have essentially the same chemical composition and crystal
structure as a particular natural diamond and are produced using various
methods including High Pressure High Temperature method(HPHT)and Chemical
Vapour Deposition method (CVD); or(b)stones obtained artificially by various
means, e.g., agglomerating, pressing or fusing together (usually with the aid
of a blow pipe) fragments of natural diamonds which have generally been
reduced to a powder.’;(ii)in heading 7104,––(a)for tariff item 7104 21 00 and
the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely:—“710421 - - Diamonds :71042110\- - - Industrial c/k 10% - 71042120 - -
- Non-industrial c/k 10% -”;(b)for tariff item 7104 91 00 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“710491 - -
Diamonds :71049110\- - - Industrial c/k 10% - 71049120 - - - Non-industrial
c/k 10% -”;(iii)in heading 7105, for tariff item 7105 10 00 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“710510 - Of
diamonds :71051010\- - - Of heading 7102 c/k 10% - 71051020 - - - Of heading
7104 c/k 10% -”;(iv)in heading 7113,––(a)for tariff items 7113 11 20 and 7113
11 30 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted,
namely:—“- - - Other jewellery :71131141\- - - - Unstudded kg. 25% - 71131142
- - - - Studded with pearls kg. 25% - 71131143 - - - - Studded with diamonds
of kg. 25% - heading 7102 71131144 - - - - Studded with diamonds of kg. 25% -
heading 7104 71131145 - - - - Studded with other precious and kg. 25% - semi-
precious stones 71131149 - - - - Other kg. 25% -”;(b)for tariff items 7113 19
10 to 7113 19 50 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
substituted, namely:—“- - - Of gold :71131911\- - - - Unstudded kg. 25% -
71131912 - - - - Studded with pearls kg. 25% - 71131913 - - - - Studded with
diamonds of kg. 25% - heading 7102 71131914 - - - - Studded with diamonds of
kg. 25% - heading 7104 71131915 - - - - Studded with other precious and kg.
25% - semi-precious stones 71131919 - - - - Other kg. 25% -\- - - Of platinum
:71131921\- - - - Unstudded kg. 25% - 71131922 - - - - Studded with pearls kg.
25% - 71131923 - - - - Studded with diamonds of kg. 25% - heading 7102
71131924 - - - - Studded with diamonds of kg. 25% - heading 7104 71131925 - -
- - Studded with other precious and kg. 25% - semi-precious stones 71131929 -
- - - Other kg. 25% -”;(24)in Chapter 84,––(i)in heading 8414, for tariff item
8414 10 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
substituted, namely:—“841410 - Vacuum pumps :84141010\- - - with maximum flow-
rate greater u 7.5% - than 5 m³/h (under standard temperature (273 K (0 °C))
and pressure (101.3 kPa) conditions) 84141090 - - - Other u 7.5% -”;(ii)in
heading 8419,––(a)for tariff items 8419 50 10 to 8419 50 90 and the entries
relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“- - - with a
heat transfer surface area of greater than 0.15 m², and less than 20 m²
:84195011\- - - - Shell and tube type u 7.5% - 84195012 - - - - Plate type u
7.5% - 84195013 - - - - Spiral type u 7.5% - 84195019 - - - - Other u 7.5% -\-
- - Other :84195091\- - - - Shell and tube type u 7.5% - 84195092 - - - -
Plate type u 7.5% - 84195093 - - - - Spiral type u 7.5% - 84195099 - - - -
Other u 7.5% -”;(b)for tariff item 8419 89 10 and the entries relating
thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“- - - Pressure vessels,
reactors, columns or towers or chemical storage tanks :84198911\- - - -
Pressure vessels u 10% - 84198912 - - - - Reactors with total internal u 10%
-(geometric) volume greater than 0.1 m³ (100 l) and less than 20 m³ (20000 l)
84198913 - - - - Other reactors u 10% - 84198914 - - - - Distillation or
absorption columns u 10% - of internal diameter greater than 0.1 m 84198915 -
- - - Other distillation or absorption u 10% - columns 84198916 - - - -
Chemical storage tanks with a total u 10% - internal (geometric) volume
greater than 0.1 m³ (100 l) 84198917 - - - - Other chemical storage tanks u
10% - 84198919 - - - - Other u 10% -”;(25)in Chapter 85,––(i)in heading
8517,––(a)for the entry in column (2) occurring against tariff item 8517 62
30, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“- - - Modems (modulators-
demodulators) for xDSL based Wireline Telephony”;(b)tariff item 8517 62 40 and
the entries relating thereto shall be omitted;(c)for the entry in column (2)
occurring against tariff item 8517 62 70, the following shall be substituted,
namely:—“- - - Multiplexers, statistical multiplexers for PDH based Wireline
Telephony”;(d)in sub-heading 8517 69,––(A)tariff item 8517 69 50 and the
entries relating thereto shall be omitted;(B)for the entry in column (2)
occurring against tariff item 8517 69 60, the following shall be substituted,
namely:—“- - - Set top boxes for gaining access to internet for Wireline
Telephony”;(ii)for heading 8524, tariff items 8524 11 00 to 8524 99 00 and the
entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:—“8524
FLATPANELDISPLAYMODULES,WHETHERORNOTINCORPORATINGTOUCH-SENSITIVESCREENS\-
Without drivers or control circuits :852411\-- Of liquid crystals :85241110\-
- - For the goods of sub-heading u 15% - 847130or 847141 8524 11 20 - - - For
the goods of sub-heading u 15% - 851713or 851714 85241130 - - - For the goods
of sub-heading u 15% - 852872or 852873 85241190 - - - Other u 15% - 852412 --
Of organic light-emitting diodes (OLED) :85241210\- - - For the goods of sub-
heading u 15% - 847130or 847141 85241220 - - - For the goods of sub-heading u
15% - 851713or 851714 85241230 - - - For the goods of sub-heading u 15% -
852872or 852873 85241290 - - - Other u 15% - 852419 -- Other :85241910\- - -
For the goods of sub-heading u 15% - 847130or 847141 85241920 - - - For the
goods of sub-heading u 15% - 851713or 851714 85241930 - - - For the goods of
sub-heading u 15% - 852872or 852873 85241990 - - - Other u 15% -\- Other
:852491\-- Of liquid crystals :85249110\- - - For the goods of sub-heading u
15% - 847130or 847141 85249120 - - - For the goods of sub-heading u 15% - 8517
13 or 8517 14 85249130 - - - For the goods of sub-heading u 15% - 852872or
852873 85249190 - - - Other u 15% - 852492 -- Of organic light-emitting diodes
(OLED) :85249210\- - - For the goods of sub-heading u 15% - 847130or 847141
85249220 - - - For the goods of sub-heading u 15% - 851713or 851714 85249230 -
- - For the goods of sub-heading u 15% - 852872or 852873 85249290 - - - Other
u 15% - 852499 -- Other :85249910\- - - For the goods of sub-heading u 15% -
847130or 847141 85249920 - - - For the goods of sub-heading u 15% - 851713or
851714 85249930 - - - For the goods of sub-heading u 15% - 852872or 852873
85249990 - - - Other u 15% -”;(26)in Chapter 87, in heading 8704, after tariff
item 8704 10 10 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be
inserted, namely:—“87041090 - - - Other u 40% -”.THE FIFTH SCHEDULE(See
section 136) In the Second Schedule to the Customs TariffAct, for serial
numbers 8 and 9 and the entries relating thereto, the following serial numbers
and entries shall be substituted, namely:—Sl.Chapter/heading/ Description of
goods Rate of duty No. sub-heading/Tariff Item(1)(2) (3) (4)“8.
120241Groundnut in shell Rs. 1,125 per tonne9.120242Groundnut kernel Rs. 1,500
per tonne”.THE SIXTH SCHEDULE(See section 172) In the Seventh Schedule to the
Finance Act, 2001, ––(i)for the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff
item 2402 20 10, the entry“Rs. 230 per thousand” shall be substituted;(ii)for
the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff item 2402 20 20, the
entry“Rs. 290 per thousand” shall be substituted;(iii)for the entry in column
(4) occurring against tariff items 2402 20 30 and 2402 20 40, the entry “Rs.
510 per thousand” shall be substituted;(iv)for the entry in column (4)
occurring against tariff item 2402 20 50, the entry“Rs. 630 per thousand”
shall be substituted;(v)for the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff
item 2402 20 90, the entry“Rs. 850 per thousand” shall be substituted;(vi)for
the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff item 2402 90 10, the
entry“Rs. 690 per thousand” shall be substituted.THE SEVENTH SCHEDULE[See
section 135 (d)]In the First Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act, in Chapter
90,––(i)for the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff item 9022 14 10,
the entry“15%” shall be substituted;(ii)for the entry in column (4) occurring
against tariff item 9022 14 20, the entry“15%” shall be substituted;(iii)for
the entry in column (4) occurring against tariff item 9022 14 90, the
entry“15%” shall be substituted.————

