## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Forum of Regulators Rules, 2005

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Forum of Regulators Rules, 2005

## Rule THE-FORUM-OF-REGULATORS-RULES-2005 of 2005

  * Published on 16 February 2005 
  * Commenced on 16 February 2005 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 February 2005.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Forum of Regulators Rules, 2005Published vide Notification No. G.S.R.
75(E), dated 16th February, 2005In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-
section (1) of Section 176 read with Sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 166
of the Electricity Act, 2003 (No. 36 of 2003), the Central Government hereby
makes the following rules, namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Forum of Regulators Rules, 2005.(2)They shall
come into force on the date of their publication in the official gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-(1)"Forum" means
'Forum of regulators' as constituted under Rule 3;(2)"Act" means the
Electricity Act, 2003 (No. 36 of 2003).(3)Words and expressions used herein
and not defined, but defined in the Act, shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the said Act.

### 3. Constitution of the Forum.

(1)The Forum shall consist of the Chairperson of the Central Commission and
Chairpersons of the State Commissions. The Chairperson of the Central
Commission shall be the Chairperson of the Forum of Regulators.(2)The
Secretary to the Central Commission shall be the ex-officio Secretary to the
Forum.(3)Secretarial assistance to the Forum shall be provided by the Central
Commission.(4)The headquarter of the Forum will be located at New Delhi.

### 4. Functions of the Forum.

\- The Forum shall discharge the following functions, namely :(i)analysis of
the tariff orders and other orders of Central Commission and State Commissions
and compilation of data arising out of the said orders, highlighting,
especially the efficiency improvements of the utilities;(ii)harmonization of
regulation in power sector;(iii)laying of standards of performance of
licensees as required under the Act.(iv)sharing of information among the
members of the Forum on various issues of common interest and also of common
approach.(u)undertaking research work in-house or through outsourcing on
issues relevant to power sector regulation;(vi)evolving measures for
protection of interest of consumers and promotion of efficiency, economy and
competition in power sector; and(vii)such other functions as the Central
Government may assign to it, from time-to-time.

### 5. Finances of the Forum.

(1)The Central Commission may take necessary financial contributions from the
State Commission for carrying out the activities of the Forum.(2)The Central
Commission will keep separate accounts for the activities of the Forum.

### 6. Meetings of the Forum.

(1)The Forum shall meet at least twice in a year.(2)The Forum will frame its
own rules of business for the conduct of its meetings.

### 7. Annual Report.

\- The forum of Regulators shall prepare every year, an annual report, giving
a summary of its activities during the previous financial year and copies of
the report shall be forwarded to the Central Government.

