## Union of India - Act

## THE FAMILY COURTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2022

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# THE FAMILY COURTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2022

## Act 16 of 2022

  * Published on 12 August 2022 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 August 2022.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Family Courts Act, 1984.BE it enacted by
Parliament in the Seventy-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Family Courts (Amendment) Act, 2022.(2)It shall
come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Amendment of section 1.

In the Family Courts Act, 1984 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act),
in section 1, in sub-section (3), the following proviso shall be inserted,
namely:—“Provided that it shall be deemed to have come into force in the State
of Himachal Pradesh with effect from the 15th February, 2019 and in the State
of Nagaland with effect from the 12th September, 2008.”.

### 3. Insertion of new section 3A.

After section 3 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted,
namely:—

### 3A. Validation of certain actions

(1)The establishment of Family Courts in the State of Himachal Pradesh with
effect from the 15th February, 2019 and in the State of Nagaland with effect
from the 12th September, 2008 shall be deemed to be valid and always to have
been valid as if the notification for appointing the date for bringing this
Act in force in the States of Himachal Pradesh and Nagaland, as required under
sub-section (3) of section 1, had been issued by the Central Government with
effect from such dates.(2)Anything done, any action taken, any appointment
made, any duty performed, any rules made, any notification issued or purported
to have been done, taken, performed, made or issued under this Act in the
States of Himachal Pradesh and Nagaland prior to the commencement of the
Family Courts (Amendment) Act, 2022 shall be deemed to have been validly done,
taken, performed, made or issued, as the case may be, under the provisions of
this Act.(3)Every order of appointment of a person as a Judge of a Family
Court and every order of posting, promotion or transfer, as the case may be,
made under this Act in the States of Himachal Pradesh and Nagaland prior to
the commencement of the Family Courts (Amendment) Act, 2022 shall be deemed to
be validly made under the provisions of this Act.(4)Every power exercised and
function performed, every matter dealt with, every proceeding undertaken,
every order, judgment, decree or sentence passed and every other act done by
the Family Courts in the States of Himachal Pradesh and Nagaland prior to the
commencement of the Family Courts (Amendment) Act, 2022 shall be deemed to be
validly exercised, performed, dealt with, undertaken, passed or done under the
provisions of this Act.”.

