## Union of India - Act

## The Food Corporations Act, 1964

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Food Corporations Act, 1964

## Act 37 of 1964

  * Published on 10 December 1964 
  * Commenced on 10 December 1964 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2001.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Food Corporations (Amendment) Act, 2001 (Act 27 of 2001) on 1 January 2001] 

The Food Corporations Act, 1964ACT NO. 37 OF 1964

### 1313.

It is considered desirable, in the interests of increased agricultural
production as well as in the interests of the common consumer, to set up a
State Agency for the purpose of undertaking trading in foodgrains in a
commercial manner but within the framework of an over-all Government policy.
Only by such a measure it will be possible to effectively implement any policy
of ensuring that the primary producer obtains the minimum price that may be
announced from time to time and to protect the consumer from the vagaries of
speculative trade.2\. The setting up of the Food Corporation of India, as
provided for in this Bill, will, therefore, be one of the essential and
important steps in the implementation of Government's food policy. The
Corporation will be the first organised attempt to take up State trading in
foodstutls on an appreciable scale The Agency will also be used to build up
gradually buffer stocks.3\. The Corporation will engage itself primarily in
the purchase, storage, movement, distribution and sale of foodgrains.
Provision has also been made in the Bill enabling the Corporation to deal in
other foodstuffs if considered necessary by the Government. The Corporation
may also discharge certain incidental functions as provided for in the Bill in
consultation with the Central Government.4\. The Corporation will be
encouraged to function benerally as an autonomous organisation working on
commercial lines. It is expected to secure for itself a strategic and
commanding position in the foodgrains trade of the country. Bearing in mind
the several large spheres in which the Corporation will ultimately have to
operate, this Bill is being introduced to enable it to function as a statutory
Corporation wholly owned by the Government.5\. It is necessary that the
Corporation should work with the active and continued co-operation of State
Governments and their machinery. The Bill. therefore, provides for the setting
up of Boards of Management or State Food Corporations, as the case may he, to
secure such co-operation and participation in a practical and effective way. -
Gazette of India, 17.11.1964. Pt. 11. Section 2, Extra. p. 782.Amending Act 57
of 1968. - With the establishment of Food Corporation of India under the Food
corporations Act, 1964, the work relating to the storage. movement,
distribution and sale of foodgrains, performed by the Regional Directorates
under the Food Department of the Government, is being gradually transferred to
the Food Corporation of India. The staff working in the Regional Directorates
are also being transfered to the Corporation along with the work. The object
of this Bill is to prescribe the conditions of service in regard to
pay,pension and other similar matters which would he applicable to the
employees on their transfer to the Corporation. In doing so. care has been
taken to ensure that the pay, pension and other conditions of service are not
as far as possible, adversely affected on account of such transfer.2\.
Opportunity is being taken to declare the Central Government as the
"appropriate Government" under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 in relation
to the Food Corporation of India. - Gazette of India. 25-7-1967, Pt. 11,
Section 2, Extra. p. 613.Act 67 of 1972. - In order to remove certain
practical difficulties and deficiencies which have been experienced in the
working of the Food Corporation Act, 1964, it is proposed to amend the Act
suitably as explained in paragraphs 3 to 5.2\. The Food Corporations Act does
not extend at present to the, State of Jammu and Kashmir. The Government of
Jammu and Kashmir has requested that the activities of the Food Corporation of
India should he extended to that State also. It is, therefore, proposed to
extend the Act to that State.3\. Sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Act
requires the Food Corporation of India to obtain the previous approval of the
Central Government before establishing offices or agencies in or outside
India. With the increased utilisation of the services of the Corporation by
the State Governments for the purposes of procurement and distribution of
foodgrains, it has become necessary to establish local offices and agencies
like "purchase centres" in various parts of the country. Obviously, the
Corporation cannot perform its functions efficiently and effectively if it is
required to obtain the previous approval of the Central Government each time
it has to establish any office or agency. It is, therefore, proposed to
dispense with the requirement in the Act of obtaining the previous approval of
the Central Government for establishing offices and agencies within India.4\.
In pursuance of the recommendations contained in paragraph 22, of the Report
dated 12th November, 1970, of the Joint Select Committee to which the
Comptroller and Auditor-General's (Duties, Powers and Conditions of Service)
Bill, 1969, was entrusted, it is proposed to amend section 34 of the Act for
the purpose of empowering the Comptroller and Autidor-General's of India to
direct the manner in which the accounts of a Food Corporation shall he
audited, to have a supplementary or test audit done and to comment upon or
supplement the audit report of the professional auditors. Provision is also
being made in section 35 whereby such comments or supplement made by the
Comptroller and Auditor-General shall be laid before both Houses of
Parliament.5\. The amendments proposed in cis. 3 and 5 of the Bill are of a
clarificatory nature, Under the former it is proposed to clarify that the
expression "foodstuffs" used in Section 13 of the Act also includes edible
oils and oil seeds. This is intended to remove any possible doubts about the
extent of the activities of the Food Corporation of India under the said
Section 13. Similarly, Clause 5 of the Bill seeks to amend Section 27 of the
Act enabling a Food Corporation to borrow money from the Central Government
also - S.O.R. Gazette of India, 16-11-72, Pt.II S.2 Ext. p. 1093.Act 12 of
1977. - Section 12A of the Food Corporations Act, 1964 regulates transfer of
officers and staff working in the Food Deptt. of the Government of India to
the Food Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as the Corporation) as
and when the work relating to purchase, storage, movement, distribution and
sale of foodgrains performed by the Food Department was transferred to the
Corporation. The said Section 12A envisages the exercise of two options by the
said officers and staff. The first option is required to he given before the
order of transfer is made to indicate as to whether the employee is willing to
be transferred to the Corporation or not and the second has to be exercised
within six months from the date of transfer as to whether he would like to he
governed by the retirement benefits of the Central Government or of the
Corporation. The date of formal transfer in the case of all those whose
services were placed with the Corporation from time to time was fixed as Ist
March, 1969 which corresponds to the date when the process of transfer of
functions from the Food Department was completed. It took some time to secure
the first option mentioned above and to get the service particulars from the
employees with the result that even the first transfer order was issued only
in 1972. The employees could not, therefore, give their option in regard to
the retirement benefits as the period of six months from the date of transfer
had already expired by the time the transfer orders were issued. In some cases
employees have either died or retired before the issue of formal transfer
orders or before exercising their second option. Formal orders of transfer are
yet to be issued in respect of certain employees. In view of the above, cases
relating to retirement benefits of many employees still remain unsettled.
Keeping in view also the urgency to mitigate the financial hardship of such
employees, it was condiscred necessary to amend the Food Corporations Act.
1964. by means of an Ordinance. Accordingly, the Food Corporations (Amendment)
Ordinance, 1976. was promulgated on 31st December. 1976.2\. The said Ordinance
inter alia provided for the following matters, namely(i) The exercise of a
fresh option in respect of retirement benefits to all serving employees of the
Corporation within a period of six months from the date of commencement of the
Ordinance irrespective of whether they had exercised the option earlier or
not.(ii) In respect of those employees for whom formal orders of transfer are
yet to be issued, the said option can be exercised within a period of six
months from the date of such orders.(iii) The validation of all the options
exercised by the employees who have either died or retired.(iv) Conferment of
Central Government retirement benefits to certain employees as such benefits
were more favourable than the retirement benefits of' the Corporation.The Bill
seeks to replace the above Ordinance - S.O.R. Gazette of India. 31.3-77,
Pt.II, Section 2 Ext , p 58.Act 53 of 1982 - According to section 12A of the
Food Corporations Act, 1964, employees of the Central Government whose
services were transferred to the Food Corporation of India are entitled to a
second opportunity of making representation in disciplinary proceedings where
it is proposed to impose on the employees concerned the penalty of dismissal,
removal or reduction in hank. This is in accordance with the constitutional
provision which applied to Government servants at the time of their transfer.
Subsequently by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976 clause (2)
of article 311 of the Constitution has been amended doing away with the second
opportunity. The relevant service rules governing the Government servants have
already been amended to be in conformity with the Constitutional
amendments.2\. With the amendment of the Constitution, there is now no
justification for continuing to allow the transferred employees of the Food
Corporation of India the opportunity of being heard twice when that is no
longer availahe even to Government servants. The rationale for giving the
benefits that they would have been entitled to this opportunity had they
continued to remain in Government service, has disappeared. In view of this
and in order to bring the provisions of section 12A of the Food corporations
Act in conformity with the ,present constitutional position it is proposed to
amend sub-section (5) of section 12A of the Food Corporations Act, 1964 so as
to do away with the requirement of giving second opportunity of making
representation with regard to the penalty proposed to be imposed.3\. ft is
proposed to avail of the present opportunity to amend sub-section (3) of
section 44 of the Act relating to laying of the rules made by the Central
Government under section 44 before each House of the Parliament, so as to
bring it in line with the Standard Model clause recommended by the Committee
on Subordinate Legislation.4\. It is also proposed to amend section 45 of the
Act relating to power to make regulations so as to enable retrospective effect
being given to the regulations. The practice has been to make the same terms
and conditions, pay scales, etc., which are applicable to employees of the
Government generally applicable to the employees of the Food Corporation. For
the purpose of extending the benefit of any revision in the pay scales or in
the allowances payable to or the terms and conditions applicable to employees
of the Food Corporation from the same date from which those benefits have been
given to employees of the Government, it becomes necessary to make the
regulations on the subject with retrospective effect. In accordance with the
recommendations of the Committee on Subordinate Legislation, provision is
being made for laying of regulations before each House of Parliament. It is
also proposed to make it clear in the proposed amendment that the power to
make regulations with retrospective effect will not be exercised so as to
prejudicially affect the interest of any person.5\. It is also proposed to add
a new section 46 to provide for validating retrospective effect given to the
regulations already framed by the Food Corporation under the regulation making
power conferred on it by section 45 of the Food Corporations Act, 1964.6\. The
Bill seeks to achieve the above objects. Gazette of India, 30-4-82. Pt.11
Section 2, Ext.p. 3 (No. 21).Act 36 of 1988. - Section 27 of the Food
Corporations Act, 1964. empowers the Food Corporation of India or a State Food
corporation established under the Act to take advances or borrow money from
the Central Government or from any scheduled bank or from any other hank or
financial institution approved by the Central Government in this behalf
against stocks of foodgrains or other foodstuffs held by it for the purpose of
carrying out its functions under the Act. The provisions of the Act do not
permit a Food Corporation borrow funds from other sources or to issue and sell
bonds or debentures.2\. The Food Corporations do not generate any internal
resources. They require funds both for working capital requirements as well as
for investment purposes. At present, the funds are being provided by only the
Government and the banking section. It is proposed to diversify the sources of
financing.3\. It is. therefore proposed to amend section on 27 of the Food
Corporations Act, 1964 (37 of 1964) to enable a Food Corporation to raise
funds, as and when required, for its operational as well as investment
requirements by the issue of bonds and debentures and also by borrowings from
the Central and State Government institutions or public sector enterprises or
bodies or from public or corporate sector, on such terms, and conditions as
may he approved by the Central Government.4\. The Bill seeks to achieve the
above objective. Gazette of India, 21.4-87., Pt. II Section 2 Ext., P. 3 (No.
15).[10th December, 1964]An Act to provide for the establishment of Food
Corporations for the purpose of trading in foodsgrains and other foodstuffs
and for matters connected therewith and incidental thereto.BE it enacted by
Parliament in the Fifteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:--

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Food Corporations Act, 1964.(2)It extends to the
whole of India [***] [Omitted by Act 67 of 1972, Section 2].(3)It shall come
into force on such [date] [17th December, 1964; vide Notification No. G.S.R.
1808, dated the 16th December, 1964, Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Pt. II,
Section 3(i), p. 869.] as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--(a)"Corporation" means
the Food Corporation of India established under section 3;(b)"Food
Corporation" means the Food Corporation of India established under section 3
or a State Food Corporation established under section 17;(bb)[ "foodstuffs"
includes edible oilseeds and oils;.] [Inserted by Act 67 of 1972 s.
3,](c)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(d)"scheduled
bank" means a bank for the time being included in the Second Schedule to the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934);(e)"State Food Corporation" means
a State Food Corporation established under section 17;(f)"year" means the
financial year.

## Chapter II  
The Food Corporation Of India

### 3. Establishment of Food Corporation of India.

(1)With effect from such [date] [1st January 1965; vide Notification No.
G.S.R. 1809, dated the 16th December, 1964 Gazette of India, Extraordinary,
Pt. II, Section 3(i), p. 869] as the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf, the Central Government shall
establish for the purposes of this Act a Corporation known as the Food
Corporation of India.(2)The Corporation shall be a body corporate with the
name aforesaid, having perpetual succession and a common seal with power,
subject to the provisions of this Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of
property and to contract, and may, by that name, sue and be sued.

### 4. Offices and agencies.

(1)The head office of the Corporation shall be at Madras or at such other
place as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify.(2)[ The Corporation may establish offices or agencies at other places
in or outside India:Provided that no such office or agency shall be
established at any place outside India without the previous approval of the
Central Government.] [Substituted by Act 67 of 1972, Section 4. (w.e.f.
15-12-1972)]

### 5. Capital of Corporation.

(1)The original capital of the Corporation shall be such sum not exceeding one
hundred crores of rupees as the Central Government may fix.(2)The Central
Government may from time to time increase the capital of the Corporation to
such extent and in such manner as that Government may determine.(3)Such
capital may be provided by the Central Government from time to time after due
appropriation made by Parliament by law for the purpose and subject to such
terms and conditions as may be determined by that Government.

### 6. Management.

(1)The general superintendence, direction and management of the affairs and
business of the Corporation shall vest in a board of directors which may
exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things as may be exercised
or done by the Corporation under this Act.(2)The board of directors, in
discharging its functions, shall act on business principles having regard to
the interests of the producer and consumer and shall be guided by such
instructions on questions of policy as may be given to it by the Central
Government.(3)If any doubt arises as to whether a question is or is not a
question of policy, the decision of the Central Government thereon shall be
final.

### 7. Board of directors.

(1)The board of directors of the Corporation shall consist of the following,
namely:--(a)a Chairman;(b)three directors to represent respectively the
Ministries of the Central Government dealing with--(i)food,(ii)finance,
and(iii)co-operation;(c)the managing director of the Central Warehousing
Corporation established under section 3 of the Warehousing Corporations Act,
1962 (58 of 1962), ex officio;(d)a managing director;(e)six other
directors.(2)All the directors of the Corporation other than the director
referred to in clause (c) of sub-section (1) shall be appointed by the Central
Government.(3)The managing director shall--(a)exercise such powers and perform
such duties as the board of directors may entrust or delegate to him;
and(b)receive such salary and allowances as the board of directors may, with
the approval of the Central Government, fix:Provided that the first managing
director shall receive such salary and allowances as the Central Government
may fix.(4)The term of office of, and the manner of filling casual vacancies
among, the directors of the Corporation, other than the director referred to
in clause (c) of sub-section (1), and the other terms and conditions of
appointment of the directors of the Corporation shall, subject to the
provisions of sub-section (3), be such as may be prescribed.

### 8. Disqualification for office of director.

A person shall be disqualified for being appointed as, and for being, a
director of the Corporation--(a)if he is, or at any time has been, adjudicated
insolvent or has suspended payment of his debts or has compounded with his
creditors; or(b)if he is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent
court; or(c)if he is or has been convicted of any offence which in the opinion
of the Central Government involves moral turpitude; or(d)if he has been
removed or dismissed from the service of the Government or a corporation owned
or controlled by the Government; or(e)except in the case of the Chairman or
the managing director, if he is a salaried official of the Food Corporation of
India or a State Food Corporation.

### 9. Removal and resignation of directors.

(1)The Central Government may, at any time, after consultation with the
Corporation, remove the managing director from office after giving him a
reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the proposed removal.(2)The
board of directors may remove any director from office who--(a)is or has
become subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in section 8; or(b)is
absent without leave of the board of directors from more than three
consecutive meetings thereof without cause sufficient, in the opinion of the
board, to exonerate his absence.(3)A director of the Corporation may resign
his office by giving notice thereof in writing to the Central Government and
on such resignation being accepted, he shall be deemed to have vacated his
office.

### 10. Meetings.

(1)The board of directors of the Corporation shall meet at such times and
places and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction
of business at its meetings (including the quorum at meetings) as may be
provided by regulations made by the Corporation under this Act.(2)The Chairman
of the board or, if for any reason he is unable to attend any meeting, any
other director elected by the directors present at the meeting, shall preside
at the meeting.(3)All questions which come up before any meeting of the board
shall be decided by a majority of the votes of the directors present and
voting, and, in the event of an equality of votes, the Chairman, or in his
absence, the person presiding, shall have and exercise a second or casting
vote.

### 11. Advisory Committees.

(1)The Central Government may, in consultation with the Corporation, by
notification in the Official Gazette, constitute one or more Advisory
Committees consisting of such persons and on such terms and conditions as may
be prescribed.(2)It shall be the duty of any such Advisory Committee to advise
the Central Government or the Corporation in regard to any matter connected
with the purposes of this Act in respect of which its advice is sought by the
Central Government, or, as the case may be, by the Corporation.(3)The expenses
in relation to the Advisory Committees shall be met by the Corporation.

### 12. Officers and other employees of Corporation.

(1)The Central Government shall, after consultation with the Corporation,
appoint a person to be the Secretary of the Corporation.(2)Subject to such
rules as may be made by the Central Government in this behalf, the Corporation
may appoint such other officers and employees as it considers necessary for
the efficient performance of its functions.(3)The methods of appointment, the
conditions of service and the scales of pay of the officers and other
employees of the Corporation shall--(a)as respects the Secretary, be such as
may be prescribed;(b)as respects the other officers and employees, be such as
may be determined by regulations made by the Corporation under this Act.

### 12A. [ Special provisions for transfer of Government employees to the
Corporation in certain cases. [ Section 12A inserted by Act 57 of 1968,
Section 2. ]

(1)Where the Central Government has ceased or ceases to perform any functions
which under section 13 are functions of the Corporation, it shall be lawful
for the Central Government to transfer, by order and with effect from such
date or dates (which may be either retrospective to any date not earlier than
the 1st January, 1965, or prospective) as may be specified in the order, to
the Corporation any of the officers or employees serving in the Department of
the Central Government dealing with food or any of its subordinate or attached
offices and engaged in the performance of those functions:Provided that no
order under this sub-section shall be made in relation to any officer or
employee in such Department or office who has, in respect of the proposal of
the Central Government to transfer such officer or employee to the
Corporation, intimated within such time as may be specified in this behalf by
that Government, his intention of not becoming an employee of the
Corporation.(2)In making an order under sub-section (1), the Central
Government shall, as far as may be, take into consideration the functions
which the Central Government has ceased or ceases to perform and the areas in
which such functions have been or are performed.(3)An officer or other
employee transferred by an order made under sub-section (1) shall, on and from
the date of transfer, cease to be an employee of the Central Government and
become an employee of the Corporation with such designation as the Corporation
may determine and shall, [subject to the provisions of sub-sections (4), (4A),
(4B), (4C), (5) and (6)], be governed by the regulations made by the
Corporation under this Act as respects remuneration and other conditions of
service including pension, leave and provident fund, and shall continue to be
an officer or employee of the Corporation unless and until his employment is
terminated by the Corporation.(4)Every officer or other employee transferred
by an order made under sub-section (1) shall, within six months from the date
of transfer, exercise his option in writing to be governed,--(a)by the scale
of pay applicable to the post held by him under the Government immediately
before the date of transfer or by the scale of pay applicable to the post
under the Corporation to which he is transferred.(b)by the leave, provident
fund, retirement or other terminal benefits admissible to employees of the
Central Government in accordance with the rules and orders of the Central
Government as amended from time to time or the leave, provident fund or other
terminal benefits admissible to the employees of the Corporation under the
regulations made by the Corporation under this Act, and such option once
exercised shall be final:Provided that the option exercised under clause (a)
shall be applicable only in respect of the post to which such officer or
employee is transferred to the Corporation and on appointment to a higher post
under the Corporation, he shall be eligible only for the scale of pay
applicable to such higher post:Provided further that if immediately before the
date of his transfer any such officer or employee is officiating in a higher
post under the Government either in a leave vacancy or in any other vacancy of
a specified duration, his pay, on transfer, shall be protected for the
unexpired period of such vacancy and thereafter he shall be entitled to the
scale of pay applicable to the post under the Government to which he would
have reverted or to the scale of pay applicable to the post under the
Corporation to which he is transferred, whichever he may opt:Provided also
that when an officer or other employee serving in the Department of the
Ministry of the Central Government dealing with food or in any of its attached
or subordinate offices is promoted to officiate in a higher post in the
Department or office subsequent to the transfer to the Corporation of any
other officer or employee senior to him in that Department or office before
such transfer, the officer or other employee who is promoted to officiate in
such higher post shall, on transfer to the Corporation, be entitled only to
the scale of pay applicable to the post he would have held but for such
promotion or the scale of pay applicable to the post under the Corporation to
which he is transferred, whichever he may opt.(4A)[ Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (4),--(a)every officer or other employee in respect
of whom an order of transfer under sub-section (1) had been made before the
date of commencement of the Food Corporations (Amendment) Act, 1977 (hereafter
in this section referred to as the appointed day) shall, whether or not he had
exercised the option under sub-section (4) before the appointed day, exercise
such option within six months from the appointed day; and(b)every officer or
other employee in respect of whom an order of transfer under sub-section (1)
may be made after the appointed day shall, within six months from the date or
such order, exercise his option under sub-section (4), and in each such case
such option once exercised shall be final:Provided that where an officer or
other employee having exercised an option under sub-section (4) before the
appointed day--(i)has died or retired before the appointed day, or dies or
retires after the appointed day, before exercising the option as required by
this sub-section, or(ii)does not exercise the option as required by this sub-
section, the option already exercised by him shall be deemed to have been
validly exercised by him under sub-section (4).(4B)Where an officer or other
employee--(a)has died or retired, or dies or retires, after an order of
transfer under sub-section (1) in respect of such officer or other employee is
made but before exercising the option under sub-section (4) or, as the case
may be, as required by sub-section (4A); or(b)has died or retired, or dies or
retires, before an order of transfer under sub-section (1) in respect of such
officer or other employee is made.he shall, notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-section (4) or sub-section (4A),--(i)in a case falling under clause
(a), be deemed to have exercised an option under sub-section (4); and(ii)in a
case falling under clause (b), be deemed to have been transferred under sub-
section (1) and exercised and option under sub-section (4) to be governed by
the leave, provident fund, retirement or other terminal benefits admissible to
the employees of the Central Government in accordance with the rules and
orders of the Central Government as amended from time to time:Provided that
nothing in clause (a) of this sub-section shall apply to an officer or other
employee who has, before the appointed day, been paid the terminal benefits as
admissible to the employees of the Corporation under the regulations made by
the Corporation under this Act, unless such officer or other employee refunds
in a lump sum within six months from the appointed day the amount of
contributions made by the Corporation towards such terminal benefits:Provided
further that nothing in clause (b) of this sub-section shall apply to an
officer or other employee who has intimated, under the proviso to sub-section
(1), his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.(4C)Where an
officer or other employee has exercised an option under sub-section (4), or
exercises, or is deemed to have exercised, an option under that sub-section,
read with sub-section (4A) or sub-section (4B), to be governed by the leave,
provident fund, retirement or other terminal benefits admissible to the
employees of the Central Government, such benefits shall be calculated on the
basis of the pay and allowances drawn by him in the Corporation.] [Inserted by
Act 12 of 1977, Section 2 (w.e.f. 31-12-1976)](5)No officer or other employee
transferred by an order made under sub-section (1),--(a)shall be dismissed or
removed by an authority subordinate to that competent to make a similar or
equivalent appointment under the Corporation as may be specified in the
regulations made by the Corporation under this Act;(b)[ shall be dismissed or
removed or reduced in rank except after an inquiry in which he has been
informed of the charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity of
being heard in respect of those charges:] [Substituted by Act 53 of 1982,
Section 2][Provided that where it is proposed after such inquiry, to impose
upon him any such penalty, such penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
evidence adduced during such inquiry and it shall not be necessary to give
such person any opportunity of making representation on the penalty proposed:]
[Substituted and Inserted by Act 53 of 1982, s.2.][Provided further that this
clause shall not apply,--(i)where an officer or employee is dismissed or
removed or reduced in rank on the ground of conduct which has led to his
conviction on a criminal charge; or(ii)where the authority empowered to
dismiss or remove an officer or employee or to reduce him in rank is satisfied
that for some reason, to be recorded by that authority in writing, it is not
reasonably practicable to hold such inquiry; or(iii)to an officer or employee
who, after transfer to the Corporation, is appointed to a higher post under
the Corporation in response to an open advertisement and in competition with
outsiders.(6)If, in respect of any such officer or employee as aforesaid, a
question arises whether it is reasonable practicable to hold such inquiry as
is referred to in sub-section (5), the decision thereon of the authority
empowered to dismiss or remove him or to reduce him in rank shall be
final.(7)Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall apply to the members of
the Central Secretariat Service or any other service or to persons on
deputation to the Department referred to in that sub-section or to any of its
attached or subordinate offices from any Ministry of the Central Government or
from any State Government or from any organisation.] [Substituted and Inserted
by Act 53 of 1982, s.2.]

### 13. Functions of Corporation.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act, it shall be the primary duty of the
Corporation to undertake the purchase, storage, movement transport,
distribution and sale of foodgrains and other foodstuffs.(2)Subject as
aforesaid, the Corporation may also, with the previous approval of the Central
Government,--(a)promote by such means as it thinks fit the production of
foodgrains and other foodstuffs;(b)set up, or assist in the setting up of,
rice mills, [flour mills] [See Rice-milling Industry (Regulation) Act, 1958
(Act 21 of 1958), controls and regulates the industry in the interest of
general public] and other undertakings for the processing of foodgrains and
other foodstuffs; and(c)discharge such other functions as may be prescribed or
as are supplemental, incidental or consequential to any of the functions
conferred on it under this Act.

### 14. Executive Committee and other commodities.

(1)The board of directors of the Corporation may constitute an Executive
Committee which shall consist of--(a)the Chairman of the board;(b)the managing
director; and(c)three other directors, of whom one shall be a
nonofficial.(2)The Chairman of the board of directors shall be the Chairman of
the Executive Committee.(3)Subject to the general control, direction and
superintendence of the board of directors, the Executive Committee shall be
competent to deal with any matter within the competence of the
Corporation.(4)The board of directors may constitute such other committees,
whether consisting wholly of directors or wholly of other persons or partly of
directors and partly of other persons as it thinks fit, for such purposes as
it may decide.(5)A committee constituted under this section shall meet at such
times and places and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the
transaction of business at its meetings (including the quorum at meetings) as
may be provided by regulations made by the Corporation under this Act.(6)The
members of a committee (other than the directors of the board) shall be paid
by the Corporation such fees and allowances as may be fixed by it by
regulations made under this Act for attending the meetings of the committee
and for attending to any other work of the Corporation.

### 15. Member of board or committee thereof not to vote in certain cases.

A member of the board of directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof
who has any direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any matter coming up for
consideration at a meeting of the board of directors or committee thereof,
shall, as soon as possible after relevant circumstances have come to his
knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at such meeting and the
disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of the board or the committee, as
the case may be, and the member shall not take any part in any deliberation or
decision of the board or committee with respect to that matter.

## Chapter III  
Boards Of Management

### 16. Board of Management, their constitution and functions.

(1)The Central Government may, on a request received in this behalf from the
State Government or Governments concerned or otherwise, by notification in the
Official Gazette, establish a Board of Management for a State or two or more
contiguous States, if no State Food Corporation is functioning in such State
or States.(2)The head office of the Board of Management shall be at such place
as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify.(3)The Board of Management shall consist of--(a)a Chairman to be
appointed by the board of directors of the Food Corporation of India;(b)the
senior-most executive officer of the said Corporation employed at the head
office of the Board of Management; and(c)not more than ten other members to be
appointed by the board of directors of the said Corporation.(4)The members of
a Board of Management referred to in clauses (a) and (c) of sub-section (3)
shall hold office for a term of two years and shall be eligible for re-
appointment and the other terms and conditions of their appointment shall be
such as may be prescribed.(5)The Board of Management shall advise the
Corporation on such matters as may be generally or specifically referred to it
and shall perform such other functions as the Corporation may delegate to
it.(6)The provisions of sections 20, 21 and 25 shall, so far as may be, apply
in relation to the members of a Board of Management as they apply in relation
to the members of the board of directors of a State Food Corporation:Provided
that the reference to the General Manager in clause (e) of section 20 shall be
construed as a reference to the officer of the Corporation referred to in
clause (b) of sub-section (3).(7)The Food Corporation of India may, after
consultation with a Board of Management, appoint such staff as it considers
necessary to enable that Board to perform its functions under this Act.(8)The
Board of Management may, by order in writing, authorise any one or more of its
members to exercise and perform, subject to such conditions and limitations,
if any, as may be specified in the order, such of its powers and functions as
it may think fit.(9)The Board of Management shall follow such procedure as may
be provided by regulations made by the Food Corporation of India under this
Act.(10)Where a Board of Management has been established--(i)for a State,
or(ii)for two or more States, then such Board shall stand dissolved--(a)in the
case referred to in clause (i), on the establishment of a Food Corporation for
that State, and(b)in the case referred to in clause (ii), on the establishment
of such Corporation for any one or more of such States.(11)Where a Board of
Management stands dissolved under clause (b) of sub-section (10), the Central
Government may establish a new Board of Management for the State or States for
which no Food Corporation has been established.(12)The expenses of the Board
of Management in the discharge of its functions under this Act shall be met by
the Food Corporation of India.

Such Boards of Management established for the States of Andhra Pradesh and
Orissa with headquarters at Hyderabad and Bhubaneshwar, respectively - See
Gazette of India, 14-12-1967, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), Extra., p. 1845 (S.O.
4458); Gazette of India, 23-3-1968, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), Extra., p. 385
(S.O. 1122).  
---  
  
## Chapter IV  
State Food Corporations

### 17. Establishment of State Food Corporation.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette and
after consultation with the Government of a State, establish a Food
Corporation for that State under such name as may be specified in the
notification.(2)A State Food Corporation established under sub-section (1)
shall be a body corporate by the name notified under that sub-section, having
perpetual succession and a common seal with power, subject to the provisions
of this Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of property and to contract, and
may, by the said name, sue and be sued.(3)The head office of a State Food
Corporation shall be at such place within the State as may be notified by the
Central Government in the Official Gazette.(4)Subject to the provisions of
this Act, a State Food Corporation may perform such of the functions of the
Food Corporation of India as that Corporation may delegate to it.

### 18. Capital of State Food Corporation.

(1)The capital of a State Food Corporation shall be such sum not exceeding ten
crores of rupees as the Central Government may, after consultation with the
Food Corporation of India, fix.(2)The Central Government may, after such
consultation, from time to time increase the capital of the State Food
Corporation to such extent and in such manner as that Government may
determine.(3)Such capital shall be provided--(a)by the Central Government
after due appropriation made by Parliament by law for the purpose, and(b)by
the Food Corporation of India. in such proportion and subject to such terms
and conditions as may be determined by the Central Government.

### 19. Management of State Food Corporation.

(1)The general superintendence, direction and management of the affairs and
business of a State Food Corporation shall vest in a board of directors which
shall consist of a Chairman, a General Manager and not more than ten other
members, all of whom shall be appointed by the Food Corporation of India after
consultation with the Central Government and the State Government.(2)The
General Manager shall--(a)exercise such powers and perform such duties as the
board of directors may entrust or delegate to him; and(b)receive such salary
and allowances and be governed by such terms and conditions of service as the
board of directors may, in consultation with the Food Corporation of India,
fix.(3)The board of directors, in discharging its functions, shall act on
business principles having regard to the interests of the producer and
consumer and shall be guided by such instructions on questions of policy as
may be given to it by the Food Corporation of India.(4)If any doubt arises as
to whether a question is or is not a question of policy, the matter shall be
referred to the Central Government whose decision thereon shall be
final.(5)The members of the board of directors, other than the General
Manager, shall be entitled to receive by way of remuneration or fees such sums
as may be prescribed:Provided that no official member shall be entitled to
receive any remuneration other than any allowances admissible to him under the
rules regulating his conditions of service.(6)The term of office of, and the
manner of filling casual vacancies among, the members of the board of
directors shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 20. Disqualification for office of member of board of directors.

A person shall be disqualified for being appointed as, and for being, a member
of the board of directors of a State Food Corporation--(a)if he is, or at any
time has been, adjudicated insolvent or has suspended payment of his debts or
has compounded with his creditors; or(b)if he is of unsound mind and stands so
declared by a competent court; or(c)if he is or has been convicted of any
offence which in the opinion of the Central Government involves moral
turpitude; or(d)if he has been removed or dismissed from the service of the
Government or a corporation owned or controlled by the Government; or(e)except
in the case of the Chairman or the General Manager, if he is a salaried
official of the Food Corporation of Indian or a State Food Corporation.

### 21. Removal and resignation of members of board of directors.

(1)The Food Corporation of India, may, at any time, after consultation with
the State Food Corporation, remove the General Manager from officer after
giving him a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the proposed
removal.(2)The board of directors of a State Food Corporation may remove from
office any member of that board who--(a)is or has become subject to any of the
disqualifications mentioned in section 20, or(b)is absent without leave of the
board of directors from more than three consecutive meetings thereof without
cause sufficient, in the opinion of the board, to exonerate his absence.(3)A
member of such board may resign his office by giving notice thereof in writing
to the Food Corporation of India and on such resignation being accepted, he
shall be deemed to have vacated his office.

### 22. Meetings.

(1)The board of directors of a State Food Corporation shall meet at such times
and places and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the
transaction of business at its meetings (including the quorum at meetings) as
may be provided by regulations made by that Corporation under this Act.(2)The
Chairman of the board of directors or, if for any reason he is unable to
attend any meeting, any other member of the board elected by the members of
the board present at the meeting, shall preside at the meeting.(3)All
questions which come up before any meeting of the board of directors shall be
decided by a majority of the votes of the members present and voting, and, in
the event of an equality of votes, the Chairman or in his absence, the person
presiding shall have and exercise a second or casting vote.

### 23. Appointment of officers, etc.

, and their conditions of service. (1) A State Food Corporation may appoint
such officers and other employees as it considers necessary for the efficient
performance of its functions.(2)Every person employed by a State Food
Corporation under this Act shall be subject to such conditions of service and
shall be entitled to such remuneration as may be determined by regulations
made by that Corporation under this Act.

### 24. Executive Committee and other committees.

(1)The board of directors of a State Food Corporation may constitute an
Executive Committee which shall consist of--(a)the Chairman of the board of
directors;(b)the General Manager; and(c)three other members of the board of
directors, of whom one shall be a non-official.(2)The Chairman of the board of
directors shall be the Chairman of the Executive Committee.(3)Subject to the
general control, direction and superintendence of the board of directors, the
Executive Committee shall be competent to deal with any matter within the
competence of the State Food Corporation.(4)The board of directors may
constitute such other committees, whether consisting wholly of members of the
board or wholly of other persons or partly of such members and partly of other
persons as it thinks fit, for such purposes as it may decide.(5)A committee
constituted under this section shall meet at such times and places and shall
observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at
its meetings (including the quorum at meetings) as may be provided by
regulations made by the State Food Corporation under this Act.(6)The members
of a committee (other than the directors of the board) shall be paid by the
State Food Corporation such fees and allowances as may be fixed by it by
regulations made under this Act, for attending the meetings of the committee
and for attending to any other work of that Corporation.

### 25. Member of board or committee thereof not to vote in certain cases.

A member of the board of directors of a State Food Corporation or a committee
thereof who has any direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any matter coming
up for consideration at a meeting of the board of directors or committee
thereof, shall, as soon as possible after relevant circumstances have come to
his knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at such meeting and the
disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of the board or the committee, as
the case may be, and the member shall not take any part in any deliberation or
decision of the board or the committee with respect to that matter.

## Chapter V  
Finance, Accounts And Audit

### 26. Submission of programme of activities and financial estimates.

(1)A Food Corporation shall, before the commencement of each year, prepare a
statement of programme of its activities during the forthcoming year as well
as a financial estimate in respect thereof.(2)The statement prepared under
sub-section (1) Shall, not less than three months before the commencement of
each year, be submitted for approval--(a)in the case of the Food Corporation
of India, to the Central Government;(b)in the case of a State Food
Corporation, to the Food Corporation of India.(3)The statement and the
financial estimate of a Food corporation referred to in sub-section (1) may,
with the approval of the Central Government, in the case of the Food
Corporation of India, or with the approval of the Food Corporation of India in
the case of a State Food Corporation, be revised by the Food Corporation.

### 27. Borrowing powers of Food Corporation.

(1)[ A Food Corporation may, for the purpose of carrying out its functions
under this Act,--(a)take advances against stocks of foodgrains or other
foodstuffs held by it, or borrow money--(i)from any scheduled bank, or(ii)from
any other bank or financial institution approved by the Central Government in
this behalf, or(iii)from any other authority, organisation or institution or
from the public on such terms and conditions as may be approved by the Central
Government; or(b)issue and sell bonds and debentures carrying interest at such
rates as may be fixed by the Central Government at the time the bonds or
debentures are issued:][Provided that the amount borrowed by a Food
Corporation under clause (b) shall not at any time exceed ten times the paid-
up capital and the reserve fund established under section 33.] [Substituted by
Act No. 27 of 2001.](2)The Central Government may guarantee the loans and
advances taken by a Food Corporation under sub-section (1) as to the re-
payment of principal and the payment of interest thereon and other incidental
charges.(3)[ A Food Corporation may, for the purpose of carrying out its
functions under this Act, also borrow money from the Central Government, and
that Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in this
behalf, pay to the Food Corporation such sums of money by way of loan on such
terms and conditions as that Government may determine] [Substituted by Act 36
of 1988, Section 2. 90].

### 28. Lending by Food Corporation on security of foodgrains.

A Food Corporation may lend or advance money to any person engaged in the
production of foodgrains upon the security of foodgrains or such other
security as may be prescribed, for any purpose connected with such production.

### 29. Power to enter into agreement for purchase of foodgrains after
harvest.

(1)A Food Corporation may enter into agreement with any grower of foodcrops
for the purchase of foodgrains after the harvest of such crops and any such
agreement may provide that any sum payable by the Corporation to the grower
under such agreement shall be payable to any scheduled bank or other financing
agency nominated by the grower in this behalf to such extent as may be
specified in the agreement.(2)The scheduled [bank] [For the names of the such
Banks see Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934] or other financing
agency referred to in sub-section (1) may, on the basis of any agreement
referred to in that sub-section, lend money to a grower of foodcrops who has
entered into such agreement.

### 30. Guarantee by Food Corporation.

A Food Corporation may, upon such terms and conditions as it may think fit,
guarantee any loan referred to in sub-section (2) of section 29, and also any
other loan raised by a grower of foodcrops, which is re-payable within a
period not exceeding five years.

### 31. Funds of Food Corporation.

(1)A Food Corporation shall have its own fund and all receipts of the
Corporation shall be credited thereto and all payments of the Corporation
shall be met therefrom.(2)Such fund shall be applied for meeting all
administrative expenses of the Food, Corporation and for carrying out the
purposes of this Act.

### 32. Investment of funds.

A Food Corporation may invest its funds in the securities of the Central
Government or any State Government or in such other manner as may be
prescribed.

### 33. Allocation of surplus profits.

(1)A Food Corporation shall establish a reserve fund to which shall be
credited every year such portion of its annual net profits as that Corporation
thinks fit.(2)After making provision for such reserve fund and for bad and
doubtful debts, depreciation in assets and all other matters which are usually
provided for by companies registered and incorporated under the Companies Act,
1956 (1 of 1956), the balance of its annual net profits shall be paid--(a)in
the case of the Food Corporation of India, to the Central Government, and(b)in
the case of a State Food Corporation, to the Central Government and the Food
Corporation of India in the same proportion as the capital provided by them.

### 34. Accounts and audit.

(1)A Food Corporation shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant
records and prepare an annual statement of accounts including the profit and
loss account and the balance sheet in such form as may be prescribed.(2)The
accounts of a Food Corporation shall be audited by auditors duly qualified to
act as auditors of companies under section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1
of 1956).(3)The auditors shall be appointed annually by the Food Corporation
from among a list of auditors approved by the Central Government on the advice
of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.(4)The auditors shall be
supplied with a copy of the annual balance sheet and the profit and loss
account of the Food Corporation and it shall be their duty to examine them
together with the accounts and vouchers relating thereto, and they shall have
a list delivered to them of all books kept by the Corporation and shall at all
reasonable times have access to the books, accounts and other documents of the
Corporation and may require from any officer of the Corporation such
information an Explanation as the auditors may think necessary for the
performance of their duties as auditors.(5)[ The Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India shall have power--(a)to direct the manner in which the
accounts of a Food Corporation shall be audited by the auditors appointed
under sub-section (3) and to give such auditors instructions in regard to any
matter relating to the performance of their functions as such;(b)to conduct a
supplementary or test audit of the accounts of a Food Corporation by such
person or persons as he may authorise in this behalf; and for the purpose of
such audit, to require information or additional information to be furnished
to any person or persons so authorised, on such matters, by such person or
persons, and in such form, as the Comptroller and Auditor-General may, by
general or special order, direct.(6)The auditors shall send a copy of their
report together with an audited copy of the accounts--(a)to the Food
Corporation concerned;(b)where the accounts relate to a State Food Corporation
also to the food Corporation of India;(c)to the Central Government; and(d)to
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India who shall have the right to
comment upon, or supplement the audit report in such manner as he may think
fit.(7)Any comments upon or supplement to, the audit report, made by the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India under clause (d) of sub-section (6)
shall be placed by the Food Corporation concerned before the Central
Government, and where the accounts relate to a State Food Corporation, also
before the Food Corporation of India.] [Substituted by Act 67 of 1972, Section
6]

### 35. Annual report on the working of Food Corporations.

(1)A Food Corporation shall, as soon as possible after the end of each year,
submit to the Central Government an annual report on the working and affairs
of the Corporation.(2)The Central Government shall, as soon as may be after
the receipt of such report, cause such report and the audit report received
under section 34 [together with any comments thereon or supplement thereto by
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India] [Inserted by Act 67 of 1972 s.
7] to be laid before both Houses of Parliament.

## Chapter VI  
Miscellaneous

### 36. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate acts or proceedings of Food
Corporation, etc.

(1)No act or proceeding of a Food Corporation or a committee thereof or a
Board of Management shall be invalid by reason only of the existence of any
vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the board of directors of
the Food Corporation or such committee or Board of Management.(2)No act done
by any person acting in good faith as a member of a board of directors of a
Food Corporation or of a Board of Management shall be deemed to be invalid by
reason only of his disqualification for being appointed as, or for being, a
member of such board of directors or Board of Management.

### 37. Delegation.

A Food Corporation may, by general or special order in writing, delegate to
the Chairman or any other member of the board of directors or the Secretary or
other officer of the Corporation, subject to such conditions and limitations,
if any, as may be specified in the order, such of its powers and functions
under this Act as it may deem necessary.

### 38. Declaration of fidelity and secrecy.

Every director, member of an Advisory Committee or other committee, auditor,
officer or other employee of a Food Corporation and every member of a Board of
Management and its staff shall, before entering upon his duties, make a
declaration of fidelity and secrecy in the form set out in the Schedule.

### 39. Indemnity of directors.

(1)Every member of the board of directors of a Food Corporation and of a Board
of Management shall be indemnified by the Corporation against all losses and
expenses incurred by him in the discharge of his duties except such as are
caused by his own wilful act or default.(2)A member of the board of directors
of a Food Corporation or a Board of Management shall not be responsible for
any other member or for any officer or other employee of the Corporation or
Board of Management or for any loss or expense resulting to the Corporation
from the insufficiency or deficiency of value of, or title to, any property or
security acquired or taken on behalf of the Corporation in good faith, or by
the insolvency or wrongful act of any person under obligation to the
Corporation or by anything done in good faith, in the execution of the duties
of his office or in relation thereto.

### 40. Protection of action taken under this Act.

No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against a Food Corporation or any
member of the board of directors thereof or any officer or other employee
thereof or any member of a Board of Management or its staff or any other
person authorised by a Food Corporation or a Board of Management to discharge
any functions under this Act for any loss or damage caused or likely to be
caused by anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act.

### 41. Offences.

(1)Whoever, without the consent in writing of a Food Corporation, uses its
name in any prospectus or advertisement, shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees, or with both.(2)No court shall take cognizance of any
offence under sub-section (1) except on a complaint in writing by an officer
authorised in this behalf by the Food Corporation concerned.

### 42. Provision relating to income-tax, super-tax, etc.

For the purposes of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), or any other
enactment for the time being in force relating to income-tax, super-tax or any
other tax on income, profits or gains, a Food Corporation shall be deemed to
be a company within the meaning of the Income-tax Act, 1961, and shall be
liable to tax accordingly on its income, profits and gains.

### 43. Winding up of Food Corporation.

No provision of law relating to the winding up of companies or corporations
shall apply to a Food Corporation and it shall not be placed in liquidation
save by order of the Central Government and in such manner as that Government
may direct.

### 44. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)Without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for--(a)the term of
office of, and the manner of filling casual vacancies among, and the other
terms and conditions of appointment of, the directors of the
Corporation;(b)the composition of Advisory Committees and the terms and
conditions of service of members thereof;(c)the additional functions which the
Corporation may perform;(d)the remuneration or fees payable to the members of
the board of directors of a State Food Corporation and the term of office of,
and the manner of filling casual vacancies among, such members;(e)the
securities (other than foodgrains) upon which a Food Corporation may lend or
advance money;(f)the manner in which a Food Corporation may invest its
funds;(g)the form of the annual statement of accounts and the balance sheet to
be prepared by a Food Corporation;(h)any other matter which has to be or may
be prescribed.(3)Every rule made by the Central Government under this section
shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days [which may
be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid,] [Substituted by Act 53 of 1982, Section 3]
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree
that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so however that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule.

### 45. Power of Food Corporation to make regulations.

(1)A Food Corporation may, with the previous sanction of the Central
Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, make regulations not
inconsistent with this Act and the rules made thereunder, to provide for all
matters for which provisions is necessary or expedient for the purpose of
giving effect to the provisions of this Act.(1A)[ The power to make
regulations under this section shall include the power to give retrospective
effect from a date not earlier than the date of commencement of this Act, to
the regulations or any of them but no retrospective effect shall be given to
any regulation so as to prejudicially affect the interests of any person to
whom such regulation may be applicable.] [Inserted by act 53 of 1982 s.
4](2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such
regulations may provide for--(a)the methods of appointment, the conditions of
service and the scales of pay of the officers and employees of a Food
Corporation, other than the Secretary of the Food Corporation of India;(b)the
duties and conduct of officers and employees of a Food Corporation, other than
the Secretary aforesaid;(c)the functions and duties which may be entrusted or
delegated to the mananging director or, as the case may be, the General
Manager, of a Food Corporation;(d)the times and places at which meetings of a
Food Corporation or any committee thereof shall be held and the procedure to
be followed thereat;(e)the fees and allowances payable to the members of a
committee under sub-section (6) of section 14 or sub-section (6) of section
24;(f)generally, the efficient conduct of the affairs of a Food
Corporation.(3)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, rescind any regulation which it has sanctioned and there-upon such
regulation shall cease to have effect.(4)Any regulation which may be made by
the Food Corporation of India under this Act may be made by the Central
Government within three months from the establishment of that Corporation and
any regulation which may be made by a State Food Corporation under this Act
may be made by the Food Corporation of India within three months from the
establishment of such State Food Corporation; and any regulation so made may
be altered or rescinded by the Food Corporation concerned in the exercise of
its powers under this Act.(5)[ Every regulation made under this Act shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament,
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be
comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions and if, before
the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive
session aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the
regulation or both Houses agree that the regulation should not be made, the
regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no
effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that regulation.] [Added by Act 53 of 1982, s.4][Substituted by Act
36 of 1988, Section 2. 90]

For Food Corporation of India (Contributory Provident Fund) Regulations, 1967,
see Gazette of India, 27-5-1967. Pt. III, Section 4, p. 254 and for food
corporation of India (Death-cum-Retirement Gratuity) Regulations, 1967, see
Gazette of India, 9-9-1967, Pt. III, Section 4 p. 466.  
---  
  
### 46. [ Validation. [Inserted by act 53 of 1982 s. 5]

No regulation made or purporting to have been made with retrospective effect,
under section 45 before the commencement of the Food Corporations (Amendment)
Act, 1982 shall be deemed to be invalid or ever to have been invalid merely on
the ground that such regulation was made with retrospective effect and
accordingly every such regulation and any action taken or thing done
thereunder shall be as valid and effective as if the provisions of section 45,
as amended by the Food Corporations (Amendment) Act, 1982, were in force at
all material times when such regulation was made or action or thing was taken
or done.]THE SCHEDULE(See section 38)DECLARATION OF FIDELITY AND
SECRECYI,---------------------, declare that I will faithfully, truly and to
the best of my judgment, skill and ability execute and perform the duties
which are required of me as director, member of ----------- committee,
officer, employee or auditor (as the case may be) of the Food Corporation of
India/Food Corporation or as member of the Board of Management at-------------
under the Food Corporation of India and which properly relate to the office or
position in or in relation to that Corporation held by me.I further declare
that I will not communicate or allow to be communicated to any person not
legally entitled thereto any information relating to the affairs of the said
Corporation or to the affairs of any person having any dealing with the said
Corporation nor will I allow any person not legally entitled as aforesaid to
inspect or have access to any books or documents belonging to, or in the
possession of, the said Corporation and relating to the business of the said
Corporation or the business of any person having any dealing with the said
Corporation.(Signature)\------------Signed before me.

