## Union of India - Act

## The Gift-Tax Act, 1958

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Gift-Tax Act, 1958

## Act 18 of 1958

  * Published in Gazette 18 on 15 May 1958 
  * Assented to on 15 May 1958 
  * Commenced on 15 May 1958 
  * [This is the version of this document from 15 May 1958.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

[Preface]The Gift-Tax Act, 1958[Act No. 18 of 1958][15th May, 1958]An Act to
provide for the levy of gift-taxBE it enacted by Parliament in the Ninth Year
of the Republic of India as follows:--

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement

(1)This Act may be called the Gift-tax Act, 1958.(2)It extends to the whole of
India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir,(3)It shall be deemed to have come
into force on the 1st day of April, 1958.

### 2. Definitions

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--(ii)"Appellate Tribunal"
means the Appellate Tribunal constituted under section 252 of the Income-tax
Act;(iii)"assessee" means a person by whom gift-tax or any other sum of money
is payable under this Act, and includes--(a)every person in respect of whom
any proceeding under this Act has been taken for the determination of gift-tax
payable by him or by any other person or the amount of refund due to him or
such other person;(b)every person who is deemed to be an assessee under this
Act;(c)every person who is deemed to be an assessee in default under this
Act;(iiia)Assessing Officer" means the Assistant Commissions who is vested
with the relevant jurisdiction by virtue of directions or orders issued under
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 120 or any other provision of
the Income-tax Act which apply for the purposes of gift-tax under section 7 of
this Act, and also the Deputy Commissioner who is directed under clause (b) of
sub-section (4) of the said section 120 to exercise or perform all or any of
the powers and functions conferred on or assigned to the Assessing Officer
under that Act;(iv)"assessment" includes re-assessment;(iva)"assessment year"
means the period of twelve months commencing on the 1st day of April, every
year;(v)"Board" means the Central Board of Direct Taxes constituted under the
Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963));(va)"charitable purpose"
includes relief of the poor, education, medical relief, and the advancement of
any other object of genera! public utility ;(vii)the expressions "company",
"Indian company" and "company in which the public are substantially
interested" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them under
section 2 of the Income-tax Act;(viii)"done" means any person who acquires any
property under a gift, and, where a gift is made to a trustee for the benefit
of another person, includes both the trustee and the beneficiary;(ix)"donor"
means any person who makes a gift;(x)"executor" means an executor or
administrator of the estate of a deceased person;(xi)the expressions "firm",
"partner" and "partnership" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to
them under section 2 of the Income-tax Act;(xii)"gift" means the transfer by
one person to another of any existing movable or immovable property made
voluntarily and without consideration in money or money's worth, and includes
the transfer or conversion of any property referred to in section 4, deemed to
be a gift under that section;Explanation.--A transfer of any building or part
thereof referred to in clause (iii), clause (iiia) or clause (iiib) of section
27 of the Income-tax Act, by the person who is deemed under the said clause to
be the owner thereof made voluntarily and without consideration in money or
money's worth, shall be deemed to be a gift made by such person;(xiv)"Income-
tax Act" means the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961);(xvib)"Legal
representative" has the meaning assigned to it in clause (11) of section 2 of
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908);(xviii)"person" includes a Hindu
undivided family or a company or an association or a body of individuals or
persons, whether incorporated or not;(xix)"prescribed" means prescribed by
rules made under this Act;(xx)"previous year", in relation to any assessment
year--(a)in the case of an assessee having no source of income, profits or
gains or having a source of income, profits or gains in respect of which there
is no previous year under the Income-tax Act, means the twelve months ending
on the 31st day of March immediately preceding the assessment year;(c)in the
case of any other assessee, means the previous year as defined in section 3 of
the Income-tax Act if an assessment were to be made under that Act for that
year:Provided that where a person who has not been assessed under this Act for
any assessment year makes a gift on a date which does not fall within a
previous year as defined in sub-clause (a) or sub-clause (c), the previous
year shall be the twelve months ending on the 31st day of March immediately
preceding the assessment;(xxi)"principal officer", used with reference to a
company or any association of persons, means--(a)the secretary and treasurer,
manager, managing agent, managing director or agent of the company or
association; or(b)any person connected with the management of the affairs of
the company or association upon whom the Assessing Officer has served a notice
of his intention of treating him as the principal officer
thereof;(xxii)"property" includes any interest in property, movable or
immovable;(xxiii)"taxable gifts" means gifts chargeable to gift-tax under this
Act;(xxiiia)territories to which this Act extends shall be deemed to include
the Union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Goa, Daman and Diu, and
Pondicherry--(a)as respects any period for the purposes of section 5; and(b)as
respects any period included in the previous year for the purposes of making
any assessment for the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April,
1963, or for any subsequent year;(xxiv)"transfer of property" means any
disposition, conveyance, assignment, settlement, delivery, payment or other
alienation of property and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
includes--(a)the creation of a trust in property;(b)the grant or creation of
any lease, mortgage, charge, easement, licence, power, partnership or interest
in property;(c)the exercise of a power of appointment (whether general,
special or subject to any restrictions as to the persons in whose favour the
appointment may be made) of property vested in any person; not the owner of
the property, to determine its disposition in favour of any person other than
the done of the power; and(d)any transaction entered into by any person with
intent thereby to diminish directly or indirectly the value of his own
property and to increase the value of the property of any other
person;(xxv)the expressions "Chief Commissioner", "Director-General",
"Commissioner", "Commissioner (Appeals)", "Director", "Additional Director of
Income-tax", "Additional Commissioner of Income-tax", "Additional Commissioner
of Income-tax (Appeals)", "Deputy Director", "Deputy Commissioner", "Deputy
Commissioner (Appeals)", "Assistant Commissioner", "Income-tax Officer", "Tax
Recovery Officer" and "Inspector of Income-tax" shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them under section 2 of the Income-tax Act.

### 3. Charge of gift-tax

(1)Subject to the other provisions contained in this Act, there shall be
charged for every assessment year commencing on and from the 1st day of April,
1958, but before the 1st day of April, 1987, a tax (hereinafter referred to as
gift-tax) in respect of the gifts, if any, made by a person during the
previous year (other than gifts made before the 1st day of April, 1957) at the
rate or rates specified in Schedule I.(2)Subject to the other provisions
(including provisions for the levy of additional gift-tax) contained in this
Act, there shall be charged for every assessment year commencing on and from
the 1st day of April, 1987, gift-tax in respect of the gifts, if any, made by
a person during the previous year, at the rate of thirty per cent, on the
value of all taxable gifts.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (2), the provisions of this Act shall cease to apply and shall have no
effect whatsoever in respect of any gift made on or after the 1st day of
October, 1998.

### 4. Gifts to include certain transfers

(1)For the purpose of this Act,-(a)where property is transferred otherwise
than for adequate consideration, the amount by which the value of the property
as on the date of the transfer and determined in the manner laid down in
Schedule II exceeds the value of the consideration shall be deemed to be a
gift made by the transferor:Provided that nothing contained in this clause
shall apply in any case where the property is transferred to the Government or
where the value of the consideration for the transfer is determined or
approved by the Central Government or the Reserve Bank of India;(b)where
property is transferred for a consideration which, having regard to the
circumstances of the case, has not passed or is not intended to pass either in
full or in part from the transferee to the transferor, the amount of the
consideration which has not passed or is not intended to pass shall be deemed
to be a gift made by the transferor;(c)where there is a release, discharge,
surrender, forfeiture or abandonment of any debt, contractor other actionable
claim or of any interest in property by any person, the value of the release,
discharge, surrender, forfeiture or abandonment, to the extent to which it has
not been found to the satisfaction of the Assessing Officer to have been bona
fide, shall be deemed to be a gift made by the person responsible for the
release, discharge, surrender, forfeiture or abandonment;(d)where a person
absolutely entitled to property causes or has caused the same to be vested in
whatever manner in himself and any other person jointly without adequate
consideration and such other person makes an appropriation from or out of the
said property, the amount of the appropriation used for the benefit of the
person making the appropriation or for the benefit of any other person shall
be deemed to be a gift made in his favour by the person who causes or has
caused the property to be so vested;(e)where a person who has an interest in
property as a tenant for a term or for life or a remainder man surrenders or
relinquishes his interest in the property or otherwise allows his interest to
be terminated without consideration or for a consideration which is not
adequate, the value of the interest so surrendered, relinquished or allowed to
be terminated or, as the case may be, the amount by which such value exceeds
the consideration received, shall be deemed to be a gift made by such
person.(2)Where, in the case of an individual being a member of a Hindu
undivided family, any property having been the separate property of the
individual has been converted by the individual into property belonging to the
family through the act of impressing such separate property with the character
of property belonging to the family or throwing it into the common stock of
the family (such property being hereafter in this sub-section referred to as
the converted property), then, notwithstanding anything contained in any other
provision of this Act or any other law for the time being in force, for
purpose of computation of the taxable gifts made by the individual, the
individual shall be deemed to have made a gift of so much of the converted
property as the members of the Hindu undivided family other than such
individual would be entitled to, if a partition of the converted property had
taken place immediately after such conversion.

### 5. Exemption in respect of certain gifts

(1)Gift-tax shall not be charged under this Act in respect of gifts made by
any person-(i)of immovable property situate outside the territories to which
this Act extends;(ii)of movable property situate outside the said territories
unless the person-(a)being an individual, is a citizen of India and is
ordinarily resident in the said territories; or(b)not being an individual, is
resident in the said territories, during the previous year in which the gift
is made;(iia)being an individual who is not resident in India, to any person
resident in India, of foreign currency or other foreign exchange as defined,
respectively, in clause (c) and clause (d) of section 2 of the Foreign
Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (7 of 1947) remitted from a country outside
India in accordance with the provisions of the said Act, and any rules made
thereunder, during the period commencing on the 26th day of October, 1965, and
ending on the 28th day of February, 1966 or such later date as the Central
Government may, by notification in Official Gazette, specify in this
behalf.Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause, the expression "resident
in India" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Income-tax
Act;(iib)being a person resident outside India, out of the moneys standing to
his credit in a Non-resident (External) Account in any bank in India in
accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973
(46 of 1973), and any rules made thereunder.Explanation-For the purposes of
this clause, "person resident outside India" has the meaning as singed to it
in clause (q) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of
1973);(iic)being a citizen of India, or a person of Indian origin, who is not
resident in India, to any relative of such person in India, of convertible
foreign exchange remitted from a country outside India in accordance with the
provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973), and any
rules made thereunder.Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause and clause
(iid),-(a)a person shall be deemed to be of Indian origin if he or either of
his parents or any of his grand-parents was born in undivided
India;(b)"convertible foreign exchange" means foreign exchange which is for
the time being treated by the Reserve Bank of India as convertible foreign
exchange for the purposes of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of
1973), and any rules made thereunder;(c)"relative" has the meaning assigned to
it in clause (41) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act;(d)"resident in India"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Income-tax Act;(iid)being a
citizen of India or a person of Indian origin, who is not resident in India,
to any relative of such person in India of property in the form of any foreign
exchange asset as defined in clause (b) of section 15C of the Income-tax
Act;(iie)being an individual who is a non-resident Indian, once out of the
moneys standing to his credit in an account opened and operated in accordance
with the Non-resident (Non-reparable) Rupee Deposit Scheme,
1992.Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause, "non-resident Indian" shall
have the meaning assigned to it in clause (e) of sect ion 115C of the Income-
tax Act;(iii)of property in the form of savings certificates issued by the
Central Government, which that Government, by notification in the Official
Gazette, exempts from gift-tax;(iiib)of property in the form of Special Bearer
Bonds, 1991;(iiic)being an individual or a Hindu undivided family, of property
in the form of such Capital Investment Bonds as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf subject to a
maximum of rupees ten lakhs in value in the aggregate in one or more previous
years:Provided that the exemption conferred by this clause shall be available
only to a person who has initially subscribed to the said Bonds;(iiid)being an
individual or a Hindu undivided family, of property in the form of such Relief
Bonds, as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify in this behalf subject to a maximum of rupees five lakhs in value in
the aggregate in one or more previous years:Provided that the exemption
conferred by this clause shall be available only to a person who has initially
subscribed to the said Bonds;(iiie)being an individual who is a non-resident
Indian, of property in the form of the bonds specified under sub-clause (iid)
of clause (15) of section 10 of the Income-tax Act:Provided that where an
individual, who is a non-resident Indian in any previous year in which the
bonds are acquired, becomes a resident in India in any subsequent year, the
provisions of this clause shall apply in respect of the gifts of property
referred to in this clause in such subsequent year or any year
thereafter.Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause, the
expressions-(b)"non-resident Indian" shall have the meaning assigned to it
clause (e) of section 115C of the Income-tax Act;(iv)to the Government or any
local authority or any authority referred to in clause (20A) of section 10 of
the Income-tax Act;(i)to such temple, mosque, gurdwara, church or other place
as has been notified by the Central Government for the purposes of clause(b)
of sub-section (2) of section 80G of the Income-tax Act; or(ii)by way of
settlement on trust, of property the income from which, according to the deed
of settlement, is to be used exclusively in connection with the temple,
mosque, gurdwara, church or other place specified therein and notified as
aforesaid;(vii)to any relative dependent upon him for support and maintenance,
on the occasion of the marriage of the relative, subject to a maximum of
rupees one hundred thousand in value in respect of the marriage of each such
relative;(x)under a will;(xi)in contemplation of death;(xii)for the education
of his children, to the extent to which the gifts are proved to the
satisfaction of the Assessing Officer as being reasonable having regard to the
circumstances of the case;(xiii)being an employer, to any employee by way of
bonus, gratuity or pension or to the dependents of a deceased employee, to the
extent to which the payment of such bonus, gratuity or pension is proved to
the satisfaction of the Assessing Officer as being reasonable having regard to
the circumstances of the case and is made solely in recognition of the
services rendered by the employee;(xv)to any person in charge of any such
Bhoodan or Sampattidan movement as the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, specify;(IA)Any reference in clause (v) of sub-
section (1) to charitable purpose in relation to a gift made on or after the
1st day of April, 1964, shall be construed as not including a purpose the
whole or substantially the whole of which is of a religious nature.(v)to any
institution or fund established or deemed to be established for a charitable
purpose to which the provisions of 15 section 80G of the Income-tax Act
apply;(va)(2)Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-section (1),
gift-tax shall not be charged under this Act in respect of gifts made by any
person during the previous year, subject to a maximum of rupees thirty
thousand in value.Explanation.-For the purposes of this section,-(a)an
individual shall be deemed to be ordinarily resident in the territories to
which this Act extends during the previous year in which the gift is made if
during that year he is regarded as a resident but not as not ordinarily
resident within the meaning of section 6of the Income-tax Act, subject to the
modification that references in that section to India shall be construed as
references to the territories to which this Act extends;(b)a Hindu undivided
family firm or other association of persons shall be deemed to be resident in
the territories to which this Act extends during any previous year unless,
during that year, the control and management of its affairs was situated
wholly outside the said territories;(c)a company shall be deemed to be
resident in the territories to which this Act extends during the previous
year, if-(i)it is a company formed and registered under the Companies Act,
1956 (1 of 1956), or is an existing company within the meaning of that Act;
or(ii)during that year, the control and management of that company was
situated wholly in the said territories;(d)"gifts made in contemplation of
death" has the same meaning as in section 191 of the Indian Succession Act,
1925 (39 of 1925).

### 6. Value of gifts, how determined

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), the value of any property,
other than cash, transferred by way of gift shall, for the purpose of this
Act, be its value as on the date on which the gift was made and shall be
determined in the manner laid down in Schedule II.(2)Where a person makes a
gift which is not revocable for a specified period, the value of the property
gifted shall be capitalised value of the income from such property during the
period for which the gift is not revocable.

### 7. Gift-tax authorities and their jurisdiction

The income-tax authorities specified in section 116 of the Income-tax Act
shall be gift-tax authorities for the purposes of this Act and every such
authority shall exercise the powers and perform the functions of a gift-tax
authority under this Act in respect of any person within his jurisdiction, and
for this purpose his jurisdiction under this Act shall be the same as he has
under the Income-tax Act by virtue of orders or directions issued under
section 120 of that Act (including orders or directions assigning concurrent
jurisdiction) or under any other provision of that Act.Explanation.-For the
purposes of this section, the gift-tax authority having jurisdiction in
relation to a person who has no income assessable to income-tax under the
Income-tax Act shall be the gift-tax authority having jurisdiction in respect
of the area in which that person resides.

### 7A. Powers of Commissioner respecting specified areas, cases or persons

* Omitted.

### 7AA. Concurrent jurisdiction of Inspecting Assistant Commissioner and
Gift-tax Officer

* Omitted

### 7B. Power to transfer cases

* Omitted

### 8. Control of gift-tax authorities

Section 118 of the Income-tax Act and any notification issued thereunder shall
apply in relation to the gift-tax authorities as they apply in relation to the
control of the corresponding income-tax authorities, except to the extent to
which the Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette, otherwise direct
in respect of any gift-tax authority.

### 8A. Commissioners of Gift-tax (Appeals)

*Omitted

### 9. Instructions to subordinate authorities

(1)The Board may, from time to time, issue such orders, instructions and
directions to other gift-tax authorities as it may deem fit for the proper
administration of this Act, and such authorities and all other persons
employed in the execution of this Act shall observe and follow such orders,
instructions and directions of the Board:Provided that no such orders,
instructions or directions shall be issued-(a)so as to require any gift-tax
authority to make a particular assessment or to dispose of a particular case
in a particular manner; or(b)so as to interfere with the discretion of the
Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or Commissioner (Appeals) in the exercise of his
appellate functions.(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power-(a)the Board may, if it considers it necessary or expedient so to do,
for the purpose of proper and efficient management of the work of assessment
and collection of revenue, issue, from time to time (whether by way of
relaxation of any of the provisions of sections 13, 14, 15, 16, 16B, 17 and 34
or otherwise), general or special orders in respect of any class of cases,
setting forth directions or instructions (not being prejudicial to assessees)
as to the guidelines, principles or procedures to be followed by other gift-
tax authorities in the work relating to assessment or collection or revenue or
the initiation of proceedings for the imposition of penalties and any such
order may, if the Board is of opinion that it is necessary in the public
interest so to do, be published and circulated in the prescribed manner for
general information;(b)the Board may, if it considers it desirable or
expedient so to do for avoiding genuine hardship in any case or class of
cases, by general or special order, authorise any gift-tax authority, not
being a Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or Commissioner (Appeals) to admit an
application or a claim for any exemption, deduction, refund or any other
relief under this Act after the expiry of the period specified by or under
this Act for making such application or claim and deal with the same on merits
in accordance with law.

### 9A. Directors of Inspection

* Omitted

### 10. Jurisdiction of Assessing Officers and power to transfer cases

(1)The provisions of sections 124 and 127 of the Income-tax Act shall, so far
as may be, apply for the purposes of this Act as they apply for the purposes
of the Income-tax Act subject to the modifications specified in sub-section
(2).(2)The modifications referred to in sub-section (1) shall be the
following, namely:-(a)in section 124 of the Income-tax Act,-(i)in sub-section
(3), reference to the provisions of the Income-tax Act shall be construed as
references to the corresponding provisions of the Gift-tax Act;(ii)sub-section
(5) shall be omitted;(b)in section 127 of the Income-tax Act, in the
Explanation below sub-section (4), references to proceedings under the Income-
tax Act shall be construed as including references to proceedings under the
Gift-tax Act.

### 11. Inspector of Gift-tax

* Omitted

### 11A. Commissioner competent to perform any function or functions

* Omitted

### 11AA. Gift-tax Officer competent to perform any function or functions

* Omitted

### 11B. Control of gift-tax authorities

* Omitted

### 12. Gift-tax authorities to follow orders, etc., of the Board

* Omitted

### 12A. Power of Chief Commissioner or Commissioner and of Deputy
Commissioner to make enquiries under this Act

The Chief Commissioner or Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner shall be
competent to make any enquiry under this Act and for this purpose, shall have
all the powers that an Assessing Officer has under this Act in relation to the
making of enquiries.

### 13. Return of gifts

(1)Every person who during a previous year has made by any taxable gifts, or
is assessable in respect of the taxable gifts made by any other person under
this Act, which, in either case, exceeded the maximum amount not chargeable to
gift-tax, shall, on or before the 30th day of June of the corresponding
assessment year, furnish a return of such gifts in the prescribed form and
verified in the prescribed manner and setting forth such other particulars as
may be prescribed.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision
of this Act, a return which shows the amount of taxable gifts below the
maximum amount which is not chargeable to tax shall be deemed never to have
been furnished:Provided that this sub-section shall not apply to a return
furnished in response to a notice under section 16.

### 14. Return after due date and amendment of return

If any person has not furnished a return within the time allowed under sub-
section (1) of section 13 or by a notice issued under clause (i) of sub-
section (4) of section 15, or having furnished a return discovers any omission
or wrong statement therein, he may furnish a return or a revised return, as
the case may be, at any time before the expiry of one year from the end of the
relevant assessment year or before the completion of the assessment, whichever
is earlier:Provided that--(a)where such return or revised return relates to
the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1987, or any earlier
assessment year, it may be furnished at any time up to and inclusive of the
31st day of March, 1990 or before the completion of the assessment, whichever
is earlier;(b)where such return or revised return relates to the assessment
year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1988, it may be furnished at any time
up to and inclusive of the 31st day of March, 1991 or before the completion of
the assessment, whichever is earlier.

### 14A. Return by whom to be signed

The return made under section 13 or section 14 shall be signed and
verified--(a)in the case of an individual,--(i)by the individual
himself;(ii)where he is absent from India, by the individual himself or by
some person duly authorised by him in this behalf;(iii)where he is mentally
incapacitated from attending to his affairs, by his guardian or any other
person competent to act on his behalf; and(iv)where, for any other reason, it
is not possible for the individual to sign the return, by any person duly
authorised by him in this behalf:Provided that in a case referred to in sub-
clause (ii) or sub-clause (iv), the person signing the return holds a valid
power of attorney from the individual to do so, which shall be attached to the
return;(b)in the case of a Hindu undivided family, by the Karta, and, where
the Karta is absent from India or is mentally incapacitated from attending to
his affairs, by any other adult member of such family;(c)in the case of a
company, by the managing director thereof or there for any unavoidable reason
such managing director is not able to sign and verify the return, or where
there is no managing director, by any director thereof:Provided that where the
company is not resident in India, the return may be signed and verified by a
person who holds a valid power of attorney from such company to do so, which
shall be attached to the return:Provided further that,--(a)where the company
is being wound up, whether under the orders of the court or otherwise, or
where any person has been appointed as the receiver of any assets of the
company, the return shall be signed and verified by the liquidator referred to
in sub-section (1) of section 178 of the Income-tax Act;(b)where the
management of the company has been taken over by the Central Government or any
State Government under any law, the return of the company shall be signed and
verified by the principal officer thereof;(d)in the case of a firm, by the
managing partner thereof or where for any unavoidable reason such managing
partner is not able to sign and verify the return, or where there is no
managing partner as such, by any partner thereof, not being minor;(e)in the
case of any other association, by any member of the association or the
principal officer thereof; and(f)in the case of any other person, by that
person or by some person competent to act on his behalf.

### 14B. Self-assessment

(1)Where any tax is payable on the basis of any return furnished under section
13 or under section 14 or in response to a notice under clause (i) of sub-
section (4) of section 15 or under section 16, after taking into account the
amount of tax, if any, already paid under any provision of this Act, the
assessee shall be liable to pay such tax, together with interest payable under
any provision of this Act for any delay in furnishing the return, before
furnishing the return and the return shall be accompanied by proof of payment
of such tax and interest.Explanation.--Where the amount paid by the assessee
under this sub-section falls short of the aggregate of the tax and interest as
aforesaid, the amount so paid shall first be adjusted towards the interest
payable as aforesaid and the balance, if any, shall be adjusted towards the
tax payable.(2)After the regular assessment under section 15 has been made,
any amount paid under sub-section (I) shall be deemed to have been paid
towards such regular assessment.(3)If any assessee fails to pay the whole or
any part of such tax or interest or both in accordance with the provisions of
sub-section (1), he shall, without prejudice to any other consequences which
he may incur, be deemed to be an assessee in default in respect of the tax or
interest or both remaining unpaid and all the provisions of this Act shall
apply accordingly.(4)The "provisions of this section shall apply in respect of
assessment for the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1989,
and subsequent assessment years.

### 15. Assessment

(1)(a)Where a return has been made under section 13 or section 14 or in
response to a notice under clause (i) of sub-section (4),--(i)if any tax or
interest is found due on the basis of such return after adjustment of any
amount paid by way of tax or interest, an intimation shall be sent to the
assessee specifying the sum so payable and such intimation shall be deemed to
be a notice issued under section 31 and all the provisions of this Act shall
apply accordingly; and(ii)if any refund is due on the basis of such return, it
shall be granted to the assessee;Provided that in computing the tax or
interest payable by, or refundable to the assessee, the following adjustments
shall be made in the taxable gifts declared in the return, namely:--(i)any
arithmetical errors in the return, accounts or documents accompanying it shall
be rectified ;(ii)any exemption or deduction, which on the basis of the
information available in such return, accounts or documents, is prima facie
admissible but which is not claimed or made in the return, shall be
allowed;(iii)any exemption or deduction claimed or made in the return, which,
on the basis of the information available in such return, accounts or
documents, is prima facie inadmissible, shall be disallowed:Provided further
that where adjustments are made under the first proviso, an intimation shall
be sent to the assessee, notwithstanding that no tax or interest is found due
from him after making the said adjustments:Provided also that an intimation
for any tax or interest due under this clause shall not be sent after the
expiry of two years from the end of the assessment year in which the gifts
were first assessable.(b)Where, as a result of an order made under sub-section
(3) or sub-section (5) of this section or section 16 or section 22 or section
23 or section 24 or section 26 or section 28 or section 34 relating to any
earlier assessment year and passed subsequent to the filing of the return
referred to in clause (a) there is any variation in the exemption or deduction
claimed or made in the return, and as a result of which,--(i)if any tax or
interest is found due, an intimation shall be sent to the assessee specifying
the sum so payable, and such intimation shall be deemed to be a notice of
demand issued under section 31 and all the provisions of this Act shall apply
accordingly; and(ii)if any refund is due, it shall be granted to the
assessee:Provided that an intimation for any tax or interest due under this
clause shall not be sent after the expiry of four years from the end of the
financial year in which any such order was passed.(1A)(a)Where in the case of
any person, the taxable gift, as a result of the adjustments made under the
first proviso to clause (a) of sub-section (1), exceeds the taxable gift
declared in the return by any amount, the Assessing Officer shall,--(i)further
increase the amount of tax payable under sub-section (1) by an additional
gift-tax calculated at the rate of twenty per cent, of the tax payable on such
excess amount and specify the additional gift-tax in the intimation to be sent
under sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of sub-section (1);(ii)where any result is
due under sub-section (1), reduce the amount of such refund by an amount
equivalent to the additional gift-tax calculated under sub-clause (i).(b)Where
as a result of an order under section 22 or section 23 or section 24 or
section 26 or section 28 or section 34, the amount on which additional gift-
tax is payable under clause (a) has been increased or reduced, as the case may
be, the additional gift-tax shall be increased or reduced accordingly,
and,--(i)in a case where the additional gift-tax is increased, the Assessing
Officer shall serve on the assessee a notice of demand under section 31;(ii)in
a case where the additional gift-tax is reduced, the excess amount paid, if
any, shall be refunded.Explanation.--For the purposes of this sub-section,
"tax payable on such excess amount" means the difference between the tax on
the taxable gift and the tax that would have been chargeable had such faxable
gift been reduced by the amount of adjustments.(1B)Where an assessee furnishes
a revised return under section 14 after the issue of an intimation, or the
grant of refund, if any. under sub-section (1) of this section, the provisions
of sub-sections (1) and (1 A) of this section shall apply in relation to such
revised return and--(i)the intimation already sent for any gift-tax,
additional gift-tax or interest shall be amended on the basis of the said
revised return and where any amount payable by way of gift-tax, additional
gift-tax or interest specified in the said intimation has already been paid by
the assessee then, if any such amendment has the effect of--(a)enhancing the
amount already paid, the intimation amended under this clause shall be sent to
the assessee specifying the excess amount payable by him and such intimation
shall be deemed to be a notice of demand issued under section 31 and all the
provisions of this Act, shall apply accordingly;(b)reducing the amount already
paid, the excess amount paid shall be refunded to the assessee;(ii)the amount
of the refund already granted shall be enhanced or reduced on the basis of the
said revised return and where the amount of refund already granted
is--(a)enhanced, only the excess amount of refund due to the assessee shall be
paid to him;(b)reduced, the excess amount so refunded shall be deemed to be
the tax payable by the assessee and an intimation shall be sent to the
assessee specifying the amount so payable, and such intimation shall be deemed
to be a notice of demand issued under section 31 and all the provisions of
this Act shall apply accordingly:Provided that an assessee, who has furnished
a revised return under section 14 after the service upon him of the intimation
under sub-section (1) of this section, shall be liable to pay additional gift-
tax in relation to the adjustments made under the first proviso to clause (a)
of sub-section (1) and specified in the said intimation, whether or not he has
made the said adjustments in the revised return.(2)Where a return has been
made under section 13 or section 14 or in response to a notice under clause
(i) of sub-section (4) of this section, the Assessing Officer shall, if he
considers it necessary or expedient to ensure that the assessee has not
omitted to disclose any taxable gift or has not understated the amount or
value of any such gift or has not under-paid the tax in any manner serve on
the assessee a notice requiring him, on a date to be specified therein, either
to attend at the office of the Assessing Officer or to produce, or cause to be
produced there, any evidence on which the assessee may rely in support of the
return:Provided that no notice under this sub-section shall be served on the
assessee after the expiry of twelve months from the end of the month in which
the return is furnished.(3)On the date specified in the notice issued under
sub-section (2) or, as soon afterwards as may be, after hearing such evidence
as the assessee may produce and such other evidence as the Assessing Officer
may require on specified points, and after taking into account all relevant
material which he has gathered, the Assessing Officer shall, by order in
writing, assess the value of taxable gifts made by the assessee and determine
the sum payable by him on the basis of such assessment.(4)For the purposes of
making an assessment under this Act, the Assessing Officer may serve, on any
person who has made a return under section 13 or section 14 or in whose case
the time allowed under sub-section (1) of section 13 for furnishing the return
has expired, a notice requiring him, on a date to be specified
therein,--(i)where such person has not made a return within the time allowed
under subsection (1) of section 13, to furnish a return of the taxable gifts
made by him or of the taxable gifts made by any other person in respect of
which he is assessable under this Act during the previous year, in the
prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner and setting forth such
other particulars as may be prescribed, or(ii)to produce or cause to be
produced such accounts, records or other documents as the Assessing Officer
may require.(5)If any person--(a)fails to make the return required under sub-
section (1) of section 13 and has not made a return or a revised return under
section 14, or(b)fails to comply with all the terms of a notice issued under
sub-section (2) or subsection (4), the Assessing Officer, after taking into
account all relevant material which he has gathered, shall, after giving such
person an opportunity of being heard, estimate the value of taxable gifts to
the best of his judgment and determine the sum payable by such person on the
basis of such assessment:Provided that such opportunity shall be given by the
Assessing Officer by serving a notice calling upon the person to show cause,
on a date and time to be specified in the notice, why the assessment should
not be completed to the best of his judgment:Provided further that it shall
not be necessary to give such opportunity in a case where a notice under sub-
section (4) has been issued prior to the making of the assessment under this
sub-section.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 6, for the
purpose of making an assessment under this Act, where under the provisions of
section 6 read with Schedule II, the fair market value of any property
transferred by way of gift is to be taken into account in such assessment, the
Assessing Officer may refer the valuation of such property to the Valuation
Officer,--(a)in a case where the value of the property as returned is in
accordance with the estimate made by a registered value, if the Assessing
Officer is of opinion that the value so returned is less than its fair market
value;(b)in any other case, if the Assessing Officer is of opinion--(i)that
the fair market value of the property exceeds the value of the property as
returned by more than such percentage of the value of the property as returned
or by more than such amount as may be prescribed in this behalf; or(ii)that
having regard to the nature of the property and other relevant circumstances,
it is necessary so to do, and where any such reference is made, the provisions
of sub-sections (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) of section 16A, clauses (ha) and
(i) of sub-section (1) and sub-sections (3 A) and (4) of section 23, sub-
section (5) of section 24, section 34AA, section 35 and section 37 of the
Wealth-tax Act, 1957 (27 of 1957), shall, with the necessary modifications,
apply in relation to such reference as they apply in relation to a reference
made by the Assessing Officer under sub-section (1) of section 16A of that
Act.Explanation.--In this sub-section, "Valuation Officer" has the same
meaning as in clause (r) of section 2 of the Wealth-tax Act, 1957 (27 of
1957).(7)Where a regular assessment under sub-section (3) or sub-section (5)
is made,--(a)any tax or interest paid by the assessee under sub-section (I)
shall be deemed to have been paid towards such regular assessment;(b)in no
refund is due on regular assessment or the amount refunded under sub-section
(1) exceeds the amount refundable on regular assessment, the whole or the
excess amount so refunded shall be deemed to be tax payable by the assessee
and the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly.(8)The provisions of
this section, except those of sub-section (6), as they stood immediately
before their amendment by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987 (4 of
1988), shall apply to and in relation to any assessment for the assessment
year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1988, or any earlier assessment year
and references in this section to the other provisions of this Act shall be
construed as references to those provisions as for the time being in force and
applicable to the relevant assessment year.Explanation.--An intimation sent to
the assessee under sub-section (1) or sub-section (IB) shall be deemed to be
an order for the purposes of sub-section (1) of section 24.

### 16. Gift escaping assessment

(1)If the Assessing Officer, has reason to believe that the taxable gifts in
respect of which any person is assessable under this Act (whether made by him
or by any other person) have escaped assessment for any assessment year
(whether by reason of under-assessment or assessment at too low a rate or
otherwise), he may, subject to the other pro visions of this section and
section 16A, serve on such person a notice requiring him to furnish within
such period, as may be specified in the notice, a return in the prescribed
form and verified in the prescribed manner, setting forth the taxable gifts
made by him or by such other person during the previous year mentioned in the
notice, in respect of which he is assessable, along with such other
particulars as may be required by the notice, and may proceed to assess or
reassess such gifts and also any other taxable gifts in respect of which such
person is assessable, which have escaped assessment and which come to his
notice subsequently in the course of the proceedings under this section for
the assessment year concerned (hereafter in this section referred to as the
relevant assessment year); and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may
be apply as if the return were a return required under section 13:Provided
that where an assessment under sub-section (3) of section 15 or this section
has been made for the relevant assessment year, no action shall be taken under
this section after the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant
assessment year, unless any taxable gift chargeable to tax has escaped
assessment for such assessment year by reason of the failure on the part of
the assessee to make a return under section 13 or section 14 or in response to
a notice issued under sub-section (4) of section 15 or this section or to
disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for
year:Provided further that the Assessing Officer shall, before issuing any
notice under this sub-section, record his reasons for doing so.Explanation.--
Production before the Assessing Officer of account books or other evidence
from which material evidence could with due diligence have been discovered by
the Assessing Officer will not necessarily amount to disclosure within the
meaning of the foregoing proviso.(1A)No notice under sub-section(1)shall be
issued for the relevant assessment year,--(a)in a case where an assessment
under sub-section (3) of section 15 or sub-section (1) of this section has
been made for such assessment year,--(i)if four years have elapsed from the
end of the relevant assessment year, unless the case falls under sub-clause
(ii) or sub-clause (iii);(ii)if four years, but not more than seven years,
have elapsed from the end of the relevant assessment year, unless the value of
taxable gifts chargeable to tax which have escaped assessment amounts to or is
likely to amount to rupees fifty thousand or more for that year;(iii)if seven
years, but not more than ten years, have elapsed from the end of the relevant
assessment year, unless the value of taxable gifts chargeable to tax which
have escaped assessment amounts to or is likely to amount to rupees one lakh
or more for that year;(b)in any other case,--(i)if four years have elapsed
from the end of the relevant assessment year, unless the case falls under sub-
clause (ii) or sub-clause (iii);(ii)if four years, but not more than seven
years, have elapsed from the end of the relevant assessment year, unless the
value of taxable gifts chargeable to tax which have escaped assessment amounts
to or is likely to amount to rupees twenty-five thousand or more for that
year;(iii)if seven years, but not more than ten years, have elapsed from the
end of the relevant assessment year, unless the value of taxable gifts
chargeable to tax which have escaped assessment amounts to or is likely to
amount to rupees fifty thousand or more for that year.Explanation.--For the
purposes of sub-section (1) and sub-section (1A), the following shall also be
deemed to be cases where taxable gifts chargeable to tax have escaped
assessment, namely:--(a)where no return of taxable gifts has been furnished by
the assessee although the taxable gifts made by him or the taxable gifts made
by any other person in respect of which he is assessable under this Act during
the previous year exceeded the maximum amount which is not chargeable to gift-
tax;(b)where a return of taxable gifts has been furnished by the assessee but
no assessment has been made and it is noticed by the Assessing Officer that
the assessee has understated the amount or value of the taxable gifts or has
claimed excessive exemption or deduction in the return.(1B)(a)In a case where
an assessment under sub-section (3) of section 15 or sub-section (1) of this
section has been made for the relevant assessment year, no notice shall be
issued under sub-section (1) by an Assessing Officer, who is below the rank of
Assistant Commissioner, unless the Deputy Commissioner is satisfied on the
reasons recorded by such Assessing Officer that it is a fit case for the issue
of such notice:Provided that, after the expiry of four years from the end of
the relevant assessment year, no such notice shall be issued unless the Chief
Commissioner or Commissioner is satisfied, on the reasons recorded by the
Assessing Officer aforesaid, that it is a fit case for the issue of such
notice.(b)In a case other man a case falling under clause (a), no notice shall
be issued under sub-section (1) by an Assessing Officer, who is below the rank
of Deputy Commissioner, after the expiry of four years from the end of the
relevant assessment year, unless the Deputy Commissioner is satisfied, on the
reasons recorded by such Assessing Officer, that it is a fit case for the
issue of such notice.(2)Nothing contained in this section limiting the time
within which any proceedings for assessment or re-assessment may be commenced
shall apply to an assessment or reassessment to be made on the assessee or any
person in consequence of or to give effect to any finding or direction
contained in an order under section 22, section 23, section 24, section 26 or
section 28 or by a court in any proceedings under any other law.

### 16A. Time-limit for completion of assessment and reassessment

### 1\.

) No order of assessment shall be made under section 15 at any time after the
expiry two years from the end of the assessment year in which the gifts were
first assessable:Provided that,--(a)where the gifts were first assessable in
the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1987, or any earlier
assessment year, such assessment may be made on or before the 31st day of
March, 1991;(b)where the gifts were first assessable in the assessment year
commencing on the 1st day of April, 1988, such assessment may be made on or
before the 31st day of March, 1992.(2)No order of assessment or reassessment
shall be made under section 16 after the expiry of two years from the end of
the financial year in which the notice under sub-section (1) of that section
was served:Provided that,--(i)where the notice under clause (a) of sub-section
(1) of section 16 was served during the financial year commencing on the 1st
day of April, 1985, or the 1st day of April, 1986 such assessment or
reassessment may be completed on or before the 31st day of
March,1990;(ii)where the notice under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section
16 relates to the assessment for the assessment year commencing on the 1st day
of April, 1985, or the 1st day of April, 1986, such assessment or reassessment
may be completed on or before the 31st day of March, 1990 or the expiry of two
years from the end of the financial year in which such notice was served,
whichever is later.Explanation.--References to section 16 in the proviso shall
be construed as references to that section as it stood before its amendment by
the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987 (4 of 1988).(3)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (2), an order of fresh assessment
in pursuance of an order passed on or after the 1st day of April, 1975, under
section 22, section 23 or section 24, setting aside or cancelling an
assessment, may be made at any time before the expiry of two years from the
end of the financial year in which the order under section 22 or section 23 is
received by the Chief Commissioner or Commissioner or, as the case may be, the
order under section 24 is passed by the Commissioner:Provided that where the
order setting aside or cancelling the assessment was passed during the
financial year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1985 or the 1st day of
April, 1986, the order of fresh assessment may be made on or before the 31st
day of March, 1990.(4)The provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) shall not
apply to the assessment or reassessment made on the assessee in consequence
of, or to give effect to, any finding or direction contained in an order under
section 22, section 23, section 24, section 26, or section 28 or in an order
of any court in a proceeding otherwise than by way of appeal or reference
under this Act and such assessment or reassessment may, subject to the
provisions of subsection (3), be completed at any time.Explanation 1.--In
computing the period of limitation for the purposes of this section--(i)the
time taken in reopening the whole or any part of the proceeding or in giving
an opportunity to the assessee to be reheard under the proviso to section 38,
or(ii)the period during which the assessment proceeding is stayed by an order
or injunction of any court, shall be excluded.Provided that where immediately
after the exclusion of the aforesaid time or period, the period of limitation
referred to in sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) available to the Assessing
Officer for making an order of assessment or reassessment, as the case may be,
is less than sixty days, such remaining period shall be extended to sixty days
and the aforesaid period of limitation shall be deemed to be extended
accordingly.Explanation 2.--Where, by an order referred to in sub-section (4),
any gift is excluded from the taxable gifts for an assessment year in respect
of an assessee, then, an assessment of such gift for another assessment year
shall, for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 16 and this section, be
deemed to be one made in consequence of, or to give effect to, any finding or
direction contained in the said order.

### 16B. Interest for defaults in furnishing return of gifts

(1)Where a return of gifts for any assessment year under sub-section (I) of
section 13 or section 14, or in response to a notice under clause (i) of sub-
section (4) of section 15, is furnished after the 30th day of June of such
year, or is not furnished, the assessee shall be liable to pay simple interest
at the rate of two percent, for every month or part of a month comprised in
the period commencing on the 1st day of July of the assessment year,
and,--(a)where the return is furnished after the 30th day of June ending on
the date of furnishing of the return; or(b)where no return has been furnished,
ending on the date of completion of the assessment under sub-section (5) of
section 15, on the amount of tax payable on the taxable gifts as determined
under sub-section (1) of section 15 or on regular assessment.Explanation 1.-In
this sub-section, "tax payable on the taxable gifts as determined under sub-
section (1) of section 15" shall not include the additional gift-tax, if any
payable under section 15.Explanation 2.. Where in relation to an assessment
year the assessment is made for the first time under section 16, the
assessment so add shall be regarded as a regular assessment for the purposes
of this section.Explanation 3.- In this sub-section, "tax payable on the
taxable gifts as determined under sub-section (1) of section 15 or on regular
assessment" shall, for the purposes of computing the interest payable under
section 114B, be deemed to be tax payable on the taxable gifts as declared in
the return.(2)The interest payable under sub-section (1) shall be reduced by
the interest, if any, paid under section 14B towards the interest chargeable
under this section.(3)Where return of gifts for any assessment year, required
by a notice under sub-section (1) of section 16 issued after the determination
of taxable gifts under sub-section (1) of section 15 or after the completion
of an assessment under sub-section (3) or sub-section (5) of section 15 or
section 16, is furnished after the expiry of the time allowed under such
notice, or is not furnished, the assessee shall be liable to pay simple
interest at the rate of two per cent, for every month or part of a month
comprised in the period commencing on the day immediately following the expiry
of the time allowed as aforesaid, and,--(a)where the return is furnished after
the expiry of the time aforesaid, ending on the date of furnishing the return;
or(b)where no return has been furnished, ending on the date of completion of
the reassessment under section 16, on the amount by which the tax on the
taxable gifts determined on the basis of such reassessment exceeds the tax on
the taxable gifts as determined under sub-section (1) of section 15 or on the
basis of the earlier assessment aforesaid.(4)where, as a result of an order
under section 22 or section 23 or section 24 or section 26 or section 28 or
section 34, the amount of tax on which interest was payable under this section
has been increased or reduced, as the case may be, the interest shall be
increased or reduced accordingly, and,--(i)in a case where the interest is
increased, the Assessing Officer shall serve on the assessee a notice of
demand in the prescribed form specifying the sum payable, and such notice of
demand shall be deemed to be a notice under section 31 and the provisions of
this Act shall apply accordingly, and(ii)in a case where the interest is
reduced, the excess interest paid, if any, shall be refunded.(5)The provisions
of this section shall apply in respect of assessments for the assessment year
commencing on the 1st day of April, 1989 and subsequent assessment years.

### 17. Penalty for failure to furnish returns, to comply with notices and
concealment of gifts, etc

(1)If the Assessing Officer, Deputy Commissioner (Appeals),
Commissioner(Appeals), Chief Commissioner or Commissioner or Appellate
Tribunal, in the course of any proceedings under this Act, is satisfied that
any person--(b)has failed to comply with a notice under sub-section (2) or
sub-section (4) of section 15; or(c)has concealed the particulars of any gift
or deliberately furnished inaccurate particulars thereof, he or ii may, by
order in writing, direct that such person shall pay way of penalty--(ii)in the
cases referred to in clause (b), in addition to the amount of gift-tax payable
by him, a sum which shall not be less than one thousand rupees but which may
extend to twenty-five thousand rupees for each such failure;(iii)in the cases
referred to in clause (c), in addition to any gift-tax payable by him, a sum
which shall not be less than twenty per cent, but which shall not exceed one
and half times the amount of the tax, if any, which would have been avoided if
the return made by such person had been accepted as correct:Provided that in
the cases referred to in clause (b), no penalty shall be imposable if the
person proves that there was a reasonable cause for the failure referred to in
that clause.Explanation.--Where any adjustment is made in the taxable gifts
declared in the return under the proviso to clause (a) of sub-section (1) of
section 15 and additional gift-tax charged under that section, the provisions
of this sub-section shall not apply in relation to the adjustments so
made.(2)No order imposing a penalty under sub-section (1) shall be made unless
the assessee has been heard or has been given a reasonable opportunity of
being heard.(3)No order imposing a penalty under sub-section (1) shall be
made,--(i)by the Income-tax Officer, where the penalty exceeds ten thousand
rupees;(ii)by the Assistant Commissioner, where the penalty exceeds twenty
thousand rupees, except with the prior approval of the Deputy
Commissioner,(4)A Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) a Commissioner (Appeals), a
Chief Commissioner or Commissioner or the Appellate Tribunal on making an
order under this section imposing penalty, shall forthwith send a copy of the
same to the Assessing Officer.(5)No order imposing a penalty under this
section shall be passed--(i)in a case where the assessment to which the
proceedings for imposition of penalty relate is the subject-matter of an
appeal to the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or Commissioner (Appeals) under
section 22 or an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (2) of
section 23, after the expiry of the financial year in which (he proceeding, in
the course of which action for the imposition of penalty has been initiated,
are completed, or six months from the end of the month in which the order of
the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals) or, as the
case may be, the Appellate Tribunal is received by the Chief Commissioner or
Commissioner, whichever is later;(ii)in a case where the relevant assessment
is the subject-matter of revision under subsection (2) of section 24, after
the expiry of six months from the end of the month in which such order of
revision is passed;(iii)in any other case, after the expiry of the financial
year in which the proceedings, in the course of which action for the
imposition of penalty has been initiated, are completed or six months from the
end of the month in which action for imposition of penalty is initiated,
whichever period expires later.Explanation.--In computing the period of
limitation for the purposes of this section,--(i)the time taken in giving an
opportunity to the assessee to be reheard under the proviso to section 38;
and(ii)any period during which a proceeding under this section for the levy of
penalty is stayed by an order or injunction of any court, shall be
excluded.(6)The provisions of this section as they stood immediately before
their amendment by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, shall apply to
and in relation to any assessment for the assessment year commencing on the
1st day of April, 1988, or any earlier assessment year and references in this
section to the other provisions of this Act shall be construed as references
to those provisions as for the time being in force and applicable to the
relevant assessment year.

### 17A. Penalty for failure to answer questions, sign statements, furnish
information, allow inspection, etc

(1)If a person--(a)being legally bound to state the truth of any matter
touching the subject of his assessment, refuses to answer any question put to
him by a gift-tax authority in the exercise of his powers under this Act;
or(b)refuses to sign any statement made by him in the course of any
proceedings under this Act, which a gift-tax authority may legally require him
to sign; or(c)to whom a summons is issued under sub-section (1) of section 36,
either to attend to give evidence or produce books of account or other
documents at a certain place and time, omits to attend or produce the books of
account or documents at the place and time, he shall pay, by way of penalty, a
sum which shall not be less than five hundred rupees but which may extend to
ten thousand for each such default or failure:Provided that no penalty shall
be imposable under clause (c) if the person proves that there was reasonable
cause for the said failure.(2)If a person fails to furnish in due time any
statement or information which such person is bound to furnish to the
Assessing Officer under section 37, he shall pay, by way of penalty, a sum
which shall not be less than one hundred rupees but which may extend to two
hundred rupees for every day during which the failure continues:Provided that
no penalty shall be imposable under this sub-section if the person proves that
there was reasonable cause for the said failure.(3)Any penalty imposable under
sub-section (1) of sub-section (2) shall be imposed--(a)in a case where the
contravention, failure or default in respect of which such penalty is
impossible occurs in the course of any proceeding before a gift-tax authority
not lower in rank than a Deputy Director or a Deputy Commissioner, by such
gift-tax authority;(b)in any other case, by the Deputy Director or the Deputy
Commissioner.(4)No order under this section shall be passed by any gift-tax
authority referred to in sub-section (3) unless the person on whom penalty is
proposed to be imposed has been heard or has been given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard in the matter by such authority.Explanation.--In
this section, "gift-tax authority" includes a Director General/ Deputy
Director, Assistant Director or Valuation Officer while exercising the powers
vested in a court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908(5 of 1908), when
trying a suit in respect of the matters specified in sub-section (1) of
section 36.

### 18. Rebate on advance payments

It a person making a taxable gift pays into the treasury within fifteen days
of his making the gift any part of the amount of tax due on the gift
calculated at the rates specified in the Schedule or at the rate specified in
sub-section (2) of section 3, he shall, at the time of assessment under
section 15, be given credit--(i)for the amount so paid; and(ii)for a sum equal
to one-ninth of the amount so paid, so however, that such sum shall in no case
exceed one-tenth of the tax due on the gift.Explanation.--If a person makes
more than one taxable gift in the course of a previous year, the amount of tax
due on any one of such gifts shall be the difference between the total amount
of tax due on the aggregate value of all the taxable gifts so far made,
including the taxable gift in respect of which tax has to be paid, calculated
at the rates specified in the schedule or, as the case may be, at the rate
specified in sub-section (2) or section 3, and the total amount of tax on the
aggregate value of all the gifts made during that year, excluding the taxable
gift in respect of which tax has to be paid, calculated at the rates specified
in the Schedule or, as the case may be, at the rate specified in sub-section
(2) of section 3.

### 18A. Credit for stamp duty paid on instrument of gift

Where any stamp duty has been paid under any law relating to stamp duty in
force in any State on an instrument of gift of property, the assessee shall be
entitled to a deduction from the gift-tax payable by him of an amount equal to
the stamp duty so paid or one-half of the gift-tax payable, before making the
deduction under this section, whichever is less.

### 19. Tax of deceased person payable by legal representative

(1)Where a person dies, his executor, administrator, or other legal
representative shall be liable to pay out of the estate of the deceased
person, to the extent to which the estate is capable of meeting the charge,
the gift-tax determined as payable by such person, or any sum which would have
been payable by him under this Act if he had not died.(2)Where a person dies
without having furnished a return under section 13, or after having furnished
a return which the Assessing Officer has reason to believe to be incorrect or
incomplete, the Assessing Officer may make an assessment of the value of the
taxable gifts made by such person and determine the gift-tax payable by him,
and for this purpose may, by the issue of the appropriate notice which would
have had to be served upon the deceased person if he had survived, require
from the executor, administrator or other legal representative of the deceased
person any accounts, documents or other evidence which might, under the
provisions of section 15, have been required from the deceased person.(3)The
provisions of sections 13, 14 and 16 shall apply to an executor, administrator
or other legal representative as they apply to any person referred to in those
sections.

### 19A. Assessment of persons leaving India

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3, when it appears to the
Assessing Officer that any individual may leave India during the current
assessment year or shortly after its expiry and that he has no present
intention of returning to India, the gifts made by such individual during the
period from the expiry of the previous year for that assessment year up to the
probable date of his departure from India, shall be chargeable to gifts-tax in
that assessment year.(2)The taxable gifts made in each completed previous year
or part of any previous year included in such period shall be chargeable to
gift-tax at the rate or rates specified in the Schedule or, as the case may
be, at the rate specified in sub-section (2) of section 3, and separate
assessments shall be made in respect of each such completed previous year or
part of any previous year.(3)The Assessing Officer may estimate the value of
the gifts made by such individual during such period or any part thereof,
where it cannot be readily determined in the manner provided in this
Act.(4)For the purpose of making an assessment under sub-section (1), the
Assessing Officer may serve a notice upon such individual requiring him to
furnish, within such time, not being less than seven days, as may be specified
in the notice, a return in the same form and verified in the same manner as a
return under sub-section (I) of section 13, giving particulars of the gifts
made by him during each completed previous year comprised in the period
referred to in sub-section (1) and during any part of the previous year
comprised in that period; and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may
be, and subject to the provisions of this section, apply as if the notice were
a notice issued under clause (i) of sub-section (4) of section 15.(5)The gift-
tax chargeable under this section shall be in addition to the tax, if any,
chargeable under any other provision of this Act.(6)Where the provisions of
sub-section (I) are applicable, any notice issued by the Assessing Officer
under clause (i) of sub-section (4) of section 15 or under section 16 in
respect of any gift-tax chargeable under any other provisions of this Act may,
notwithstanding anything contained in clause (i) of sub-section (4) of section
15 or section 16, as the case may be, required the furnishing of the return by
such individual within such period, not being less than seven days, as the
Assessing Officer may think proper.

### 20. Assessment after partition of a Hindu undivided family

(1)Where, at the time of making an assessment, it is brought to the notice of
the Assessing Officer that a partition has taken place among the members of a
Hindu undivided family, and the Assessing Officer, after enquiry is satisfied
that the joint family property has been partitioned among the various members
or groups of members in definite portions, he shall record an order to that
effect and he shall make assessments on the value of the taxable gifts made by
the family as such as if no partition has taken place and each member or group
of members shall be liable jointly and severally for the tax assessed on the
value of the taxable gifts made by the joint family as such.(2)Where the
Assessing Officer is not so satisfied, he may, by order, declare that such
family shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act to continue to be a Hindu
undivided family.

### 21. Liability in case of discontinued firm or association of persons

(1)Where a firm or association of persons liable to pay gift-tax has been
discontinued or dissolved, the Assessing Officer shall determine the gift-tax
payable by the firm or association of persons as such as if no such
discontinuance or dissolution has taken place.(2)If the Assessing Officer, the
Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) the Commissioner (Appeals) or the Appellate
Tribunal in the course of any proceedings under this Act in respect of any
such firm or other association of persons as is referred to in sub-section (1)
is satisfied that the firm or association is guilty of any of the acts
specified in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) of sub-section (1) of
section 17, he or it may impose or direct the imposition of a penalty in
accordance with the provisions of that section.(3)Every person who was at the
time of such discontinuance or dissolution a partner of the firm or a member
of the association, as the case may be, shall be jointly and severally liable
for the amount of tax or penalty payable, and all the provisions of Chapter
VII, so far as may be, shall apply to any such assessment or imposition
penalty.

### 21A. Assessment of donee when donor cannot be found

(1)Where an Assessing Officer after using all due and reasonable diligence
cannot find the donor who has made any taxable gifts, for the purpose of
service of notice under sub-section (2) of section 13 or under section 16, the
Assessing Officer may make an assessment of the value of all such taxable
gifts made by him and determine the gift-tax payable by him and for this
purpose may, by the issue of the appropriate notice which would have had to be
served upon the donor, require from the done or donees any accounts, documents
or other evidence which might, under the provisions of section 15, have been
required from the donor.(2)Where any assessment in respect of the taxable
gifts made by the donor has been made under sub-section(1), every done shall
be liable for the gift-tax so assessed:Provided that where the donees are more
than one, they shall be jointly and severally liable for the amount of the
gift-tax so assessed:Provided further that the amount of the gift-tax which
may be recovered from each done shall not exceed the value of the gift made to
him as on the date of the gift.(3)The provisions of sections 13, 14 and 16
shall apply to a done as the apply to any person referred to in those
sections.

### 22. Appeal to the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) from orders of Assessing
Officers

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1A), any person,-(a)objecting to
the value of taxable gifts determined under this Act; or(b)objecting to the
amount of gift-tax determined as payable by him under this Act; or(c)denying
his liability to be assessed under this Act; or(d)objecting to any penalty
imposed by the Assessing Officer under section 17 ;(e)objecting to any order
of the Assessing Officer under sub-section (2) of section 20;or(f)objecting to
any penalty imposed by the Assessing Officer under sub-section (1) of section
221 of the Income-tax Act as applied under section 33 for the purposes of
gifts-tax ; or(g)objecting to an order of the Assessing Officer under section
34 having the effect of enhancing the assessment or reducing a refund or an
order refusing to allow the claim made by the assessee under that section;
ormay appeal to the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) against the assessment or
order, as the case may be, in the prescribed form and verified in the
prescribed manner :Provided that no appeal shall lie under clause (f) unless
the tax has been paid before the appeal is filed.(1A)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1), any person-(a)objecting to the value of taxable
gifts determined under this Act or objecting to the amount of gift-tax
determined as payable by him or denying his liability to be assessed under
this Act where the value of taxable gifts determined on assessment exceeds two
lakh rupees; or(b)objecting to any assessment or order referred to in clauses
(a) to (g) (both inclusive) of sub-section (1), where such assessment or order
has been made by the Deputy Commissioner in exercise of the powers or
functions conferred on or assigned to him under section 7 or section 10;
or(c)objecting to any penalty imposed under sub-section (1) of section 17 with
the previous approval of the Deputy Commissioner as specified in sub-section
(3) of that section;(d)objecting to any penalty imposed by the Deputy Director
or the Deputy Commissioner under section 17A;(e)objecting to any order made by
an Assessing Officer in the case of such persons or classes of persons as the
Board may, having regard to the nature of the cases, the complexities involved
and other relevant considerations, direct, may appeal to the Commissioner
(Appeals) against the assessment or order, as the case may be, in the
prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner:Provided that no appeal
shall He under clause (b) of this sub-section against any order referred to in
clause (f) of sub-section (1) unless the tax has been paid before the appeal
is filed.(1B)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the Board
or the Director-General or the Chief Commissioner or the Commissioner, if so
authorised by the Board, may, by order in writing, transfer any appeal which
is pending before a Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) and any matter arising out
of or connected with such appeal and which is so pending, to the Commissioner
(Appeals), if the Board or, as the case may be, the Director-General, the
Chief Commissioner or the Commissioner (at the request of the appellant or
otherwise) is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so to do having
regard to the nature of the case, the complexities involved and other relevant
considerations and the Commissioner (Appeals) may proceed with such appeal or
matter from the stage at which it was before it was so transferred:Provided
that the appellant may demand that before proceedings further with the appeal
or matter, the previous proceeding or any part thereof be reopened or that he
be reheard.(2)An appeal shall be presented within thirty days of the receipt
of the notice of demand relating to the assessment or penalty objecting to, or
the date on which any order objected to, is communicated to him, but the
Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or as the case may be, the Commissioner
(Appeals) may admit an appeal after the expiration of the period aforesaid if
he is satisfied that the appellant had sufficient cause for not presenting the
appeal within that period.(3)The Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or, as the case
may be, the Commissioner (Appeals) shall fix a day and place for the hearing
of the appeal and may from time to time adjourn the hearing.(4)The Deputy
Commissioner (Appeals) or, as the case may be, the Commissioner (Appeals)
may,-(a)at the hearing of an appeal, allow an appellant to go into any ground
of appeal, not specified in the grounds of appeal;(b)before disposing of an
appeal, make such further inquiry as he thinks fit or cause further inquiry to
be made by the Assessing Officer.(5)In disposing of an appeal, the Deputy
Commissioner (Appeals) or, as the case may be, the Commissioner (Appeals) may
pass such order as he thinks fit which may include or order enhancing the
amount of gift-tax determined or penalty imposed:Provided that no order
enchanting the amount of gift-tax determined or penalty imposed shall be made
unless the person affected thereby has been given a reasonable opportunity of
showing cause against such enhancement.(5A)In disposing of an appeal, the
Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or, as the case may be, the Commissioner
(Appeals) may consider and decide any matter arising out of the proceedings in
which the order appealed against was passed, notwithstanding that such matter
was not raised before the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or, as the case may
be, the Commissioner (Appeals) by the appellant.(5B)The order of the Deputy
Commissioner (Appeals) or, as the case may be, the Commissioner (Appeals)
disposing of the appeal shall be in writing and shall state the points for
determination, the decision thereon and the reasons for the decision.(6)A copy
of every order passed by the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or, as the case may
be, the Commissioner (Appeals) under this section shall be forwarded to the
appellant and the Chief Commissioner or Commissioner.

### 23. Appeal to the Appellate Tribunal

(1)An assessee, objecting to an order passed by the Deputy Commissioner
(Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals) under section 17 or section 17A of
section 22 or sub-section (2) of section 36 may appeal to the Appellate
Tribunal within sixty days of the date on which the order is communicated to
him.(2)The Commissioner may, if he is not satisfied as to the correctness of
any order passed by a Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or a Commissioner
(Appeals) under section 22 direct the Assessing Officer to appeal to the
Appellate Tribunal against such order, and such appeal may be made at any time
before the expiry of sixty days of the date on which the order is communicated
to the Commissioner.(2A)The Assessing Officer or the assessee, as the case may
be, on receipt of notice that an appeal against the order of the Deputy
Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals) has been preferred under
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) by the other party, may, notwithstanding
that he may not have appealed against such order or any part thereof, within
thirty days of the receipt of the notice, file a memorandum of cross-
objections, verified in the prescribed manner against any part of the order of
the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals) and such
memorandum shall be disposed of by the Appellate Tribunal as if it were an
appeal presented within the time specified in sub-section (1) or sub-section
(2).(3)The Appellate Tribunal may admit an appeal or permit the filing or a
memorandum of cross-objections after the expiry of the relevant period
referred to in sub-section (1) or subsection (2) or sub-section (2A) if it is
satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not presenting it within that
period.(4)An appeal to the Appellate Tribunal shall be in the prescribed form
and shall be verified in the prescribed manner and shall, except in the case
of an appeal referred to in subsection (2), be accompanied by a fee of two
hundred rupees.(5)The Appellate Tribunal may, after giving the parties to the
appeal an opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks
fit, and any such orders may include an order enhancing the amount of gift-tax
determined or penalty imposed:Provided that no order enhancing the amount of
gift-tax determined or penalty imposed shall be made unless the person
affected thereby has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause
against such enhancement.(9)A copy of every order passed by the Appellate
Tribunal under this section shall be forwarded to the assessee and the
Commissioner.(10)Save as provided in section 26, any order passed by the
Appellate Tribunal on appeal shall be final.(11)The provisions of sub-sections
(1), (4) and (5) of section 255 of the Income-tax Act shall apply to the
Appellate Tribunal in the discharge of its functions under this Act as they
apply to it in the discharge of its functions under the Income-tax Act.

### 24. Powers of Commissioner to revise orders of subordinate authorities

(1)The Commissioner may, either on his own motion or on application made by an
assessee in this behalf, call for the record of any proceeding under this Act
in which an order has been passed by any authority subordinate to him, and may
make such inquiry or cause such inquiry to be made, and, subject to the
provisions of this Act, pass such order there on not being an order
prejudicial to the assessee, as the Commissioner thinks fit:Provided that the
Commissioner shall not revise any order under this sob-section in any
case-(a)where an appeal against the order lies to the Deputy Commissioner
(Appeals) or to the Commissioner (Appeals) or to the Appellate Tribunal and
the time within which such appeal can be made has not expired or, in the case
of an appeal to the Commissioner (Appeals) or to the Appellate Tribunal, the
assessee has not waived his right of appeal;(b)where the order is pending in
appeal before the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or has been the subject of an
appeal to the Commissioner (Appeals) or to the Appellate Tribunal;(c)where the
application is made by the assessee for such revision unless-(i)the
application is accompanied by a fee of rupees twenty-five; and(ii)the
application is made within one year from the date of the order sought to be
revised or within such further period as the Commissioner may think fit to
allow on being satisfied that the assessee was prevented by sufficient cause
from making the application within that period; and(d)where the order is
sought to be revised by the Commissioner on his own motion, if such order is
made more than one year previously.Explanation.-For the purposes of this sub-
section,-(a)the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) shall be deemed to be an
authority subordinate to the Commissioner, and(b)an order by the Commissioner
declining to interfere shall be deemed not be an order prejudicial to the
assessee.(2)Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-section (1),
the Commissioner may call for and examine the record of any proceeding under
this Act, and, if he considers that any order passed therein by an Assessing
Officer is erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial to the interests of
revenue, he may, after giving the assessee an opportunity of being heard, and
after making or causing to be made such inquiry as he deems necessary, pass
such order thereon as the circumstances of the case justify, including an
order enhancing or modifying the assessment or cancelling it and directing a
fresh assessment.Explanation.-For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared
that, for the purposes of this sub-section,-(a)an order passed on or before or
after the 1st day of June, 1988, by the Assessing Officer shall-include an
order passed by the Deputy Commissioner in exercise of the powers or in
performance of the functions of an Assessing Officer conferred on or assigned
to him under orders or directions issued by the Board or by the Chief
Commissioner or Director-General or Commissioner authorised by the Board in
this behalf under section !20 of the Income-tax Act read with section 7 of
this Act;(b)"record" shall include and shall be deemed always to have included
all records relating to any proceeding under this Act available at the time of
examination by the Commissioner;(c)where any order referred to in this sub-
section and passed by the Assessing Officer had been the subject-matter of any
appeal filed on or before or after the 1st day of June, 1988, the powers of
the Commissioner under this sub-section shall extend to and shall be deemed
always to have extended such matters as had not been considered and decided in
such appeal.(3)No order shall be made under sub-section (2) after the expiry
of two years from the end of the financial year in which the order sought to
be revised was passed.Explanation.-In computing the period of limitation for
purposes of this sub-section, the time taken in giving an opportunity to the
assessee to be reheard under the proviso to section 38 and any period during
which any proceeding under this section is stayed by an order or injunction of
any court shall be excluded.

### 25. Appeal to the Appellate Tribunal from orders of enhancement by Chief
Commissioner or Commissioner

(1)An assessee objecting to an order passed by the Chief Commissioner or
Commissioner under section 17 or section 17A or to an order of enhancement
passed by him under section 24 or an order passed by the Director-General or
Director under section 17A may appeal to the Appellate Tribunal within sixty
days of the date on which the order is communicated to him.(2)An appeal to the
Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (1) shall be in the prescribed form and
shall be verified in the prescribed manner and shall be accompanied by a fee
of two hundred rupees.(3)The provisions of sub-sections (3),(5),(9) and (10)
of section 23 shall apply in relation to any appeal under this section as they
apply in relation to any appeal under that section.

### 26. Reference to High Court

(1)The assessee or the Chief Commissioner or Commissioner may, within sixty
days of the date upon which he is served with notice of an order under section
23 or section 25 or clause (e) or sub-section (1) of section 34, by
application in the prescribed form, accompanied, where the application is made
by the assessee, by a fee of two hundred rupees, require the Appellate
Tribunal to refer to the High Court any question of law arising out of such
order and, subject to the other provisions contained in this section, the
Appellate Tribunal shall, within one hundred and twenty days of the receipt of
such application, draw up a statement of the case and refer it to the High
Court.(2)The Appellate Tribunal may, if it is satisfied that the applicant was
prevented by sufficient cause from presenting the application within the
period specified in sub-section (1), allow it to be presented within a further
period not exceeding thirty days.(3)If, on an application made under sub-
section (1), the Appellate Tribunal,-(a)refuses to state a case on the ground
that no question of law arises, or(b)rejects it on the ground that it is time-
barred,the applicant may, within ninety days from the date on which he is
served with a notice of refusal or rejection, as the case may be, apply to the
High Court, and the High Court may, if it is not satisfied with the
correctness of the decision of the Appellate Tribunal, require the Appellate
Tribunal to state the case to the High Court, and on receipt of such
requisition the Appellate Tribunal shall state the case:Provided that, if in
any case where the Appellate Tribunal has been required by an assessee to
state a case the Appellate Tribunal refuses to do so on the ground that no
question of law arises, the assessee may, within thirty days from the date on
which he receives notice of refusal to state the case, withdraw his
application, and if he does so, the fee paid by him under sub-section (1)
shall be refunded to him.(3A)If, on an application made under this section,
the Appellate Tribunal is of the opinion that on account of a conflict in the
decisions of High Courts in respect of any particular question of law, it is
expedient that a reference should be made direct to the Supreme Court, the
Appellate Tribunal may draw up a statement of the case and refer it through
its President direct to the Supreme Court.(4)The statement to the High Court
or the Supreme court shall set.(5)If the High Court or the Supreme Court is
not satisfied that the case as stated is sufficient to enable it to determine
the question of law raised thereby, it may require the Appellate Tribunal to
make such modification therein as it may direct.(6)The High Court or the
Supreme Court, upon hearing any such case, shall decide the question of law
raised therein, and in doing so, may, if it thinks fit, after the form of the
question of law and shall deliver judgment thereon containing the grounds on
which such decision is founded and shall send a copy of the judgment under the
seal of the court and the signature of the Registrar to the Appellate Tribunal
and the Appellate Tribunal shall pass such orders as are necessary to dispose
of the case conformably to such judgment.(7)The costs of any reference to the
High Court or the Supreme Court which shall not include the fee for making the
reference shall be in the discretion of the court.

### 27. Hearing by High Court

When a case has been stated to the High Court under section 26, it shall be
heard by a Bench of not less than two judges of the High Court and shall be
decided in accordance with the opinion of such judges or of the majority of
such judges, if any:Provided that where there is no such majority, the judges
shall state the point of law upon which they differ and the case shall then be
heard upon that point only by one or more of the judges of the High Court, and
such point shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority of the
judges who have heard the case, including those who first heard it.

### 28. Appeal to Supreme Court

(1)An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from any judgment of the High
Court delivered on a case stated under section 26 in any case which the High
Court certifies as a fit case for appeal to the Supreme Court.(2)Where the
judgment of the High Court is varied or reversed on appeal under this section,
effect shall be given to the order of the Supreme Court in the manner provided
in sub-section (6) of section 26.(3)The High Court may, on application made to
it for the execution of any order of the Supreme Court in respect of any costs
awarded by it, transmit the order for execution to any court subordinate to
the High Court.

### 28A. Tax to be paid notwithstanding reference, etc

Notwithstanding that a reference has been made to the High Court or the
Supreme Court or an appeal has been preferred to the Supreme Court, tax shall
be payable in accordance with the assessment made in the case.

### 28B. Definition of High Court

In this Chapter, "High Court" means-(i)in relation to any State, the High
Court of that State;(ii)in relation to the Union territory of Delhi, the High
Court of Delhi;(iia)(iii)in relation to the Union Territories of Arunachal
Pradesh and Mizoram, the Gauhati High Court (the High Court of Assam,
Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura);(iv)in relation to the Union
territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the High Court at Calcutta;(v)in
relation to the Union territory of Lakshadweep, the High Court of
Kerala;(va)in relation to the Union territory of Chandigarh, the High Court of
Punjab and Haryana;(vi)in relation to the Union territories of Dadra and Nagar
Haveli and Goa, Daman and Diu, the High Court at Bombay;(vii)in relation to
the Union territory of Pondicherry, the High Court at Madras.

### 29. Gift-tax by whom payable

Subject to the provisions of this Act, gift-tax shall be payable by the donor
but when in the opinion of the Assessing Officer the tax cannot be recovered
from the donor, it may be recovered from the done:Provided that where the
donees are more than one, they shall be jointly and severally liable for the
amount of tax determined to be payable by the donor:Provided further that the
amount of tax which may be recovered from each done shall not exceed the value
of the gift made to him as on the date of the gift.

### 30. Gift-tax to be charged on property gifted

Gift-tax payable in respect of any gift comprising immovable property shall be
a first charge on that property but any such charge shall not affect the title
of a bona fide purchaser for valuable consideration without notice of the
charge.

### 31. Notice of demand

When any tax, interest, penalty, fine or any other sum is payable in
consequence of any order passed under this Act, the Assessing Officer shall
serve upon the assessee a notice of demand in the prescribed form specifying
the sum so payable.

### 32. Recovery of tax and penalties

(1)Any amount specified as payable in a notice of demand under section 31
shall be paid within thirty days of the service of the notice at the place and
to the person mentioned in the notice:Provided that, where the Assessing
Officer has any reason to believe that it will be detrimental to revenue if
the full period of thirty days aforesaid is allowed, he may, with the previous
approval of the Deputy Commissioner, direct that the sum specified in the
notice of demand shall be paid within such period being a period less than the
period of thirty days aforesaid, as may be specified by him in the notice of
demand.(2)If the amount specified in any notice of demand under section 3 i is
not paid within the period limited under sub-section (1), the assessee shall
be liable to pay simple interest at one and one-half per cent, for every month
or part of a month comprised in the period commencing from the day immediately
following the end of the period mentioned in sub-section(1) and ending with
the day on which the amount is paid:Provided that where as a result of an
order under section 22, or section 23, or section 24, or section 25, or
section 26, or section 28, or section 34, the amount on which interest was
payable under this section had been reduced, the interest shall be reduced
accordingly and the excess interest paid, if any, shall be refunded:Provided
further, that in respect of any period commencing on or before the 31st day of
March, 1989, and ending after that date, such interest shall, in respect of so
much of such period as falls after that date, be calculated at the rate of one
and one-half per cent for every month or part of a month.(3)Without prejudice
to the provisions contained in sub-section (2), on an application made by the
assessee before the expiry of the due date under sub-section (1), the
Assessing Officer may extend the time for payment or allow payment by
instalments subject to such conditions as he may think fit to impose in the
circumstances of the case.(4)If the amount is not paid within the time limited
under sub-section (1) or extended under sub-section (3), as the case may be,
at the place and to the person mentioned in the said notice, the assessee
shall be deemed to be in default.(5)If, in a case where payment by instalments
is allowed under sub-section (3), the assessee commits default in paying any
one of the instalments within the time fixed under that sub-section, the
assessee shall be deemed to be in default as to the whole of the amount then
outstanding, and the other instalment or instalments shall be deemed to have
been due on the same date as the instalment actually in default.(6)Where the
assessee has presented an appeal under section 22, the Assessing Officer may
in his discretion and subject to such conditions as he may think fit to impose
in the circumstances of the case, treat the assessee as not being in default
in respect of the amount in dispute in the appeal, even though the time for
payment has expired as long as such appeal remains undisposed of.

### 33. Mode of recovery

The provisions contained in sections 221 to 227, 228A, 229, 231 and 232 of the
Income-tax Act and the Second and Third Schedules to that Act and any rules
made thereunder shall, so far as may be, apply as if the said provisions were
provisions of this Act and referred to gift-tax and sums imposed by way of
penalty, fine and interest under this Act instead of to income-tax and sums
imposed by way of penalty, fine and interest under that Act and to the
corresponding gift-tax authorities instead of to the income-tax authorities
specified therein.Explanation I.-Any reference to sub-section (2) or sub-
section (6) of section 220 of the Income-tax Act in the said provisions of
that Act or the rules made thereunder shall be construed as references to sub-
sections (2) and (6) respectively of section 32 of this Act.Explanation
II.-The Chief Commissioner or Commissioner and the Tax Recovery Officer
referred to in the Income-tax Act shall be deemed to be the corresponding
gift-tax authorities for the purpose of recovery of gift-tax and sums imposed
by way of penalty, fine and interest under this Act.

### 33A. Refunds

(1)Where, as a result of any order passed in appeal or other proceeding under
this Act, refund of any amount becomes due to the assessee, the Assessing
Officer shall, except as otherwise provided in this Act, refund the amount to
the assessee without his having to make claim in that behalf:Provided that
where, by the order aforesaid.-(a)an assessment is set aside or cancelled and
an order of fresh assessment is directed to be made, the refund, if any, shall
become due only on the making of such fresh assessment;(b)the assessment is
annulled, the refund shall become due only of the amount, if any, of the tax
paid in excess of the tax chargeable on the taxable gifts returned by the
assessee.(2)Where refund of any amount becomes due to the assessee as a result
of an order under this Act or under the provisions of sub-section (1) of
section 15 after a return has been made under section 13 or section 14 or in
response to a notice under clause (i) of sub-section (4) of section 15 and the
Assessing Officer is of the opinion, having regard to the fact that,-(i)a
notice has been issued, or is likely to be issued, under sub-section (2) of
section 15 in respect of the said return; or(ii)the order is the subject-
matter of an appeal or further proceeding; or(iii)any other proceeding under
this Act is pending;that the grant of the refund is likely to adversely affect
the revenue, the Assessing Officer may, with the previous approval of the
Chief Commissioner or Commissioner, withhold the refund till such time as the
Chief Commissioner or Commissioner may determine.(3)Where a refund is due to
the assessee in pursuance of an order referred to in subsection (1) and the
Assessing Officer does not grant the refund within a period of six months from
the date of such order, the Central Government shall pay to the assessee
simple interest at fifteen per cent. per annum on the amount of refund due
from the date immediately following the expiry of the period of six months
aforesaid to the date on which the refund is granted.(3A)Where the whole or
any part of the refund referred to in sub-section (3) is due to an assessee as
a result of any amount having been paid by him after the 31st day of March,
1975, in pursuance of any order of assessment or penalty and such amount or
any part thereof having been found in appeal or other proceeding under this
Act to be in excess of the amount which such assessee is liable to pay as tax
or penalty, as the case may be, under this Act, the Central Government shall
pay to such assessee simple interest at the rate specified in subsection (3)
on the amount so found to be in excess from the date on which such amount was
paid to the date on which the refund is granted:Provided that, where the
amount so found to be in excess was paid in instalments, such interest shall
be payable on the amount of each such instalment or any part of such
instalment which was in excess, from the date on which such instalment was
paid to the date on which the refund is granted:Provided further that no
interest under this sub-section shall be payable for a period of one month
from the date of the passing of the order in appeal or other proceeding
:Provided also that, where interest is payable to an assessee under this sub-
section, no interest under sub-section (3) shall be payable to him in respect
of the amount so found to be in excess.(4)Where a refund is withheld under the
provisions of sub-section (2), the Central Government shall pay interest at
the aforesaid rate on the amount of refund ultimately determined to be due as
a result of the appeal or further proceedings for a period commencing after
the expiry of six months from the date of the order referred to in that sub-
section to the date the refund is granted.(4A)The provisions of sub-sections
(3), (3 A) and (4) shall not apply in respect of any assessment for the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1989, or any subsequent
assessment year.(4B)(a)Where refund of any amount becomes due to the assessee
under this Act, he shall, subject to the provisions of this sub-section, be
entitled to receive, in addition to the said amount, simple interest thereon
calculated at the rate of one per cent, for every month or part of a month
comprised in the period or periods from the date or, as the case may be, dates
of payment of the tax or penalty to the date on which the refund is
granted.Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause, "date of payment of the
tax or penalty" means the date on and from which the amount of tax or penalty
specified in the notice of demand issued under section 31 is paid in excess of
such demand.(b)If the proceedings resulting in the refund are delayed for
reasons attributable to the assessee, whether wholly or in part, period of the
delay so attributable to him shall be excluded from the period for which
interest is payable, and where any question arises as to the period to be
excluded, it shall be decided by the Chief Commissioner or Commissioner whose
decision thereon shall be final.(c)Where as a result of an order under sub-
section (3) or sub-section (5) of section 15 or section 16 or section 22 or
section 23 or section 24 or section 26 or section 28 or section 34 the amount
on which the interest was payable under clause (a) has been increased or
reduced, as the case may be, interest shall be increased or reduced
accordingly, and, in a case where the interest is reduced, the Assessing
Officer shall serve on the assessee a notice of demand in the prescribed form
specifying the amount of the excess interest paid and requiring him to pay
such amount; and such notice of demand shall be deemed to be a notice under
section 31 and the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly.(d)The
provisions of this sub-section shall apply in respect of assessments for the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1989, and subsequent
assessment years.(5)Where under any of the provisions of this Act, a refund is
found to be due to any person, the Assessing Officer, Deputy Commissioner
(Appeals), Commissioner (Appeals) or Chief Commissioner or Commissioner, as
the case may be, may, in lieu of payment of the refund, set off the amount to
be refunded or any part of that amount, against the sum, if any, remaining
payable under this Act by the person to whom the refund is due, after giving
an intimation in writing to such person of the action proposed to be taken
under this section.

### 34. Rectification of mistakes

(1)With a view to rectifying any mistake apparent from the record-(a)The
Assessing Officer may amend any order of assessment or of refund or any other
order passed by him;(aa)a gift-tax authority may amend any intimation sent by
it under sub-section (1) of section 15 or enhance or reduce the amount of
refund granted by it under that sub-section;(b)the Deputy Director or Deputy
Commissioner or Director or Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or
Commissioner ( Appeals) may amend any order passed by him under section
17A;(c)the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or Commissioner (Appeals) may amend
any order passed by him under Section 22 ;(d)the Commissioner may amend any
order passed by him under section 24;(e)the Appellate Tribunal may amend any
order passed by it under section 23 or section 25.(2)Subject to other
provisions of this section, the authority concerned-(a)may make an amendment
under sub-section (1) of its own motion; and(b)shall make such amendment for
rectifying any such mistake which has been brought to its notice by the
assessee, and where the authority concerned is the 6Deputy Commissioner
(Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals) or the Appellate Tribunal by the
Assessing Officer also.(3)An amendment, which has the effect of enhancing an
assessment or reducing a refund or otherwise increasing the liability of the
assessee, shall not be made under this section unless the authority concerned
has given notice to the assessee of its intention so to do and has allowed the
assessee a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(4)Where an amendment is made
under this section, an order shall be passed in writing by the gift-tax
authority concerned.(5)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) of section
33A, where any such amendment has the effect of reducing the assessment, the
Assessing Officer shall make any refund which may be due to such
assessee.(6)Where any such amendment has the effect of enhancing the
assessment or reducing are fund already made, the Assessing Officer shall
serve on the assessee a notice of demand in the prescribed form specifying the
sum payable, and such notice of demand shall be deemed to be issued under
section 31 and the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly.(7)No
amendment under this section shall be made after the expiry of four years from
the end of the financial year in which the order sought to be amended was
passed.

### 34\. Rectification of mistakes

(1)With a view to rectifying any mistake apparent from the record-(a)The
Assessing Officer may amend any order of assessment or of refund or any other
order passed by him;(aa)a gift-tax authority may amend any intimation sent by
it under sub-section (1) of section 15 or enhance or reduce the amount of
refund granted by it under that sub-section;(b)the Deputy Director or Deputy
Commissioner or Director or Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or
Commissioner ( Appeals) may amend any order passed by him under section
17A;(c)the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or Commissioner (Appeals) may amend
any order passed by him under Section 22 ;(d)the Commissioner may amend any
order passed by him under section 24;(e)the Appellate Tribunal may amend any
order passed by it under section 23 or section 25.(2)Subject to other
provisions of this section, the authority concerned-(a)may make an amendment
under sub-section (1) of its own motion; and(b)shall make such amendment for
rectifying any such mistake which has been brought to its notice by the
assessee, and where the authority concerned is the 6Deputy Commissioner
(Appeals) or the Commissioner (Appeals) or the Appellate Tribunal by the
Assessing Officer also.(3)An amendment, which has the effect of enhancing an
assessment or reducing a refund or otherwise increasing the liability of the
assessee, shall not be made under this section unless the authority concerned
has given notice to the assessee of its intention so to do and has allowed the
assessee a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(4)Where an amendment is made
under this section, an order shall be passed in writing by the gift-tax
authority concerned.(5)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) of section
33A, where any such amendment has the effect of reducing the assessment, the
Assessing Officer shall make any refund which may be due to such
assessee.(6)Where any such amendment has the effect of enhancing the
assessment or reducing are fund already made, the Assessing Officer shall
serve on the assessee a notice of demand in the prescribed form specifying the
sum payable, and such notice of demand shall be deemed to be issued under
section 31 and the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly.(7)No
amendment under this section shall be made after the expiry of four years from
the end of the financial year in which the order sought to be amended was
passed.

### 35. Prosecution

(1)If any person fails without reasonable cause,--(a)to furnish in due time
any return of gifts under this Act;(b)to produce, cause to be produced, on or
before the date mentioned in any notice under sub-section (4) of section 15,
such accounts, records and documents as are referred to in the notice;he
shall, on conviction before a magistrate, be punishable with fine which may
extend to rupees ten for every day during which the default continues.(2)If a
person makes a statement in a verification in any return of gifts furnished
under this Act or in a verification mentioned in section 22, 23or 25 which is
false, and which he either knows ,or believes to be false, or does not believe
to be true, he shall, on conviction before a magistrate, be punishable with
simple imprisonment which may extend to one year, or with fine which may
extend to rupees one thousand, or with both.(2A)If a person abets or induces
in any manner another person to make and deliver an account, statement or
declaration relating to any gifts chargeable to tax which is false and which
he either knows to be false or does not believe to be true, he shall, on
conviction before a magistrate, be punishable with simple imprisonment which
may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees
or with both.(3)A person shall not be proceeded against for an offence under
this Act except with the previous sanction of the Commissioner or Commissioner
(Appeals):Provided that the Chief Commissioner or, as the case may be,
Director General may issue such instructions or directions to the aforesaid
gift-tax authorities as he may deem fit for institution of proceedings under
this sub-section.(4)Any such offence may, either before or after the
institution of proceedings, be compounded by the Chief Commissioner or
Director-General.Explanation 1.-Forthe purposes of this section, "Magistrate"
means a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class.Explanation
2.-For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the powers of the
Board to issue orders, instructions or directions under this Act shall include
and shall be deemed always to have included the power to issue instructions
(including instructions or directions to obtain the previous approval of the
Board) to other gift-tax authorities for the proper composition of offences
under this section.

### 35A. Offences by companies

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation.-For the purposes
of this section,--(A)"company" means a body corporate, and includes-(i)a firm,
and(ii)an association of persons or a body of individuals, whether
incorporated or not; and(b)"director", in relation to-(i)a firm, means a
partner in the firm,(ii)an association of persons or a body of individuals,
means any member controlling the affairs thereof.

### 35B. Offences by Hindu undivided families

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a Hindu undivided
family, the Karta thereof shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that
nothing contained in this sub-section shall render the karta liable to any
punishment if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (I), where an
offence under this Act has been committed by a Hindu undivided family and it
is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance
of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of, any member of the Hindu
undivided family, such member shall also be deemed to be guilty of that
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

### 35C. 360 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and the Probation of
Offenders Act, 1958, not to apply

Nothing contained in section 360 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974), or in the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 (20 of 1958), shall apply to
a person convicted of an offence under this Act unless that person is under
eighteen years of age.

### 35D. Presumption as to culpable mental state

(1)In any prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the court shall presume the existence
of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the
fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an
offence in that prosecution.Explanation.-In this sub-section, "culpable mental
state" includes intention, motive or knowledge of a fact, or belief in, or
reason to believe, a fact.(2)For the purposes of this section, a fact is said
to be proved only when the court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt
and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of
probability.

### 35E. Proof of entries in records or documents

Entries in the records or other documents in the custody of a gift-tax
authority shall be admitted in evidence in any proceedings for the prosecution
of any person for an offence under this Act, and all such entries may be
proved either by the production of the records or other documents in the
custody of the gift-tax authority containing such entries, or by the
production of a copy of the entries certified by the gift-tax authority having
custody of the records or other documents under its signature and stating that
it is a true copy of the original entries and that such original entries are
contained in the records or other documents in its custody.

### 36. Power regarding discovery, production of evidence, etc

(1)The Assessing Officer, the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals), the Commissioner
(Appeals), the Chief Commissioner or Commissioner and the Appellate tribunal
shall, for the purposes of this Act, have the same powers as are vested in a
court under the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 (5 of 1908), when trying a suit
in respect of the following matters, namely:-(a)discovery and
inspection;(b)enforcing the attendance of any person, including any officer of
a banking company and examining him on oath;(c)compelling the production of
books of account and other documents; and(d)issuing commissions.(1A)If the
Director-General or Director or Deputy Director or Assistant Director has
reason to suspect that any gifts chargeable to tax under this Act have been
concealed, or are likely to be concealed, by any person or class of persons
within his jurisdiction, then for the purposes of making any inquiry or
investigation relating thereto, it shall be competent for him to exercise the
powers conferred under sub-section (1) on the gifts-tax authorities referred
to in that sub-section, notwithstanding that no proceedings with respect to
such person or class of persons are pending before him or any other gift-tax
authority.

### 37. Power to call for information

Where, for the purposes of this Act, it appears necessary for any gift-tax
authority to obtain any statement or information from any person or banking
company, such gift-tax authority may serve a notice requiring such person, on
or before a date to be therein specified, to furnish such statement or
information on the points specified in the notice, and that person shall,
notwithstanding anything in any law to the contrary, be bound to furnish such
statement or information to such gift-tax authority:Provided that no legal
practitioner shall be bound to furnish any statement or information under this
section based on any professional communications made to him otherwise than as
permitted by section 126 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872(1 of 1872).

### 38. Effect of transfer of authorities on pending proceedings

Whenever in respect of any proceeding under this Act any gift-tax authority
ceases to exercise jurisdiction and is succeeded by another who has and
exercises such jurisdiction, the authority so succeeding may continue the
proceeding from the stage at which the proceeding was left by this
predecessor:Provided that the assessee concerned may demand that before the
proceeding is so continued the previous proceeding or any part thereof be
reopened or that before any order of assessment is passed against him, he be
reheard.

### 39. Computation of period of limitation

In computing the period of limitation prescribed for an appeal or an
application under this Act, the day on which the order complained of was
served and if the assessee was not furnished with a copy of the order when the
notice of the order was served upon him, the time requisite for obtaining a
copy of such order, shall be excluded.

### 40. Service of notice

(1)A notice or a requisition this Act may be served on the person therein
named either by post or as if it were a summons issued by a court under the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).(2)Any such notice or requisition
may, in the case of a firm or a Hindu undivided family, be addressed to any
member of the firm or to the manager or any adult male member of the family,
and in the case of a company or association of persons be addressed to the
principal officer thereof.(3)After a finding of total partition has been
recorded by the Assessing Officer under section 20 in respect of any Hindu
family, notices under this Act in respect of the gifts made by the family
shall be served on the person who was the last manager of the Hindu family, or
if such person is dead, then on all surviving adults who were members of the
Hindu family immediately before the partition.(4)Where a firm or other
association of persons is dissolved, notices under this Act in respect of the
gifts made by the firm or association may be served on any person who was a
partner (not being a minor) or member of the association, as the case may be,
immediately before its dissolution.

### 41. Prohibition of disclosure of information

* Omitted

### 41A. Publication of information respecting assessees

(1)If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient
in the public interest to publish the names of any assessees and any other
particulars relating to any proceedings or prosecutions under this Act in
respect of such assessees, it may cause to be published such names and
particulars in such manner as it thinks fit.(2)No publication under this
section shall be made in relation to any penalty imposed under this Act until
the time for presenting an appeal to the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or, as
case may be, the Commissioner (Appeals) has expired without an appeal having
been presented or the appeal, if presented, has been disposed of.Explanation.-
In the case of a firm, company or other association of persons, the names of
the partners of the firm, directors, managing agents, secretaries and
treasurers, or managers of the company, or the members of the association, as
the case may be, may also be published if, in the opinion of the Central
Government, the circumstances of the case justify it.

### 41B. Disclosure of information respecting assessees

Where a person makes an application to the Chief Commissioner or Commissioner
in the prescribed form for any information relating to any assessee in respect
of any assessment made under this Act, the Chief Commissioner or Commissioner
may, if he is satisfied that it is in the public interest so to do, furnish or
cause to be furnished the information asked for in respect of that assessment
only and his decision in this behalf shall be final and shall not be called in
question in any court of law.

### 41C. Return of gifts etc., not to be invalid on certain grounds

No return of gifts, assessment, notice summons or other proceeding furnished
or made or issued or taken or purported to have been furnished or made or
issued or taken in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act shall be
invalid or shall be deemed to be invalid merely by reason of any mistake,
defect or omission in such return of gifts, assessment, notice, summons or
other proceeding, if such return of gifts, assessment, notice, summons or
other proceeding is in substance and effect in conformity with or according to
the intent and purpose of this Act.

### 42. Bar of suits in civil court

No suit shall lie in any civil court to set aside or modify any proceeding
taken or order made under this Act, and no prosecution, suit or other legal
proceeding shall lie against the Government or any officer of the Government
for anything in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.

### 43. Appearance before Gift-tax authorities by authorised representatives

An assessee who is entitled to or required to attend before any gift-tax
authority or the Appellate Tribunal in connection with any proceeding under
this Act, except where he is required under this Act to attend in person, may
attend by a person who would be entitled to represent him before any Income-
tax authority or the Appellate Tribunal under section 288 of the Income-tax
Act.

### 43A. Appearance by registered valuer in certain matters

Any assessee who is entitled or required to attend before any gift-tax
authority or the Appellate Tribunal in connection with any matter relating to
the valuation of any asset, except where he is required under this Act to
attend in person, may attend by a registered valuer.Explanation-In this
section "registered valuer" has the same meaning as in clause (oaa) of section
2 of the Wealth-tax Act, 1957 (27 of 1957).

### 44. Agreement for avoidance or relief of double taxation with respect to
gift-tax

The Central Government may enter into an agreement with the Government of any
reciprocating country-(a)for the avoidance or relief of double taxation with
respect to gift-tax payable under this Act and under the corresponding law in
force in the reciprocating country, or(b)for exchange of information for the
prevention of evasion or avoidance of gift-tax chargeable under this Act or
under the corresponding law in force in that country or investigation of cases
of such evasion or avoidance, or(c)for recovery of tax under this Act and
under the corresponding law in force in that country, and may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, make such provision as may be necessary for
implementing the agreement.Explanation.- The expression "reciprocating
country" for the purposes of this Act means any country which the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare to be a
reciprocating country.

### 44A. Rounding off of taxable gifts

The amount assessed in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Act as
being the value of all taxable gifts shall be rounded off to the nearest
multiple of ten rupees and, for this purpose, any part of a rupee consisting
of paise shall be ignored and thereafter, if such amount is not a multiple of
ten rupees, then, if the last figure in that amount is five or more, the
amount shall be increased to the next higher amount which is a multiple of ten
and, if the last figure is less than five, the amount shall be reduced to the
next lower amount which is a multiple of ten; and the amount so rounded off
shall be deemed to be the value of all taxable gifts of the assessee for the
purposes of this Act:

### 44B. Rounding off of tax, etc

The amount of gift-tax, interest, penalty, fine or any other sum payable, and
the amount of refund due, under the provisions of this Act, shall be rounded
off to the nearest rupee and, for this purpose, where such amount contains a
part of a rupee consisting of paise, then, if such part is fifty paise or
more, it shall be increased to one rupee, and if such part is less than fifty
paise, it shall be ignored.

### 45. Act not to apply in certain cases

No tax shall be levied under this Act in respect of gifts made by-(a)a company
in which the public are substantially interested;(b)any company to an Indian
company in a scheme of amalgamation;(e)any institution or fund the income
whereof is exempt from income-tax under section 11 or section 12 of Income-tax
Act.Explanation 1.-For the purposes of clause (b) the term "amalgamation"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (1B) of section 2 of the
Income-tax Act.Explanation 3.-For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared
that the exemption admissible under clause (e) in relation to gifts made by an
institution or fund referred to in that clause shall not be denied merely on
either or both of the following grounds, namely:-(i)that, subsequent to the
gift, any part of the income of the institution or fund has become chargeable
to tax due to non-compliance with any of the provisions of section 11 or
section 12 or section 12A of the Income-tax Act;(ii)that, under clause (c) of
sub-section (1) of section 13 of the Income-tax Act, the exemption under
section 11 or section 12 of that Act is denied to the institution or fund in
relation to any income arising to it from any investment referred to in clause
(h) of sub-section (2) of section 13 of the said Act where the aggregate of
the funds invested by it in a concern referred to in the said clause (h) does
not exceed five per cent, of the capital of that concern.

### 46. Power to make rules

(1)The Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for
carrying out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice
to the generality of the foregoing power, rules made under this section may
provide for-(a)the manner in which the value of any property may be
determined;(b)the form in which returns under this Act shall be made and the
manner in which they shall be verified;(c)the form in which appeals and
applications under this Act may be made, and the manner in which they shall be
verified;(cc)the circumstances in which, the conditions subject to which and
the manner in which, the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner
(Appeals) may permit an appellant to produce evidence which he did not produce
or which he was not allowed to produce before the Assessing Officer;(d)the
form of any notice of demand under this Act;(e)the refunds of gift-tax paid in
respect of gifts which are revoked on the happening of any specified event
which does not depend on the will of the donor or of any amount paid under
section 18;(ee)the procedure to be followed in calculating interest payable by
assessees or interest payable by the Government to assessees under any
provision of this Act, including the rounding off of the period for which such
interest is to be calculated in cases where such period includes a fraction of
a month, and specifying the circumstances in which and the extent to which
petty amounts of interest payable by assessees may be ignored:(f)the areas for
which lists of values may be drawn up;(g)any other matter which has to be, or
may be, prescribed for the purposes of this Act.(3)The power to make rules
conferred by this section shall include the power to give retrospective
effect, from a date not earlier than the date of commencement of this Act, to
the rules or any of them and, unless the contrary is permitted (whether
expressly or by necessary implication), no retrospective effect shall be given
to any rule so as to prejudicially affect the interests of assessees.(4)The
Central Government shall cause every rule made under this Act to be laid as
soon as may be after it is made before each House of Parliament while it is in
session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and, if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modifications in the rule or both
Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 46A. Power to make exemption, etc., in relation to certain Union
territories

If the Central Government considers it necessary or expedient so to do for
avoiding any hardship or anomaly or removing any difficulty that may arise as
a result to the application of this Act to the Union territories of Dadra and
Nagar Haveli, Goa, Daman and Diu, and Pondicherry, or in the case of the Union
territory of Pondicherry, for implementing any provision of the Treaty of
Cession concluded between France and India on the 28th day of May, 1956, the
Central Government may, by general or special order, make an exemption,
reduction in rate or other modification in respect of gift-tax in favour of
any class of gifts or in regard to the whole or any part of the gift made by
any assessee or class of assessees:Provided that the power conferred by this
section shall not be exercisable after the 31st day of March, 1967, except for
the purpose of rescinding an exemption, reduction or modification already
made.

### 47. Power to remove difficulties

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act as
amended by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987 (4 of 1988), the Central
Government may, by order, do anything not inconsistent with such provisions
for the purpose of removing the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall
be made after the expiration of three years from the 1st day of April,
1988.(2)Every order made under sub-section (1) shall be laid before each House
of Parliament.

## (See section 3(1))

| Rates of Gift Tax |   
---|---|---  
(1) | where the value of all taxable gifts does not exceed Rs. 20000 | 5 percent of the value of such gifts;  
(2) | where the value of all taxable gifts exceeds Rs. 20000 but does not exceeds Rs. 50000 | Rs. 1000 plus 10 percent of the amount by which the value of such gifts exceeds Rs. 20000;  
(3) | where the value of all taxable gifts exceeds Rs. 50000 but does not exceed Rs. 100000 | Rs.4000 plus 15 percent of the amount by which the value of such gifts exceeds Rs. 50000;  
(4) | where the value of all taxable gifts exceeds Rs. 100000 but does not exceed Rs.200000 | Rs. 11500 plus 20 percent of the amount by which the value of such gifts exceeds Rs. 100000;  
(5) | where the value of all taxable gifts exceeds Rs. 200000 but does not exceed Rs. 500000 Rs. | 31500 plus 25 percent of the amount by which the value of such gifts exceeds Rs. 200000;  
(6) | where the value of all faxable gifts exceeds Rs. 500000 but does not exceed Rs. 1000000 Rs. 106500 plus | 30 per cent of the amount by which the value of such gifts exceeds Rs. 500000;  
(7) | where the value of all taxable gifts exceeds Rs. 1000000 but does not exceed Rs. 1500000 Rs. 256500 plus | 40 per cent. of the amount by which the value of such gifts exceeds Rs. 1000000;  
(8) | where the value of all taxable gifts exceed Rs. 1500000 but does not exceed Rs. 2000000 Rs. 456500 plus | 50 per cent. of the amount by which the value of such gifts exceeds Rs. 1500000;  
(9) | where the value of all taxable gifts exceeds Rs. 2000000 Rs. 706500 plus | 75 percent of the amount by which value of such gifts exceeds Rs. 2000000.  
  
## (See section 6(1))

RULES FOR DETERMINING THE VALUE OF PROPERTY GIFTED(1)Value of gifted property
how to determined.--Subject to the provisions of rules 2 to 7, the value of
any property, other than cash, transferred by way of gift shall, for the
purposes of this Act, be determined in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule III to the Wealth-lax Act, 1957 (27 of 1957) (hereinafter referred to
as the Wealth-tax Act), which shall apply subject to the following
modifications, namely:-In the said Schedule,-(a)references by whatever form of
words to the Wealth-tax Act shall be construed as references to this Act;(b)in
rule 5, the reference to the year ending on the valuation date shall be
construed as a reference to the previous year as defined in this Act;(c)save
as provided in clause (b), references, to the valuation date shall be
construed as references to the date on which the gift was made;(d)reference to
section 7 of the Wealth-tax Act shall be construed as references to section 6
of this Act;(e)references to section 16A of the Wealth-tax Act shall be
construed as references to subsection (6) of section 15 of this Act(2)Quoted
shares and debentures of companies.--The value of an equity share or a
preference share in any company or a debenture of any company which is a
quoted share or a quoted debenture shall be taken as the value quoted in
respect of such share or debenture on the date on which the girt was made or
where there is no such quotation on such date, the quotation on the date
closest to such date and immediately preceding such date.Explanation-The words
and expressions used in this rule and rules 3 to 7 but not defined and defined
in rule 2 of Schedule 111 of the Wealth-tax Act shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in rule 2 of that Schedule.(3)Special provision
for quoted shares of companies.-Notwithstanding anything in rule 2, the value
of an equity share in any company which is a quoted share may, at the option
of the assessee or a company, be taken on the basis of the average of the
value quoted on the 31st day of March immediately preceding the assessment
year and the values quoted in respect of such share on the said dates in
relation to each of the immediately preceding nine assessment years, or where
there is no such quotation on any of the aforesaid dates, the quotation on the
date closest to the said date and immediately preceding such date:Provided
that where for any reason the value of such share is quoted in relation to
lesser number of assessment years than the said nine assessment years, then
the value or values so quoted shall be taken into account for the purposes of
the aforesaid average:Provided further that where the assessee opts for the
average of the values so quoted, he shall get such values certified by an
accountant and attach the certificate to the return of gifts in respect of the
relevant assessment year.Explanation.-For the purposes of this rule,
"accountant" shall have the same meaning as in the Explanation below sub-
section (2) of section 288 of the Income-tax Act.(4)Unquoted preference
shares.-(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (2), the value of an unquoted
preference share in any company shall,-(a)where the preference share is issued
before the date on which the gift was made at a rate of dividend of not less
than eight per cent., be the paid-up value of such share; and(b)where the
preference share is issued before the said date at a rate of dividend of less
than eight per cent., be the adjusted paid-up value of such share.(2)Where no
dividend has been paid in respect of an unquoted preference share by any
company continuously for not less than three accounting years ending on the
date on which the gift was made or, in a case where the accounting year of the
company does not end on that date, for not less than three continuous
accounting years ending on a date immediately before the date on which the
gift was made, the paid-up value or, as the case may be, the adjusted paid-up
value shall be reduced-(a)in the case of a non-cumulative preference share, as
indicated in the Table below:-TABLE

Number of accounting years ending on the date on which the gifts was made or, in a case where the accounting year does not end on that date, the number of accounting years ending on a date immediately preceding the date on which the gift was made, for which no dividend has been paid |  | Rate of reduction  
---|---|---  
(1) |  | (2)  
Three years | 10% | of the paid-up value or the adjusted paid-up value, as the case may be.  
Four years | 20% | of the paid-up value or the adjusted paid-up value, as the case may be.  
Five years | 30% | of the paid-up value or the adjusted paid-up value, as the case may be.  
Six years and above | 40% | of the paid-up value or the adjusted paid-up value, as the case may be.  
  
(b)in the case of a cumulative preference share, by one-half of the rates
specified in the aforesaid Table.Explanation-For the purposes of this rule,
"adjusted paid-up value", in relation to a preference share, means an amount
which bears to the paid-up value of the preference share the same proportion
as the stipulated rate of dividend being the rate of dividend on the
preference share specified in the terms of issue of such share, and in a case
where such dividend is required to be increases under the provisions of
section 3 of the Preference Shares (Regulation of Dividends) Act, 1960 (63 of
1960), the rate of dividend as so increased on such share bears to the rate of
eight per cent.(5)Unquoted equity shares in companies other than investment
companies.-(1)The value of an unquoted equity share in any company, other than
an investment company, shall be determined in the manner set out in sub-rule
(2).(2)The value of all the liabilities as shown in the balance-sheet of such
company shall be deducted from the value of all its assets shown in that
balance-sheet; the net amount so arrived at shall be divided by the total
amount of its paid-up equity share capital as shown in the balance-sheet; the
result multiplied by the paid-up value of each equity share shall be the break
up value of each unquoted equity share, and an amount equal to eighty per
cent. of the break-up value so determined shall, be the value of the unquoted
equity share for the purposes of this Act.(3)For the purposes of sub-rule
(2),-(a)the following amounts shown as assets in the balance-sheet shall not
be treated as assets, namely:-(i)any amount paid as advance tax under the
Income-tax Act;(ii)any amount shown in the balance-sheet including the debit
balance of the profit and loss account or the profit and loss appropriation
account which does not represent the value of any asset;(b)the following
amounts shown as liabilities in the balance-sheet shall not to be treated as
liabilities, namely:-(i)the paid-up capital in respect of equity
shares;(ii)the amount set apart for payment of dividends on preference shares
and equity shares where such dividends have not been declared before the date
on which the gift was made at a general body meeting of the
company;(iii)reserves, by whatever name called, other than those set apart
towards depreciation; (iv) credit balance of the profit and loss
account;(v)any amount representing provision for taxation, other than the
amount referred to in sub-clause (i) of clause (a), to the extent of the
excess over the tax payable with reference to the book profits in accordance
with the law applicable thereto;(vi)any amount representing contingent
liabilities other than arrears of dividends payable in respect of cumulative
preference shares.Explanation.-For the purposes of this rule "balance-sheet",
in relation to any company, means the balance-sheet of such company (including
the Notes annexed thereto and forming part of the accounts) as drawn up on the
date on which the gift was made and, where there is no such balance-sheet, the
balance-sheet drawn up on a date immediately preceding that dale, and, in the
absence of both, the balance-sheet drawn up on a date immediately after the
date on which the gift was made.(6)Unquoted equity shares in investment
companies.-(1)Subject to rule 7, the value of an unquoted equity share in an
investment company shall be determined in the manner specified in sub-rule
(2).(2)The value of all the liabilities as shown in the balance-sheet of such
company shall be deducted from the value of all its assets shown in that
balance-sheet; the net amount so arrived at shall be divided by the total
paid-up equity share capital of the company as shown in the balance sheet, and
the result multiplied by the paid-up value of each equity share shall be the
value of the unquoted equity share in that investment company for the purposes
of this Act,(3)For the purposes of sub-rule (2), the value of an asset
disclosed in the balance-sheet of the company shall be taken to be its value
determined in accordance with the rules as applicable to that particular asset
and, in the absence of any such rule, the value of such asset shall be its
value as determined under rule 20 of Schedule 111 of the Wealth-tax Act.(4)For
the purposes of this rule,-(a)"balance-sheet" has the same meaning as in rule
5;(b)the amounts referred to in sub-rule (3) of rule 5 shall not be treated as
assets or liabilities.(5)For the purposes of facilitating the valuation of
unquoted equity shares under this rule and rule 7, the company concerned shall
have such valuation made by its auditors appointed under section 224 of the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), and a certificate of the auditors relating to
such valuation in the prescribed form shall be furnished to the Assessing
Officer and the shareholders of the company; and the valuation made by the
auditors shall be taken into account in the assessment of the shareholders of
the company.(7)Unquoted equity shares in interlocked companies.--(1)The value
of an unquoted equity share in one of the two interlocked companies held by
the other interlocked company for the purposes of rule 6 shall be equal to the
paid-up value of such share or the value determined under sub-rule (2),
whichever is higher.(2)For the purpose of sub-rule (1), the aggregate value of
all the equity shares in interlocked company shall be arrived at by
multiplying the maintainable profits of such company by-(a)the fraction
100/8.5 in a case where the gross total income of the company consists, to the
extent of not less than 51 percent of income chargeable under the head "Income
from house property" under the Income-tax Act; or(b)the fraction 100/10, in
the case of any other interlocked company, and the resultant amount divided by
the number of such equity shares shall be the value of such an equity share in
such company.(3)The maintainable profits of the company, for the purpose of
sub-rule (2), shall be computed in the following manner, namely:-(a)the book
profits of the company for the five accounting years of the company
immediately preceding the date on which the gift was made shall first be
ascertained;(b)adjustments shall be made to the book profits for each of the
said five years for all nonrecurring and extraordinary items of income and
expenditure and losses;(c)adjustments shall be made to the book profits for
expenditure which is not of a revenue nature but is debited in the accounts
and for receipts which are in the nature of revenue receipts but are not
accounted for in the profit and loss account;(d)any development rebate or
investment allowance debited in the books of account shall be added back to
the book profits;(e)the tax liability of the company on the book profits,
arrived at after the adjustments at items (a), (b), (c) and (d), shall be
deducted from such book profits;(f)amounts required for paying dividends on
preference share or shares with prior rights shall be deducted from such book
profits;(g)the aggregate of the book profits for the accounting years so
arrived at, divided by 5, shall be the maintainable profits of the
company.Explanation.-For the purposes of this rule, "interlocked companies"
means any two investment companies each of which holds shares in the other
company.

