## Union of India - Act

## The Indian Medical Council Act, 1956

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Indian Medical Council Act, 1956

## Act 102 of 1956

  * Published on 30 December 1956 
  * Commenced on 30 December 1956 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 August 2016.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Indian Medical Council (Amendment) Act, 2001 (Act 34 of 2001) on 1 January 2001] 
  2. [Amended by The Indian Medical Council (Amendment) Act, 2010 (Act 32 of 2010) on 4 September 2010] 
  3. [Amended by THE INDIAN MEDICAL COUNCIL (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2016 (Act 39 of 2016) on 4 August 2016] 

The Indian Medical Council Act, 1956(102 of 1956)Last Updated 3rd August, 2019
[15/725]Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The objects of this Bill are to
amend the Indian Medical Council Act, 1933 (23 of 1933)-(a) to give
representation to licentiate members of the medical profession, a large number
of whom are still practicing in the country;(b) to provide for the
registration of the names of citizens of India who have obtained foreign
medical qualifications which are not at present recognized under the existing
Act;(c) to provide for the temporary recognition of medical qualifications
granted by medical institutions in countries outside India with which no
scheme of reciprocity exists in cases where the medical practitioners
concerned are attached for the time being to any medical institution in India
for the purpose of teaching or research or for any charitable object;(d) to
provide for the formation of a Committee of Post-graduate Medical Education
for the purpose of assisting the Medical Council of India to prescribe
standards of post-graduate medical education for the guidance of Universities
and to advise Universities in the matter of securing uniform standards for
post-graduate medical education throughout India;(e) to provide for the
maintenance of an all-India register by the Medical Council of India, which
will contain the names of all the medical practitioners possessing recognized
medical qualifications.2\. The Indian Medical Council Act, 1933, does not now
extend to Part B States and it is now considered necessary that the Act should
extend to the whole of India except Jammu and Kashmir. A few other minor
amendments have, also come to light in the course of the working of this Act,
and as a matter of convenience it is now proposed to re-enact the existing Act
with the above amendments.Amendment Act 31 of 1993-Statement of Objects and
Reasons.-The India Medical Council Act, 1956 was enacted for the purpose of
reconstituting the Medical Council of India and the Maintenance of the Medical
Register for India and for matters connected therewith.2\. The experience of
the working of the 1956 Act had brought to light certain inadequacies. The
Central Government had introduced a comprehensive Bill to amend the 1956 Act
in Rajya Sabha on the 26th August, 1987. The Bill was referred to a joint
Committee in December, 1987 and the joint Committee submitted its report in
1989 recommending further amendments to the Bill. The matter could not be
processed further due to dissolution of the Lok Sabha and change in
Government. However, by early 1992 it became necessary to reconsider some of
the recommendations contained in the joint Committee's Report keeping in view
the current requirement of medical education. While the matter was in an
advanced stage of consideration, the Supreme Court of India in the judgment in
Mohini Jain v. Government of Karnataka on 30th July, 1992, held that
educational institutions cannot charge capitation fee and that education,
including higher education, is a fundamental right. A number of private
institutions have challenged the above mentioned judgment and sought a review
by the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court of India
have since pronounced the judgment on 4th February, 1993. The implications of
the judgment will have to be studied. In the circumstances, Government, has,
therefore, considered it advisable not to proceed with the 1987 Bill as many
of the matters covered by the Bill will become subject of review by the
Supreme Court.3\. Meanwhile, it had been noticed that some State Governments
were giving approvals for the opening of new medical colleges on their own,
without insisting on the provision of basic prerequisites of hospital,
equipment, laboratories or qualified faculty members, etc. In certain cases,
after the colleges gave admission to students they began exercising the
combined pressure of the management students and their families for grant of
approval to the medical colleges by the Medical Council of India.4\. In order
to curb such mushroom growth of medical colleges, the President promulgated
the Indian Medical Council (Amendment) Ordinance, 1992 (Ord. 13 of 1992) on
the 27th August, 1992 to amend the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 by
incorporating therein provisions for prior permission of the Central
Government for establishing any new medical college and for starting any new
or higher courses of study or increasing admission capacity in any course of
study or training including, post-graduate course of study in any existing
medical college.5\. A Bill to replace the Indian Medical Council (Amendment)
Ordinance, 1992 was introduced in the Rajya Sabha during Winter Session of
Parliament, 1992. The Bill was passed by the Rajya Sabha on 22nd December,
1992. However, the Bill could not be considered and passed by the Lok
Sabha.6\. The Government is of the considered view that it in the public
interest that the provisions of the said Ordinance should continue in force.
To achieve the above objective the Indian Medical Council (Amendment)
Ordinance, 1993 (Ord. 2 of 1993) was promulgated by the President on 2nd
January, 1993.Amendment Act 34 of 2001-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The
Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 contains provisions in sections 12, 13 and 14
with a view to recognising medical qualifications granted by medical
institutions in foreign countries.2\. Over a period of time it has come to the
notice that a large number of private agencies sponsor students for medical
studies in institutions outside India for commercial considerations. Such
students also include the students who did not fulfil the minimum eligibility
requirements for admission to medical courses in India. Serious aberrations
have been noticed in the standards of medical education in some of the foreign
countries which are not at par with the standards of medical education
available in India. Due to lack of uniformity in the standards of medical
education in various foreign countries, it has been decided that a provision
should be made in the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 to enable the Medical
Council of India to conduct a screening test in order to satisfy itself with
regard to the adequacy of knowledge and skills acquired by citizens of India
who obtain medical qualifications from universities or medical institutions
outside India before they are granted registration to practice medicine in
India.3\. Further, issue of prior eligibility certificate by the Medical
Council of India would ensure that only those conditions who conform to the
Council norms of admission to the medical college in India would go for under-
graduate medical education outside India.[30th December, 1956]An Act to
provided for the reconstitution of the Medical Council of India, and the
maintenance of a medical register for India and for matters connected
therewith.Be it enacted by Parliament in the seventh year of the Republic of
India as follows:-{||-| This Act has been extended to Pondicherry by Regn. 7
of 1963, Section 3 and Schedule I (w.e.f. 1.10.1963) to Dadra and Nagar Haveli
by Regn. 6 of 1963, Section 2 and Schedule I (w.e.f. 1.7.1965), to Goa, Daman
and Diu by Regn. 11 of 1963, Section 3 and Schedule, Goa is now a State, see
Act 18 of 1987, Section 3 (w.e.f. 30.5.1987).

### 2. Brought into force on 1.11.1958 vide S.O. 2254, dated 28.10.1958,
published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(ii), p.
2080.

|}

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called The Indian Medical Council Act, 1956.(2)It extends
to the whole of India [* * *].(3)It shall come into force on such date as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2\. Definitions.-

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"approved institution"
means a hospital, health centre or other such institution recognized by a
university as an institution in which a person may undergo the training, if
any, required by his course of study before the award of any medical
qualification to him;(b)"Council" means the Medical Council of India
constituted under this Act;[* * *](d)"Indian Medical Register" means the
medical register maintained by the Council;(e)"medical institution" means any
institution, within or without India, which grants degrees, diplomas or
licenses in medicine;(f)"medicine" means modern scientific medicine in all its
branches and includes surgery and obstetrics, but does not include veterinary
medicine and surgery;(g)"prescribed" means prescribed by
regulations;(h)"recognized medical qualification" means any of the medical
qualifications included in the Schedules;(i)"regulation" means a regulation
made under section 33;(j)"State Medical Council" means a Medical Council
constituted under any law for the time being in force in any State regulating
the registration of practitioners of medicine;(k)"State Medical Register"
means a register maintained under any law for the time being in force in any
State regulating the registration of practitioners of medicine;(l)"University"
means any University in India established by law and having a medical faculty.

### 3. Constitution and composition of the Council.-

(1)The Central Government shall cause to be constituted a council consisting
of the following members, namely:-(a)one member from each State other than a
Union territory, to be nominated by the Central Government in consultation
with the State Government concerned;(b)one member from each University, to be
elected from amongst the members of the medical faculty of the University by
members of the Senate of the University or in case the University has no
Senate, by members of the Court;(c)one member from each State in which a State
Medical Register is maintained, to be elected from amongst themselves by
persons enrolled on such register who possess the medical qualifications
included in the First or the Second Schedule or in Part II of the Third
Schedule;(d)seven members to be elected from amongst themselves by persons
enrolled on any of the State Medical Registers who possess the medical
qualifications included in Part I of the Third Schedule;(e)eight members to be
nominated by the Central Government.(2)The President and Vice-President of the
Council shall be elected by the members of the Council from amongst
themselves.(3)No act done by the Council shall be questioned on the ground
merely of the existence of any vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution
of, the Council.

### 3A. [ Power of Central Government to supersede the Council and to
constitute a Board of Governors.- [Inserted by Act 32 of 2010]

(1)On and from the date of commencement of the [Indian Medical Council
(Amendment) Act, 2019], the Council shall stand superseded and the President,
Vice-President and other members of the Council shall vacate their offices and
shall have no claim for any compensation, whatsoever.(2)The Council shall be
reconstituted in accordance with the provisions of section 3 within a period
of [two years] [Substituted 'three years' by Act No. 12 of 2019, dated
16.7.2019.] from the date of supersession of the Council under sub-section
(1).(3)Upon the supersession of the Council under sub-section (1) and until a
new Council is constituted in accordance with section 3, the Board of
Governors constituted under sub-section (4) shall exercise the powers and
perform the functions of the Council under this Act.(4)The Central Government
shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute the Board of
Governors which shall consist of not more than [twelve persons] [Substituted
'seven persons' by Act No. 12 of 2019, dated 16.7.2019.] as its members, who
shall be persons of eminence and of unimpeachable integrity in the fields of
medicine [and medical education or proven administrative capacity and
experience] [Substituted 'and medical education' by Act No. 12 of 2019, dated
16.7.2019.], and who may be either nominated members or members, ex officio,
to be appointed by the Central Government, one of whom shall be named by the
Central Government as the Chairperson of the Board of Governors.(5)The
Chairperson and the other members, other than the members, ex officio, shall
be entitled to such sitting fee and traveling and other allowances as may be
determined by the Central Government.(6)The Board of Governors shall meet at
such time and places and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to
the transaction of business at its meetings as is applicable to the
Council.(7)Two-third of the members of the Board of Governors shall constitute
the quorum for its meetings.(7A)[ The Board of Governors shall be assisted by
a Secretary General who shall be appointed by the Central Government on
deputation or contract basis and he shall be the head of the secretariat in
the Council.] [Inserted by Act No. 12 of 2019, dated 16.7.2019.](8)No act or
proceedings of the Board of Governors shall be invalid merely by reason
of-(a)any vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the Board of
Governors; or(b)any irregularity in the procedure of the Board of Governors
not affecting the merits of the case.(9)A member having any financial or other
interest in any matter coming before the Board of Governors for decision shall
disclose his interest in the matter before he may, if allowed by the Board of
Governors, participate in such proceedings.(10)The Chairperson and the other
members of the Board of Governors shall hold office during the pleasure of the
Central Government.]

### 3B. [ Certain modifications of the Act. [Inserted by Act 32 of 2010].-

During the period when the Council stands superseded,-(a)the provisions of
this Act shall be construed as if for the word "Council", the words "Board of
Governors" were substituted;(b)the Board of Governors shall-(i)exercise the
powers and discharge the functions of the Council under this Act and for this
purpose, the provisions of this Act shall have effect subject to the
modification that references therein to the Council shall be construed as
references to the Board of Governors;(ii)grant independently permission for
establishment of new medical colleges or opening a new or higher course of
study or training or increase in admission capacity in any course of study or
training referred to in section 10A or giving the person or college concerned
a reasonable opportunity of being heard as provided under section 10A without
prior permission of the Central Government under that section, including
exercise of the power to finally approve or disapprove the same;
and(iii)dispose of the matters pending with the Central Government under
section 10A upon receipt of the same from it.]

### 3C. [ Power of Central Government to give directions. [Inserted by Act 32
of 2010].-

(1)Without prejudice to the provisions of this Act, the Board of Governors or
the Council after its reconstitution shall, in exercise of its powers and in
the performance of its functions under this Act, be bound by such directions
on questions of policy, other than those relating to technical and
administrative matters, as the Central Government may give in writing to it
from time to time:Provided that the Board of Governors or the Council after
its reconstitution shall, as far as practicable, be given an opportunity to
express its views before any direction is given under this sub-section.(2)The
decision of the Central Government whether a question is a matter of policy or
not shall be final.]

### 4. Mode of election.-

(1)An election under clause (b), clause (c) or clause (d) of sub-section (1)
of section 3 shall be conducted by the Central Government in accordance with
such rules as may be made by it in this behalf, and any rules so made may
provide that pending the preparation of the Indian Medical Register in
accordance with the provisions of this Act, the members referred to in clause
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 3 may be nominated by the Central Government
instead of being elected as provided therein.(2)Where any dispute arises
regarding any election to the Council, it shall be referred to the Central
Government whose decision shall be final.

### 5. Restrictions on nomination and membership.-

(1)No person shall be eligible for nomination under clause (a) of sub-section
(1) of section 3 unless he possesses any of the medical qualifications
included in the First and Second Schedules, resides in the State concerned,
and, where a State Medical Register is maintained in that State, is enrolled
on that Register.(2)No person may at the same time serve as a member in more
than one capacity.

### 6. Incorporation of the Council.-

The Council so constituted shall be a body corporate by the name of the
Medical Council of India, having perpetual succession and a common seal, with
power to acquire and hold property, both movable and immovable, and to
contract and shall by the said name sue and be sued.

### 7. Term of office of President, Vice-President and members.-

(1)The President or Vice-President of the Council shall hold office for a term
not exceeding five years and not extending beyond the expiry of his term as
member of the Council.(2)Subject to the provisions of this section, a member
shall hold office for a term of five years from the date of his nomination or
election or until his successor shall have been duly nominated or elected,
whichever is longer.(3)An elected or nominated member shall be deemed to have
vacated his seat if he is absent without excuse, sufficient in the opinion of
the Council from three consecutive ordinary meetings of the Council or, in the
case of a member elected under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 3, if
he ceases to be a member of the medical faculty of the University concerned,
or in the case of a member elected under clause (c) or clause (d) of that sub-
section, if he ceases to be a person enrolled on the State Medical Register
concerned.(4)A casual vacancy in the Council shall be filled by nomination or
election, as the case may be, and the person nominated or elected to fill the
vacancy shall hold office only for the remainder of the term for which the
member whose place he takes was nominated or elected.(5)Members of the Council
shall be eligible for re-nomination or re-election.(6)Where the said term of
five years is about to expire in respect of any member, a successor may be
nominated or elected at any time within three months before the said term
expires but he shall not assume office until the said term has expired.

### 8. Meetings of the Council.-

(1)The Council shall meet at least once in each year at such time and place as
may be appointed by the Council.(2)Unless otherwise provided by regulations,
fifteen members of the Council shall form a quorum, and all the acts of the
Council shall be decided by a majority of the members present and voting.

### 9. Officers, Committees and servants of the Council.-

The Council shall-(1)constitute from amongst its members an Executive
Committee and such other Committees for general or special purposes as the
Council deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this Act;(2)appoint a
Registrar who shall act as Secretary and who may also, if deemed expedient,
act as Treasurer;(3)employ such other persons, as the Council deems necessary
to carry out the purposes of this Act;(4)require and take from the Registrar,
or from any other employee, such security for the due performance of his
duties as the Council deems necessary; and(5)with the previous sanction of the
Central Government fix the remuneration and allowances to be paid to the
President, Vice-President and members of the Council and determine the
conditions of service of the employees of the Council.

### 10. The Executive Committee.-

(1)The Executive Committee, hereinafter referred to as the Committee, shall
consist of the President and Vice-President, who shall be members ex
officio,and not less than seven and not more than ten other members who shall
be elected by the Council from amongst its members.(2)The President and Vice-
President shall be the President and Vice-President respectively of the
Committee.(3)In addition to the powers and duties conferred and imposed upon
it by this Act, the Committee shall exercise and discharge such powers and
duties as the Council may confer or impose upon it by any regulations which
may be made in this behalf.[10A. Permission for establishment of new medical
college, new course of study, etc.-(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act or any other law for the time being in force,-(a)no person shall
establish a medical college; or(b)no medical college shall-(i)open a new or
higher course of study or training (including a post-graduate course of study
or training) which would enable a student of such course or training to
qualify himself for the award of any recognized medical qualification;
or(ii)increase its admission capacity in any course of study or training
(including a post-graduate course of study or training), except with the
previous permission of the Central Government obtained in accordance with the
provisions of this section.Explanation 1. - For the purposes of this section,
"person" includes any University or a trust but does not include the Central
Government.Explanation 2. - For the purposes of this section "admission
capacity" in relation to any course of study or training (including
postgraduate course of study or training) in a medical college, means the
maximum number of students that may be fixed by the Council from time to time
for being admitted to such course or training.(2)(a)Every person or medical
college shall, for the purpose of obtaining permission under sub-section (1),
submit to the Central Government a scheme in accordance with the provisions of
clause (b) and the Central Government shall refer the scheme to the Council
for its recommendations.(b)The scheme referred to in clause (a) shall be in
such form and contain such particulars and be preferred in such manner and be
accompanied with such fee as may be prescribed.(3)On receipt of a scheme by
the Council under sub-section (2), the Council may obtain such other
particulars as may be considered necessary by it from the person or the
medical college concerned, and thereafter, it may,-(a)if the scheme is
defective and does not contain any necessary particulars, give a reasonable
opportunity to the person or college concerned for making a written
representation and it shall be open to such person or medical college to
rectify the defects, if any, specified by the Council;(b)consider the scheme,
having regard to the factors referred to in sub-section (7), and submit the
scheme together with its recommendations thereon to the Central
Government.(4)The Central Government may, after considering the scheme and the
recommendations of the Council under sub-section (3) and after obtaining,
where necessary, such other particulars as may be considered necessary by it
from the person or college concerned, and having regard to the factors
referred to in sub-section (7), either approve (with such conditions, if any,
as it may consider necessary ) or disapprove the scheme, and any such approval
shall be a permission under sub-section (1):Provided that no scheme shall be
disapproved by the Central Government except after giving the person or
college concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard:Provided further
that nothing in this sub-section shall prevent any person or medical college
whose scheme has not been approved by the Central Government to submit a fresh
scheme and the provisions of this section shall apply to such scheme, as if
such scheme has been submitted for the first time under sub-section
(2).(5)Where, within a period of one year from the date of submission of the
scheme to the Central Government under sub-section (2), no order passed by the
Central Government has been communicated to the person or college submitting
the scheme, such scheme shall be deemed to have been approved by the Central
Government in the form in which it had been submitted, and accordingly, the
permission of the Central Government required under sub-section (1) shall also
be deemed to have been granted.(6)In computing the time-limit specified in
sub-section (5), the time taken by the person or college concerned submitting
the scheme, in furnishing any particulars called for by the Council, or by the
Central Government, shall be excluded.(7)The Council, while making its
recommendations under clause (b) of sub-section (3) and the Central
Government, while passing an order, either approving or disapproving the
scheme under sub-section (4), shall have due regard to the following factors,
namely:-(a)whether the proposed medical college or the existing medical
college seeking to open a new or higher course of study or training, would be
in a position to offer the minimum standards of medical education as
prescribed by the Council under section 19-A or, as the case may be, under
section 20 in the case of post-graduate medical education;(b)whether the
person seeking to establish a medical college or the existing medical college
seeking to open a new or higher course of study or training or to increase its
admission capacity has adequate financial resources;(c)whether necessary
facilities in respect of staff, equipment, accommodation, training and other
facilities to ensure proper functioning of the medical college or conducting
the new course or study or training or accommodating the increased admission
capacity, have been provided or would be provided within the time-limit
specified in the scheme;(d)whether adequate hospital facilities, having regard
to the number of students likely to attend such medical college or course of
study or training or as a result of the increased admission capacity, have
been provided or would be provided within the time-limit specified in the
scheme;(e)whether any arrangement has been made or programme drawn to impart
proper training to students likely to attend such medical college or course of
study or training by persons having the recognized medical
qualifications;(f)the requirement of manpower in the field of practice of
medicine; and(g)any other factors as may be prescribed.(8)Where the Central
Government passes an order either approving or disapproving a scheme under
this section, a copy of the order shall be communicated to the person or
college concerned.][10-B. Non-recognition of medical qualifications in certain
cases.-(1)Where any medical college is established except with the previous
permission of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of
section 10-A, no medical qualification granted to any student of such medical
college shall be a recognized medical qualification for the purposes of this
Act.(2)Where any medical college opens a new or higher course of study or
training (including a post-graduate course of study or training) except with
the previous permission of the Central Government in accordance with the
provisions of section 10-A, no medical qualification granted to any student of
such medical college on the basis of such study or training shall be a
recognized medical qualification for the purposes of this Act.(3)Where any
medical college increases its admission capacity in any course of study or
training except with the previous permission of the Central Government in
accordance with the provisions of section 10-A, no medical qualification
granted to any student of such medical college on the basis of the increase in
its admission capacity shall be a recognized medical qualification for the
purposes of this Act.Explanation . - For the purposes of this section, the
criteria for identifying a student who has been granted a medical
qualification on the basis of such increase in the admission capacity shall be
such as may be prescribed.

### 10C. Time for seeking permission for certain existing medical colleges,
etc. -

(1)If, after the 1st day of June, 1992 and on and before the commencement of
the Indian Medical Council (Amendment) Act, 1993 any person has established a
medical college or any medical college has opened a new or higher course of
study or training or increased the admission capacity, such person or medical
college, as the case may be, shall seek, within a period of one year from the
commencement of the Indian Medical Council (Amendment) Act, 1993 the
permission of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of
section 10-A.(2)If any person or medical college, as the case may be fails to
seek the permission under sub-section (1), the provisions of section 10-B
shall apply, so far as may be, as if, permission of the Central Government
under section 10-A has been refused.]

### 10D. [ Uniform entrance examination for undergraduate and postgraduate
level. [Inserted by Act No. 39 of 2016.]-

There shall be conducted a uniform entrance examination to all medical
educational institutions at the undergraduate level and post-graduate level
through such designated authority in Hindi, English and such other languages
and in such manner as may be prescribed and the designated authority shall
ensure the conduct of uniform entrance examination in the aforesaid
manner:Provided that notwithstanding any judgment or order of any court, the
provisions of this section shall not apply, in relation to the uniform
entrance examination at the undergraduate level for the academic year 2016-17
conducted in accordance with any regulations made under this Act, in respect
of the State Government seats (whether in Government Medical College or in a
private Medical College) where such State has not opted for such examination.]

### 11. Recognition of medical qualifications granted by Universities or
medical institutions in India.-

(1)The medical qualifications granted by any University or medical institution
in India which are included in the first Schedule shall be recognized medical
qualifications for the purposes of this Act.(2)Any University or medical
institution in India which grants a medical qualification not included in the
First Schedule may apply to the Central Government, to have such qualification
recognized, and the Central Government, after consulting the Council, may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, amend the First Schedule so as to
include such qualification therein, and any such notification may also direct
that an entry shall be made in the last column of the First Schedule against
such medical qualification declaring that it shall be a recognized medical
qualification only when granted after a specified date.

### 12. Recognition of medical qualifications granted by medical institutions
in countries with which there is a scheme of reciprocity.-

(1)The medical qualifications granted by medical institutions outside India
which are included in the Second Schedule shall be recognized medical
qualifications for the purposes of this Act.(2)The Council may enter into
negotiations with the Authority in any [* * *] country outside India which by
the law of such [* * *] [The words " State or" omitted by Act 24 of 1964,
Section 4 (w.e.f. 16.6.1964). ] country is entrusted with the maintenance of a
register of medical practitioners, for the settling of a scheme of reciprocity
for the recognition of medical qualifications and in pursuance of any such
scheme, the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
amend the Second Schedule so as to include therein the medical qualification
which the Council has decided should be recognized, and any such notification
may also direct that an entry shall be made in the last column of the Second
Schedule against such medical qualification declaring that it shall be a
recognized medical qualification only when granted after a specified
date.(3)The Central Government, after consultation with the Council, may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, amend the Second Schedule by directing
that an entry be made therein in respect of any medical qualification
declaring that it shall be recognized medical qualification only when granted
before a specified date.(4)Where the Council has refused to recommend any
medical qualification which has been proposed for recognition by any Authority
referred to in sub-section (2) and that Authority applies to the Central
Government in this behalf, the Central Government, after considering such
application and after obtaining from the council a report, if any, as to the
reasons for any such refusal, may by notification in the Official Gazette,
amend the Second Schedule so as to include such qualification therein and the
provisions of sub-section (2) shall apply to such notification.

### 13. Recognition of medical qualifications granted by certain medical
institutions whose qualifications are not included in the First or Second
Schedule.-

(1)The medical qualifications granted by medical institutions in India which
are not included in the First Schedule and which are included in Part I of the
Third Schedule shall also be recognized medical qualifications for the
purposes of this Act.(2)The medical qualifications granted to a citizen of
India-(a)before the 15th day of August, 1947, by medical institutions in the
territories now forming part of Pakistan, and(b)before the 1st day of April,
1937, by medical institutions in the territories now forming part of Burma,
which are included in Part I of the Third Schedule shall also be recognized
medical qualifications for the purposes of this Act.(3)The medical
qualifications granted by medical institutions outside India, [before such
date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify] which are included in Part II of the Third Schedule shall also be
recognized medical qualifications for the purposes of this Act, but no person
possessing any such qualification shall be entitled to enrollment on any State
Medical Register unless he is a citizen of India and has undergone such
practical training after obtaining that qualification as may be required by
the rules or regulations in force in the country [* * *] [ The words " or
State" omitted by Act 24 of 1964, Section 5 (w.e.f. 16.6.1964).] granting the
qualification, or if he has not undergone any practical training in that
country [* * *] [The words " or State" omitted by Act 24 of 1964, Section 5
(w.e.f. 16.6.1964). ] he has undergone such practical training as may be
prescribed.(4)The Central Government, after consulting the Council, may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, amend Part II of the Third Schedule so
as to include therein any qualification granted by a medical institution
outside India, which is not included in the Second Schedule:[Provided that
after the commencement of the Indian Medical Council (Amendment) Act, 2001, no
such amendment shall be made in Part II of the Third Schedule to include any
primary medical qualification granted by any medical institution outside
India:Provided further that nothing contained in the first proviso shall apply
to inclusion in Part II of the Third Schedule any primary medical
qualification granted by any medical institution outside India to any person
whose name is entered in the Indian Medical Register.Explanation . - For the
purposes of this sub-section, "primary medical qualification" means any
minimum qualification sufficient for enrollment on any State Medical Register
or for entering the name in the Indian Medical Register.] [ Inserted by Act 34
of 2001, Section 2 (w.e.f. 2.9.2001)][(4-A) A person who is a citizen of India
and obtains medical qualification granted by any medical institution in any
country outside India recognized for enrollment as medical practitioner in
that country after such date as may be specified by the Central Government
under sub-section (3), shall not be entitled to be enrolled on any Medical
Register maintained by a State Medical Council or to have his name entered in
the Indian Medical Register unless he qualified the screening test in India
prescribed for such purpose and such foreign medical qualification after such
person qualifies that said screening test shall be deemed to be the recognized
medical qualification for the purposes of this Act for that person.(4-B) A
person who is a citizen of India shall not, after such date as may be
specified by the Central Government under sub-section (3), be eligible to get
admission to obtain medical qualification granted by any medical institution
in any foreign country without obtaining an eligibility certificate issued to
him by the Council and in case any such person obtains such qualification
without obtaining such eligibility certificate, he shall not be eligible to
appear in the screening test referred to in sub-section (4-A):Provided that an
Indian citizen who has acquired the medical qualification from foreign medical
institution or has obtained admission in foreign medical institution before
the commencement of the Indian Medical Council (Amendment) Act, 2001 shall not
be required to obtain eligibility certificate under this sub-section but, if
he is qualified for admission to any medical course for recognized medical
qualification in any medical institution in India, he shall be required to
qualify only the screening test prescribed for enrollment on any State Medical
Register or for entering his name in the Indian Medical Register.(4-C) Nothing
contained in sub-sections (4-A) and (4-B) shall apply to the medical
qualifications referred to in section 14 for the purposes of that section.]
[Inserted by Act 34 of 2001, Section 2 (w.e.f. 2.9.2001) ](5)Any medical
institution in India which is desirous of getting a medical qualification
granted by it included in Part I of the Third Schedule may apply to the
Central Government to have such qualification recognized and the Central
Government, after consulting the Council, may by notification in the Official
Gazette, amend Part I of the Third Schedule so as to include such
qualification therein, and any such notification may also direct that an entry
shall be made in the last column of Part I of the Third Schedule against such
medical qualification declaring that it shall be a recognized medical
qualification only when granted after a specified date.[Explanation. [Inserted
by Act No. 11 of 2013.] \- For the purposes of this section, the expression
"overseas citizen of India" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause
(ee) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Citizenship Act, 1955.]

### 14. Special provision in certain cases for recognition of medical
qualifications granted by medical institutions in countries with which there
is no scheme of reciprocity.-

(1)The Central Government after consultation with the Council, may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, direct that medical qualifications
granted by medical institutions in any [* * *] country outside India in
respect of which a scheme of reciprocity for the recognition of medical
qualifications is not in force, shall be recognized medical qualifications for
the purposes of this Act or shall be so only when granted after a specified
date:[Provided that medical practice by persons possessing such
qualifications:-(a)shall be permitted only if such persons are enrolled as
medical practitioners in accordance with the law regulating the registration
of medical practitioners for the time being in force in that country;(b)shall
be limited to the institution to which they are attached [* * *]; and(c)shall
be limited to the period specified in this behalf by the Central Government by
general or special order.](2)In respect of any such medical qualification, the
Central Government, after consultation with the Council, may, by notification
in the Official Gazette direct that it shall be a recognized medical
qualification only when granted before a specified date.

### 15. Right of persons possessing qualifications in the Schedules to be
enrolled.-

[(1)] [ Substituted by Act 24 of 1964, Section 6, for the proviso (w.e.f.
16.6.1964).] Subject to the other provisions contained in this Act, the
medical qualifications included in the Schedules shall be sufficient
qualification for enrollment on any State Medical Register.(2)[ Save as
provided in section 25, no person other than a medical practitioner enrolled
on a State Medical Register,-(a)shall hold office as physician or surgeon or
any other office (by whatever designation called) in Government or in any
institution maintained by a local or other authority;(b)shall practice
medicine in any State;(c)shall be entitled to sign or authenticate a medical
or fitness certificate or any other certificate required by any law to be
signed or authenticated by a duly qualified medical practitioner:(d)shall be
entitled to give evidence at any inquest or in any Court of Law as an expert
under section 45 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872) on any matter
relating to medicine.(3)Any person who acts in contravention of any provision
of sub-section (2) shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one year or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or
with both.] [ Inserted by Act 24 of 1964, Section 7 (w.e.f. 16.6.1964).]

### 16. Power to require information as to courses of study and examinations.-

Every University or medical institution in India which grants a recognized
medical qualification shall furnish such information as the Council may, from
time to time, require as to the courses of study and examinations to be
undergone in order to obtain such qualification, as to the ages at which such
courses of study and examinations are required to be undergone and such
qualification is conferred and generally as to the requisites for obtaining
such qualification.

### 17. Inspection of examinations.-

[(1) The Committee shall appoint such number of medical inspectors as it may
deem requisite to inspect any medical institution, college, hospital or other
institution where medical education is given, or to attend any examination
held by any University or medical institution for the purpose of recommending
to the Central Government recognition of medical qualifications granted by
that University or medical institution.(2)The medical inspectors shall not
interfere with the conduct of any training or examination, but shall report to
the committee on the adequacy of the standards of medical education including
staff, equipment, accommodation, training facilities prescribed for giving
medical education or on the sufficiency of every examination which they
attend.](3)The Committee shall forward a copy of any such report to the
University or medical institution concerned and shall also forward a copy with
the remarks of the University or institution thereon, to the Central
Government.

### 18. Visitors at examinations.-

[(1) The Council may appoint such number of visitors as it may deem requisite
to inspect any medical institution, college, hospital or other institution
where medical education is given, or to attend any examination held by any
University or medical institution for the purpose of granting recognized
medical qualifications.](2)Any person, whether he is a member of the Council
or not, may be appointed as a visitor under this section but a person who is
appointed as an inspector under section 17 for any [inspection or examination]
[[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1964, Section 9, for " examination"
(w.e.f.16.6.1964).]] shall not be appointed as a visitor for the same
[inspection or examination] [Substituted by Act 24 of 1964, Section 9, for "
examination" (w.e.f. 16.6.1964). ].(3)[ The visitors shall not interfere with
the conduct of any training or examination, but shall report to the President
of the Council on the adequacy of the standards of medical education including
staff, equipment, accommodation, training and other facilities prescribed for
giving medical education or on the sufficiency of every examination which they
attend.] [ Substituted by Act 24 of 1964, Section 9, for sub-Sections (3)
(w.e.f. 16.6.1964).](4)The report of a visitor shall be treated as
confidential unless in any particular case the President of the Council
otherwise directs:Provided that if the Central Government requires a copy of
the report of a visitor, the Council shall furnish the same.

### 19. Withdrawal of recognition.-

[(1) When upon report by the Committee or the visitor it appear to the
Council-(a)that the course of study and examination to be undergone in, or the
proficiency required from candidates at any examination held by, any
University or medical institution, or(b)that the staff, equipment
accommodation, training and other facilities for instruction and training
provided in such University or medical institution or in any college or other
institution affiliated to that University, do not conform to the standards
prescribed by the Council, the Council shall make a representation to that
effect to the Central Government.](2)After considering such representation,
the Central Government may send it to the State Government of the State in
which the University or medical institution is situated and the State
Government shall forward it along with such remarks as it may choose to make
to the University or medical institution, with an intimation of the period
within which the University or medical institution may submit its explanation
to the State Government.(3)On the receipt of the explanation or, where no
explanation is submitted within the period fixed, then on the expiry of that
period, the State Government shall make its recommendations to the Central
Government(4)The Central Government, after making such further inquiry, if
any, as it may think fit, may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct
that an entry shall be made in the appropriate Schedule against the said
medical qualification declaring that it shall be a recognized medical
qualification only when granted before a specified date, [or that the said
medical qualification if granted to students of a specified college or
institution affiliated to any University shall be a recognized medical
qualification only when granted before a specified date or, as the case may
be, that the said medical qualification shall be a recognized medical
qualification in relation to a specified college or institution affiliated to
any University only when granted after a specified date] [ Inserted by Act 24
of 1964, Section 10 (w.e.f. 16.6.1964).].[19A. Minimum standards of medical
education.-(1)The Council may prescribe the minimum standards of medical
education required for granting recognized medical qualifications (other than
post-graduate medical qualifications ) by Universities or medical institutions
in India.(2)Copies of the draft regulations and of all subsequent amendments
thereof shall be furnished by the Council to all State Governments and the
Council shall before submitting the regulations or any amendment thereof, as
the case may be, to the Central Government for sanction, take into
consideration the comments of any State Government received within three
months from the furnishing of the copies as aforesaid.(3)The Committee shall
from time to time report to the Council on the efficacy of the regulations and
may recommend to the Council such amendments thereof as it may think fit.]

### 20. Post-graduate Medical Education Committee for assisting Council in
matters relating to post-graduate medical education.-

(1)The Council may prescribe standards of post-graduate medical education for
the guidance of Universities, and may advise Universities in the matter of
securing uniform standards for post-graduate medical education through out
India, and for this purpose the Central Government may constitute from among
the members of the Council a post-graduate medical education Committee
(hereinafter referred to as the Post-graduate Committee).(2)The Post-graduate
Committee shall consist of nine members all of whom shall be persons
possessing post-graduate medical qualifications and experience of teaching or
examining post-graduate students of medicine.(3)Six of the members of the
Post-graduate Committee shall be nominated by the Central Government and the
remaining three members shall be elected by the Council from amongst its
members.(4)For the purpose of considering post-graduate studies in a subject,
the Post-graduate Committee may co-opt, as and when necessary, one or more
members qualified to assist it in that subject.(5)The views and
recommendations of the Post-graduate Committee on all matters shall be placed
before the Council and if the Council does not agree with the views expressed
or the recommendations made by the Post-graduate Committee on any matter, the
Council shall forward them together with its observations to the Central
Government for decision.[20A. Professional conduct.-(1)The Council may
prescribe standards of professional conduct and etiquette and a code of ethics
for medical practitioners.(2)Regulations made by the Council under sub-section
(1) may specify which violations thereof shall constitute infamous conduct in
any professional respect, that is to say, professional misconduct, and such
provisions shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in any law for
the time being in force.]

### 21. The Indian Medical Register.-

(1)The Council shall cause to be maintained in the prescribed manner a
register of medical practitioner to be known as the Indian Medical Register,
which shall contain the names of all persons who are for the time being
enrolled on any State Medical Register and who possess any of the recognized
medical qualifications.(2)It shall be the duty of the Registrar of the Council
to keep the Indian Medical Register in accordance with the provisions of this
Act and of any orders made by the Council, and from time to time to revise the
register and publish it in the Gazette of India and in such other manner as
may be prescribed.(3)Such register shall be deemed to be a public document
within the meaning of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872) and may be
proved by a copy published in the Gazette of India.

### 22. Supply of copies of the State Medical Registers.-

Each State Medical Council shall supply to the Council [six] printed copies of
the State Medical Register as soon as may be after the commencement of this
Act and subsequently after the first day of April of each year, and each
Registrar of a State Medical Council shall inform the Council without delay of
all additions to and other amendments in the State Medical Register made from
time to time.

### 23. Registration in the Indian Medical Register.-

The Registrar of the Council, may, on receipt of the report of registration of
a person in a State Medical Register or on application made in the prescribed
manner by any such person, enter his name in the Indian Medical
Register:Provided that the Registrar is satisfied that the person concerned
possesses a recognized medical qualification.

### 24. Removal of names from the Indian Medical Register.-

(1)If the name of any person enrolled on a State Medical Register is removed
there from in pursuance of any power conferred by or under any law relating to
medical practitioners for the time being in force in any State, the Council
shall direct the removal of the name of such person from the Indian Medical
Register.(2)Where the name of any person has been removed from a State Medical
Register [on the ground of professional misconduct or any other ground except
that he is not possessed of the requisite medical qualifications] or where any
application made by the said person for restoration of his name to the State
Medical Register has been rejected, he may appeal in the prescribed manner and
subject to such conditions including conditions as to the payment of a fee as
may be laid down in rules made by the Central Government in this behalf, to
the Central Government, whose decision, which shall be given after consulting
the Council, shall be binding on the State Government and on the authorities
concerned with the preparation of the State Medical Register.

### 25. [ Provisional registration.-

(1)A citizen of India possessing a medical qualification granted by a medical
institution outside India included in Part II of the Third Schedule, who is
required to undergo practical training as prescribed under sub-section (3) of
section 13, shall, on production of proper evidence that he has been selected
for such practical training in an approved institution be entitled to be
registered provisionally in a State Medical Register and shall be entitled to
practice medicine in the approved institution for the purposes of such
training and for no other purpose.(2)A person who has passed the qualifying
examination of any University or medical institution in India for the grant of
a recognized medical qualification shall be entitled to be registered
provisionally in a State Medical Register for the purpose of enabling him to
be engaged in employment in a resident medical capacity in any approved
institution, or in the Medical Service of the Armed Forces of the Union, and
for no other purpose, on production of proper evidence that he has been
selected for such employment.(3)The names of all persons provisionally
registered under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) in the State Medical
Register shall be entered therein separately from the names of other persons
registered therein.(4)A person registered provisionally as aforesaid who has
completed practical training referred to in sub-section (1) or who has been
engaged for the prescribed period in employment in a resident medical capacity
in any approved institution or in the Medical Service of the Armed Forces of
the Union, as the case may be, shall be entitled to registration in the State
Medical Register under section 15.]

### 26. Registration of additional qualifications.-

(1)If any person whose name is entered in the Indian Medical Register obtains
any title, diploma or other qualification for proficiency in sanitary science,
public health or medicine which is a recognized medical qualification, he
shall, on application made in this behalf in the prescribed manner, be
entitled to have any entry stating such other title, diploma or other
qualification made against his name in the Indian Medical Register either in
substitution for or in addition to any entry previously made.(2)The entries in
respect of any such person in a State Medical Register shall be altered in
accordance with the alterations made in the Indian Medical Register.

### 27. Privileges of persons who are enrolled on the Indian Medical
Register.-

Subject to the conditions and restrictions laid down in this Act, regarding
medical practice by persons possessing certain recognized medical
qualifications, every person whose name is for the time being borne on the
Indian Medical Register shall be entitled according to his qualifications to
practice as a medical practitioner in any part of India and to recover in due
course of law in respect of such practice any expenses, charges in respect of
medicament's or other appliances, or any fees to which he may be entitled.

### 28. Person enrolled on the Indian Medical Register to notify change of
place of residence or practice.-

Every person registered in the Indian Medical Register shall notify any
transfer of the place of his residence or practice to the Council and to the
State Medical Council concerned, within thirty days of such transfer, failing
which his right to participate in the election of members to the Council or a
State Medical Council shall be liable to be forfeited by order of the Central
Government either permanently or for such period as may be specified therein.

### 29. Information to be furnished by the Council and publication thereof.-

(1)The Council shall furnish such reports, copies of its minutes, abstracts of
its accounts, and other information to the Central Government as that
Government may require.(2)The Central Government may publish in such manner as
it may think fit, any report, copy, abstract or other information furnished to
it under this section or under sections 17 and 18.

### 30. Commission of inquiry.-

(1)Whenever it is made to appear to the Central Government that the Council is
not complying with any of the provisions of this Act, the Central Government
may refer the particulars of the complaint to a Commission of inquiry
consisting of three persons, two of whom shall be appointed by the Central
Government, one being a Judge of a High Court and one by the Council, and such
Commission shall proceed to inquire in a summary manner and to report to the
Central Government as to the truth of the matters charged in the complaint,
and in case of any charge of default or of improper action being found by the
commission to have been established, the Commission shall recommend the
remedies, if any, which are in its opinion necessary.(2)The Central Government
may require the Council to adopt the remedies so recommended within such time
as, having regard to the report of the Commission, it may think fit, and if
the Council fails to comply with any such requirement, the Central Government
may amend the regulations of the Council, or make such provision or order or
take such other steps as may seem necessary to give effect to the
recommendations of the Commission.(3)A Commission of inquiry shall have power
to administer oaths, to enforce the attendance of witnesses and the production
of documents, and shall have all such other necessary powers for the purpose
of any inquiry conducted by it as are exercised by a Civil Court under the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).

### 31. Protection of action taken in good faith.-

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Government, the Council or a State Medical Council or any Committee thereof,
or any Officer or servant of the Government or Councils aforesaid for anything
which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.

### 32. Power to make rules.-

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)[ All rules made under this
section shall be laid for not less than thirty days before both Houses of
Parliament as soon as possible after they are made, and shall be subject to
such modifications as Parliament may make during the session in which they are
so laid or the session immediately following.]

### 33. Power to make regulations.-

The Council may, with the previous sanction of the Central Government, make
regulations generally to carry out the purposes of this Act, and without
prejudice to the generality of this power, such regulations may provide
for-(a)the management of the property of the Council and the maintenance and
audit of its accounts;(b)the summoning and holding of meetings of the Council,
the times and places where such meetings are to be held, the conduct of
business thereat and the number of members necessary to constitute a
quorum;(c)the resignation of members of the Council;(d)the powers and duties
of the President and Vice-President;(e)the mode of appointment of the
Executive Committee and other Committees, the summoning and holding of
meetings and the conduct of business of such Committees;(f)the tenure office,
and the powers and duties of the Registrar and other officers and servants of
the Council;(fa)[ the form of the scheme, the particulars to be given in such
scheme, the manner in which the scheme is to be preferred and the fee payable
with the scheme under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 10-A;(fb)any
other factors under clause (g) of sub-section (7) of section 10-A;(fc)the
criteria for identifying a student who has been granted a medical
qualification referred to in the Explanation to sub-section (3) of section
10-B;](g)the particulars to be stated, and the proof of qualifications to be
given in applications for registration under this Act;(h)the fees to be paid
on applications and appeals under this Act;(i)the appointment, powers, duties
and procedure of medical inspectors and visitors; [* * *] [ The word " and"
omitted by Act 24 of 1964, Section 16 (w.e.f. 16.6.1964).](j)[ the courses and
period of study and of practical training to be undertaken, the subjects of
examination and the standards of proficiency therein to be obtained, in
Universities or medical institutions for grant of recognized medical
qualifications; [ Inserted by Act 24 of 1964, Section 16 (w.e.f.
16.6.1964).](k)the standards of staff, equipment, accommodation, training and
other facilities for medical education;(l)the conduct of professional
examinations; qualifications of examiners and the conditions of admissions to
such examinations;(m)the standards of professional conduct and etiquette and
code of ethics to be observed by medical practitioners; and][ma) the
modalities for conducting screening tests under sub-section (4-A), and under
the proviso to sub-section (4-B), and for issuing eligibility certificate
under sub-section (4-B), of section 13;] [Inserted by Act 34 of 2001, Section
3 (w.e.f. 3.9.2001).](mb)[ the designated authority, other languages and the
manner of conducting of uniform entrance examination to all medical
educational institutions at the undergraduate level and post-graduate level;]
[Inserted by Act No. 39 of 2016.](n)[] [ Clause (j) relettered as Clause (n)
by Act 24 of 1964, Section 16 (w.e.f. 16.6.1964).] any matter for which under
this Act provision may be made by regulations.

### 34. [ Repeal of Act 27 of 1933.-

(1)The Indian Medical Council Act, 1933 is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in this Act, until the Council is constituted in accordance
with the provisions of this Act:-(a)the Medical Council of India as
constituted immediately before the commencement of this Act under the Indian
Medical Council Act, 1933, with the addition of seven members nominated
thereto by the Central Government from among persons enrolled on any of the
State Medical Registers who possess the medical qualifications included in
Part I of the 3rd Schedule to this Act (hereinafter referred to as the said
Medical Council) shall be deemed to be the Council constituted under this Act
and may exercise any of the powers conferred or perform any of the duties
imposed on the Council; and any vacancy occurring in the said Medical Council
may be filled up in such manner as Central Government may think fit; and(b)the
Executive Committee and other Committees of the said Medical Council as
constituted immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall be deemed
to be the Executive Committee and the Committees constituted under this
Act.]The First Schedule(See Section 11)Recognized Medical Qualifications
Granted by the Universities or Medical Institutions in India.

Recognized Medical Qualification | Abbreviation for Registration  
---|---  
UNIVERSITYOFALLAHABAD  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) |  M.D.(Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) |  M.D.(Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) |  M.S.(Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) |  M.S.(Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) |  M.D.(Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) |  M.D.(Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) |  M.S.(Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) |  M.D.(Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) |  M.D.(Paed.)  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) |  M.S.(Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) |  M.D.(Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) |  M.S.(Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) |  M.D.(Anaes.).  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) |  M.S.(E.N.T.)  
AMRAVATIUNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
UNIVERSITYOFANDHRA  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine | M.D.  
Master of Surgery | M.S.  
Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery | L.M.S.  
Diploma in Laryngology and Otology | D.L.O.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Venereal Diseases | D.V.D.  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology and Bacteriology) | M.D. (Path. & Bact.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Bacteriology including Pathology) | M.D. (Bact. including Path.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology including Bacteriology) | M.D. (Path. including Bact.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology) | M.D. (Derm.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiology Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology Therapy | D.M.R.T.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Diploma in Dermatology | D.D.  
UNIVERSITYOFHEALTHSCIENCES,VIJAYAWADA, ANDHRA PRADESH  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Medical Radio-Therapy | D.M.R.T.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
Diploma in Venereology and Dermatology | D.V.D.  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Diploma in Venereology | D.V.  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Diploma in Medical Radio-Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Diploma in Public Health | D.P.H.  
Diploma in Dermatology | D.D.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology) | M.D. (Derm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
Master of Surgery (Paediatrics Surgery) | M.Ch. (Paed. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and PreventiveMedicine/Community Medicine) | M.D. (S.P.M./Comm. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Med.) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Sciences (Anatomy) | M.Sc. (Anat.)  
Master of Sciences (Physiology) | M.Sc. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Forensic Medicine | D.F.M.  
The above qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications when
granted after the dates mentioned against each-  
M.B.B.S. | 31st May, 1993.  
Post-graduate diplomas | 31st January, 1989.  
Post-graduate degrees | 31st March, 1990.  
UNIVERSITY OF AGRA  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology.) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology and Electrology | D.M.R.E.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychological Medicine) | M.D. (Psych. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radiology)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification upto the
academic year 1984-85 only.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes).  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 1st June, 1978.)  
ALIGARH UNIVERSITY  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O. (Dip. in Ophth.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification under this
Schedule only when it is Held by a person holding any other medical
qualification specified in this Schedule.)  
ALIGARH MUSLIM UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Diploma in Medical Radio-Diagnosis. | D.M.R.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Anaesthesiology) | M.S. (Anaes.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or before 23rd November, 1984.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 24th November, 1984.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Community Medicine) | M.D. (Comm. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 31st March, 1987 in respect of students being trained at J.L.N.
Medical College, Aligarh.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
[Master of Surgery (Ear, Nose and Threat) [Substituted by Notification No. 11015/12199-ME(UG), dated 1-11-1999, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 7236, dated 20-11-1999 (S.O. 3312).] | M.S. (E.N.T.)]  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after August,1978.)  
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
| ALL INDIA INSTITUTE OF MEDICAL SCIENCES, NEW DELHI  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biophysics) | M.D. (Biophysics)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology and Venereology) | M.D. (Derm. & Ven.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Ophthalmology) | M.D. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Preventive and Social Medicine) | M.D. (Pre. & Soc. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Ana.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho)  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Urology) | M.Ch. (Urology)  
Master of Surgery (Cardio-Thoracic and Vascular Surgery) | M.Ch. (Cardio-Thoracic & Vascular Surgery)  
Master of Surgery(Paediatric-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Paed. Surg.)  
Doctorate in Medicine (Neurology) | D.M. (Neuro.)  
Doctorate in Medicine (Cardiology) | D.M. (Card.)  
Doctorate in Medicine(Gastroenterology) | D.M. (Gastroenterology)  
Doctor of Philosophy (Anatomy) | *Ph.D. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Philosophy (Biochemistry) | *Ph.D. (Biochem.)  
Doctor of Philosophy (Biophysics) | *Ph.D. (Biophysics)  
Doctor of Philosophy (Microbiology) | *Ph.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Philosophy (Pathology) | *Ph.D. (Patho.)  
Doctor of Philosophy (Physiology) | *Ph.D. (Physiology)  
Doctor of Philosophy (Pharmacology) | *Ph.D. (Pharmacology)  
Doctor of Philosophy (Reproductive Biology) | *Ph.D. (Reproductive Biology)  
Doctor of Philosophy (Experimental Medicine in all clinical subjects) | *Ph.D. (Experimental Medicine) in all Clinical Subjects  
Doctor of Philosophy (Bio Medical Engineering) | *Ph.D. (Bio-Medical Engineering)  
Master of Hospital Administration | *M.H.A.  
*Indicate that these are treated as medical degrees, provided these are awarded to the persons holding a recognised medical qualification under the Act.  
AWADHESH PRATAP SINGH UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Physiology) | M.S. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paedietrics) | M.D.(Paed.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after March,1971.) Diploma in Child Health D.C.H.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after March,1980.)  
UNIVERSITY OF BOMBAY  
Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery | L.M.S.  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Surgery | M.S.  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis) | M.D. (Tuberculosis)  
Master of Science (Pathology) | M.Sc. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Midwifery) | M.D. (Mid.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiology Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
before the 30th April, 1979.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Neurology) | M.D. (Neuro.)  
Master of Surgery (Paediatric Surgery) | M.S. (Paed. Surg.)  
Diploma in Radiation Medicine | D.R.M.  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or before the 30th April, 1981.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Plastic Surgery) | M.S. (Plas. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Plastic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Plas. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Thoracic Surgery) | M.S. (Thoracic-Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Thoracic-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Thoracic-Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Neurology) | M.D. (Neuro.)  
Master of Surgery (Paediatric Surgery) | M.Ch. (Paed. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology and Bacteriology) | M.D. (Path. & Bact.)  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted by the University of Bombay to the students trained at (1) Grant
Medical College, Bombay, (2) Seth G.S. Medical College, Bombay, (3) T.N.
Medical College, Bombay and (4) L.T.M.Medical Collage, Sion, Bombay on or
before 31st December, 1988.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1950.)  
[Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/5/2000-M.E.(UG), dated 9-6-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 4127, dated 24-6-2000 (S.O. 1318).] | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1982.)  
Diploma in Medical Radio-Therapy | D.M.R.T.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1981.)]  
Doctor of Medicine (Cardiology) | M.D. (Card.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1983.)  
UNIVERSITY OF BIHAR  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Midwifery and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Mid. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Midwifery and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Mid. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychological Medicine) | M.D. (Psy. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Anaesthesia) | M.S. (Anaes.)  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
BABA SAHEB BHIM RAO AMBEDKAR, BIHAR UNIVERSITY  
(1) DARBHANGA MEDICAL COLLEGE, LAHERIASARAI  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery | M.S. (Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Midwifery and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Mid. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (Midwifery and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Mid. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychological Medicine) | M.D. (Psych. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Anaesthesiology) | M.S. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
(2) SHRI KRISHNA MEDICAL COLLEGE, MUZAFFARPUR  
Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
M.S. UNIVERSITY OF BARODA  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Science in Physiology | M.Sc. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-laryngology | D.L.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Master of Science in Anatomy | M.Sc. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Paediatrics | D. Paed.  
Diploma in Dermatology and Venereology | D.V. & D.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiological Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Science (Medical Biochemistry) | M.Sc. (Med. Biochem.)  
| (Approved for teaching appointments only.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Public Health | D.P.H.  
BANARAS HINDU UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Medical Radio-Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Diploma in Medical Radio-Theraphy | D.M.R.T.  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Bio-Physics) | M.D. (Bio-Physics)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology, Venereology and Leprosy) | M.D. (Derm., Ven. & Lep.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after August,1973.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases) | M.D. (T.B. & Resp. Dis.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after September, 1973.)  
[Magister Chirugiae (Paediatric Surgery) [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/18/99-M.E.(UG), dated 29-5-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 3994, dated 17-6-2000 (S.O. 1261).] | M.Ch. (Paed. Surg.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after July,1978.)]  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1974.)  
[Doctor of Medicine (Eudocrinology) [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/5/2000-M.E.(UG), dated 9-6-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 4127, dated 24-6-2000 (S.O. 1318).] | M.D. (Eudocrinology)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1978.)]  
BANGALORE UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Psychological Medicine | D.P.M.  
Master of Surgery (Neuro Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Neurology) | D.M. (Neuro.)  
Diploma in Aviation Medicine | Dip. Av. Med.  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychological Medicine) | M.D. (Psych. Med.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Diploma in Laryngology and Otology | D.L.O.  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D.Ortho.  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Doctor of Medicine (Aviation Medicine) | M.D. (Avi. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 1st April, 1980.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Cardiology) | M.D. (Card.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1985.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1970.)  
Magister of Chriurgiae (Surgical Oncology) | M.Ch. (Surgical Oncology)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after October,1971.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Preventive and Social Medicine) | M.D. (P.S.M.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1975.)  
Magister of Chriurgiae(Cardio-Thoracil-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Cardio-Thor.-Surg.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1986.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after February, 1967.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after November, 1974.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Community Medicine) | M.D. (Comm. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after February, 1995.)  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised, medical qualification when
granted in or after July,1969.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after February, 1992.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after March,1975.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after February, 1992.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1975.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after February, 1984.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1075.)  
Diploma in Bacteriology | Dip. in Bact.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1977.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology) | M.D. (Derm.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1987.)  
Diploma in Venereal Diseases | D.V.D.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1980.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1997.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medical Oncology) | M.D. (Medical Oncology)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after October,1991.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1976.)  
BERHAMPUR UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine and Toxicology) | M.D. (Foren. Med. & Toxicology).  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (S.P.M.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1st December, 1984.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1975.)  
BHOPAL UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radio.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiology and Electrology | D.M.R.E.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Forensic Medicine. | D.F.M.  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1970.)  
Diploma in Oto-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1983.)  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1975.)  
BARKATULLAH UNIVERSITY, BHOPAL  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radio.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiology and Electrology | D.M.R.E.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D.O.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Forensic Medicine | D.F.M.  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications when granted
by the Barkatullah University in respect of students being trained at Gandhi
Medical College, Bhopal.  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1970.)  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1983.)  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1975.)  
B.N. CHAKRAVARTY UNIVERSITY, KURUKSHETRA  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications when granted
on or after 2nd April, 1976.  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology including Venereology and Leprosy) | M.D. (Derm. including Ven. & Lep.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
BUNDELKHAND UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1982.)  
BHAGALPUR UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
by Bhagalpur University in respect of students being trained at Bhagalpur
Medical College, Bhagalpur.)  
BURDWAN UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
BHARATHIDASAN UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Psychological Medicine | D.P.M.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
BHARTHIAR UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
UNIVERSITY OF CALCUTTA  
Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery | L.M.S.  
Bachelor of Medicine | M.B.  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine | M.D.  
Master of Surgery | M.S.  
Master of Obstetrics | M.O.  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Diploma in Maternity and Child Welfare | D.M.C.W.  
Diploma in Public Health | D.P.H.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology and Electrology | D.M.R.E.  
Diploma in Basic Medical Sciences(Anatomy) | Dip. B.M.Sc. (Anat.)  
Diploma in Basic Medical Sciences(Physiology) | Dip. B.M.Sc. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Basic Medical Sciences(Pharmacology) | Dip. B.M.Sc. (Pharm.)  
Diploma in Basic Medical Sciences(Pathology) | Dip. B.M.Sc. (Path.)  
Diploma in Cardiology | Dip. Card.  
Diploma in Psychological Medicine | D.P.M.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Industrial Health | D.I.H.  
Diploma in Dermatology | D.D.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology) | M.D. (Derm.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiology and Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology and Therapy | D.M.R.T.  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Anaesthesiology) | M.S. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M. Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Cardiology) | M.D. (Card.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Master of Surgery (Plastics Surgery) | M.Ch. (Plas. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation) | M.D. (Phy. Med. & Rehab.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Tropical Medicine) | M.D. (Trop. Med.)  
Diploma in Health Education | D.H.E.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D (Path.)  
Diploma in Tropical Medicine and Hygiene | D.T.M. & H.  
Doctor Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1973.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after June, 1977.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Neurology) | M.D. (Neuro.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after June, 1977.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after April,1980.)  
Magister Chirugiae (Cardio-Thoracic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Cardio-Thor. Surg.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1972.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1972.)  
Diploma in Oto-Laryngology | D.L.O  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1964.)  
CHAUDHARY CHARAN SINGH UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharma.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications only when
granted by the Chaudhary Charan Singh University on or after 17th January,
1994.  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D.Ortho.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after January,1994.)  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after December, 1974.)  
COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS, BOMBAY  
Membership of College of Physicians and Surgeons, Bombay | M.C.P.S.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted after 30th April, 1944.)  
Fellowships of College of Physicians and | F.C.P.S. (Med.)  
Surgeons, Bombay in Medicine, Pathology, | F.C.P.S. (Path.)  
Surgery and Dermatology | F.C.P.S. (Surg.)  
| F.C.P.S. (Derm.)  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications only when
granted after 1st April, 1954.  
Fellowships of the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Bombay in Midwifery and Gynaecology, Ophthalmology and Diplomas of the said College in Pathology and Bacteriology, Gynaecology and Obstetrics and Child Health. | F.C.P.S. (Mid. & Gynae.)  
F.C.P.S. (Ophth.)  
D.P.B. (Dip. in Path. & Bact.)  
D.G.O. (Dip. in Gynae. & Obst.)  
D.C.H. (Dip. in Child Health)  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications under this
Schedule only when they are held by persons holding any other medical
qualification specified in this Schedule.  
CALICUT UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Diploma in Venereology and Dermatology | D.V.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Laryngology and Otology | D.L.O.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology and Venereology) | M.D. (Derm. & Ven.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Master of Surgery(Genito-Urinary-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Genito-Urinary-Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Paediatrics Surgery) | M.Ch. (Paed. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Plastic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Plas. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Thoracic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Thor. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T) | M.S. (E.N.T)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1982.)  
Diploma in Oto-Laryangology | D.L.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1977.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.S. (Biochem.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after August, 1981.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after February, 1979.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1979.)  
UNIVERSITY OF DELHI  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D.  
Master of Science (Anatomy) | M.Sc. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Master of Science (Medical Biochemistry) | M.Sc. (Med. Biochem.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medical Biochemistry) | M.D. (Med. Biochem.)  
Master of Science (Pharmacology) | M.Sc. (Pharma.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Master of Science (Medical Bacteriology) | M.Sc. (Med. Bact.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medical Microbiology) | M.D. (Med. Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or before 31st October, 1985.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiology Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology Therapy | D.M.R.T.  
Diploma in Radiation Medicine | D.R.M.  
Master of Surgery (Plastic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Plas. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Cardiology) | M.D. (Card.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Community Health Administration) | M.D. (Community Health Admn.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology including Leprosy and Venereal Diseases) |  M.D. (Derm. including Lep. & Ven.Dis.)  
Diploma in Venereology and Dermatology | D.V.D.  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or before 30th April, 1979.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Health Education | D.H.E.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when held by
medical graduates only.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases) | M.D. (Tub. & Resp. Dis.)  
Diploma in Dermatology | D.D.  
Master of Surgery(Cardio-Thoracic-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Card.-Thor. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Doctor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation | D.P.M.R.  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Neurology) | M.D. (Neuro.)  
Doctor of Medicine(Gastro-Enterology) | M.D. (Gastro-Entero.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 1st March, 1985.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
| (Granted from 1st March, 1985.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after May, 1985.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1994.)  
DIBRUGARH UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Obstetrics | M.O.  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radio.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Diploma in Medical Radiology Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
UNIVERSITY OF EAST PUNJAB  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
EAST PUNJAB STATE MEDICAL FACULTY  
Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery | L.M.S.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised one only when granted on or after
the 15th August,1947, provided the holders thereof had passed the F.Sc.
Examination before taking up medical studies.)  
STATE MEDICAL FACULTY OF PUNJAB  
Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery | L.M.S.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised one provided the holders thereof
had passed the F.Sc.Examination before taking up medical studies.)  
UNIVERSITY OF GAUHATI  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology and Microbiology) | M.D. (Path. & Micro.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Diploma in Forensic Medicine | D.F.M.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognized medical qualification only when
granted on or after 3rd March, 1989.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognized medical qualification only when
granted on or after 20th November, 1989.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology and Venereology) | M.D. (Derm. & Ven.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognized medical qualification when granted
in or after December, 1990.)  
UNIVERSITY OF GUJARAT  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine and Therapeutics) | M.D. (Med. & Ther.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Diploma of Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Diploma in Paediatrics | D. Paed.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Master of Science (Anatomy) | M.Sc. (Anat.)  
Master of Science (Physiology) | M.Sc. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesia) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiology and Electrology | D.M.R.E.  
Diploma in Venereology and Dermatology | D.V.D.  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis) | M.D. (Tuberculosis)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
Doctor or Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Diploma in Psychological Medicine | D.P.M.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology) | M.D. (Derm.)  
Magister Chirugiae (Surgical Oncology) | M.Ch. (Surgical Oncology)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognized medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1990.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medical Oncology) | M.D. (Medical Oncology)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognized medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1993.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases) | M.D. (T.B. & Chest Dis.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognized medical qualification only when
granted in or after April, 1979.)  
Magister of Chirugiae (Genito-Urinary Surgery) | M.Ch. (Genito-Urinary Surg.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognized medical qualification only when
granted in or after December, 1988.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognized medical qualification only when
granted in or after October, 1979.)  
GURU NANAK UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Master of Surgery (Anaesthesiology) | M.S. (Anaes.)  
Diploma is Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology and Venereology) | M.D. (Derm. & Ven.)  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications when granted
on or before 20th August,1975.  
GURU NANAK DEV UNIVERSITY, AMRITSAR  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Master of Surgery (Anaesthesiology) | M.S. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology and Venereology) | M.D. (Derm. & Ven.)  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications only when
granted after 20th August, 1975.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases) | M.D. (T.B. & Res. Dis.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1983.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after March,1971.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after January,1971.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1976.)  
[Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/5/2000-M.E.(UG), dated 9-6-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 4127, dated 24-6-2000 (S.O. 1318).] | M.D. (Psych.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after March,1971.)]  
GORAKHPUR UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
GULBARGA UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Diploma in Oto-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification if granted
after 31st March,1986.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification if granted
after 30th September,1984.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophth.) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology) | M.D. (Derm.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted on or after 3rd March, 1989.)  
Diploma in Dermatology | D.D.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted on or after 3rd March, 1989.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1980.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after November, 1983.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after October,1994.)  
Diploma in Medical Radio-Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1985.)  
GANDHIJI UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications only when
granted on or after 27th January, 1988.  
MAHATMA GANDHI UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications only when
granted on or after 28th January, 1988.  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology.) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Community Medicine) | M.D. (Comm. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted on or after 8th October,1982.)  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 8th October, 1982.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1972.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology and Venerology) | M.D. (Derm. & Ven.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1984.)  
[Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/5/2000-M.E.(UG), dated 9-6-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 4127, dated 24-6-2000 (S.D. 1318).] | M.S. (Ortho.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after April,1988.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after April,1988.)]  
GOA UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
|  (Granted on or after 1st August,1989.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
|  (Granted on or after 1st August,1989.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
|  (Granted on or after 1st February,1990.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
|  (Granted on or after 1st February,1990.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
|  (Granted on or after 1st February,1990.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases) | M.D. (T.B. & Chest Dis.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phys.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 1st February, 1990.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 31st August, 1970.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after February, 1989.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after February, 1992.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after July,1989.)  
HIMACHAL PRADESH UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Child health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Community Medicine) | M.D. (Comm. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
UNIVERSITY OF INDORE  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Diploma in Laryngology and Otology | D.L.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
DEVI AHILYA VISHWAVIDYALAYA  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Diploma in Laryngology and Otology | D.L.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
The above qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications when
granted on or after 26th January,1983.  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after October,1976.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radiology)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification during the
years 1974 to 1988.)  
Diploma in Radio Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
between 1981 and 1992.)  
JABALPUR UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Preventive and Social Medicine) | M.D. (Prev. & Soc. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radio.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
| These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications when granted
on or before 25th January, 1983.  
RANI DURGAVATI VISHWAVIDYALAYA, JABALPUR  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Preventive and Social Medicine) | M.D. (Prev. & Soc. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Diploma in Child health | D.C.H.  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radio.)  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications only when
granted on or after 26th January,1983.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted on or after 1st October, 1981.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted on or after 1st October, 1980.)  
These qualifications of M.S. (Ortho.) and D. Ortho. shall be recognised
medical qualifications when granted in respect of students trained at
Government Medical College, Jabalpur.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
[Diploma in Medical Radiology Diagnosis [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/18/99-M.E.(UG), dated 29-5-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 3994, dated 17-6-2000 (S.O. 1261).] | D.M.R.D.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1958.)  
[Diploma in Anaesthesiology [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/5/2000-M.E.(UG), dated 9-6-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 4127, dated 24-6-2000 (S.D. 1318).] | D.A.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1966.)  
JIWAJI UNIVERSITY, GWALIOR  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiology and Electrology | D.M.R.E.  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Diploma in Laryngology and Otology | D.L.O  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radiology)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1967.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after July,1996.)  
JAMMU AND KASHMIR UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
JAMMU UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Medical Radio-Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after January,1979.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after January,1979.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1982.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 12th February, 1980.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1982.)  
UNIVERSITY OF KERALA  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anatomy) | M.D. (Anat.)  
Diploma of Public Health | D.P.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D.Ortho.  
Diploma in Laryngology and Otology | D.L.O.,  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Psychological Medicine | D.P.M.  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Paediatric Surgery) | M.Ch. (Paed. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology, Venereology and Leprosy) | M.D. (Derm. Ven. & Lep.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Neurology) | M.D. (Neuro.)  
Master of Surgery (Plastic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Plas. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiology Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Gastroenterology) | M.D. (Gastro.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1980.)  
Magister Chirugiae (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surgery)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1980.)  
[Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases) [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/12/99-M.E.(UG), dated 1-11-1999, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 7236, dated 20-11-1999 (S.O. 3312).] | M.D. (T.B. & Respiratory Diseases)]  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1991.)  
UNIVERSITY OF KARNATAKA  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
| (J.N. Medical College, Belgaum, Granted from 1st January, 1980.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
| (J.N. Medical College, Belgaum, Granted from 1st February, 1985.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
| (J.N. Medical College, Belgaum, Granted from 1st August, 1983.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
| (J.N. Medical College, Belgaum, Granted from 1st February, 1989.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
| (J.N. Medical College, Belgaum, Granted from 1st August, 1983.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology.) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
| (J.N. Medical College, Belgaum, Granted from 1st August, 1981.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
| (J.N. Medical College, Belgaum, Granted from 1st February, 1988.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Community Medicine) | M.D. (Comm. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after August, 1990.)  
Diploma in Public Health | D.P.H.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after February, 1991.)  
[Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/18/99-M.E.(UG), dated 29-5-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 3994, dated 17-6-2000 (S.O. 1261).] | D.O.M.S.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1972.)]  
Doctor of Medicine (Skin, STD and Leprosy) | M.D. (Skin, STD & Lep.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after August, 1989.)  
Diploma in Dermatology including Venereal Diseases and Leprosy | D.V.D.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after August, 1989.)  
Doctor in Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after August, 1991.)  
Diploma in Forensic Medicine | D.F.M.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after Feburary, 1985.)  
KUVEMPU UNIVERSITY KARNATAKA  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology and Venereology) | M.D. (Derm. & Ven.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Venereology and Dermatology | D.V.D.  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications only when
granted by the Kuvempu University in respect of the students being trained at
J.J.M.Medical College, Davangere on or after following dates:  
M.B.B.S Degrees | 1st January, 1995  
PG Degree | 1st January, 1992  
PG Diplomas | 1st January, 1992  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1992.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1992.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1992.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1992.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1992.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after August,1981.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after January,1979.)  
KANPUR UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiology and Electrology | D.M.R.E.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.O.L.  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radiology)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharma.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases) | M.D. (T.B. & Chest Dis.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Cardiology) | M.D. (Card.)  
UNIVERSITY OF KASHMIR  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D, (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
KURUKSHETRA UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications when granted
on or before 1st April, 1976.  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology including Venereology and Leprosy) | M.D. (Derm. including Ven. & Lep.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
KAKATIYA UNIVERSITY, WARANGAL  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Diploma in Forensic Medicine | D.F.M.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Diploma in Dermatology | D.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
(This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification in respect of
students of Kakatiya Medical College, Warangal.)  
UNIVERSITY OF LUCKNOW  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S  
Doctor of Medicine | M.D.  
Master of Surgery | M.S.  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Diploma in Laryngology and Otology | D.L.O.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology and Electrology | D.M.R.E.  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis) | M.D. (Tuberculosis)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Diploma in Public Health | D.P.H.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radiology)  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Master of Surgery (Plastic Surgery) | M.S. (Plas. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed).  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
by the Lucknow University in respect of the students being trained at K.G.
Medical College, Lucknow.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (Plastic Surgery) | M.S. (Plas. Surg.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1976.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Cardiology) | M.D. (Card.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1986.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Neurology) | M.D. (Neuro.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted on or after 1983.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases) | M.D. (T.B. and Chest Dis.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 7th February, 1986.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Respiratory Disease) | M.D. (T.B. & Res. Dis.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted on or after 26th April, 1992.)  
LALIT NARAYAN MITHILA UNIVERSITY, DARBHANGA  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Midwifery and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Mid. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychological Medicine) | M.D. (Psych. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Midwifery and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Mid. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
UNIVERSITY OF MADRAS  
Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery | L.M.S.  
Bachelor of Medicine and Master of Surgery | M.B.S.M.  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine | M.D.  
Master of Surgery | M.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics) | M.D. (Obst.)  
Master of Surgery (Gynaecology) | M.S. (Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology main and Bacteriology subsidiary). |  M.D. (Path. main & Bact.subsidiary)  
Doctor of Medicine (Bacteriology main and Pathology subsidiary). |  M.D. (Bact. main and Path.subsidiary)  
Doctor of Medicine (Venereology) | M.D. (Ven.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radiology)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Diploma in Laryngology and Otology | D.L.O.  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | Dip. Ortho.  
Diploma in Venereology | D.V.  
Diploma in Dermatology | Dip. Derm.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology Therapy | D.M.R.T.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology-Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Neurology) | D.M. (Neuro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Cardiology) | D.M. (Card.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Master of Surgery (Paediatric Surgery) | M.Ch. (Paed. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Plastic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Plas. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology main and Biochemistry subsidiary) |  M.D. (Phy. main & Biochem.subsidiary)  
Master of Surgery(Genito-Urinary-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Genito-Urinary-Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Thoracic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Thor. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology) | M.D. (Derm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
Diploma in Psychological Medicine | D.P.M.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M.S. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Diploma in Public Health | D.P.H.  
Diploma in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation | Dip. Phys. Med. & Rehab.  
Doctor of Medicine (Gastroenterology) | M.D. (Gastro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after September, 1966.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1980.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1976.)  
DR. M.G.R. MEDICAL UNIVERSITY, MADRAS  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
Diploma in Venereology | D.V.  
Diploma in Dermatology | D.D.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology-Therapy | D.M.R.T.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology and Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Diploma in Psychological Medicine | D.P.M.  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Venereology) | M.D. (Ven.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radio.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Diploma of Medicine (Neurology) | D.M. (Neuro.)  
Diploma of Medicine (Cardiology) | D.M. (Card.)  
Master of Surgery (Paediatrics Surgery) | M.Ch. (Paed. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Plastic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Plas. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Master of Surgery(Genito-Urinary-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Genito-Urinary-Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Thoracic-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Thor. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology) | M.D. (Derm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M.S. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Diploma in Public Health | D.P.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Obsterics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation | D.P.M.&R.  
Diploma in Health Education | D.H.E.  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Theraphy) | M.D. (Radio-Theraphy)  
Doctor of Medicine(Gastro-Enterology) | D.M. (Gastro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.D. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Oncology) | D.M. (Onco.)  
Magister Chirugiae (Surgical Oncology) | M.Ch. (Surg. Onco.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Rheumatology) | D.M. (Rheumatology)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 2nd January, 1992.)  
Magister Chirurgiae (Vascular Surgery) | M.Ch. (Vascular Surg.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1984.)  
| These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualification only when
granted on the following dates:  
M.B.B.S. degrees | March, 1993.  
Post-graduate degrees | March, 1990.  
Post-graduate diplomas | March, 1989.  
Magister Chirugiae (Surgical Gastroenterology) | M.Ch. (Surgical Gastro.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1986.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1980.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Nephrology) | M.D. (Neph.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after April,1977.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after March,1990.)  
MADURAI UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
Master of Surgery (Paediatrics Surgery) | M.Ch. (Paed. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
MADURAI KAMARAJ UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Diploma in Laryngology and Otology | D.L.O.  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D.Ortho.  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Paediatric Surgery) | M.Ch. (Paed. Surg.)  
Diploma in Health Education | D.H.E.  
| (When held by medical graduate only.)  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
MANIPUR UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted before 30th April,1983.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted on or after 3rd March, 1989.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 16th May, 1988.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 23 rd October, 1991.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 18th July, 1996.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after July,1996.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 18th July, 1996.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after July,1995.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after July,1996.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after January,1990.)  
MANIPAL ACADEMY OF HIGHER EDUCATION  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesia) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics. | D.G.O.  
Master of Surgery (Genito-Urinary Surgery) | M.Ch. (Genito-Urinary Surg.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Cardiology) | DM. (Card.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Diploma in Medical Radio Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Magister Chirugiae (Cardio-Thoracic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Cardio-Thoracic Surg.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after June, 1980.)  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications when granted
by the Manipal Academy of Higher Education in respect of students being
trained at Kasturba Medical College, Manipal and Kasturba Medical College,
Mangalore.  
Doctor of Medicine (Community Medicine) | M.D. (Comm. Med.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1990.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after January,1974.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1974.)  
Diploma in Oto-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1972.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Skin and Veneral Diseases) | M.D. (Skin & V.D.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1979.)  
Diploma in Dermatology and Venereology | D.V.D.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1974.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1974.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1980.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after January, 1973.)  
[Doctor of Medicine (Community Medicine) [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/18/99-M.E.(UG), dated 27-5-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 3994, dated 17-6-2000 (S.O. 1261).] | M.D. (Comm. Med.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after July,1964.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after July,1981.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Hospital Administration) | M.D. (Hosp. Admn.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1990.)  
Diploma in Dermatology including Veneral Diseases and Leprosy | D.V.D.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1976.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1993.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1987.)  
Diploma in Psychological Medicine | D.P.M.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after December, 1989.)  
[Doctor of Medicine (Skin and Veneral Diseases)] [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/12/99-M.E.(UG), dated 1-11-1999, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 7236, dated 20-11-1999.] | M.D. (Skin & V.D.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1987.)  
MANGALORE UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Diploma in Medical (Radio-Diagnosis) | D.M.R.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Cardiology) | D.M. (Card.)  
Master of Surgery (Genito-Urinary Surgery) | M.Ch. (Genito-Urinary Surg.)  
Magister of Chirugiae(Cardio-Thoracic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Cardio-Thoracic Surg.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 30th June, 1980.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1973.)  
[Doctor of Medicine (Community Medicine) [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/18/99-M.E.(UG), dated 29-5-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 3994, dated 17-6-2000 (S.O. 1261).] | M.D. (Comm. Med.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted between December,1987 and June, 1994.)]  
Doctor of Medicine (Skin and Veneral Diseases) | M.D. (Skin & V.D.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1979.)  
Diploma in Dermatology including Venereal Diseases and Leprosy. | D.V.D.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1974.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1974.)  
Diploma in Oto-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1972.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1971.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1974.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1979.)  
Diploma in Veneral Diseases | D.V.D.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1993.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Skin and Veneral Diseases) | M.D. (Skin & V.D.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after June, 1993.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1980.)  
DR. BABA SAHEB AMBEDKAR MARATHWADA UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics) | M.D. (Obst.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Diploma in Public Health | D.P.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
|  (When granted to the students of Government Medical College, Aurangabad in
or after October,1976 only.)  
UNIVERSITY OF MYSORE  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted after the 31st December, 1932.)  
Diploma in Psychological Medicine | D.P.M.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Orth.  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
| (When granted on or after 1st January, 1975.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
|  (When granted on or after 1st June,1977.)  
The above qualifications shall be recognised medical qualification when
granted by the University of Mysore in respect of the students being trained
at J.J.M.Medical College, Davangere.  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology and Venereology) | M.D. (Derm. & Ven.)  
Diploma in Venereology and Dermatology | D.V.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1992.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after January, 1979.)  
MITHILA UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Midwifery and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Mid. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychological Medicine) | M.D. (Psych. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Midwifery and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Mid. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
MEERUT UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification for only one
year, i.e., when granted before 30th April, 1978.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
The above qualification shall be recognised medical qualifications when
granted by the Meerut University in respect of students being trained at
L.L.R.M. Medical College, Meerut.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
| (This qualification shall be recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1972.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1976.)  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.D.  
|  (This qualification shall be recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after December,1974.)  
MAGADH UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
UNIVERSITY OF NAGPUR  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Master of Science (Anatomy) | M.Sc. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Preventive and Social Medicine) | M.D. (Prev. & Soc. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology and Bacteriology) | M.D. (Path. & Bact.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
Master of Surgery (Plastic Surgery) | M. Ch. (Plas. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1974.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after April, 1980.)  
[Doctor of Medicine(Radio-Diagnosis) [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/18/99-M.E.(UG), dated 29-5-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 3994, dated 17-6-2000 (S.O. 1261).] | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after April, 1982.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiology Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after April, 1965.)  
NAGARJUNA UNIVERSITY, NAGARJUNA  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology including Bacteriology) | M.D. (Path. Including Bact.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology) | M.D. (Derm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
Diploma in Medical Radio-Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Diploma in Dermatology | D.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
NATIONAL BOARD OF EXAMINATIONS, NEW DELHI  
Member Academy of Medical Sciences | M.A.M.S.  
| (This qualification shall be a, 1st April, 1976, on the basis of the results
of examinations conducted (whether before or after the said date) by the
National Academy of Medical Sciences, New Delhi on behalf of the National
Board of Examinations, New Delhi and not when conferred as an honorary
degree.)  
Member Academy of Medical Sciences (Physiology) | M.A.M.S. (Phy.)  
Member Academy of Medical Sciences (General Medicine) | M.A.M.S. (Genl. Med.)  
Member Academy of Medical Sciences (General Surgery) | M.A.M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Member Academy of Medical Sciences (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.A.M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Member Academy of Medical Sciences (Ophthalmology) | M.A.M.S. (Ophth.)  
Member Academy of Medical Sciences (Anaesthesiology) | M.A.M.S. (Anaes)  
Member Academy of Medical Sciences (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.A.M.S. (Soc. & Prv. Med.)  
Member Academy of Medical Sciences (Psychiatry) | M.A.M.S. (Psych.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Physiology) | M.N.A.M.S. (Phy.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (General Medicine) | M.N.A.M.S. (Genl. Med.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (General Surgery) | M.N.A.M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.N.A.M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Ophthalmology) | M.N.A.M.S. (Ophth.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Anaesthesiology) | M.N.A.M.S. (Anaes.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.N.A.M.S. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Psychiatry) | M.N.A.M.S. (Psych.)  
These qualifications shall be 3rd April, 1977 on the basis of the results of
examinations conducted (whether before or after the said date) by the National
Academy of Medical Sciences, New Delhi on behalf of the National Board of
Examinations, New Delhi and not when conferred as an honorary degree.  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Paediatrics) | M.N.A.M.S. (Paed.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Orthopaedics) | M.N.A.M.S. (Ortho.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.N.A.M.S. (Radio-Diag.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Health-Administration) | M.N.A.M.S. (Health Admn.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.N.A.M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Dermatology and Venereology) | M.N.A.M.S. (Derm. & Ven.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Pathology) | M.N.A.M.S. (Path.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Respiratory Diseases) | M.N.A.M.S. (Resp. Dis.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Cardio-Thoracic Surgery) | M.N.A.M.S. (Cardio-Thor. Surg.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Plastic Surgery) | M.N.A.M.S. (Plas Surg.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Genito-Urinary Surgery) | M.N.A.M.S. (Genito-Urinary Surg.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Neuro-Surgery) | M.N.A.M.S. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Neurology) | M.N.A.M.S. (Neuro.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Paediatrics Surgery) | M.N.A.M.S. (Paed. Surg.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Maternal and Child Health) | M.N.A.M.S. (Maternal & Child Health)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Nephrology) | M.N.A.M.S. (Neph.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation) | M.N.A.M.S. (Phy. Med. & Rehab.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Cardiology) | M.N.A.M.S. (Card.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Forensic Medicine) | M.N.A.M.S. (Foren. Med.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Gastro-Entereology) | M.N.A.M.S. (Gastro-Entereology)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Microbiology) | M.N.A.M.S. (Micro.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Family Medicine) | M.N.A.M.S. (Family Med.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Biochemistry) | M.N.A.M.S. (Biochem.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Nuclear Medicine) | M.N.A.M.S. (Nuclear Med.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics) | M.N.A.M.S. (Clin. Pharm. & Ther.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Pharmacology) | M.N.A.M.S. (Pharm.)  
Membership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Health Administration including Hospital Administration) | M.N.A.M.S. (Health Admn. including Hospital Admn.)  
The M.N.A.M.S.qualifications in various disciplines granted by the National
Board of Examinations, New Delhi as included in this Schedule, shall be
recognised medical qualifications only when granted on or before 30th August,
1982. The Diplomate N.B. qualifications in various disciplines granted by the
National Board of Examinations, New Delhi shall be recognised medical
qualifications when granted on or after 30th August, 1982.  
NATIONAL BOARD OF EXAMINATIONS  
Diplomate National Board (Physiology) | Diplomate N.B. (Phy.)  
Diplomate National Board (General Medicine) | Diplomate N.B. (Genl. Med.)  
Diplomate National Board (General Surgery) | Diplomate N.B. (Genl. Surg.)  
Diplomate National Board (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | Diplomate N.B. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diplomate National Board(Ophthalmology) | Diplomate N.B. (Ophth.)  
Diplomate National Board(Anaesthesiology) | Diplomate N.B. (Anaes.)  
Diplomate National Board (Social and Preventive Medicine) | Diplomate N.B. (S. & P.M.)  
Diplomate National Board (Psychiatry) | Diplomate N.B. (Psych.)  
Diplomate National Board(Paediatrics) | Diplomate N.B. (Paed.)  
Diplomate National Board(Orthopaedics) | Diplomate N.B. (Ortho.)  
Diplomate National Board(Radio-Diagnosis) | Diplomate N.B. (Radio-Diag.)  
Diplomate National Board(Radiotherapy) | Diplomate N.B. (Radio-Therapy)  
Diplomate National Board (Health (Administration including Hospital Administration) |  Diplomate N.B. (Health Admn.including Hospital Admn.)  
Diplomate National Board(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) |  Diplomate N.B.(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Diplomate National Board (Dermatology and Venereology) | Diplomate N.B. (Derm. & Ven.)  
Diplomate National Board (Pathology) | Diplomate N.B. (Path.)  
Diplomate National Board (Respiratory Diseases) | Diplomate N.B. (Resp. Dis.)  
Diplomate National Board(Neuro-Surgery) | Diplomate N.B. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Diplomate National Board (Paediatrics Surgery) | Diplomate N.B. (Paed. Surg.)  
Diplomate National Board (Neurology) | Diplomate N.B. (Neuro.)  
Diplomate National Board (Plastic Surgery) | Diplomate N.B. (Plas. Surg.)  
Diplomate National Board(Genito-Urinary Surgery) | Diplomate N.B. (Genito-Urinary Surg.)  
Diplomate National Board(Cardio-Thoracic Surgery) | Diplomate N.B. (Cardio-Thor. Surg.)  
Diplomate National Board (Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation) | Diplomate N.B. (Phy. Med. & Rehab.)  
Diplomate National Board (Forensic Medicine) | Diplomate N.B. (Foren. Med.)  
Diplomate National Board (Maternal and Child Health) | Diplomate N.B. (Mat. & Child Health)  
Diplomate National Board (Nephrology) | Diplomate N.B. (Neph.)  
Diplomate National Board (Cardiology) | Diplomate N.B. (Card.)  
Diplomate National Board (Gastro-Entereology) | Diplomate N.B. (Gastro-Entereology)  
Diplomate National Board(Microbiology) | Diplomate N.B. (Micro.)  
Diplomate National Board (Family Medicine) | Diplomate N.B. (Family Med.)  
Diplomate National Board(Biochemistry) | Diplomate N.B. (Biochem.)  
Diplomate National Board (Nuclear Medicine) | Diplomate N.B. (Nuclear Med.)  
Diplomate National Board (Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics) | Diplomate N.B. (Clin. Pharm. and Ther.)  
Diplomate National Board(Pharmacology) | Diplomate N.B. (Pharm.)  
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF MENTAL HEALTH AND NEURO SCIENCE, BANGLORE  
Doctor of Medicine (Neurology) | M.D. (Neuro.)  
Magister Chirugiae (Neuro-Surgory) | M.Ch. (Nero-Surg.)  
Diploma in Psychological Medicine | D.P.M.  
Doctor of Medicine (Psycological Medicine) | M.D. (Psy. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Phychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after September, 1994.  
NORTH BENGAL UNIVERSITY, SILIGURI  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
NORTH MAHARSHTRA UNIVERSITY, JALGAON  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
| (This qualification shall be a medical qualification only when grauted in or
after November, 1995 in respect of students being trained in Shri Bhausahab
Hire Government Medicine College, Dhule.  
NIZAM'S INSTITUTE OF MEDICAL SCIENCES, HYDERABAD  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised qualification only when granted on
or after 1st November, 1994.)  
Magistrar Chirugiae (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised qualification only when granted on
or after 1st November, 1994.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Cardiology) | M.D. (Card.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after February,1992.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after September, 1993.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after May,1994.)  
Doctory of Medicine (Neurology) | M.D. (Neurology)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised qualification when granted in or
after July, 1992.)  
Doctory of Medicine (Hospital Administration) | M.D. (Hospital Admn.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after January,1992.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1994.)  
UNIVERSITY OF OSMANIA  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology | D.M.R.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Public Health | D.P.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Diploma in Venereology | D.V.  
Doctor in Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Rad.-Therapy)  
Diploma in Forensic Medicine | D.F.M.  
Master of Surgery (Paediatrics Surgery) | M.Ch. (Paed. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
Doctor of Medicine(Social and Preventive Medicine/Community Medicine) |  M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med./Comm.Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology) | M.D. (Derm.)  
Diploma in Dermatology | D.D.  
UNIVERSITY OF PUNJAB  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Master of Surgery (Anaesthesia) | M.S. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification under this
Schedule only when it is held by a person holding any other medical
qualification specified in this Schedule.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Diploma in Chest Diseases | D.C.D.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology | D.M.R.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Qrth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Master of Surgery (Plastic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Plas. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
|  (When granted on or after 1st May,1975.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology, Venereologyand Leprosy) | M.D. (Derm., Ven. & Lep.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after December, 1985.)  
Diploma in Blood Transfusion | D.I.B.T.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
to students upto admissions made in 1996-97 at PGIMER, Chandigarh.)  
UNIVERSITY OF PATNA  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine | M.D.  
Master of Surgery | M.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology and Therapeutics) | M.D. (Pharm. & Then)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Master of Surgery (Plastic Surgery) | M.S. (Plas. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology) | M.D. (Derm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radiology)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Anaesthesiology) | M.S. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology | D.M.R.  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
UNIVERSITY OF POONA  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Midwifery) | M.D. (Mid.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Diploma in Public Health | D.P.H.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Diploma in Laryngology and Otology | D.L.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Diploma in Venereology and Dermatology | D.V.D.  
Master of Science (Anatomy) | M.Sc. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Psychological Medicine | D.P.M.  
Diploma in Industrial Health | D.I.H.  
Diploma in Chest Diseases | D.C.D.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiological Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Resp./Chest Diseases) | M.D. (T.B. & Resp./Chest Dis.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Orth.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Diploma in Medical Virology | D.M.V.  
Master of Surgery (Cardio-Thoracic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Cardio-Thor. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Plastic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Plas. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology and Venereology) | M.D. (Derm. & Ven.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Midwifery and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Mid. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Hospital Administration | D.H.A.  
Doctor Medicine (Pathology and Microbiology) | M.D. (Path. & Micro.)  
Master of Hospital Administration | M.H.A.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification granted
before 1st July, 1989.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Hospital Administration) | M.D. (H.A.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification if granted
after 30th June,1989.)  
The medical qualifications of M.H.A. and M.D. (H.A.) shall be recognised
qualifications in respect of the students being trained at the Armed Forces
Medical College, Pune having primary medical qualification included in the
Schedule.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology, Venereology and Leprosy) | M.D. (Derm. Ven. & Lep.)  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Paediatrics Surgery) | M.Ch. (Paed. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases) | M.D. (T.B & Chest Dis.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases) | M.D. (T.B. & Resp. Dis.)  
[Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/5/2000-M.E.(UG), dated 9-6-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 4127, dated 24-6-2000 (S.D. 1318).] | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1994.)]  
PONDICHERRY UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology) | M.D. (Derm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry.) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Community Medicine) | M.D. (Comm. Med.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
Diploma in Medical Radio-Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Diploma in Dermatology | D.D.  
Diploma in Public Health | D.P.H.  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Master of Surgery (Genito-Urinary Surgery) | M.Ch. (Genito-Urinary Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
The above qualifications shall be medical qualifications when awarded by
Pondicherry University in respect of students bring trained at Jawaharlal
Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research, Pondicherry, and
the number of admissions per year shall be restricted to two in respect of
each of the courses.  
Diploma in Leprosy | D. Lep.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1990.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio Diagnosis). | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted on or after 14th April, 1981.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1986.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after March,1998.)  
PUNJABI UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Ophthalmology) | M.D. (Ophth.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Master of Surgery (Anaesthesiology) | M.S. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Master of Surgery (Oto-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Laryngology)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.) ]  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology and Microbiology) | M.D. (Path. & Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology and Venereology) | M.D. (Derm. & Ven.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radiology)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognized medical qualification when granted
on or before 16th May 1983.)  
Diploma in Sports Medicine | d.s.m.  
[Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/18/99-M.E.(UG), dated 29-5-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 3994, dated 17-6-2000 (S.O. 1261).] | M.D. (Path.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognized medical qualification when granted
in or after July, 1981.)]  
POST GRADUATE INSTITUTE OF MEDICAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH, CHANDIGARH  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Phychiatry) | M.D. (Phych.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstertics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Bioehem.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatoloy) | M.D. (Derm.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedic Surgery) | M.S. (Ortho. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Opthalmology) | M.S. (Optha.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Larynology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Larynology)  
Doctorate in Medicine (Cardiology) | D.M. (Cardio.)  
Doctorate in Medicine(Gastroentereology) | D.M. (Gastroentereology)  
Doctorate in Medicine (Nephrology) | D.M. (Nephro.)  
Doctorate in Medicine (Neurology) | D.M. (Neuro.)  
Doctorate in Medicine (Endocrinology) | D.M. (Endocrinology)  
Doctorate in Medicine (Clinical Pharmacology) | D.M. (Clinical Phram.)  
Magister Chirugiae (Cardie-Thoracic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Cardie-Thoracic Surg.)  
Magister Chirugiae (Plastic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Plas. Surg.)  
Magister Chirugiae (Paediatric Surgery) | M.Ch. (Paed. Surg.)  
Magister Chirugiae (Neuro Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro Surg.)  
Magister Chirugiae (Urology) | M.Ch. (Urology)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Anaesthesia) | Ph.D. (Anaes.)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (General Medicine) | Ph.D. (Genl. Med.)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | Ph.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Paediatrics) | Ph.D. (Paed.)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Psychiatry) | Ph.D. (Psych.)  
*Doctor of Philosophy(Radio-Diagnosis) | Ph.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Radio-Therapy) | Ph.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (General Surgery) | Ph.D. (Genl. Surg.)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Orthopaedic Surgery) | Ph.D. (Ortho. Surg.)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Ophthalmology) | Ph.D. (Ophth.)  
*Doctor of Philosophy(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | Ph.D. (Oto-Rhino-Larynology)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Anatomy) | Ph.D. (Anat.)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Biochemistry) | Ph.D. (Bioehem.)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Bio-Physics) | Ph.D. (Bio-Physics)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Clinical Psychology) | Ph.D. (Clinical Psychology)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Experimental Medicine) | Ph.D. (Experimental Medicine)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Microbiology) | Ph.D. (Micro.)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Pharmocology) | Ph.D. (Pharm.)  
*Doctor of Philosophy (Pathology) | Ph.D. (Path.)  
*--Indicates these are treated as a medical degrees if awarded to persons holding  
UNIVERSITY OF RAJPUTANA  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine and Therapeutics) | M.D. (Med. & Then)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology and Bacteriology) | M.D. (Path. & Bact.)  
Master of Science (Physiology) | M.Sc. (Phy.)  
Master of Science (Medical Pharmacology) | M.Sc. (Med. Pharm.)  
Master of Science (Medical Anatomy) | M.S. (Med. Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
UNIVERSITY OF RAJASTHAN  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine and Therapeutics) | M.D. (Med. & Ther.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology and Bacteriology) | M.D. (Path. & Bact.)  
Master of Science (Physiology) | M.Sc. (Phy)  
Master of Science (Medical Pharmacology) | M.Sc. (Med. Pharm.)  
Master of Science (Medical Anatomy) | M.Sc. (Med. Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications only when
granted on or after 1st July, 1957.  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Master of Science (Medical Pathology) | M.Sc. (Med. Path.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiology and Electrology | D.M.R.E.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | DA.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Master of Surgery (Anaesthesiology) | M.S. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiological Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radiology)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted before 30th April,1979.)  
Diploma in Public Health | D.P.H.  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Surgery(Genito-Urinary-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Genito-Urinary-Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology, Venereology and Leprosy) | M.D. (Derm., Ven. & Lep.)  
Master of Surgery (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Paediatrics Surgery) | M.Ch. (Paed. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only, when
granted in or after 1979.)  
[Doctory of Medicine (Biochemistry) [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/18/99-M.E.(UG), dated 29-5-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 3994, dated 17-6-2000 (S.O. 1261).] | M.D. (Biochem.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medieval qualification when
granted in or after 1975.)]  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases) | M.D. (T.B. & Resp. Dis.)  
Master of Science (Medical Biochemistry) | M.Sc. (Med. Biochem.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted on or after 21st July, 1965.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted on or after 12th January, 1978.)  
[RAJIV GANDHI UNIVERSITY OF HEALTH SCIENCES, KARNATAKA [Inserted by
Notification No. V. 11015/18/99-M.E.(UG), dated 29-5-2000, published in the
Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 3994, dated 17-6-2000 (S.O.
1261).]  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after September, 1998.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after September, 1999.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after March,1999.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after March,1999.)  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after March,1999.)  
Diploma in Dtoleryngology | D.L.O.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after March,1999.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedis | D.O.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after March,1999.)  
[Master of Surgery (Anatomy) [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/5/2000-M.E.(UG), dated 9-6-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 4127, dated 24-6-2000 (S.D. 1318).] | M.S. (Anat.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after April,1999.)  
RANCHI UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Psychological Medicine | D.P.M.  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology, Venereology and Leprosy) | M.D. (Derm. Ven. & Lep.)  
Diploma in Venereology and Dermatology | D.V.D.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
[Diploma in Ophthalmology [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/18/99-M.E.(UG), dated 29-5-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 3994, dated 17-6-2000 (S.O. 1261).] | D.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after July, 1977.)  
RAVISHANKAR UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D.Ortho.  
| (Granted on or after 1st July, 1980.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
| (Granted on or after 1st July, 1982.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1972.)  
ROHTAK UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology including Venereology and Leprosy) | M.D. (Derm, including Ven. & Lep.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Diploma in Venereology Diseases | D.V.D.  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
MAHARSHI DAYANAND UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology including Venereology and Leprosy) | M.D. (Derm. including Ven. & Lep.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and, Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesia) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Diploma in Venereology Diseases | D.V.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Diploma in Medical Radio-Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases) | M.D. (T.B. & Resp. Dis.)  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases) | M.D. (T.B. & Chest. Dis.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after November, 1991.)  
STATE MEDICAL FACULTY OF BENGAL  
Membership of the Faculty of Bengal | M.M.F.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted before 15th August, 1947.)  
STATE MEDICAL FACULTY OF WEST BENGAL  
Membership of the State Medical Faculty of West Bengal | M.M.F.  
SAURASHTRA UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology and Bacteriology) | M.D. (Path. & Bact.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1987.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 21st July, 1965.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1976.)  
2[Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1974.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1971.)]  
SAMBALPUR UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/5/2000-M.E.(UG), dated 9-6-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 4127, dated 24-6-2009 (S.D. 1318).] | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (T.B. and Chest Diseases) | M.D. (T.B. & Chest Dis.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualificationwhen granted
in or after 1981.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1972.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualfication when granted
in or after 1979.)  
SANJAY GANDHI POST GRADUATE INSTITUTE OF MEDICAL SCIENCES, LUCKNOW  
Doctor of Medicine (Gastroenterology) | M.D. (Gastro.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 1st November, 1991.)  
Magister Chirugiae (Neuro-Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro-Surg.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 12th May, 1992.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Neurology) | M.D. (Neuro.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after May,1992.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Cardiology) | M.D. (Cardio.)  
| (This shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted in or after
1992.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after 1994.)  
Magister Chirugiae (Cardio-Thoracic Surgery) | [M.Ch. (Cardio-Thoracic Surgery)] [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/12/99-M.E.(UG), dated 1-11-1999, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 7236, dated 20-11-1999, S.O. 3312.]  
Doctor of Medicine (Nephrology) | [D.M. (Nephrology)] [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/5/2000-M.E.(UG), dated 9-6-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 1427, dated 24-6-2000 (S.D. 1318).]  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1992.)  
2[Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | [M.D. (Radiothera)]  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after December, 1994.)  
Magister Chirugiae (Urology) | M.Ch. (Urology)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after July,1991.)  
SARDAR PATEL UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification w.e.f.
1993.)  
[Diploma in Oto-Laryngology [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/18/99-M.E.(UG), dated 29-6-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 3994, dated 17-6-2000 (S.O. 1261).] | D.L.O  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 2000.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after February, 2000.)]  
SHIVAJI UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology and Bacteriology) | M.D. (Path. & Bact.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after January, 1994.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after April,1994.)  
Diploma in Medical Radio-Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after April,1994.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Prevention and Social Medicine) | M.D. (Prev. & Soc. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after December, 1993.)  
SAUGAR UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
SHER-I-KASHMIR INSTITUTE OF MEDICAL SCIENCES, SRINAGAR  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
The Above qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications only when
granted on or after 1st July, 1986.  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
SOUTH GUJARAT UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
by the South Gujarat University in respect of the students being trained at
Government Medical College, Surat.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 1st March, 1986.)  
Diploma in Opthalmology | D.O.  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted on or after 1st December,1984.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after February, 1987.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1981.)  
Master of Surgery (E.N.T.) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1985.)  
Diploma in Oto-Laryngology | D.L.O  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1984.)  
SRI VENKATESWARA UNIVERSITY  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laryngology | D.L.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Science (Physiology) | M.Sc. (Phy.)  
Master of Science (Anatomy) | M.Sc. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
before the 30th April, 1978.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | D.A.  
UNIVERSITY OF TRAVANCORE  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | m.b.b.s.  
UNIVERSITY OF UTKAL  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | m.b.b.s.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Diploma in Medical Radiology Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology and Venereology) | M.D. (Derm. & Ven.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
Master of Surgery(Oto-Rhino-Laryngology) | M.S. (Oto-Rhino-Laryngology)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. & Prev. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio-Diag.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio-Therapy) | M.D. (Radio-Therapy)  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 1st September, 1972.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Doctor of Medicine (T.B. and Respiratory Diseases) | M.D. (T.B. & Resp. Dis.)  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after 1976.)  
UNIVERSITY OF VIKRAM  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.S. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology and Electrology | D.M.R.E.  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
[Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery] [Inserted by S.O. 1729, dated 30-5-2007.] | M.B.B.S.  
| (This shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted by Vikram
University, Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh on or after April, 2006 in respect of
students of Ruxmaniben Deepchand Gardi Medical College, Ujjain).]  
SREE CHITRA TIRUNAL INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL SCIENCES AND TECHNOLOGY, TRIVANDRUM  
Doctor of Medicine (Cardiology) | M.D. (Card.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Neurology) | M.D. (Neuro.)  
Master of Surgery (Cardio-Vascular and Thoracic Surgery) |  M.Ch. (Card.-Vascular & Thor.Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Neuro Surgery) | M.Ch. (Neuro Surg.)  
Doctor of Philosophy (Biochemistry) | Ph.D. (Biochem.)  
Doctor of Philosophy (Microbiology) | Ph.D. (Micro.)  
Doctor of Philosophy (Pathology) | Ph.D. (Path.)  
All these degrees are treated as Medical Degrees when awarded to the persons
holding recognised medical qualifications under the Act.  
SRI RAMACHANDRA MEDICAL COLLEGE AND RESEARCH INSTITUTE, CHENNAI  
Diploma in Anaesthesiology | DA.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 1st June, 1997.)  
Diploma in Orthopaedics | D. Ortho.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 1st June, 1997.)  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
on or after 1st June, 1997.)  
Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology | D.G.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when '
granted on or after 1st June, 1997.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1998.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when.
granted in or after June,1998.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1998.)  
Doctor of Medicine (General Medicine) | M.D. (Genl. Med.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1998.)  
Master of Surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1998.)  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho)  
|  (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when
granted in or after June,1998.)  
[Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery] [Inserted by Notification No. V. 11015/27/94-M.E.(UG), dated 14-2-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), dated 26-2-2000.] | M.B.B.S.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after April, 1999)  
Diploma in Opthalmology | D.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after April, 1999.)  
Diploma in Medical Radio-Diagnosis | D.M.R.D.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after June, 1999.)  
Diploma in Oto-Rhino-Laringology | D.L.O.  
| (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when
granted in or after June, 1999.)]  
[BABA FARID UNIVERSITY OF HEALTH SCIENCES, FARIDKOT] [Inserted by Notification
No. V. 11025/3/2000-M.E.(UG), dated 9-6-2000, published in the Gazette of
India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 4376, dated 1-7-2000 (S.D. 1429).]  
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | M.B.B.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Medicine) | M.D. (Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology) | M.D. (Path.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology) | M.D. (Phy.)  
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology) | M.S. (Ophth.)  
Master of Surgery (Surgery) | M.S. (Surg.)  
Master of Surgery (Anatomy) | M.S. (Anat.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) | M.D. (Obst. & Gynae.)  
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | D.O.M.S.  
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology) | M.D. (Pharm.)  
Master of Surgery (Anaesthesiology) | M.S. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Anaesthesia | D.A.  
Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D.  
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | M.S. (Ortho.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology and Venereology) | M.D. (Derm. & Ven.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Anaesthesiology) | M.D. (Anaes.)  
Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases | D.T.C.D.  
Doctor of Medicine (Social and Preventive Medicine) | M.D. (Soc. &.Prev. Med.)  
Diploma in Gynaecology and Obstetrics | D.G.O.  
Doctor of Medicine (Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases) | M.D. (T.B. & Res. Dis.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Microbiology) | M.D. (Micro.)  
Master of Surgery (Ear, Nose and Throat) | M.S. (E.N.T.)  
Diploma in Clinical Pathology | D.C.P.  
Diploma in Chest Diseases | D.C.D.  
Diploma in Medical Radiology | D.M.R.  
Diploma in Child Health | D.C.H.  
Doctor of Medicine (Paediatrics) | M.D. (Paed.)  
Master of surgery (Plastic Surgery) | M.Ch. (Plas. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radio Diagnosis) | M.D. (Radio Diag.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology and Microbiology) | M.D. (Path. & Micro.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Forensic Medicine) | M.D. (Foren. Med.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Radiology) | M.D. (Radiology)  
Diploma in Sports Medicine | D.S.M.  
Master of surgery (General Surgery) | M.S. (Genl. Surg.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Psychiatry) | M.D. (Psych.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Dermatology, Venereology and Leprosy) | M.D. (Derm., Ven. & Lep.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Biochemistry) | M.D. (Biochem.)  
Doctor of Medicine (Ophthalmology) | M.D. (Ophth.)  
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications when granted
in or after January, 2000.)]  
  
THE SECOND SCHEDULE(See section 12)RECOGNISED MEDICAL QUALIFICATIONS GRANTED
BY MEDICAL INSTITUTIONS OUTSIDE INDIA.

Country | Title | Nature of qualifications as stated in diploma | Abbreviation  
---|---|---|---  
UNITED KINGDOM  
UniversityofBirmingham | M.B.Ch.B. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Birm.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| Ch.M. | Master of Surgery |   
UniversityofBristol | M.B.Ch.B. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Brist.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| Ch.M. | Master of Surgery |   
UniversityofCambridge | M.B.B.Chir. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Camb.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| M.Chir. | Master of Surgery |   
UniversityofDurham | M.B.B.S. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Durh.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| M.S. | Master of Surgery |   
UniversityofLeeds | M.B.Ch.B. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U.Leeds  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| Ch.M. | Master of Surgery |   
UniversityofLiverpool | M.B.Ch.B. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U.L. Pool  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| Ch.M. | Master of Surgery |   
| M.Ch. Orth. | Master of Orthopaedic Surgery |   
UniversityofLondon | M.B.B.S. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Lond.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| M.S. | Master of Surgery |   
University of Manchester | M.B.Ch.B. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Manch.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| Ch.M. | Master of Surgery |   
University of Oxford | M.B.B.Ch. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Oxford  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| M.Ch. | Master of Surgery |   
University of Sheffield | M.B.B.Ch. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Sheff.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| Ch.M. | Master of Surgery |   
University of Wales | M.B.Ch.B. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Wales.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| M.Ch. | Master of Surgery |   
University of Aberdeen | M.B.Ch.B. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Aberd.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| Ch.M | Master of Surgery |   
University of Edinburgh | M.B.Ch.B. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Edin.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| Ch.M. | Master of Surgery |   
| Dip. Psych. | Diploma in Psychology |   
| D.P.M. | Diploma in Psychological Medicine |   
University of Glasgow | M.B.Ch.B. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Glasg.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| Ch.M. | Master of Surgery |   
University of Andrews St. | M.B.Ch.B. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. St. And.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| Ch.M. | Master of Surgery |   
Queen's University of Belfast | M.B.Ch.B. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Belf.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| M.Ch. | Master of Surgery |   
| M.A.O. | Master of Obstetrics |   
Royal College of Physicians of London | L.R.C.P. | Licentiate | R.C.P. Lond.  
| M.R.C.P. | Member |   
| F.R.C.P. | Fellow |   
Royal College of Surgeons of England | M.R.C.S. | Member | R.C.S.  
| F.R.C.S. | Fellow |   
| F.F.A.R.C.S** | Fellow |   
|  | (Faculty of Anaesthesia) |   
|  | **Provided that this qualification has been awarded after qualifying at an examination. |   
Society of Apothecaries of London | L.M.S.S.A | Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery | S.A. Lond.  
| LS.A. | Licentiate |   
Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh | L.R.C.P. | Licentiate | R.C.P. Edin.  
| M.R.C.P. | Member |   
| F.R.C.P. | Fellow |   
Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh | L.R.C.S. | Licentiate | R.C.S. Edin.  
| F.R.C.S. | Fellow |   
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow | F.R.C.P. | Fellow | R.C.P.S. Glasg.  
| F.R.C.P. | Fellow |   
| F.R.C.P.S. | Fellow |   
University of New Castle-Upon-Tyne | M.B.Ch.B. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Ncle.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| Ch.M. | Master of Surgery |   
University of Dundee | M.B.Ch.B. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Dundee  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| Ch.M. | Master of Surgery |   
Royal College of Physicians of United Kingdom | M.R.C.P. | Member | R.C.P., U.K.  
Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, London | M.R.C.O.G. | Member | R.C.O.G. (Lond.)  
Royal College of Pathologists, London | M.R.C. (Path.) | Member | R.C.P.**  
|  | **Provided that this qualification has been awarded after qualifying at an examination.  
| F.R.C. (Path.) | Fellow |   
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons, London | D.O.M.S. | Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery | R.C.P. & S. (Lond.)  
| D.O. | Diploma in Ophthalmology |   
| D.P.M. | Diploma in Psychological Medicine |   
Royal College of Psychiatrists, London | M.R.C. Psych. | Member | R.C. Psych.** (Lond.)  
|  | **Provided that this qualification has been awarded after qualifying at an examination.  
The above qualifications granted in United Kingdom shall be recognised medical
qualifications when granted on or before 11th November, 1978.  
AUSTRALIA  
New South Wales |  |  |   
University of Sydney (c) | M.B. | Medicine and Surgery | U. Sydney  
| M.D. |  |   
| Ch.M.B.S. |  |   
South Australia |  |  |   
University of Adelaide (a)(c) | M.B.B.S. | Medicine and Surgery | U. Adelaide  
| M.D. |  |   
| M.S. |  |   
Victoria |  |  |   
University of Melbourne | M.B.B.S. | Medicine and Surgery | U. Melbourne  
| M.D. |  |   
| M.S. |  |   
BURMA  
University of Rangoon | M.B.B.S. | Medicine and Surgery | U. Rangoon  
CANADA  
Alberta |  |  |   
College of Physicians and Surgeons of the Province of Alberta (b) | Member | Medicine and Surgery | C.P. and S. Alberta  
University of Alberta (b) | M.D. | Medicine and Surgery | U. Alberta  
Manitoba |  |  |   
College of Physicians and Surgeons of the Province of Manitoba (b) | Member | Medicine and Surgery | C.P. & S. Man.  
University of Manitoba (c) | M.D. | Medicine and Surgery | U.Man.  
| M.D. | Medicine and Surgery |   
| CM. | Medicine and Surgery |   
NORTH-WEST TERRITORIES |  |  |   
College of Physicians and Surgeons of the Province of North-west Territories (b) (When held in conjunction with Licence of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of the Province of Saskatchewan of the Province of Alberta.) | Member | Medicine and Surgery | C.P. & S.N.W. Terr.  
NOVA SCOTIA |  |  |   
Nova Scotia Provincial Medical Board (a)(c) | L.M.S. | Medicine and Surgery | U.N. Scotia  
|  |  | P.M. Bd.  
Dalhousie University (a) (c) | M.D. | Medicine and Surgery | Dalhousie U.  
| CM. | Medicine and Surgery |   
Prince Edward Island |  |  |   
Prince Edward Island Medical Council(d) | L.M.S. | Medicine and Surgery | M.C.P.E.I.  
CEYLON |  |  |   
Ceylon Medical College (a) (c) | L.M.S. | Medicine and Surgery | Ceylon M. Coll.  
HONG KONG |  |  |   
University of Hong Kong (a)(c) | M.B.B.S. | Medicine and Surgery | U. Hong Kong  
| M.D. |  |   
| M.S. |  |   
ITALY |  |  |   
All Royal Italian Universities (d) | M.D. | Medicine and Surgery. | -  
JAPAN |  |  |   
All Imperial Universities (e) | M.B. (Igakushi) |  |   
| M.D. (Igaku Hakushi) |  |   
Any Government Perfectual Colleges designated by a Minister of Education of Japan (e) | M.D. (Igakushi) | Medicine and Surgery | -  
MALTA |  |  |   
Royal University of Malta | M.D. | Medicine and Surgery | U.Malta  
NEW FOUNDLAND |  |  |   
New Foundland Medical Board (b) | L.M.S. | Medicine and Surgery | N.Fed.  
|  |  | M.Bd.  
NEW ZEALAND |  |  |   
University of New Zealand (f) | M.B.Ch.B. | Medicine and Surgery | U.N. Zealand  
| Ch.M. |  |   
| M.D. |  |   
University of Otago | M.B.Ch.B. | Medicine and Surgery | U. Otago  
| Ch.M. |  |   
| M.D. |  |   
These qualifications shall be recognised medical qualifications when granted
on or after 1st January, 1962, and on or before 31st December, 1968. This
condition shall not apply in Eases where these qualifications are already
recognised on or before 29th April, 1972.  
PAKISTAN |  |  |   
Punjab University (g) | L.M.S. | Medicine and Surgery | U.West Punjab  
| M.B. |  |   
| M.B.B.S. |  |   
| M.D. |  |   
| M.S. |  |   
Punjab State Medical | L.M.S. | Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery (This qualification shall be a recognised one only when granted before the 15th August, 1947, provided the holders thereof had passed F.Sc. examination before taking up medical studies.) |   
BANGLADESH |  |  |   
Chitagong University | M.B.B.S. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | Chit. U.  
Dhaka University | M.B.B.S. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | Dhaka U.  
Rajshahi University | M.B.B.S. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | Raj. U.  
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA |  |  |   
University of South Africa (b) | M.B.Ch.B. | Medicine and Surgery | U.S. Africa  
University of Cape Town (a)(c) | M.B.Ch.B. | Medicine and Surgery | U. Cape Town  
| M.D.Ch.M. |  |   
University of the Witwaterstand Johannesburg (a)(c) | M.B.Ch.B. | Medicine and Surgery | U.Witwaterstand  
| M.D.Ch.M. |  |   
STRAITS SETTLEMENT AND FEDERATED MALAYA STATES  
The King Edward VII College of Medicine, Singapore (a)(c) | L.M.S. | Licentiate of Medicine and Surgery | Singapore Medical College  
REPUBLIC OF IRELAND |  |  |   
University of Dublin (h) | M.B.B.Ch. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U.Dubl.  
| L.Med. | Licentiate in Medicine |   
| L.Ch. | Licentiate in Surgery |   
| M.D. | Doctor in Medicine |   
| M.Ch. | Master in Surgery |   
| M.A.O. | Master in Obstetric Science |   
National University of Ireland (h) | M.B.B.Ch. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery. | N.U. Irel.  
| M.D. | Doctor of Medicine |   
| M.Ch. | Master of Surgery |   
| M.A.O. | Master of Obstetrics |   
Royal College of Physicians of Ireland (h) | L.R.C.P. | Licentiate | R.C.P. Irel.  
| L.M. | Licentiate in Midwifery |   
| M.R.C.P. | Member |   
| F.R.C.P. | Fellow |   
Royal College of Surgeons of Ireland(h) | L.R.C.S. | Licentiate | R.C.S. Irel.  
| L.M. | Licentiate in Midwifery |   
| F.R.C.S. | Fellow |   
Apothecaries Hall of Dublin(h) | L.A.H. | Licentiate | A.H. Dublin.  
Provided that the condition (h) shall not apply in respect of the medical
qualifications specified in the following table if granted on or before the
23rd of July,2001 :-  
University of Dublin | M.B.B.Ch. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | U. Dublin  
National University Of Ireland | M.B.B.Ch. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | N.U. Irel.  
Royal College of Physicians of Ireland | L.R.C.P. | Licentiate | L.R.C. Irel.  
Royal College of Surgery, Ireland | L.R.C.S. | Licentiate | L.R.S. Irel.  
Apothecaries' Hall of Dublin | L.A.H. | Licentiate | A.H. Dubl.  
(a) The qualification must be included in Table (F) of the British Medical
Register as published from time to time by the General Medical Council of
United Kingdom.  
(b) When granted on or before the 31st October, 1937.  
(c) When granted on or before the 31st March, 1942.  
(d) When granted on or before the 10th October, 1940.  
(e) When granted on or before the 8th December, 1941.  
(f) When granted on or before the 31st December, 1961.  
(g) When granted on or before 15th August, 1947. This condition shall not
apply in cases where these qualifications are already recognised on or before
12th March, 1965.  
(h) When granted on or before 12th June, 1964. This condition shall not apply
in cases where these qualifications are already recognised on or before 2nd
January, 1967.  
NEPAL |  |  |   
Tribhuvan University | M.B.B.S. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery | Tribhuvan University  
|  | Notes.- This qualification shall be recognised medical qualification when granted on or after 27th April, 1985 in respect of students trained atMedicalCollege, Kath-mandu, who have joined the M.B.B.S. Course after passing the 10+2 examination with Science subjects. [Vide Ministry of Health Welfare, Government of India Notification No. V. 11015/8/2003-ME-P-I, (P), dated 23-10-2006.] |   
|  | \- This qualification shall be recognised medical qualification when granted on or after May, 2004 in respect of students trained at Universal College of Medical Sciences, Bhiarahawa, Nepal. |   
[B.P. Koirala Institute of Health Sciences,Dharan,Nepal [Inserted by Notifications No. V. 11025/10/2000-ME(UG), dated 20-6-2000, Published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 4628, dated 8-7-2000 (S.O. 1500).] | M.B.B.S. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery. | B.P.K.I.H.S.,Dharan,Nepal.]  
|  | (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted on or after 14th June, 2000). |   
KathmanduUniversity | M.B.B.S. | Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery |   
(This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
in or after July,1999 in respect of students of Manipal College of Medical
Sciences, Pokhra). However, the members of the ad hoc Committee appointed by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court and of the Executive Committee of the Council in the
meeting of the Executive Committee held on 3rd March, 2007 decided to
recommend to the Council the withdrawal of recognition granted to Manipal
College of Medical Sciences, Pokhara, Nepal for the award of MBBS degree
granted by Kathmandu University u/s 12(3) of the I.M.C. Act, 1956 and further
decided not to grant provisional/final registration u/s 12(2) of the I.M.C.
Act, 1956 to any student passing from this institute and who has not passed
the screening test.  
Tribhuvan | MS(E.N.T.) | Masters of Surgery (ENT) |   
(This shall be a recognised medical qualification when granted
byTribhuvanUniversityin respect of students being trained
atInstituteofMedicine, Maharaj Gunj,Kathmandu,Nepal  
TribhuvanUniversity(B.P. Koirala Institute of Health Sciences,Dharan,Nepal) | M.S.(Orhto.) | Masters of Surgery (Orthopaedics) | B.P.K.I.H.S.,Dharan,Nepal  
  
THE THIRD SCHEDULE(See Section 13)PART-IRECOGNISED MEDICAL QUALIFICATIONS
GRANTED BY MEDICAL INSTITUTIONS NOT INCLUDED IN THE FIRST SCHEDULE

Name of Medical Institution or Licensing Authority | Recognised Medical Qualification | Abbreviations  
---|---|---  
College of Physicians and Surgeons,Bombay | Licentiate of theCollegeofPhysiciansand Surgeons,Bombay | L.C.P.S. (Bom.)  
| Fellowships of the College of Physicians and Surgeons,Bombayin Midwifery and Gynaecology, Ophthalmology and Diplomas of the said College in Pathology and Bacteriology Gynaecology and obstetrics and Child Health |  F.C.P.S. (Mid. & Gynae.)F.C.P.S. (Ophth.)D.P.B. (Dip. in Path. & Bact.)D.G.O. (Dip. in Gyn. &Obst.)D.C.H. (Dip. in Child Health)  
(These qualifications shall be recognized medical qualifications only when
they are held by persons holding any other medical qualifications specified in
this Schedule.  
State Medical Faculty ofBombay | Licensed Medical Practitioner | L.M.P. (Bom.)  
State Medical Faculty ofBengal | Licentiate of the Medical Faculty,Bengal | L.M.F. (Bengal)  
|  | (This qualification shall be recognised medical qualification only when granted before the 15th August, 1947.)  
State Medical Faculty ofWest Bengal | Licentiate of the Medical Faculty,West Bengal | L.M.F. (W. Bengal)  
| Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery (Nat.) (West Bengal) | L.M.F. (Nat.) (W. Bengal)  
| Certificate of qualification by the State Medical Faculty under Article 6-C of the Statutes of the State Medical Faculty, (West Bengal). | Certificate under Article 6-C (W.B.)  
| Certificate of qualification by the State Medical Faculty under Article 6-D or Article 6-E of the Statutes of the State Medical Faculty, (West Bengal). |  Certificate under Article 6-D or 6-E(W.B.)  
Government ofBengal | Licensed Medical Practitioner (CampbellMedicalSchool) | L.M.P. (CampbellMedicalSchool)  
| Diploma ofMedicalCollege(Bengal) | Dip. Med. Coll. (Bengal)  
| Licensed Medical-Practitioner (DaccaMedicalSchool) | L.M.P. (DaccaMedicalSchool)  
|  | (This qualification shall be recognised Medical Qualification only when granted before the 15th August, 1947.)  
| Diploma ofMedicalCollege,Calcutta | Dip. Med.Coll. Calcutta.  
State Medical Faculty of Uttar Pradesh |  Fellow of the State Medical Faculty(U.P.) | F.S.M.F. (U.P.)  
| Member of the State Medical Faculty | M.S.M.F. (UP)  
| Licentiate of the State Medical Faculty | L.S.M.F. (UP)  
State Board of Medical Examination, U.P. | Licensed Medical Practitioner, U.P. | L.M.P. (U.P.)  
EastPunjabStateMedical Faculty | Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery | L.M.S. (East Punjab)  
|  | (This qualification shall be recognised one only when granted on or after the 15th August, 1947 to a person other than any person referred to in the entry relating to East Punjab State medical Faculty in the First Schedule, provided he had passed the pre-medical examination.)  
State Medical Faculty ofPunjab | Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery | L.M.S. (Punjab)  
|  | (This qualification shall be recognised one only when granted to a person other than any person referred to in the entry relating to S.M.F. Punjab in the First Schedule provided he had passed the pre-medical examination.)  
State Medical Faculty ofPunjab | Fellow of the State Medical Faculty (Punjab) | F.S.M.F. (Punjab)  
| Member of the State Medical Faculty (Punjab) | M.S.M.F. (Punjab)  
| Licentiate of the State Medical Faculty (Punjab) | L.S.M.F. (Punjab)  
Government ofPunjab | Licensed Medical Practitioner (Lahore) | L.M.P. (Lahore)  
|  | (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when granted before 15th August, 1947.)  
HyderabadGovernment |  Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery(Osmania) | L.M. & S. (Osmania)  
| Licensed Medical Practitioner (Hyderabad). | L.M.P. (Hyderabad)  
Government ofMysore | Licenced Medical Practitioner (Mysore) | L.M.P. (Mysore)  
MysoreMedicalSchool | Licenced Medical Practitioner (MysoreMedicalSchool) | L.M.P. (MysoreMedicalSchool)  
AndhraUniversity | Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery (AndhraUniversity) | L.M.& S. (AndhraUniv.)  
AssamMedical Examination Board | Licenced Medical Practitioner (Assam) | L.M.P. (Assam)  
| Licenced Medical Practitioner (B.W.MedicalSchool, Dibrugarh) | L.M.P. (B.W.MedicalSchool, Dibrugarh)  
Board of Examiners,MedicalCollege,Madras | Licenced Medical Practitioner (Madras) | L.M.P. (Mad.)  
| Diploma in Medicine and Surgery | D.M.S. (Madras)  
|  | Lic. Apoth. (Madras)  
(C.P.or M.P.) Medical Examination Board |  Licenced Medical Practitioner (C.P.or M.P.) | L.M.P. (C.P. or M.P.)  
Orissa Medical Examination Board |  Licenced Medical Practitioner(Orissa) | L.M.P. (Orissa)  
Biharand Orissa Medical Examination Board | Licenced Medical Practitioner (Biharand Orissa) | L.M.P. (Bihar & Orissa)  
| Licenced Medical Practitioner (TempleMedicalSchool,Patna) | L.M.P. (TempleMedicalSchool,Patna)  
KingEdwardHospitalMedicalSchool,Indore | Diploma or certificate in Medicine and/or Surgery | Diploma or Certificate in Medicine and/or Surgery  
RangoonUniversity | Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery | L.M.& S.(RangoonUniv.)  
|  | (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when granted before the 1st April, 1937.)  
BurmaMedical Examination Board | Licenced Medical Practitioner | L.M.P. (Burma)  
|  | (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when granted before the 1st April, 1937.)  
AligarhUniversity | Diploma in Ophthalmology | D.O. (Dip. in Ophthalmology),AiigarhUniversity  
|  | (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when held by a person holding any other medical qualification specified in this Schedule.)  
PunjabUniversity | Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases | D.T.D. (Punjab)  
|  | (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when held by a person holding any other medical qualification specified in this Schedule.)  
Ecole de Medicine,Pondicherry | Diploma de Ecole Medicine,Pondicherry | D.E.M.P.  
Medico-SurgicalCollege, Nova-Goa, Punjim | Diploma of Licentiate of the Medico Surgical College, Nova-Goa | Medico-Surgeon,Goa  
Ecole de Medicine de,Pondicherry | Diploma of "Officer de Sante" | Dip. "Officer-de-Sante"  
Government ofMadras | Diploma in Medicine and Surgery | D.M.S. (Madras)  
|  | (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when granted on or before 31st December, 1970.)  
EastPunjabStateMedical Faculty | Licentiate of theEastPunjabStateMedical Faculty | L.S.M.F. (East Punjab)  
|  | (This qualification shall be a recognised medical qualification only when granted after the 15th August, 1947.)  
Government of Orissa | Diploma in Modern Medicine and Surgery | D.M.S.M. (Orissa)  
Government of Kerala | Diploma in Medicine and Surgery | D.M.S. (Kerala)  
State Medical Faculty ofGujarat | Licensed Medical Practitioner | L.M.P. (Gujarat)  
Government of Andhra Pradesh | Diploma in Medicine and Surgery | D.M.S. (Andhra)  
  
## Part II

RECOGNISED MEDICAL QUALIFICATIONS GRANTED BY MEDICAL INSTITUTIONS OUTSIDE
INDIA NOT INCLUDED IN THE SECOND SCHEDULE

M.D. (Berlin) | M.D. (Tuebingen)  
---|---  
M.D. (Paris) | M.D. (Wuerzburg)  
M.D. (Amsterdam) | M.D. (Saarbrucken)  
M.D. (Freiburg,Germany) | Doctor-en-Medicina Y. Chirurgaia(University of Madrid,Spain)  
M.D. (Vienna) | M.D. (HahnemannaMedicalCollegeandHospitalofPhiladelphia),Pennsylvania,U.S.A.  
M.D. (Tornoto,Canada) | M.D. (TempleUniversity,Philadelphia,U.S.A.)  
M.D. (Heidelberg) | M.D. (Padova, Italay)  
M.B.B.S. (Dacca) | M.D. (Rome,Italy)  
M.D. (Bonn) | M.D. (Milan,Italy)  
M.B.B.S. (Celyon) | M.D. (Parma,Italy)  
M.D. (Munich) | M.B.B.S. (InstituteofMedicine, I,Rangoon)  
M.B.B.S. (Karachi) | M.B.B.S. (Institute of Medicine III, Mandalava)  
M.B.B.S. (Sydney-New South Wales-Australia) | M.B.B.S. (Sind)West Pakistan  
M.D. (Minnesota-U.S.A.) | M.B.B.S. (Rajshahi) East-Pakistan  
M.D. (Geneva-Switzerland) | M.D. (Genova-Italy)  
Doctorisin Medicine et Chirurgia (Diploma) (SantoTomasUniversityManila,Philippines) | M.D. (Leipzig)  
L.M.F. Licentiate of the Medical Faculty East Pakistan) (East Pakistan) |  Diploma "Arts" (Physician)NijmegenUniversity,(Netherlands)  
M.D. (Western ReserveUniversity,Cleveland,Ohio,U.S.A.) | L.M. & S. (RangoonUniversity)  
M.D. (RoyalHungarianUniversityof Sciences of Peter Pazmany,Budapest,Hungary) | (This qualification shall be a recognized medical qualification when granted or after 1st April, 1937.)  
M.D. (SemmellweissMedicalUniversity),Budapest,Hungary | L.M.P. (Burma)  
L.M.F. (East Bengal) Licentiate of Medical Faculty ofEast Bengal | (This qualification shall be a recognized medical qualification when granted or after 1st April, 1937.)  
M.D. (Duesseldors) |   
M.D. (Erlangen) | M.B.B.S. (Mandalaya)  
M.D. (Frankfurt am Main) | M.D. (University of Innsbruck,Austria)  
M.D. (Glessen) | M.D. (TulaneUniversity)U.S.A.  
M.D. (Goettingen) | L.S.M.B. (Burma)  
M.D. (Kiel) | M.D. (UniversityofCatholiquede Lifie), France  
M.D. (Koeln) | M.D. (University of Naples,Italy)  
M.D. (Hamburg) |  M.B., Ch.B.(MarkerereUniversity, College ofEast Africa)  
M.D. (Mainz) |  M.B., Ch.B.(UniversityofAlexandria) U.A.R.  
M.D. (Marburg) |   
M.D. (Muenster) |   
M.D. (UniversityofGraz)Austria | M.D. (HannoverMedicalHochschuleUniversity),GermanyFederalRepublic  
M.D. (LoyolaUniversity) StritchSchoolofMedicine,ChicagoU.S.A. |  M.D. (Boschum.University),FederalRepublicofGermany  
M.B.B.S. (PunjabUniversity)West Pakistan | M.D. (UniversityofU.L.M),FederalRepublicofGermany  
M.B.B.S. (UniversityofCattolica) RameItaly |  M.D. (St.LouisUniversity)U.S.A.  
M.D. (Louvian)Belgium | M.D. (UniversityofBasel),Switzerland  
M.D. (Manila)Philippines | M.D. (UniversityofPhilippines),Manila  
L.M.S. (Licentiate of the State Medical Faculty, Sind)West Pakistan | M.D. (UniversityofModena),Italy  
L.M.S. (Ceylon) | F.R.C.S (Canada)  
M.D. (University of EastPhilippines)M.D. (AachenUniversity)GermanyFederalRepublic) | ["Zeugnia Uben die Arztilch Prufund" University of Bonn Federal Republic of Germany] [Inserted by Notifications No. V. 11016/3/00-ME(UG), dated 30-5-2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 4374, dated 1-7-2000 (S.O. 1428.]  
  
CERTIFICATES/DIPLOMA OF THE FOLLOWING APPROVED EXAMINING BOARDS OF
U.S.A.American Board of PaediatricsAmerican Board of Psychiatry and
NeurologyAmerican Board of Orthopaedic SurgeryAmerican Board of
DermatologyAmerican Board of RadiologyAmerican Board of UrologyAmerican Board
of Obstetrics and GynaecologyAmerican Board of Internal MedicineAmerican Board
of PathologyAmerican Board of OphthalmologyAmerican Board of
OtolaryngologyAmerican Board of SurgeryAmerican Board of
AnaesthesiologyAmerican Board of Plastic SurgeryAmerican Board of Neurological
SurgeryAmerican Board of Physical Medicine and RehabilitationAmerican Board of
Preventive MedicineBoards of Thoracic Surgery (An affiliate Board of the
American Board of Surgery)Candidate of Medical Science (USSR) in Medicine
awarded by the Institute of Therapy of theAcademy of Medical Sciences of
USSR.Facharzt Fuer Chirugie (Specialist Surgeon) West GermanyFacharzt Fuer
Gynaekologie (Specialist in Gynaecology) West GermanyFacharzt Fuer Innera
Frankheiten(Specialist in Internal Medicine) West GermanyF.R.A.C.S.
(Fellowship of the Royal Australian College of Surgeons)M.C.P.A. (Membership
of the College of Pathologists of Australia)Diploma of Certificate `D' Studs
Specialist `D' of Medicine Electro-Radiologie (Certificate ofSpecial Studies
of Medical Electro-Radiology) Paris-FranceF.R.C.P. (Canada)Diploma in
Psychiatry (Mc Gill Univ.) Montreal, Canada.,Candidate of Science (Doctor of
Philosophy) in Medicine-Branch Plastic Surgery,Hungary awarded by Hungarian
Academy of Medical Sciences, Budapast.Facharzt Fuerk Kinderheilkunde Children
Specialist) West GermanyF.F.A.R.C.S. (Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland) -
This qualification is recognized only when granted after examination.M.D.
(University of Bern. Switzerland)L.L.M.R.C.P. (Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Ireland)L.L.M.R.C.S. (Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Ireland)"Staatexman" (University of Tubingen, West Germany)M.D. (Far Eastern
University) Manila, PhilippinesM.D. (University of Ottawa, Canada)

M.B., Ch.B. |   
---|---  
M.D. | (University of Birmingham,U.K.)  
Ch.M |   
M.B., Ch.B. |   
M.D. | (University of.Bristol,U.K.)  
Ch.M |   
M.B., B.Chi. |   
M.D. | (University of.Cambridge,U.K.)  
M.S. Chi. |   
M.B.B.S. |   
M.D. | (University of.Durham,U.K.)  
M.S. |   
M.B., Ch.B. |   
M.D. | (University of.Leeds,U.K.)  
Ch.M |   
M.B., Ch.B. |   
M.D. | (University of.Liverpool,U.K.)  
Ch.M |   
M.Ch. Orth. |   
M.B.B.S. |   
M.D. | (University of.London,U.K.)  
M.S. |   
M.B., Ch.B. |   
M.D. | (University of Manchester,U.K.)  
Ch.M |   
M.B., B.Ch. |   
D.M. | (University of.Oxford,U.K.)  
Ch.M |   
M.B., Ch.B. |   
M.D. | (University of.Sheffield,U.K.)  
Ch.M |   
M.B., B.Ch. |   
M.D. | (University of.Wales,U.K.)  
M.Ch. |   
M.B., Ch.B. |   
M.D. | (University of.Aberdeen,U.K.)  
Ch.M |   
M.B., Ch.B. |   
M.D. | (University of.Edinburg,U.K.)  
Ch.M. |   
M.B., Ch.B. |   
M.D. | (University of.St. Abndrews,U.K.)  
Ch.M. |   
M.B., Ch.B. |   
M.D. | (University of.Glasgow,U.K.)  
Ch.M. |   
M.B., Ch.B. |   
M.D. | (Queen's University of.Belfast,U.K.)  
M.Ch. |   
M.A.O. |   
L.R.C.P. |   
M.R.C.P. | (RoyalCollegeof Physicians ofLondon,U.K.)  
F.R.C.P. |   
M.R.C.S. | (RoyalCollegeof Surgeons ofEngland,U.K.)  
F.R.C.S. |   
L.M.S.S.A. | (Society of Apothecaries ofLondon,U.K.)  
L.S.A. |   
L.R.C.P. |   
M.R.C.P. | (RoyalCollegeof Physicians ofEdinburgh,U.K.)  
F.R.C.P |   
L.R.C.S. |   
F.R.C.S. | (RoyalCollegeof Surgeons ofEdinburgh,U.K.)  
L.R.C.P.S. |   
M.R.C.P. |   
F.R.C.P. |   
F.R.C.S. | (RoyalCollegeof Physicians and Surgeons ofGlasgowU.K.)  
F.R.C.P.S. |   
M.B.Ch.B. |   
M.D. | (UniversityofNew CastleUponTyne,U.K.)  
Ch.M |   
M.B., Ch.B. |   
M.D. | (University of Dundee,U.K.)  
Ch.M |   
M.R.C.P. | (RoyalCollegeof Physicians ofUnited Kingdom)  
Dip. Psych. | (University of Edinburgh,U.K.)  
D.P.M. |   
M.R.C.O.G. | (RoyalCollegeObstetricians & Gyanecologists,London,U.K.)  
M.R.C. (Path.) | (RoyalCollegeofPathologiests,London,U.K.)**  
F.R.C.(Path.) |   
| ** Provided that this qualification has been awarded after qualifying at an
examination.  
D.O.M.S. |   
D.O. | (RoyalCollegeof Physicians & Surgeons,U.K.)  
D.P.M. |   
F.F.A.R.C.S. | (RoyalCollegeof Physicians & Surgeons,U.K.)***  
| ***Provided that this qualification has been awarded after qualifying at an
examination.  
M.R.C. (Psych.) | (RoyalCollegeof PsychiatristsLondon,U.K.)*  
| *Provided that this qualification has been awarded after qualifying at an
examination.  
  
These qualifications granted in United Kingdom shall be recognized medical
qualifications whengranted on or before 11th November, 1978.M.B.B.Ch.
(National University of Ireland).M.D. (University of Florence, Italy).M.B.B.S.
(University of West Indies), Mona, Kingston, Jamaica.M.D. (University of
Bulgrade), Yugoslavia.M.D. (Faculty of Medicine and Stomatology),
Yugoslavia.M.D. (Medical Faculty, Nis), Yugoslavia.M.D. (Medical Faculty, Novi
Sad), Yugoslavia.M.D. (Medical Faculty, Rijeka), Yugoslavia.M.D. (Medical
Faculty, University of Sarajevo), Yugoslavia.M.D. (Medical Faculty, University
of Skoplje), Yugoslavia.M.D. (Medical Faculty, University of Zagreb),
Yugoslavia.M.B.B.Ch. (University of Ain Sham), United Arab Republic.M.B.B.Ch.
(University of Cairo), United Arab Republic.Approbation Als Arzt (Karl-Marx
University, Leipzig), Eastern Germany.M.D. (Pahalavi University, Shiraz),
Iran.Diploma in Medicine and Surgery (Faculty of Medicine of the Cervenko
Higher Institute ofMedicine, Sofia) Bulgaria."Physician" medical Academy,
Sofia, (Higher Institute Education, Sofia).`Physician' Medical Academy, Sofia,
(Higher Medical Institute, Plovdiv.)`Physician' Medical Academy, Sofia,
(Higher Medical Institute, Varna).M.B.B.S. (Chittagong University),
Bangladesh.M.A.N.Z.C.P. (Membership Examination of the College of
Psychiatrists of Australia and NewZealand).M.D. (University of Cologne),
Kolin, West Germany.M.D. (Charles University, Prague, Katerinsha),
Chechoslovakia.M.D. (J.E. Prkyn University, Bmo) Czechoslovakia.(Granted on or
before 31st December, 1992).M.D. (University of Bologna, Italy).M.P.H. (John
Hopkins University, U.S.A).M.P.H. (Harvard University, U.S.A).M.P.H.
(California University, U.S.A).M.P.H. (Colombia University, U.S.A).M.B.B.S.
(U.Institute of Medicine (II), Rangoon), Burma.M.D. (University of
Azarabadegan, Tabriz), Iran.M.D. (Martin Luther university, Halle, Eastern
Germany).M.P.H. (University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, U.S.A)Diploma
Physician (University of Zurich, Switzerland).`Doctor of Medicine',
(University of Komensky, Bratislava Czechoslovakia).(Granted on or before 31st
December, 1991).M.B.Ch. B. (University of Zambia), LusakaStaatexaman.
(University of Cologne, West Germany)"Medicocirujano" (Universisad National
Autoname-De-Mexico)."Arzt Fuer Anaesthesia or Anaesthesist", (West
Germany)"Bestallung-Alsiazt" (University of Keil, West Germany)These medical
qualifications shall be recognized medical qualifications for the period upto

### 31st. day of December, 1992.

Diploma in Child Health, (D.C.H.) Kabul UniversityM.B.B.S. (University of
London, U.K).This qualification shall be a recognized medical qualification
when granted on or after

### 12th. November, 1978.

M.B.Ch. B. (University of Sheffield, U.K.)This qualification shall be a
recognized medical qualification when granted on or after

### 12th. November, 1978.

M.B.B.S. (University of Malaya) MalaysiaThis qualification shall be recognized
medical qualification when granted on or before

### 31st. December, 1992).

M.D. (Physician) Lvov the order of the People's Friendship State Medical
Institute), U.S.S.R.M.D. (Davao Medical School Foundation) Davao City,
Philippines(Ateneo de Davao University, Davao City, Philippines.)M.D.
(Physician) (Moscow Medical Stomatological Institute) Moscow, U.S.S.R..M.D.
(Physician) (Leningrad Sanitary Hygiene Institute)M.D. (Physician) (Degesten
Medical Institute)M.B.B.S. (College of Medicine, University of Lagos) Lagos,
Nigeria.M.B.B.S. (Ahmadu Bellow University, Zaria), Nigeria.M.B.B.S (College
of Medical Sciences, university of Benin), Benin City, Nigeria.M.B.B.S.
(College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan), Nigeria.Ganeesheer-
specialist in Inwendige Ganeeskunde, Katholike University, leuven,
BalgiumFacharzt Fur Urologie, University of Vienna, Austria.M.B.B.S.
(University of Nigeria), Nsukka.Doctor of Medicine and Surgery (University of
Studies), Pavia, Italy.M.D. (Timisoara Institute of Medicine),
Romania.M.B.Ch.B. (University of Baghdad), Iraq.M.B.B.s. (University of
Khartoum) Sudan.N.D. (University of Rostov), G.D.R.Diploma De Docteurean
Medicine, Algeria.M.D. (University of Kabul), Afghanistan.M.D. (University of
Kabul), Afghanistan.M.D. (University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersy),
U.S.A.M.B.B.S. (University of Papua New Guinea), Boroka.M.D. (University of
Pecs), Hungary.M.D. (Medicine and Surgery), University of Catania),
Italy.Doctor Medicine, M.D. (St. George's University School of
Medicine),Grenada, West Indies.Physician (Warsaw Medical Academy),
Poland.Diploma of Physician, Medical Academy in Gdensk, Poland.Physician M.B.
(Bachelor of Medicine), Medical Academy, Sofia, (Higher Medical
Institute)Pleven Bulgaria.M.D. (Albert Szen Gyorgyi Medical University),
Hungary.These qualifications shall be recognized medical qualifications when
granted upto 16thSeptember, 2001."Certificate in Geeneesheer, Specialist in
deoogheelkunde" (Ghent University), Belgium.

First Name | Changed Name  
---|---  
M.D. `Physician', (Patrice Lumumba Friendship university,Moscow), U.S.S.R. |  M.D. `Phyasician'(Russian People'sFriendshipUniversity,Moscow), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (First Moscow Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (The Sechenov First Moscow Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.  
| M.D. `Physician' (MoscowMedicalAcademyofRussia), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (First Leningard Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (1st I.P. Pavlov medicalInstituteofLeningard), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (Crimea Medical Institute inSimferopol), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (The Crimea State Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (Vitebsk Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. |   
M.D. `Physician' (Volgograd Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. |   
M.D. `Physician' (Rostov Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (The order of People'sFriendshipRostovStateMedicalUniversity), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (Stavropol Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (StavropolMedicalAcademy), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (Kalinin Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (Tver State Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (Kuban Medical Institute in Crasnadar) U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (KubanStateMedicalAcademy), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (Irutsk Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. |   
M.D.'Physician'(Voroshylovgrad Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (The Lugansk Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.  
| M.D. `Physician' (TheLuganskMedicalUniversity), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (Donetsk Medical Institute, U.S.S.R. |   
M.D. `Physician' (Zaaporozhye Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. |   
M.D. `Physician' (Lvov Medical Institute, U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (Lvovthe order of People'sFriendshipStateMedicalUniversity), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (Vinitsa Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (VinitsaStatePirigovMemorialMedicalUniversity), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (Minks Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. |   
M.D. `Physician' (Odesa Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (Odessa Pirogov Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (Tashkent Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (2nd Tashkent Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (Tedjik Medical Institute inDushanbe), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (Tajik Abuali Ibn Sino State Medical UniversityDushanbe), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (Alma-Ata Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (Almaty Medical Institute) U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' Yerevan Medical Institute),U.S.S.R. |   
M.D. `Physician' (Kharkov Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (Kharkov State Medical Institute), U.S.S.R  
M.D. `Physician' (Azaarbajan Medical Institute inBaku), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (AzarbaijanMedicalUniversityinBaku), U.S.S.R.  
| M.D. `Physician' (AzerbaijanN. Narimanov Medical University),USSR.  
M.D. `Physician' (State Medical Institute,Kiev), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (O.BogomoletsUkrainianStateMedicalUniversity), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (Second Moscow Medical Institute), U.S.S.R. | M.D. `Physician' (Second Moscow State Pirogov Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.  
M.D. `Physician' (NationalMedicalUniversityofRussia), U.S.S.R. |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph. D.) in Medical Sciences (PatricsLumumbaFirendshipUniversity),Moscow, U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (First Moscow Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* | Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) in Medical Sciences. (The Sechenov First Moscow Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.  
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (First Leningard Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* | Doctor of Philosophy (Ph. D.) in Medical Sciences (1st I.P. Pavlov Medical Institute of Leningard), U.S.S.R.  
Doctor of Philosphy(Ph. D.) in Medical Sciences (Crimea Medical Institute ofSimferopol), U.S.S.R.* | Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (The Crimea State Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.  
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) in Medical Sciences (Vitebskmedical Institute), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Volgograd Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Rostov Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* | Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (The order of People's Friendship Rostov State Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.  
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Stavropol Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Kalinin Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* | Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Ivar State Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.  
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Kubanmedical Institute in Crasnadar), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Irkutsk Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Voroshy Lovgrad Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* | Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (The Lugansk Medical Institution), U.S.S.R.  
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Donetsk Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) in Medical Sciences (Zaaporozhye Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Lvov Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Vinitsa Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Minks Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Odessa Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* | Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Odessa Pirogov Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.  
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Tashkent Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* | Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) in Medical Sciences (2nd Tashkent Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.  
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Tedjit Medical Institute in Dushauba), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Alma-Ata Medical Institute, U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Vrevan medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Kharkovmedical Institute), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Azaarbajan Medical Institute in Bakn), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (State Medical Institute,Kiev), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Second Moscow Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* | Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Second Moscow State Pirogov Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.  
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Moscowmedical Stomatological Institute), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences ((LeningradSanitary Hygienic Institute), U.S.S.R.* |   
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences (Dagastan Medical Institute), U.S.S.R.* |   
  
*The Postgraduate medical qualification Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Medical Sciences awarded by Supreme Attestation Commission, Moscow (U.S.S.R.) to students sponsored by Medical Council of India or to other students fulfilling the minimum eligibility criteria for admission to undergraduate courses in India and admitted in the Institutions of erstwhile U.S.S.R. for undergraduate or Postgraduate courses upto 1989 shall be recognized medical qualification.

