## Union of India - Act

## The Industrial Reconstruction Bank (Transfer of Undertakings and Repeal)
Act, 1997

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Industrial Reconstruction Bank (Transfer of Undertakings and Repeal)
Act, 1997

## Act 7 of 1997

  * Published in Gazette 7 on 19 March 1997 
  * Assented to on 19 March 1997 
  * Commenced on 19 March 1997 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 March 1997.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Industrial Reconstruction Bank (Transfer Of Undertakings And Repeal) Act,
1997[19th March, 1997.]ACT NO. 7 of 1997An Act to provide for the transfer and
vesting of the undertakings of the Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India to
and in the Company to be formed and registered as a Company under the
Companies Act, 1956, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto
and also to repeal the Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India Act,
1984.PREAMBLEBE it enacted by Parliament in the Forty-eighth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:—

## Chapter 1  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement.—

(1)This Act may be called the Industrial Reconstruction Bank (Transfer of
Undertakings and Repeal) Act, 1997.(2)It shall be deemed to have come into
force on the 24th day of January, 1997.

### 2. Definitions.—

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)“appointed day” means
such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint under section 3;(b)“Company” means the Industrial Investment
Bank of India Limited to be formed and registered under the Companies Act,
1956 (1 of 1956);(c)“Reconstruction Bank” means the Industrial Reconstruction
Bank of India established under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Industrial
Reconstruction Bank of India Act, 1984 (62 of 1984).

## Chapter II  
Transfer and vesting of the undertakings of Reconstruction Bank in Company

### 3. Undertakings of the Reconstruction Bank to vest in Company.—

On such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint, there shall be transferred to, and vest in, the Company, the
undertakings of Reconstruction Bank.

### 4. General effect of vesting of undertaking in Company.—

(1)The Central Government, being the shareholder of the Reconstruction Bank
immediately before the appointed day, shall be deemed to be registered, on and
from the appointed day, as a shareholder of the Company.(2)The undertakings of
the Reconstruction Bank which are transferred to, and which vest in, the
Company under section 3 shall be deemed to include all business, assets,
rights powers, authorities and privileges and all properties, movable and
immovable, real and personal, corporeal and incorporeal, in possession or
reservation, present or contingent of whatever nature and wheresoever situate
including lands, buildings, vehicles, cash balances, deposits, foreign
currencies, disclosed and undisclosed reserves, reserve fund, special reserve
fund, benevolent reserve fund, any other fund, stocks, investments, shares,
bonds, debentures, security, management of any industrial concern, loans,
advances and guarantees given to industrial concerns, tenancies, leases and
book debts and all other rights and interests arising out of such property as
were immediately before the appointed day in the ownership, possession or
power of the Reconstruction Bank in relation to its undertakings, within or
without India, all books of account, registers, records and documents relating
thereto and shall also be deemed to include all borrowings, liabilities and
obligations of whatever kind within or without India then subsisting of the
Reconstruction Bank in relation to its undertakings.(3)All contracts, deeds,
bonds, guarantees, powers of attorney, other instruments and working
arrangements subsisting immediately before the appointed day and affecting the
Reconstruction Bank shall cease to have effect or to be enforceable against
the Reconstruction Bank and shall be of as full force and effect against or in
favour of the Company in which the undertakings of the Reconstruction Bank
have vested by virtue of this Act and enforceable as fully and effectually as
if instead of the Reconstruction Bank, the Company had been named therein or
had been a party thereto.(4)Any proceeding or cause of action pending or
existing immediately before the appointed day by or against the Reconstruction
Bank in relation to its undertakings may, as from the appointed day, be
continued and enforced by or against the Company in which the undertakings of
the Reconstruction Bank have vested by virtue of this Act as it might have
been enforced by or against the Reconstruction Bank if this Act had not been
enacted and shall cease to be enforceable by or against the Reconstruction
Bank.

### 5. Provisions in respect of officers and other employees of Reconstruction
Bank.—

(1)Every officer or other employee of the Reconstruction Bank (except a
Director of the Board or the Chairman and Managing Director) serving in the
employment immediately before the appointed day shall, in so far as such
officer or other employee is employed in connection with the undertakings
which have vested in the Company by virtue of this Act, become, as from the
appointed day, an officer or, as the case may be, other employee of the
Company and shall hold his office or service therein by the same tenure, at
the same remuneration, upon the same terms and conditions, with the same
obligations and with the same rights and privileges as to leave, leave fare
concession, welfare scheme, medical benefit scheme, insurance, provident fund,
other funds, retirement, voluntary retirement, gratuity and other benefits as
he would have held under the Reconstruction Bank if its undertakings had not
vested in the Company and shall continue to do so as an officer or, as the
case may be, other employees of the Company or until the expiry of a period of
six months from the appointed day if such officer or other employee opts not
to continue to be the officer or other employee of the Company within such
period.(2)Where an officer or other employee of the Reconstruction Bank opts
under sub-section (1) not to be in employment or service of the Company, such
officer or other employee shall be deemed to have resigned.(3)Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) or in any
other law for the time being in force, the transfer of the services of any
officer or other employee of the Reconstruction Bank to the Company shall not
entitle such officer or other employees to any compensation under this Act or
under any other law for the time being in force and no such claim shall be
entertained by any court, tribunal or other authority.(4)The officer and other
employees who have retired before the appointed day from the service of the
Reconstruction Bank and are entitled to any benefits, rights or privileges
shall be entitled to receive the same benefits, rights or privileges from the
Company.(5)The trust of the provident fund or the gratuity fund of the
Reconstruction Bank and any other bodies created for the welfare of officers
or employees would continue to discharge their functions in the Company as was
being hitherto in the Reconstruction Bank and tax exemption granted to the
provident fund or the gratuity fund would continue to be applied to the
Company.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in the Companies
Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or in any other law for the time being in force or in
the regulations of the Reconstruction Bank, no Director of the Board, Chairman
and Managing Director or any other person entitled to manage the whole or
substantial part of the business and affairs of the Reconstruction Bank shall
be entitled to any compensation against the Reconstruction Bank or the Company
for the loss of office or for the premature termination of any contract of
management entered into by him with the Reconstruction Bank.

## Chapter III  
Miscellaneous

### 6. Concession, etc., to be deemed to have been granted to Company.—

With effect from the appointed day, all fiscal and other concessions,
benefits, privileges and exemptions granted to the Reconstruction Bank in
connection with the affairs and business of the Reconstruction Bank under any
law for the time being in force shall be deemed to have been granted to the
Company.

### 7. Tax exemption or benefit to continue to have effect.—

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961)
or any other enactment for the time being in force relating to tax on income,
profits or gains, the Company shall not be liable to pay income tax or any
other tax for a period of five years computed from the appointed day of any
income, profits or gains derived, or any amount received by the Company.(2)The
transfer and vesting of the undertakings or any part thereof in terms of
section 3 shall not be construed as a transfer within the meaning of the
Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) for the purpose of capital gains.

### 8. Guarantee to be operative.—

Any guarantee given for or in favour of the Reconstruction Bank with respect
of any loan, lease finance or other assistance shall continue to be operative
in relation to the Company.

### 9. Arrangement with Company on appointment of director to prevail.—

(1)Where any arrangement entered into by the company with an industrial or
other concern provides for the appointment by the company of one or more
directors of such concern, such provision and any appointment of directors
made, in pursuance thereof shall be valid and effective notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or
in any other law for the time being in force or in the memorandum, articles of
association or any other instrument relating to such concern, and any
provision regarding share qualification, age limit, number of directorships,
removal from office of directors and such like conditions contained in any
such law or instrument aforesaid, shall not apply to any director appointed by
the company in pursuance of the arrangement as aforesaid.(2)Any director
appointed in pursuance of sub-section (1) shall—(a)hold office during the
pleasure of the company and may be removed or substituted by any person by
order in writing by the company;(b)not incur any obligation or liability by
reason only of his being a director or for anything done or omitted to be done
in good faith in the discharge of his duties as a director or anything in
relation thereto;(c)not be liable to retirement by rotation and shall not be
taken into account for computing the number of directors liable to such
retirement.

### 10. Act 18 of 1891 to apply to the books of Company.—

The Company shall be deemed to be a bank for the purpose of the Bankers' Books
Evidence Act, 1891.

### 11. Shares, bonds and debentures to be deemed to be approved securities.—

Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, the shares, bonds and debentures of the Company shall be deemed to be
approved securities for the purposes of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (2 of
1882) and the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938).

### 12. Substitution in Act, rules or regulations of company in place of the
Reconstruction Bank.—

In every Act, rule or regulation in force on the appointed day,—(a)for the
words “Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India”, wherever they occur, the
words “Industrial Investment Bank of India Limited” shall be
substituted;(b)for the words “Reconstruction Bank”, wherever they occur, the
words “Industrial Investment Bank” shall be substituted;

### 13. Repeal and saving of Act 62 of 1984.—

(1)On the appointed day, the Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India Act, 1984
shall stand repealed.(2)Notwithstanding the repeal of the Industrial
Reconstruction Bank of India Act, 1984—(a)the Company shall, so far as may be,
comply with the provisions of Chapter VII of the Act so repealed for any of
the purposes related to the annual accounts and audit of the Reconstruction
Bank;(b)the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Act so repealed will continue to
be applicable in respect of the arrangements entered into by the
Reconstruction Bank with an industrial concern under section 18 thereof up to
the appointed day and the Company will be entitled to act upon and enforce the
same as fully and effectually as if this Act had not been elected.

## Chapter IV  
Amendment to the Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India Act, 1984

### 14. Insertion of new section 4A.—

In the Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India Act, 1984 (62 of 1984), after
section 4, the following section shall be inserted, namely:—“4A. Transitional
provisions regarding adjustment of capital of the Reconstruction Bank.—(1)The
Central Government may reduce share capital of the Reconstruction Bank
by,—(a)extinguishing or reducing the liability of any of its equity
shares;(b)either with or without extinguishing or reducing liability on any of
its equity shares, concealing any paid up share capital which is lost, or is
unrepresented by available assets; or(c)either with or without extinguish or
reducing liability on any of its equity shares, paying of any paid up share
capital which is in excess of the wants of the Reconstruction Bank.(2)The
Central Government may at any time, by notification in the Official Gazette,
convert such number of equity shares held by it, as it may decide into
redeemable preference shares.(3)The redeemable preference shares referred to
in sub-section (2) shall carry such fixed rates of dividend as the Central
Government may specify at the time of such conversion.”

### 15. Repeal and saving.—

(1)The Industrial Reconstruction Bank (Transfer of Undertakings and Repeal)
Ordinance, 1997 (Ord. 7 of 1997) is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such
repeal, anything done or any action taken under the Ordinance so repealed,
shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions
of this Act.

