## Union of India - Act

## The Indian Trusts Act, 1882

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Indian Trusts Act, 1882

## Act 2 of 1882

  * Published on 24 August 1984 
  * Commenced on 24 August 1984 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 July 2016.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE INDIAN TRUSTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2016 (Act 34 of 2016) on 26 July 2016] 

The Indian Trusts Act, 1882(2 of 1882)Last Updated 30th December,
2019Statement of Objects and Reasons.-"Trusts" in the strict sense in which
that term is used by English lawyers, that is to say, confidences to the
existence of which a "legal" and an "equitable" estate are necessary, are
unknown to Hindu and Muhammadan Law. But trust in the wider sense of the word,
that is to say, obligations annexed to the ownership of property which arise
out of a confidence reposed in and accepted by the owner for the benefit of
another, are constantly created by the natives of India and are frequently
enforced by our Courts "There is, probably", says Mr. Justice Phear (4 Ben.
O.C.J. 134) "no country in the world where fiduciary relations exhibit
themselves so extensively and in such varied forms as in India, and possession
of dominion over property coupled with the obligation to use it either wholly
or partially, for the benefit of others than the possessor, is, I imagine
familiar to every Hindu". So, too, in the case of Muhammadans where a woman is
entitled to a share of her deceased father's estate in the hands of her
brother (W.R. 1864, p. 377), or to exigible dower in the hands of her husband
(6 W.R. 111). Trusts created by an old man for his own maintenance and
ulterior purposes, for a widow, for a daughter, step-daughter or daughter-in-
law and her children are of pretty frequent occurrence amongst the natives,
whether Hindu or Muhammadan, and it is desirable to keep them free from the
complication of double estates in which, without the intervention of the
Legislature, they are certain to become entangled. But apart from the native
property-holder, there is the large body of domiciled Europeans and Eurasians
who have for nearly a century enjoyed and taken advantage of a trust law
recognized by our Courts; the number and wealth of this class have increased,
and in suits between members of this community every Court in the country may
be called upon to administer a trust-law. Nevertheless, with the exception of
certain provisions in the Penal Code, the Specific Relief Act, the Code of
Civil Procedure and the Limitation Act, the Indian Statute book is silent on
the subject so far as regards the bulk of the population; for the Statute of
Frauds, sections 7 to 11, is in force only in the Presidency-towns, and the
rules contained in Acts XXVII and XXVIII of 1866 extend only to cases to which
English law is applicable, and are, in themselves, incomplete.The object of
the present Bill is to codify the law relating to trusts in the wider sense
above described but it saves the rules of Muhammadan law as to waqf, and the
mutual relations of the members of an undivided family. And it leaves
untouched religious and charitable endowments established by Hindus and
Buddhists, as being matters in which the Legislature cannot at present
usefully interfere further or otherwise than has been done by Act XX of
1863.With the few exceptions mentioned in this Statement, the rules contained
in the Bill are substantially those now administered by English Courts of
Equity and (under the name of "justice, equity and good conscience") by the
Courts of British India.The Bill distributes the subject under the following
heads: I, Preliminary: II, the creation of trusts: III, the duties and
liabilities of trustees: IV, their rights and powers: V, their disabilities:
VI, the rights and liabilities of the beneficiary: VII, vacating the office of
trustee: VIII, the extinction of trust: and IX, certain obligations of the
nature of trusts.The preliminary Chapter, in order to prevent the introduction
of conceptions resembling the English legal estate and equitable ownership,
defines the interest of the beneficiary as his right against the trustee as
owner of the property. The beneficiary has, under the Bill, no estate or
interest in the subject-matter of the trust. The Bill also defines "breach of
trust" as a breach of any duty imposed on a trustee, as such, by any law for
the time being in force, and declares that a person has "notice" of a fact
when he actually knows that fact, or when but for wilful abstention from
inquiry or gross negligence, he would have known it, or when information is
given to, or obtained by his agent under the circumstances mentioned in the
Contract Act, section 229.The second Chapter deals with the creation of trust.
It declares that a trust may be created for any "lawful purpose", and, as
there is a general analogy between a trust and a contract, the Bill defines
such purpose to be lawful in the cases in which the Indian Contract Act,
section 23, declares the object of an agreement to be lawful. An explanation
shows that, where the trust-property is land situate in a foreign country, the
trust, to be valid, must not create an estate not recognized by the law of
that country.The expediency of excluding oral declarations of trust has long
been felt in the case of land, and the Bill (section 5) lays down, in general
accordance with the seventh section of the Statute of Frauds, that no trust in
relation to immovable property is valid, unless declared (a) by non-
testamentary instrument in writing signed by the author of the trust or the
trustee and registered, or (b) by the will of the author of the trust or of
the trustee, and that no trust in relation to movable property is valid unless
declared, as aforesaid, or unless the ownership of the property is transferred
to the trustee. Theoretically, this will modify the Hindu Law, which in no
transaction absolutely requires a writing (2 Mad.H.C. Rep. 39); but trusts by
merely verbal declarations are as rarely met with as mortgages by merely
verbal agreements; the proposed change will, therefore, in practice make no
alteration in that law. The rule will not apply where it would operate so as
to effectuate a fraud, as, for example, where a father having power to
bequeath certain land is induced not to make a will of that land by the
promise of his heir presumptive that he will provide there out for his
relatives.Section 8 declares that the subject-matter of a trust must be
property transferable to the beneficiary, and that it must not be a merely
beneficial interest under a subsisting trust. The object of the latter
provision is to preclude the complications that would arise from allowing a
trust upon a trust.Section 9 declares that every person capable of holding
property may be a beneficiary. As, under Act 1 of 1868, "person" includes a
corporation the Bill here varies from English Law. But the variation is
intentional, as it has been more than once ruled that the Mortmain Statutes
are not in force in India.

## Chapter III  
deals with a trustee's duties and liabilities. None of the rules here
contained call for remark except sections 20 and 23, section 20 gives a list
of the securities on which alone a trustee may invest trust-funds. The
necessity for some such provision has been indicated by the High Court of
Bombay in De Souza v. De Souza, I.L.R. 12 Born. 184. Investments on mortgages
of leaseholds for years are forbidden, unless, of course, such securities are
expressly authorized by the instrument of trust. In England, no doubt,
trustees authorized to lend on a mortgage of realty may invest on a long term
of years at a peppercorn rent. But in this country such terms are practically
unknown. Section 20 also allows a trustee to deposit a trust fund not
exceeding Rs. 1,000 in a Government Savings Bank, and to invest on mortgage of
land already pledged as security for an advance under the Land Improvement
Act, 1871. A power like the latter is conferred in England by 27 and 28 Vict.,
Chap. 114, section 161. Section 23 declares the measure of the trustee's
liability in case of a breach of trust and embodies, as illustrations, the
rules on which Courts of Equity act where trust-property improperly left
outstanding is lost or where a trustee retains money which should be invested,
or neglects a direction to invest, or to accumulate, or improperly sells trust
securities, or is guilty of unreasonable delay in investing trust-funds or in
paying them to the beneficiary.

## Chapter IV  
treats of the rights and powers of trustees. It embodies the substance of Act
28 of 1866, sections 2, 3, 5, 32, 33, 36, 37, 39 and 43. Section 34 of the
Bill empowers trustees to apply, not only to High Court Judges, but to
District Judges, for advice on simple questions respecting the management and
administration of the trust-property. Under section 36, which deals with the
general authority of a trustee, trustees will be able (unless restrained from
doing so by the instrument of trust) to grant reasonable agricultural leases,
thin timber and otherwise act for the benefit of the trust. Except with the
permission of the Court, no trustee will be able to lease trust-property for a
term exceeding 21 years.

## Chapter V  
deals with disabilities of the trustees. The only section here calling for
remark is 52, which declares that no trustee, and no person who has recently
ceased to be a trustee may, without the permission of the Court, buy the
interest of the beneficiary in the trust-property, and that such permission
shall not be given unless the purchase is manifestly for the benefit of the
latter. The Bill here deviates from the present law according to which a
trustee is allowed to buy trust property from his beneficiary if the latter is
sui juris and the former can show that the relation of trustee and beneficiary
was, at the time of the purchase, virtually dissolved, and that the fullest
information and every advantage were given to the beneficiary. Such a rule
seems too vague for insertion in a Code intended to be worked, for the most
part, by unprofessional Judges; it has, moreover, been disapproved in Morse v.
Royal, 12 Ves. 372.

In the next Chapter-of the rights and liabilities of the beneficiary-the only
sections requiring special notice are sections 58 and 62. The former provides
for the execution of trusts by the Court, and makes no distinction between the
cases where the declaration of trust is complete and those where the trust is
executory, i.e., where the declaration of trust is intended to be perfect at
some future period.The latter section declares that all persons taking
immovable trust property inconsistently with the trust hold it subject to the
trust, except (a) purchasers in good faith for consideration without notice of
the trust and (b) purchasers for consideration from such purchasers. This
agrees with the English rule which, to prevent stagnation of property, exempts
from the trust a purchaser with notice from an innocent purchaser without
notice, who has got the legal estate.

## Chapter VII  
treats of vacating the office of trustee, and, incidentally deals with the
appointment of new trustees, and declares that, on the death or discharge of
one of several co-trustees, the trust survives and the trust-property passes
to the others, unless the instrument of trust expressly declares otherwise.

## Chapter VIII  
treats of the extinction of trusts and, incidentally, of their revocation.

Where no trust is declared but for the purposes of justice the law deems one
to have been created, the trust is by English Lawyers termed constructive.
Benami transactions, where property is transferred to A for a consideration
paid by B, and B makes the payment for his own benefit, have for centuries
been familiar to the people of India; gains made by one person at the cost of
another are an everyday source of litigation; and in no country, owing to the
extreme sub-division of immovable property and the partition of inheritances,
are constructive trusts more common. Chapter IX avoids the fiction implied in
the term "constructive trusts" by treating such confidences as obligations in
the nature of trusts properly so called. It specifies the fourteen principal
cases in which such an obligation arises, as follows:-1\. Where it does not
appear that the transferor of property intended to dispose of the beneficial
interest (section 80).2\. Where property is transferred to one person for a
consideration paid by another (section 81).3\. Where the trust is incapable of
execution or is executed without exhausting the property (section 82).4\.
Where a transfer of property is made for an illegal purpose (section 83).5\.
Where a bequest is made for an illegal purpose, or where the revocation of a
bequest is forcibly prevented (section 84).6\. Where a transfer is made in
pursuance of a rescindable contract (section 85).7\. Where a transfer is made
in fraud of the transferor's creditors (section 86).8\. Where a debtor becomes
his creditor's legal representative (section 87).9\. Where a pecuniary
advantage is gained by a person in a fiduciary character (section 88).10\.
Where an advantage is gained by the exercise of undue influence (section
89).11\. Where an advantage is gained by a tenant for life or other qualified
owner in derogation of the rights of other persons interested in the property
(section 90).12\. Where property is acquired with notice of an existing
contract affecting it (section 91.).13\. Where a person contracts to buy
property to be held on trust (section 92).14\. Where one of several
compounding creditors, by a secret arrangement with the debtor, gains an
advantage over his co-creditors (section 93).The Bill also contains a general
clause (section 94) providing for cases not so specified. It is believed that
this clause will cover that form of constructive trust which the Punjab Courts
have held to arise when a co-sharer in a village community absents himself
without expressly abandoning his rights.The Bill declares that, in the case of
all obligations in the nature of a trust, the obligor shall be subject to the
liabilities and (with the two exceptions mentioned in section 95) to the
disabilities of an ordinary trustee.Three only of the obligations above
specified seem to require further notice. The Bill, it will be seen, does not
attempt to suppress the inveterate practice of entering into benarni
transactions, and it must be admitted that in many perhaps most of these
transactions the parties are actuated by religious or prudential, rather than
fraudulent motives. Section 81, accordingly, declares that, where property is
transferred to one person for a consideration paid by another, and it appears
that the latter did not intend to pay the consideration for the benefit of the
former, the transferee must hold the property for the benefit of the person
paying. Resulting trusts, i.e., those that arise where an interest is given
for purposes to which the trust is not commensurate (as, for instance, pay
debts which are satisfied, or an annuity which expires), are treated (section
82) as constructive, for here there is no declaration of trust as to the
portion of the trust-property which is not required for the purpose declared.
Section 86 corresponds with 13 Eliz., c. 5, as to settlements intended to
defraud creditors. That Statute is in force in the Presidency-towns, and its
principle has been held by the Madras High Court (I.L.R. 4 Mad. 88) to apply
to Natives in the mufassal.Where a person gives property to charitable
purposes, and either specifies no objects or such as do not exhaust the
proceeds, the law as it stands, does not suffer the property or its surplus to
result to the donor or his legal representatives; but the Court takes upon
itself to execute the donor's intention by declaring the particular purposes
to which the fund shall be applied. A similar exception is made when the
purposes of the gift at the time exhaust the whole proceeds, but in
consequence of an increase in the value of the property an excess of income
subsequently arises. The Bill ignores these exceptions, which were introduced
when the law of resulting trusts was imperfectly understood, and which
unfairly disregarded the interest of the legal representative.Lastly, it may
be remarked that the Bill contains no provisions as to the presumption against
trustees that advantages gained by them from their beneficiaries are gained by
undue influence, or as to the escheat of a beneficiary's interest. The former
matter is sufficiently provided for by the Evidence Act, 1 of 1872, section
111, the latter, by the Succession Act, 10 of 1865, and the general law as to
bona vacantia.The Bill is now published as settled by the Indian Law
Commission and in accordance with the Legislative despatch of the Secretary of
State, No. 37, dated 7th October, 1889.Report of Select CommitteeThe Hon'ble
Mr. Stokes moved that the further Report of the Select Committee on the Bill
to define and amend the law relating to Private Trusts and Trustees be taken
into consideration. He said that since he last had the honour of addressing
the Council on this Bill, it had been twice revised by a Select Committee, at
first composed of the Hon'ble Mr. Gibbs and himself, and then of the Hon'ble
Messrs. Gibbs, Evans, Crosthwaite and himself, his Hori ble friend the
Maharaja Jotindra Mohan Tagore, to his regret, being unable to assist them
owing to his other avocations. The Committee had left the Bill in substance as
it was settled by the Indian Law Commission. But it had made five changes
which he would briefly state to the Council.The Bill, as originally drawn and
as settled by the Indian Law Commission, applied to the whole of British
India. Now, the Government of India had no desire to bring this Bill into
operation in any part of India against the wishes of the Local Government. The
Committee had, therefore, made the Bill to extend in the first instance only
to the territories respectively administered by the Governor of Madras in
Council, the Lieutenant Governors of the North-Western Provinces and the
Punjab, and the Chief Commissioners of Oudh, the Central Provinces, Coorg and
Assam; and they had given power to the other Local Governments to extend it by
notification to any part of the territories respectively under their
administration.Section 20, in accordance with a suggestion of the Bombay High
Court, enumerated the securities on which trustees might properly invest
trust-funds. The learned Chief Justice of Bombay had pointed out that the most
ordinary and popular investment among Native trustees (at least in the Bombay
mufassal) was an investment of money with the firms of shroffs or merchants of
good repute to run at interest. To prescribe this form of investment, as the
Bill as introduced practically did would, in Sir M. Westropp's opinion, cause
much inconvenience. Similar kinds of investment might also occur in other
parts of India. The Committee, had, therefore, in section 20, clause (f),
provided that money held in trust might be invested on any security expressly
authorized by any rule which the High Court might from time to time prescribe
in this behalf.At the suggestion of the British Indian Association, the
Committee had expressly provided, in section 41 of the Bill, that the income
of property held in trust for a minor might be applied for the reasonable
expenses of his religious worship.After section 42 they had inserted a section
taken, with some slight modification, from the Property Act, 1881 (41 and 45
Vict., c. 41), and declaring the power of a trustee to compromise or compound
debts or claims relating to the trust. A like power was given by section 38 of
the Trustees' and Mortgagees' [Powers] Act (28 of 1866) to executors, whose
position was similar to that of trustees.Clause (b), section 72, which
empowered retiring trustees to appoint a new trustee, was objected to by the
British Indian Association on the ground that retiring trustees would probably
be indifferent to the interests of the beneficiary. The Committee had,
therefore, provided that they could only appoint with the consent of the
Court.No objections to the Bill had been received since it was republished
last July, except those contained in a memorial from the British Indian
Association, dated the 9th December, 1881. The Committee, and especially the
Hon'ble Mr. Evans and himself, had carefully examined this memorial and
adopted two of the suggestions which it contained. But they were unable to
adopt its other recommendations, most of which were, as seemed to them,
founded on a misconception of what the law of trusts really was, as applied to
Natives by the High Courts. He was prepared, if the Council wished him to do
so, to go through the memorial point by point and to answer each of the
objections. But this would take up at least an hour with matters of which only
a lawyer could properly judge; and he was bound to say that he thought the
time of the Council might be occupied both more pleasantly and more profitably
than in listening to such a dissertation.He, therefore, now asked the Council
to pass the Bill. The reception which it had met with in the greater part of
India, namely, in Madras, the North Western Provinces, the Punjab, Oudh, the
Central Provinces, Coorg and Assam, convinced him that it was accurate,
intelligible and really wanted; and the growing tendency of Hindu testators in
the Lower Provinces to create trusts by Will, of which he had recently been
informed by Mr. Justice, Wilson, made him sanguine that His Honour the
Lieutenant-Governor would soon see the propriety of extending it to the
Provinces which he administered so ably.The Hon'ble Mr. Evans said that he had
been placed on the Select Committee since his return to this country in
November, and had not had much leisure to go minutely through all the
provisions of the Bill but that he had in Select Committee considered the
objections urged by the memorial of the British Indian Association, with the
result stated by the Hon'ble mover. As to the Bill generally, the somewhat
cursory examination which he had been able to give to it did not lead him to
believe that the rights and obligations of trustees and beneficiaries would be
materially altered, save possibly as regards the class of securities in which
a trustee might invest. Power was given to the High Court to relax the rules
as to investment if found too stringent.[13th January, 1882]...An Act to
define and amend the law relating to Private Trusts and Trustees .Preamble. -
Whereas it is expedient to define and amend the law relating to private trusts
and trustees; It is hereby enacted as follows:

The Act has been extended to Berar by the Berar Laws Act 4 of 1941.It has been
extended to the new Provinces and the merged States by Act 59 of 1949, and to
the States of Manipur, Tripura and Vindhya Pradesh by Act 30 of 1950. Manipur
and Tripura are full-fledged States now, see Act 81 of 971. Vindhya Pradesh is
a part of Madhya Pradesh State, see Act 37 of 1956.It has been extended to (1)
Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regn. 6 of 1963, (2) Pondicherry by Regn. 7 of 1963,
and (3) Goa, Daman and Diu by Regn. 11 of 1963. Goa is now a State, see Act 18
of 1987, Section 3 (w.e.f. 30-5-1987).It has been enforced in the State of
Sikkim Vide S.O. 642 (E), dated 24-8-1984 (w.e.f. 1-9-1984).  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, commencement.

\- This Act may be called The Indian Trusts Act, 1882 , and it shall come into
force on the first day of March, 1882.Local extent. Savings. - [It extends to
[the whole of India [[***] [Substituted by A.O.1948, for the first sentence.]]
and] the Andaman and Nicobar Islands [* * *] [The words "and Panth Piploda"
omitted by A.O.1950.]; but the Central Government may, from time to time, by
notification in the Official Gazette, extend it to [the Andaman and Nicobar
Islands] [Substituted by A.O.1950, for "either or both of the said Provinces,"
.] or to any part thereof.]But nothing herein contained affects the rules of
Muhammadan Law as to waqf, or the mutual relations of the members of an
undivided family as determined by any customary or personal law, or applies to
public or private religious or charitable endowments, or to trusts to
distribute prizes taken in war among the captors; and nothing in the Second
Chapter of this Act applies to trusts created before the said day.

### 2. Repeal of enactments.

\- The Statute and Acts mentioned in the Schedule hereto annexed shall, to the
extent mentioned in the said Schedule, be repealed, in the territories to
which this Act for the time being extends.

### 3. Interpretation-clause trust.

\- a trust is an obligation annexed to the ownership of property, and arising
out of a confidence reposed in and accepted by the owner, or declared and
accepted by him, for the benefit of another, or of another and the
owner:author of the trust: trustee: beneficiary: trust-property: beneficial
interest:instrument of trust. - the person who reposes or declares the
confidence is called the author of the trust: the person who accepts the
confidence is called the trustee: the person for whose benefit the confidence
is accepted is called the beneficiary: the subject-matter of the trust is
called trust-property or trust-money: the beneficial interest or interest of
the beneficiary is his right against the trustee as owner of the trust-
property; and the instrument, if any, by which the trust is declared is called
the instrument of trust:breach of trust. - a breach of any duty imposed on a
trustee, as such, by any law for the time being in force, is called a breach
of trust:registered:notice: expressions defined in Act 9 of 1872. - and in
this Act, unless there be something repugnant in the subject or context,
registered means registered under the law for the registration of documents
for the time being in force: a person is said to have notice of a fact either
when he actually knows that fact, or when, but for willful abstention from
inquiry or gross negligence, he would have known it, or when information of
the fact is given to or obtained by his agent, under the circumstances
mentioned in the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (9 of 1872), section 229; and all
expressions used herein and defined in the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (9 of
1872), shall be deemed to have the meanings respectively attributed to them by
that Act.

## Chapter II  
Of the Creation of Trusts

### 4. Lawful purpose.

\- A trust may be created for any lawful purpose. The purpose of a trust is
lawful unless it is (a) forbidden by law, or (b) is of such a nature that, if
permitted, it would defeat the provisions of any law, or (c) is fraudulent, or
(d) involves or implies injury to the person or property of another, or (e)
the Court regards it as immoral or opposed to public policy.Every trust of
which the purpose is unlawful is void. And where a trust is created for two
purposes, of which one is lawful and the other unlawful, and the two purposes
cannot be separated, the whole trust is void.Explanation. In this section, the
expression law includes, where the trust-property is immovable and situate in
a foreign country, the law of such country.Illustrations(a)A conveys property
to B in trust to apply the profits to the nurture of female foundlings to be
trained up as prostitutes. The trust is void.(b)A bequeaths property to B in
trust to employ it in carrying on a smuggling business, and out of the profits
thereof to support As children. The trust is void.(c)A, while in insolvent
circumstances, transfers property to B in trust for A during his life, and
after his death for B. A is declared an insolvent. The trust for A is invalid
as against his creditors.

### 5. Trust of immovable property.

\- No trust in relation to immovable property is valid unless declared by a
non-testamentary instrument in writing signed by the author of the trust or
the trustee and registered, or by the will of the author of the trust or of
the trustee.Trust of movable property. - No trust in relation to movable
property is valid unless declared as aforesaid, or unless the ownership of the
property is transferred to the trustee.These rules do not apply where they
would operate so as to effectuate a fraud.

### 6. Creation of trust.

\- Subject to the provisions of section 5, a trust is created when the author
of the trust indicates with reasonable certainty by any words or acts (a) an
intention on his part to create thereby a trust, (b)the purpose of the trust,
(c) the beneficiary, and (d) the trust-property, and (unless the trust is
declared by will or the author of the trust is himself to be the trustee)
transfers the trust-property to the trustee.Illustrations(a)A bequeaths
certain property to B, having the fullest confidence that he will dispose of
it for the benefit of C. This creates a trust so far as regards A and C.(b)A
bequeaths certain property to B hoping he will continue it in the family. This
does not create a trust, as the beneficiary is not indicated with reasonable
certainty.(c)A bequeaths certain property to B, requesting him to distribute
it among such members of Cs family as B should think most deserving. This does
not create a trust, for the beneficiaries are not indicated with reasonable
certainty.(d)A bequeaths certain property to B, desiring him to divide the
bulk of it among Cs children. This does not create a trust, for the trust-
property is not indicated with sufficient certainty.(e)A bequeaths a shop and
stock-in-trade to B, on condition that he pays As debts and a legacy to C.
This is a condition, not a trust for As creditors and C.

### 7. Who may create trusts.

\- A trust may be created(a)by every person competent to [contract] [See the
Indian Contract Act, 1872 (9 of 1872), Section 11.]; and,(b)with the
permission of a principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction, by or on
behalf of a minor;but subject in each case to the law for the time being in
force as to the circumstances and extent in and to which the author of the
trust may dispose of the trust-property.

### 8. Subject of trust.

\- The subject-matter of a trust must be property transferable to the
beneficiary.It must not be merely beneficial interest under a subsisting
trust.

### 9. Who may be beneficiary.

\- Every person capable of holding property may be a beneficiary.Disclaimer by
beneficiary. - A proposed beneficiary may renounce his interest under the
trust by disclaimer addressed to the trustee, or by setting up, with notice of
the trust, a claim inconsistent therewith.

### 10. Who may be trustee.

\- Every person capable of holding property may be a trustee;but, where the
trust involves the exercise of discretion, he cannot execute it unless he is
competent to contract.No one bound to accept trust. - No one is bound to
accept a trust.Acceptance of trust. - A trust is accepted by any words or acts
of the trustee indicating with reasonable certainty such acceptance.Disclaimer
of trust. - Instead of accepting a trust, the intended trustee may, within a
reasonable period, disclaim it, and such disclaimer shall prevent the trust-
property from vesting in him.a disclaimer by one of two or more co-trustees
vests the trust-property in the other or others, and makes him or them sole
trustee or trustees from the date of the creation of the
trust.Illustrations(a)A bequeaths certain property to B and C, his executors,
as trustees for D, B and C prove As will. This is in itself an acceptance of
the trust, and B and C hold the property in trust for D.(b)A transfers certain
property to B in trust to sell it and to pay out of the proceeds As debts. B
accepts the trust and sells the property. So far as regards B, a trust of the
proceeds is created for As creditors.(c)A bequeaths a lakh of rupees to B upon
certain trusts and appoints him his executor. B severs the lakh from the
general assets and appropriates it to the specific purpose. This is an
acceptance of the trust.

## Chapter III  
Of the Duties and Liabilities of Trustees

### 11. Trustee to execute trust.

\- The trustee is bound to fulfill the purpose of the trust, and to obey the
directions of the author of the trust given at the time of its creation,
except as modified by the consent of all the beneficiaries being competent to
contract.Where the beneficiary is incompetent to contract, his consent may,
for the purposes of this section, be given by a principal Civil Court of
original jurisdiction.Nothing in this section shall be deemed to require a
trustee to obey any direction when to do so would be impracticable, illegal or
manifestly injurious to the beneficiaries.Explanation. Unless a contrary
intention be expressed, the purpose of a trust for the payment of debts shall
be deemed to be (a) to pay only the debts of the author of the trust existing
and recoverable at the date of the instrument of trust, or, when such
instrument is a will, at the date of his death, and (b) in the case of debts
not bearing interest, to make such payment without interest.Illustrations(a)A,
a trustee, is simply authorized to sell certain land by public auction. He
cannot sell the land by private contract.(b)A, a trustee of certain land for
X, Y and Z, is authorized to sell the land to B for a specified sum. X, Y and
Z, being competent to contract, consent that A may sell the land to C for a
less sum. A may sell the land accordingly.(c)A, a trustee for B and her
children, is directed by the author of the trust to lend, on Bs request,
trust-property to Bs husband, C, on the security of his bond. C becomes
insolvent and B requests A to make the loan. A may refuse to make it.

### 12. Trustee to inform himself of state of trust-property.

\- A trustee is bound to acquaint himself, as soon as possible, with the
nature and circumstances of the trust-property; to obtain, where necessary, a
transfer of the trust-property to himself; and (subject to the provisions of
the instrument of trust) to get in trust-moneys invested on insufficient or
hazardous security.Illustrations(a)The trust-property is a debt outstanding on
personal security. The instrument of trust gives the trustee no discretionary
power to leave the debt so outstanding. The trustees duty is to recover the
debt without unnecessary delay.(b)The trust-property is money in the hands of
one of two co-trustees. No discretionary power is given by the instrument of
trust. The other co-trustee must not allow the former to retain the money for
a longer period than the circumstances of the case required.

### 13. Trustee to protect title to trust-property.

\- A trustee is bound to maintain and defend all such suits, and (subject to
the provisions of the instrument of trust) to take such other steps as, regard
being had to the nature and amount or value of the trust-property, may be
reasonably requisite for the preservation of the trust-property and the
assertion or protection of the title thereto.IllustrationThe trust-property is
immovable property which has been given to the author of the trust by an
unregistered instrument. Subject to the provisions of the [Indian Registration
Act, 1877 (3 of 1877)] [Now see the Indian Registration Act, 1908 (16 of
1908).] the trustees duty is to cause the instrument to be registered.

### 14. Trustee not to set up title adverse to beneficiary.

\- The trustee must not for himself or another set up or aid any title to the
trust-property adverse to the interest of the beneficiary.

### 15. Care required from trustee.

\- A trustee is bound to deal with the trust-property as carefully as a man of
ordinary prudence would deal with such property if it were his own; and, in
the absence of a contract to the contrary, a trustee so dealing is not
responsible for the loss, destruction or deterioration of the trust-
property.Illustrations(a)A, living in Calcutta, is a trustee for B, living in
Bombay. A remits trust-funds to B by bills drawn by a person of undoubted
credit in favour of the trustee as such, and payable at Bombay. The bills are
dishonoured. A is not bound to make good the loss.(b)A, a trustee of leasehold
property, directs the tenant to pay the rents on account of the trust to a
banker, B, then in credit. The rents are accordingly paid to B, and A leaves
the money with B only till wanted. Before the money is drawn out, B becomes
insolvent. A, having had no reason to believe that B was in insolvent
circumstances, is not bound to make good the loss.(c)A, a trustee of two debts
for B, releases one and compounds the other, in good faith, and reasonably
believing that it is for Bs interest to do so. A is not bound to make good any
loss caused thereby to B.(d)A, a trustee directed to sell the trust-property
by auction, sells the same, but does not advertise the sale and otherwise
fails in reasonable diligence in inviting competition. A is bound to make good
the loss caused thereby to the beneficiary.(e)A, a trustee for B, in execution
of his trust, sells the trust-property, but from want of due diligence on his
part, fails to receive part of the purchase-money. A is bound to make good the
loss thereby caused to B.(f)A, a trustee for B of a policy of insurance, has
funds in hand for payment of the premiums. A neglects to pay the premiums, and
the policy is consequently forfeited. A is bound to make good the loss to
B.(g)A bequeaths certain moneys to B and C as trustees, and authorizes them to
continue trust-moneys upon the personal security of a certain firm in which A
had himself invested them. A dies, and a change takes place in the firm. B and
C must not permit the moneys to remain upon the personal security of the new
firm.(h)A, a trustee for B, allows the trust to be executed solely by his co-
trustee, C. C misapplies the trust-property. A is personally answerable for
the loss resulting to B.

### 16. Conversion of perishable property.

\- Where the trust is created for the benefit of several persons in
succession, and the trust-property is of a wasting nature or a future or
reversionary interest, the trustee is bound, unless an intention to the
contrary may be inferred from the instrument of trust, to convert the property
into property of a permanent and immediately profitable
character.Illustrations(a)A bequeaths to B all his property in trust for C
during his life, and on his death for D, and on Ds death for E. As property
consists of three leasehold houses, and there is nothing in As will to show
that he intended the houses to be enjoyed in specie. B should sell the houses
and invest the proceeds in accordance with section 20.(b)A bequeaths to B his
three leasehold houses in Calcutta and all the furniture therein in trust for
C during his life, and on his death for D, and on Ds death for E. Here an
intention that the houses and furniture should be enjoyed in specie appears
clearly, and B should not sell them.

### 17. Trustee to be impartial.

\- Where there are more beneficiaries than one, the trustee is bound to be
impartial, and must not execute the trust for the advantage of one at the
expense of another.Where the trustee has a discretionary power, nothing in
this section shall be deemed to authorize the Court to control the exercise
reasonably and in good faith of such discretion.IllustrationA , a trustee for
B, C and D, is empowered to choose between several specified modes of
investing the trust-property. A in good faith chooses one of these modes. The
Court will not interfere, although the result of the choice may be to vary the
relative rights of B, C and D.

### 18. Trustee to prevent waste.

\- Where the trust is created for the benefit of several persons in succession
and one of them is in possession of the trust-property, if he commits, or
threatens to commit, any act which is destructive or permanently injurious
thereto, the trustee is bound to take measures to prevent such act.

### 19. Accounts and information.

\- A trustee is bound (a) to keep clear and accurate accounts of the trust-
property, and (b) at all reasonable times, at the request of the beneficiary,
to furnish him with full and accurate information as to the amount and state
of the trust-property.

### 20. Investment of trust-money. -

Where the trust-property consists of money and cannot be applied immediately
or at an early date to the purposes of the trust, the trustee shall, subject
to any direction contained in the instrument of trust, invest the money in any
of the securities or class of securities expressly authorized by the
instrument of trust or as specified by the Central Government, by notification
in the Official Gazette:Provided that where there is a person competent to
contract and entitled in possession to receive the income of the trust-
property for his life, or for any greater estate, no investment in any of the
securities or class of securities mentioned above shall be made without his
consent in writing.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, the
expression "securities" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
clause (h) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 34 of 2016.]

20\. Investment of trust-money.- Where the trust-property consists of money
and cannot be applied immediately or at an early date to the purposes of the
trust, the trustee is bound (subject to any direction contained in the
instrument of trust) to invest the money on the following securities, and on
no others:(a) in promissory notes,debentures, stock or other securities[of any
State Government or] [Inserted by Act 31 of 1930, Section 2 and Sch.I.]of the
Central Government or of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Ireland:[Provided that securities, both the principal whereof and the interest
whereon shall have been fully and unconditionally guaranteed by any such
Government, shall be deemed, for the purposes of this clause, to be securities
of such Government;] [Added by Act 18 of 1934, Section 2.](b) in bonds,
debentures and annuities[charged or secured by the[Parliament of the United
Kingdom] [Substituted by A.O.1937, for "charged by the Imperial Parliament on
the revenues of India" .][before the fifteenth day of August, 1947] [Inserted
by A.O.1948.]on the revenues of India or of the[Governor-General in Council or
of any Province] [Substituted by A.O.1948, for "Federation" .]:[Provided that,
after the fifteenth day of February, 1916, no money shall be invested in any
such annuity being a terminable annuity unless a sinking fund has been
established in connection with such annuity; but nothing in this proviso shall
apply to investments made before the date aforesaid;] [Inserted by Act 1 of
1916, Section 2.](bb) [ in India three and a half per cent. stock, India three
per cent. stock, India two and a half per cent stock or any other capital
stock[which before the 15th day of August, 1947, was] [Inserted by Act 1 of
1916, Section 2.]issued by the Secretary of State for India in Council under
the authority of an Act of Parliament[of the United Kingdom] [Inserted by
A.O.1950.]and charged on the revenues of India][or which[was] [Inserted by
A.O.1937.]issued by the Secretary of State on behalf of the Governor-General
in Council under the provisions of Part XIII of the Government of India Act,
1935];(c) in stock or debentures of, or shares in, Railway or other Companies
the interest whereon shall have been guaranteed by the Secretary of State for
India in Council[or by the Central Government] [Inserted by Act 1 of 1916,
Section 2.][or in debentures of the Bombay[Provincial] [Inserted by Act 21 of
1917, Section 2.]Co-operative Bank Limited, the interest whereon shall have
been guaranteed, by the Secretary of State for India in Council][or the State
Government of Bombay] [Insert6ed by A.O. 1937.];(d) [ in debentures or other
securities for money issued, under the authority of[any Central Act or
Provincial Act or State Act] [Substituted by Act 3 of 1908, Section 2, for
Clause (d).], by or on behalf of any municipal body, port trust or city
improvement trust in any Presidency-town, or in Rangoon town, or by or on
behalf of the trustees of the port of Karachi:][Provided that after the 31st
day of March, 1948, no money shall be invested in any securities issued by or
on behalf of a municipal body, port trust or city improvement trust in Rangoon
town, or by or on behalf of the trustees of the port of Karachi; ] [Inserted
by A.O.1948.](e) on a first mortgage of immovable property situate in[any part
of the territories to which this Act extends] [Substitued by Act 3 of 1951,
Section 3 and Sch., for "a Part A State or a Part C State" .]:Provided that
the property is not a leasehold for a term of years and that the value of the
property exceeds by one-third, or, if consisting of buildings exceeds by one-
half, the mortgage-money;[* * *] [The words "or" at the end of Clause (e)
omitted and Clause (ee) inserted by Act 16 of 1975, Section 2 (w.r.e.f.
7.1.1975).](ee) [ in units issued by the Unit Trust of India under any unit
scheme made under section 21 of the[Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 (52 of
1963)] [The words "or" at the end of Clause (e) omitted and Clause (ee)
inserted by Act 16 of 1975, Section 2 (w.r.e.f. 7.1.1975).]; or](f) on any
other security expressly authorized by the instrument of trust,[or by the
Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette,] [Inserted by Act
16 of 1975, Section 2 (w.e.f. 7.1.1975).]or by any rule which the High Court
may from time to time prescribe in this behalf:Provided that, where there is a
person competent to contract and entitled in possession to receive the income
of the trust-property for his life, or for any greater estate, no investment
on any security mentioned or referred to in clauses (d), (e) and (f) shall be
made without his consent in writing.  
---  
  
[20-A. Power to purchase redeemable stock at a premium. [Inserted by Act 1 of
1916, Section 3.](1)A trustee may invest in any of the securities mentioned or
referred to in section 20, notwithstanding that the same may be redeemable and
that the price exceeds the redemption value:[* * *](2)A trustee may retain
until redemption any redeemable stock, fund or security which may have been
purchased in accordance with this section.]

### 21. Mortgage of land pledged to Government under Act 26 of 1871. Deposit
in Government Savings Bank.

\- Nothing in section 20 shall apply to investments made before this Act comes
into force, or shall be deemed to preclude an investment on a mortgage of
immovable property already pledged as security for an advance under the [Land
Improvement Act, 1871 (26 of 1871)] [Now see the Land Improvement Loans Act,
1883 (19 of 1883).], or, in case the trust-money does not exceed three
thousand rupees, a deposit thereof in a Government Savings Bank.

### 22. Sale by trustee directed to sell within specified time.

\- Where a trustee directed to sell within a specified time extends such time,
the burden of proving, as between himself and the beneficiary, that the latter
is not prejudiced by the extension lies upon the trustee, unless the extension
has been authorized by a principal Civil Court of original
jurisdiction.IllustrationA bequeaths property to B, directing him with all
convenient speed and within five years to sell it, and apply the proceeds for
the benefit of C. In the exercise of reasonable discretion, B postpones the
sale for six years. The sale is not thereby rendered invalid, but C, alleging
that he has been injured by the postponement, institutes a suit against B to
obtain compensation. In such suit the burden of proving that C has not been
injured lies on B.

### 23. Liability for breach of trust.

\- Where the trustee commits a breach of trust, he is liable to make good the
loss which the trust-property or the beneficiary has thereby sustained, unless
the beneficiary has by fraud induced the trustee to commit the breach, or the
beneficiary, being competent to contract, has himself, without coercion or
undue influence having been brought to bear on him, concurred in the breach,
or subsequently acquiesced therein, with full knowledge of the facts of the
case and of his rights as against the trustee.A trustee committing a breach of
trust is not liable to pay interest except in the following cases:(a)where he
has actually received interest;(b)where the breach consists in unreasonable
delay in paying trust-money to the beneficiary;(c)where the trustee ought to
have received interest, but has not done so;(d)where he may be fairly presumed
to have received interest.He is liable, in case (a), to account for the
interest actually received, and, in cases (b), (c) and (d), to account for
simple interest at the rate of six per cent. per annum, unless the Court
otherwise directs;(e)where the breach consists in failure to invest trust-
money and to accumulate the interest or dividends thereon, he is liable to
account for compound interest (with half-yearly rests)at the same
rate;(f)where the breach consists in the employment of trust-property or the
proceeds thereof in trade or business, he is liable to account, at the option
of the beneficiary, either for compound interest (with half-yearly rests) at
the same rate, or for the net profits made by such
employment.Illustrations(a)A trustee improperly leaves trust-property
outstanding, and it is consequently lost: he is liable to make good the
property lost, but he is not liable to pay interest thereon.(b)A bequeaths a
house to B in trust to sell it and pay the proceeds to C. B neglects to sell
the house for a great length of time, whereby the house is deteriorated and
its market price falls. B is answerable to C for the loss.(c)A trustee is
guilty of unreasonable delay in investing trust-money in accordance with
section 20, or in paying it to the beneficiary. The trustee is liable to pay
interest thereon for the period of the delay.(d)The duty of the trustee is to
invest trust-money in any of the securities mentioned in section 20, clause
(a), (b), (c) or (d). Instead of so doing, he retains the money in his hands.
He is liable, at the option of the beneficiary, to be charged either with the
amount of the principal-money and interest. or with the amount of such
securities as he might have purchased with the trust-money when the investment
should have been made, and the intermediate dividends and interest
thereon.(e)The instrument of trust directs the trustee to invest trust-money
either in any of such securities or on mortgage of immovable property. The
trustee does neither.He is liable for the principal money and interest.(f)The
instrument of trust directs the trustee to invest trust-money in any of such
securities and to accumulate the dividends thereon. The trustee disregards the
direction. He is liable, at the option of the beneficiary, to be charged
either with the amount of the principal money and compound interest, or with
the amount of such securities as he might have purchased with the trust-money
when the investment should have been made, together with the amount of the
accumulation which would have arisen from a proper investment of the
intermediate dividends.(g)Trust-property is invested in one of the securities
mentioned in section 20, clause (a), (b), (c) or (d). The trustee sells such
security for some purpose not authorized by the terms of the instrument of
trust. He is liable, at the option of the beneficiary, either to replace the
security with the intermediate dividends and interest thereon, or to account
for the proceeds of the sale with interest thereon.(h)The trust-property
consists of land. The trustee sells the land to a purchaser for a
consideration without notice of the trust. The trustee is liable, at the
option of the beneficiary, to purchase other land of equal value to be settled
upon the like trust, or to be charged with the proceeds of the sale with
interest.

### 24. No set-off allowed to trustee.

\- A trustee who is liable for a loss occasioned by a breach of trust in
respect of one portion of the trust-property cannot set-off against his
liability a gain which has accrued to another portion of the trust-property
through another and distinct breach of trust.

### 25. Non-liability for predecessors default.

\- Where a trustee succeeds another, he is not, as such, liable for the acts
or defaults of his predecessor.

### 26. Non-liability for co-trustees default.

\- Subject to the provisions of sections 13 and 15, one trustee is not, as
such, liable for a breach of trust committed by his co-trustee:Provided that,
in the absence of an express declaration to the contrary in the instrument of
trust, a trustee is so liable(a)where he has delivered trust-property to his
co-trustee without seeing to its proper application;(b)where he allows his co-
trustee to receive trust-property and fails to make due enquiry as to the co-
trustees dealings therewith, or allows him to retain it longer than the
circumstances of the case reasonably require;(c)where he becomes aware of a
breach of trust committed or intended by his co-trustee, and either actively
conceals it or does not within a reasonable time take proper steps to protect
the beneficiarys interest.Joining in receipt for conformity. - A co-trustee
who joins in signing a receipt for trust-property and proves that he has not
received the same is not answerable, by reason of such signature only, for
loss or misapplication of the property by his co-trustee.IllustrationA
bequeaths certain property to B and C, and directs them to sell it and invest
the proceeds for the benefit of D. B and C accordingly sell the property, and
the purchase-money is received by B and retained in his hands. C pays no
attention to the matter for two years and then calls on B to make the
investment. B is unable to do so, becomes insolvent, and the purchase-money is
lost. C may be compelled to make good the amount.

### 27. Several liability of co-trustees.

\- Where co-trustees jointly commit a breach of trust, or where one of them by
his neglect enables the other to commit a breach of trust, each is liable to
the beneficiary for the whole of the loss occasioned by such
breach.Contribution as between co-trustees. - But as between the trustees
themselves, if one be less guilty than another and has had to refund the loss,
the former may compel the latter, or his legal representative to the extent of
the assets he has received, to make good such loss; and if all be equally
guilty, any one or more of the trustees who has had to refund the loss may
compel the others to contribute.Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
authorize a trustee who has been guilty of fraud to institute a suit to compel
contribution.

### 28. Non-liability of trustee paying without notice of transfer by
beneficiary.

\- When any beneficiarys interest becomes vested in another person, and the
trustee, not having notice of the vesting, pays or delivers trust-property to
the person who would have been entitled thereto in the absence of such
vesting, the trustee is not liable for the property so paid or delivered.

### 29. Liability of trustee where beneficiarys interest is forfeited to the
Government.

\- When the beneficiarys interest is forfeited or awarded by legal
adjudication [to the Government] [The words "to Government" successively
amended by A.O.1937 and A.O.1950 to read as above.], the trustee is bound to
hold the trust-property to the extent of such interest for the benefit of such
person in such manner as [the State Government] [Substituted by A.O.1937, for
"the Government" .]may direct in this behalf.

### 30. Indemnity of trustees.

\- Subject to the provisions of the instrument of trust and of sections 23 and
26, trustees shall be respectively chargeable only for such moneys, stocks,
funds and securities as they respectively actually receive, and shall not be
answerable the one for the other of them, nor for any banker, broker or other
person in whose hands any trust-property may be placed, nor for the
insufficiency or deficiency of any stocks, funds or securities, nor otherwise
for involuntary losses.

## Chapter IV  
Of the Rights and Powers of Trustees

### 31. Right to title-deed.

A trustee is entitled to have in his possession the instrument of trust and
all the documents of title (if any) relating solely to the trust-property.

### 32. Right to reimbursement of expenses.

\- Every trustee may reimburse himself, or pay or discharge out of the trust-
property, all expenses properly incurred in or about the execution of the
trust, or the realization, preservation or benefit of the trust-property, or
the protection or support of the beneficiary.If he pays such expenses out of
his own pocket, he has a first charge upon the trust-property for such
expenses and interest thereon; but such charge (unless the expenses have been
incurred with the sanction of a principal Civil Court of original
jurisdiction) shall be enforced only by prohibiting any disposition of the
trust-property without previous payment of such expenses and interest.If the
trust-property fail, the trustee is entitled to recover from the beneficiary
personally on whose behalf he acted, and at whose request, expressed or
implied, he made the payment, the amount of such expenses.Right to be recouped
for erroneous over-payment. - Where a trustee has by mistake made an over-
payment to the beneficiary, he may reimburse the trust-property out of the
beneficiarys interest. If such interest fail, the trustee is entitled to
recover from the beneficiary personally the amount of such over-payment.

### 33. Right to indemnity from gainer by breach of trust.

\- A person other than a trustee who has gained an advantage from a breach of
trust must indemnify the trustee to the extent of the amount actually received
by such person under the breach; and where he is a beneficiary the trustee has
a charge on his interest for such amount.Nothing in this section shall be
deemed to entitle a trustee to be indemnified who has, in committing the
breach of trust, been guilty of fraud.

### 34. Right to apply to Court for opinion in management of trust-property.

\- Any trustee may, without instituting a suit, apply by petition to a
principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction for its opinion, advice or
direction on any present questions respecting the management or administration
of the trust-property other than questions of detail, difficulty or
importance, not proper in the opinion of the Court for summary disposal.A copy
of such petition shall be served upon, and the hearing thereof may be attended
by, such of the persons interested in the application as the Court thinks
fit.The trustee stating in good faith the facts in such petition and acting
upon the opinion, advice or direction given by the Court shall be deemed, so
far as regards his own responsibility, to have discharged his duty as such
trustee in the subject-matter of the application.The costs of every
application under this section shall be in the discretion of the Court to
which it is made.

### 35. Right to settlement of accounts.

\- When the duties of a trustee, as such, are completed, he is entitled to
have the accounts of his administration of the trust-property examined and
settled; and, where nothing is due to the beneficiary under the trust, to an
acknowledgment in writing to that effect.

### 36. General authority of trustee.

\- In addition to the powers expressly conferred by this Act and by the
instrument of trust, and subject to the restrictions, if any, contained in
such instrument, and to the provisions of section 17, a trustee may do all
acts which are reasonable and proper for the realization, protection or
benefit of the trust-property, and for the protection or support of a
beneficiary who is not competent to contract.[* * *] [Second paragraph
repealed by Act 12 of 1891, Section 2 and Sch.I.]Except with the permission of
a principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction, no trustee shall lease
trust-property for a term exceeding twenty-one years from the date of
executing the lease, nor without reserving the best yearly rent that can be
reasonably obtained.

### 37. Power to sell in lots, and either by public auction or private
contract.

\- Where the trustee is empowered to sell any trust-property, he may sell the
same subject to prior charges or not, and either together or in lots, by
public auction or private contract, and either at one time or at several
times, unless the instrument of trust otherwise directs.

### 38. Power to sell under special conditions. Power to buy-in and re-sell.

\- The trustee making any such sale may insert such reasonable stipulations
either as to title or evidence of title, or otherwise, in any conditions of
sale or contract for sale, as he thinks fit; and may also buy in the property
or any part thereof at any sale by auction, and rescind or vary any contract
for sale, and re-sell the property so bought in, or as to which the contract
is so rescinded, without being responsible to the beneficiary for any loss
occasioned thereby.Time allowed for selling trust-property. - Where a trustee
is directed to sell trust-property or to invest trust-money in the purchase of
property, he may exercise a reasonable discretion as to the time of effecting
the sale or purchase.Illustrations(a)A bequeaths property to B, directing him
to sell it with all convenient speed and pay the proceeds to C. This does not
render an immediate sale imperative.(b)A bequeaths property to B, directing
him to sell it at such time and in such manner as he shall think fit and
invest the proceeds for the benefit of C.This does not authorize B, as between
him and C, to postpone the sale to an indefinite period.

### 39. Power to convey.

\- For the purpose of completing any such sale, the trustee shall have power
to convey or otherwise dispose of the property sold in such manner as may be
necessary.

### 40. Power to vary investments.

\- A trustee may, at his discretion, call in any trust-property invested in
any security and invest the same on any of the securities mentioned or
referred to in section 20, and from time to time vary any such investments for
others of the same nature:Provided that, where there is a person competent to
contract and entitled at the time to receive the income of the trust-property
for his life, or for any greater estate, no such change of investment shall be
made without his consent in writing.

### 41. Power to apply property of minors, etc., for their maintenance, etc.

\- Where any property is held by a trustee in trust for a minor, such trustee
may, at his discretion, pay to the guardians (if any) of such minor, or
otherwise apply for or towards his maintenance or education or advancement in
life, or the reasonable expenses of his religious worship, marriage or
funeral, the whole or any part of the income to which he may be entitled in
respect of such property;and such trustee shall accumulate all the residue of
such income by way of compound interest by investing the same and the
resulting income thereof from time to time in any of the securities mentioned
or referred to in section 20, for the benefit of the person who shall
ultimately become entitled to the property from which such accumulations have
arisen:Provided that such trustee may, at any time, if he thinks fit, apply
the whole or any part of such accumulations as if the same were part of the
income arising in the then current year.Where the income of the trust-property
is insufficient for the minors maintenance or education or advancement in
life, or the reasonable expenses of his religious worship, marriage or
funeral, the trustee may, with the permission of a principal Civil Court of
original jurisdiction, but not otherwise, apply the whole or any part of such
property for or towards such maintenance, education, advancement or
expenses.Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the provisions of
any local law for the time being in force relating to the persons and property
of minors.

### 42. Power to give receipts.

\- Any trustees or trustee may give a receipt in writing for any money,
securities or other movable property payable, transferable or deliverable to
them or him by reason, or in the exercise, of any trust or power; and, in the
absence of fraud, such receipt shall discharge the person paying, transferring
or delivering the same therefrom, and from seeing to the application thereof,
or being accountable for any loss or misapplication thereof.

### 43. Power to compound, etc.

\- Two or more trustees acting together may, if and as they think
fit,(a)accept any composition or any security for any debt or for any property
claimed;(b)allow any time for payment of any debt;(c)compromise, compound,
abandon, submit to arbitration or otherwise settle any debt, account, claim or
thing whatever relating to the trust; and(d)for any of those purposes, enter
into, give, execute and do such agreements, instruments of composition or
arrangement, releases and other things as to them seem expedient, without
being responsible for any loss occasioned by any act or thing so done by them
in good faith.The powers conferred by this section on two or more trustees
acting together may be exercised by a sole acting trustee when by the
instrument of trust, if any, a sole trustee is authorized to execute the
trusts and powers thereof.This section applies only if and as far as a
contrary intention is not expressed in the instrument of trust, if any, and
shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
provisions therein contained.This section applies only to trusts created after
this Act comes into force.

### 44. Power to several trustees of whom one disclaims or dies.

\- When an authority to deal with the trust-property is given to several
trustees and one of them disclaims or dies, the authority may be exercised by
the continuing trustees, unless from the terms of the instrument of trust it
is apparent that the authority is to be exercised by a number in excess of the
number of the remaining trustees.

### 45. Suspension of trustees powers by decree.

\- Where a decree has been made in a suit for the execution of a trust, the
trustee must not exercise any of his powers except in conformity with such
decree, or with the sanction of the Court by which the decree has been made,
or, where an appeal against the decree is pending, of the Appellate Court.

## Chapter V  
Of the Disabilities of Trustees

### 46. Trustee cannot renounce after acceptance.

\- A trustee who has accepted the trust cannot afterwards renounce it except
(a) with the permission of a principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction,
or (b) if the beneficiary is competent to contract, with his consent, or (c)
by virtue of a special power in the instrument of trust.

### 47. Trustee cannot delegate.

\- A trustee cannot delegate his office or any of his duties either to a co-
trustee or to a stranger, unless (a) the instrument of trust so provides, or
(b) the delegation is in the regular course of business, or (c) the delegation
is necessary, or (d) the beneficiary, being competent to contract, consents to
the delegation.Explanation. The appointment of an attorney or proxy to do an
act merely ministerial and involving no independent discretion is not a
delegation within the meaning of this section.Illustrations(a)A bequeaths
certain property to B and C on certain trusts to be executed by them or the
survivor of them or the assigns of such survivor. B dies, C may bequeaths the
trust-property to D and E upon the trusts of As will.(b)A is a trustee of
certain property with power to sell the same. A may employ an auctioneer to
effect the sale.(c)A bequeaths to B fifty houses let at monthly rents in trust
to collect the rents and pay them to C. B may employ a proper person to
collect these rents.

### 48. Co-trustees cannot act singly.

\- When there are more trustees than one, all must join in the execution of
the trust, except where the instrument of trust otherwise provides.

### 49. Control of discretionary power.

\- Where a discretionary power conferred on a trustee is not exercised
reasonably and in good faith, such power may be controlled by a principal
Civil Court of original jurisdiction.

### 50. Trustee may not charge for services.

\- In the absence of express directions to the contrary contained in the
instrument of trust or of a contract to the contrary entered into with the
beneficiary or the Court at the time of accepting the trust, a trustee has no
right to remuneration for his trouble, skill and loss of time in executing the
trust.Nothing in this section applies to any Official Trustee, Administrator-
General, Public Curator, or person holding a certificate of administration.

### 51. Trustee may not use trust-property for his own profit.

\- A trustee may not use or deal with the trust-property for his own profit or
for any other purpose unconnected with the trust.

### 52. Trustee for sale or his agent may not buy.

\- No trustee whose duty it is to sell trust-property, and no agent employed
by such trustee for the purpose of the sale, may, directly or indirectly, buy
the same or any interest therein, on his own account or as agent for a third
person.

### 53. Trustee may not buy beneficiarys interest without permission.

\- No trustee, and no person who has recently ceased to be a trustee, may,
without the permission of a principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction,
buy or become mortgagee or lessee of the trust-property or any part thereof;
and such permission shall not be given unless the proposed purchase, mortgage
or lease is manifestly for the advantage of the beneficiary.Trustee for
purchase. - And no trustee whose duty it is to buy or to obtain a mortgage or
lease of particular property for the beneficiary may buy it, or any part
thereof, or obtain a mortgage or lease of it, or any part thereof, for
himself.

### 54. Co-trustees may not lend to one of themselves.

\- A trustee or co-trustee whose duty it is to invest trust-money on mortgage
or personal security must not invest it on a mortgage by, or on the personal
security of, himself or one of his co-trustees.

## Chapter VI  
Of the Rights and Liabilities of the Beneficiary

### 55. Rights to rents and profits.

\- The beneficiary has, subject to the provisions of the instrument of trust,
a right to the rents and profits of the trust-property.

### 56. Right to specific execution.

\- The beneficiary is entitled to have the intention of the author of the
trust specifically executed to the extent of the beneficiarys interest;Right
to transfer of possession. - And, where there is only one beneficiary and he
is competent to contract, or where there are several beneficiaries and they
are competent to contract and all of one mind, he or they may require the
trustee to transfer the trust-property to him or them, or to such person as he
or they may direct.When property has been transferred or bequeathed for the
benefit of a married woman, so that she shall not have power to deprive
herself of her beneficial interest, nothing in the second clause of this
section applies to such property during her marriage.Illustrations(a)Certain
Government securities are given to trustees upon trust to accumulate the
interest until A attains the age of 24, and then to transfer the gross amount
to him. A on attaining majority may, as the person exclusively interested in
the trust-property, require the trustees to transfer it immediately to
him.(b)A bequeaths Rs. 10,000 to trustees upon trust to purchase an annuity
for B, who has attained his majority and is otherwise competent to contract. B
may claim Rs. 10,000.(c)A transfers certain property to B and directs him to
sell or invest it for the benefit of C, who is competent to contract. C may
elect to take the property in its original character.

### 57. Right to inspect and take copies of instrument of trust, accounts,
etc.

\- The beneficiary has a right, as against the trustee and all persons
claiming under him with notice of the trust, to inspect and take copies of the
instrument of trust, the documents of title relating solely to the trust-
property, the accounts of the trust-property, and the vouchers (if any) by
which they are supported, and the cases submitted and opinions taken by the
trustee for his guidance in the discharge of his duty.

### 58. Right to transfer beneficial interest.

\- The beneficiary, if competent to contract may transfer his interest, but
subject to the law for the time being in force as to the circumstances and
extent in and to which he may dispose of such interest:Provided that when
property is transferred or bequeathed for the benefit of a married woman, so
that she shall not have power to deprive herself of her beneficial interest,
nothing in this section shall authorize her to transfer such interest during
her marriage.

### 59. Right to sue for execution of trust.

\- Where no trustees are appointed or all the trustees die, disclaim, or are
discharged, or where for any other reason the execution of a trust by the
trustee is or becomes impracticable, the beneficiary may institute a suit for
the execution of the trust, and the trust shall, so far as may be possible, be
executed by the Court until the appointment of a trustee or new trustee.

### 60. Right to proper trustees.

\- The beneficiary has a right (subject to the provisions of the instrument of
trust) that the trust-property shall be properly protected and held and
administered by proper persons and by a proper number of such
persons.Explanation I .The following are not proper persons within the meaning
of this section:A person domiciled abroad; an alien enemy; a person having an
interest inconsistent with that of the beneficiary; a person in insolvent
circumstances; and, unless the personal law of the beneficiary allows
otherwise, a married woman and a minor.Explanation II .When the administration
of the trust involves the receipt and custody of money, the number of trustees
should be two at least.Illustrations(a)A, one of several beneficiaries, proves
that B, the trustee, has improperly disposed of part of the trust-property, or
that the property is in danger from Bs being in insolvent circumstances, or
that he is incapacitated from acting as trustee. A may obtain a receiver of
the trust-property.(b)A bequeaths certain jewels to B in trust for C. B dies
during As lifetime; then A dies. C is entitled to have the property conveyed
to a trustee for him.(c)A conveys certain property to four trustees in trust
for B. Three of the trustees die. B may institute a suit to have three new
trustees appointed in the place of the deceased trustees.(d)A conveys certain
property to three trustees in trust for B. All the trustees disclaim. B may
institute a suit to have three trustees appointed in place of the trustees so
disclaiming.(e)A, a trustee for B, refuses to act, or goes to reside
permanently out of [India] [Substituted by A.O.1950, for "the Provinces" .] or
is declared an insolvent, or compounds with his creditors, or suffers a co-
trustee to commit a breach of trust. B may institute a suit to have A removed
and a new trustee appointed in his room.

### 61. Right to compel to any act of duty.

\- The beneficiary has a right that his trustee shall be compelled to perform
any particular act of his duty as such, and restrained from committing any
contemplated or probable breach of trust.Illustrations(a)A contracts with B to
pay him monthly Rs. 100 for the benefit of C. B writes and signs a letter
declaring that he will hold in trust for C the money so to be paid. A fails to
pay the money in accordance with his contract, C may compel B on a proper
indemnity to allow C to sue on the contract in Bs name.(b)A is trustee of
certain land, with a power to sell the same and pay the proceeds to B and C
equally. A is about to make an improvident sale of the land. B may sue on
behalf of himself and C for an injunction to restrain A from making the sale.

### 62. Wrongful purchase by trustee.

\- Where a trustee has wrongfully bought trust-property, the beneficiary has a
right to have the property declared subject to the trust or re-transferred by
the trustee, if it remains in his hands unsold, or, if it has been bought from
him by any person with notice of the trust, by such person. But in such case
the beneficiary must repay the purchase-money paid by the trustee, with
interest, and such other expenses (if any) as he has properly incurred in the
preservation of the property; and the trustee or purchaser must (a) account
for the net profits of the property, (b) be charged with an occupation-rent,
if he has been in actual possession of the property, and (c) allow the
beneficiary to deduct a proportionate part of the purchase-money if the
property has been deteriorated by the acts or omissions of the trustee or
purchaser.Nothing in this section(a)impairs the rights of lessees and others
who, before the institution of a suit to have the property declared subject to
the trust or re-transferred, have contracted in good faith with the trustee or
purchaser; or(b)entitles the beneficiary to have the property declared subject
to the trust or re-transferred where he, being competent to contract, has
himself, without coercion or undue influence having been brought to bear on
him, ratified the sale to the trustee with full knowledge of the facts of the
case and of his rights as against the trustee.

### 63. Following trust-property into the hands of third persons.

\- Where trust-property comes into the hands of a third person inconsistently
with the trust, the beneficiary may require him to admit formally, or may
institute a suit for a declaration, that the property is comprised in the
trust.into that into which it has been converted. - Where the trustee has
disposed of trust-property and the money or other property which he has
received therefor can be traced in his hands, or the hands of his legal
representative or legatee, the beneficiary has, in respect thereof, rights as
nearly as may be the same as his rights in respect of the original trust-
property.Illustrations(a)A, trustee for B of Rs. 10,000, wrongfully invests
the Rs. 10,000 in the purchase of certain land. B is entitled to the
land.(b)A, a trustee, wrongfully purchases land in his own name, partly with
his own money, partly with money subject to a trust for B. B is entitled to a
charge on the land for the amount of the trust-money so misemployed.

### 64. Saving of rights of certain transferees.

\- Nothing in section 63 entitles the beneficiary to any right in respect of
property in the hands of(a)a transferee in good faith for consideration
without having notice of the trust, either when the purchase-money was paid,
or when the conveyance was executed, or(b)a transferee for consideration from
such a transferee.a judgment-creditor of the trustee attaching and purchasing
trust-property is not a transferee for consideration within the meaning of
this section.Nothing in section 63 applies to money, currency notes and
negotiable instruments in the hands of a bona fide holder to whom they have
passed in circulation, or shall be deemed to affect the Indian Contract Act,
1872 (9 of 1872), section 108, or the liability of a person to whom a debt or
charge is transferred.

### 65. Acquisition by trustee of trust-property wrongfully converted.

\- Where a trustee wrongfully sells or otherwise transfers trust-property and
after-wards himself becomes the owner of the property, the property again
becomes subject to the trust, notwithstanding any want of notice on the part
of intervening transferees in good faith for consideration.

### 66. Right in case of blended property.

\- Where the trustee wrongfully mingles the trust-property with his own, the
beneficiary is entitled to a charge on the whole fund for the amount due to
him.

### 67. Wrongful employment by partner-trustee of trust-property for
partnership purposes.

\- If a partner, being a trustee, wrongfully employs trust-property in the
business or on the account of the partnership, no other partner is liable
therefor in his personal capacity to the beneficiaries, unless he had notice
of the breach of trust.The partners having such notice are jointly and
severally liable for the breach of trust.Illustrations(a)A and B are partners.
A dies, having bequeathed all his property to B in trust for Z, and appointed
B his sole executor. B, instead of winding up the affairs of the partnership,
retains all the assets in the business. Z may compel him, as partner, to
account for so much of the profits as are derived from As share of the
capital. B is also answerable to Z for the improper employment of As
assets.(b)A, a trader, bequeaths his property to B in trust for C, appoints B
his sole executor, and dies. B enters into partnership with X and Y in the
same trade, and employs As assets in the partnership-business. B gives an
indemnity to X and Y against the claims of C. Here X and Y are jointly liable
with B to C as having knowingly become parties to the breach of trust
committed by B.

### 68. Liability of beneficiary joining in breach of trust.

\- Where one of several beneficiaries(a)joins in committing breach of trust,
or(b)knowingly obtains any advantage therefrom, without the consent of the
other beneficiaries, or(c)becomes aware of a breach of trust committed or
intended to be committed, and either actually conceals it, or does not within
a reasonable time take proper steps to protect the interests of the other
beneficiaries, or(d)has deceived the trustee and thereby induced him to commit
a breach of trust,the other beneficiaries are entitled to have all his
beneficial interest impounded as against him and all who claim under him
(otherwise than as transferees for consideration without notice of the breach)
until the loss caused by the breach has been compensated.When property has
been transferred or bequeathed for the benefit of a married woman, so that she
shall not have power to deprive herself of her beneficial interest, nothing in
this section applies to such property during her marriage.

### 69. Rights and liabilities of beneficiarys transferee.

\- Every person to whom a beneficiary transfers his interest has the rights,
and is subject to the liabilities, of the beneficiary in respect of such
interest at the date of the transfer.

## Chapter VII  
Of Vacating the Office of Trustee

### 70. Office how vacated.

\- The office of a trustee is vacated by his death or by his discharge from
his office.

### 71. Discharge of trustee.

\- The trustee may be discharged from his office only as follows:(a)by the
extinction of the trust;(b)by the completion of his duties under the
trust;(c)by such means as may be prescribed by the instrument of trust;(d)by
appointment under this Act of a new trustee in his place;(e)by consent of
himself and the beneficiary, or, where there are more beneficiaries than one,
all the beneficiaries being competent to contract; or(f)by the Court to which
a petition for his discharge is presented under this Act.

### 72. Petition to be discharged from trust.

\- Notwithstanding the provisions of section 11, every trustee may apply by
petition to a principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction to be discharged
from his office; and if the Court finds that there is sufficient reason for
such discharge, it may discharge him accordingly, and direct his costs to be
paid out of the trust-property. But where there is no such reason, the Court
shall not discharge him, unless a proper person can be found to take his
place.

### 73. Appointment of new trustees on death, etc.

\- Whenever any person appointed a trustee disclaims, or any trustee, either
original or substituted, dies, or is for a continuous period of six months
absent from [India] [Substituted by A.O.1950, for "the Provinces" .], or
leaves [India] [Substituted by A.O.1950, for "the Provinces" .] for the
purpose of residing abroad, or is declared an insolvent, or desires to be
discharged from the trust, or refuses or becomes, in the opinion of a
principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction, unfit or personally incapable
to act in the trust, or accepts an inconsistent trust, a new trustee may be
appointed in his place by(a)the person nominated for that purpose by the
instrument of trust (if any), or(b)if there be no such person, or no such
person able and wiling to act, the author of the trust if he be alive and
competent to contract, or the surviving or continuing trustees or trustee for
the time being, or legal representative of the last surviving and continuing
trustee, or (with the consent of the Court) the retiring trustees, if they all
retire simultaneously, or (with the like consent) the last retiring
trustee.Every such appointment shall be by writing under the hand of the
person making it.On an appointment of a new trustee, the number of trustees
may be increased.The Official Trustee may, with his consent and by the order
of the Court, be appointed under this section, in any case in which only one
trustee is to be appointed and such trustee is to be the sole trustee.The
provisions of this section relative to a trustee who is dead include the case
of a person nominated trustee in a will but dying before the testator, and
those relative to a continuing trustee include a refusing or retiring trustee
if willing to act in the execution of the power.

### 74. Appointment by Court.

\- Whenever any such vacancy or disqualification occurs and it is found
impracticable to appoint a new trustee under section 73, the beneficiary may,
without instituting a suit, apply by petition to a principal Civil Court of
original jurisdiction for the appointment of a trustee or a new trustee, and
the Court may appoint a trustee or a new trustee accordingly.Rule for
selecting new trustees. - In appointing new trustees, the Court shall have
regard (a) to the wishes of the author of the trust as expressed in, or to be
inferred from, the instrument of trust; (b) to the wishes of the person, if
any, empowered to appoint new trustees; (c) to the question whether the
appointment will promote or impede the execution of the trust; and (d) where
there are more beneficiaries than one, to the interests of all such
beneficiaries.

### 75. Vesting of trust-property in new trustees.

\- Whenever any new trustee is appointed under section 73 or section 74, all
the trust-property for the time being vested in the surviving or continuing
trustees or trustee, or in the legal representative of any trustee, shall
become vested in such new trustee, either solely or jointly with the surviving
or continuing trustees or trustee, as the case may require.Powers of new
trustees. - Every new trustee so appointed, and every trustee appointed by a
Court either before or after the passing of this Act, shall have the same
powers, authorities and discretions, and shall in all respects act, as if he
had been originally nominated a trustee by the author of the trust.

### 76. Survival of trust.

\- On the death or discharge of one of several co-trustees, the trust survives
and the trust-property passes to the others, unless the instrument of trust
expressly declares otherwise.

## Chapter VIII  
Of the Extinction of Trusts

### 77. Trust how extinguished.

\- A trust is extinguished(a)when its purpose is completely fulfilled;
or(b)when its purpose becomes unlawful; or(c)when the fulfillment of its
purpose becomes impossible by destruction of the trust-property or
otherwise;or(d)when the trust, being revocable, is expressly revoked.

### 78. Revocation of trust.

\- A trust created by will may be revoked at the pleasure of the testator.A
trust otherwise created can be revoked only(a)where all the beneficiaries are
competent to contract by their consent;(b)where the trust has been declared by
a non-testamentary instrument or by word of mouth in exercise of a power of
revocation expressly reserved to the author of the trust; or(c)where the trust
is for the payment of the debts of the author of the trust, and has not been
communicated to the creditor sat the pleasure of the author of the
trust.IllustrationA conveys property to B in trust to sell the same and pay
out of the proceeds the claims of As creditors. A reserves no power of
revocation. If no communication has been made to the creditors, A may revoke
the trust. But if the creditors are parties to the arrangement, the trust
cannot be revoked without their consent.

### 79. Revocation not to defeat what trustees have duly done.

No trust can be revoked by the author of the trust so as to defeat or
prejudice what the trustee may have duly done in execution of the trust.

## Chapter IX  
Of Certain Obligations in the Nature of Trusts

### 80. Where obligation in nature of trust is created.

\- An obligation in the nature of a trust is created in the following cases.

### 81. Where it does not appear that transferor intended to dispose of
beneficial interest.

\- [Repealed by the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988),
section 7 (w.e.f. 19-5-1988).]...

### 82. Transfer to one for consideration paid by another.

\- [Repealed by the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988),
section 7(w.e.f. 19-5-1988).]...

### 83. Trust incapable of execution or executed without exhausting trust-
property.

\- Where a trust is incapable of being executed, or where the trust is
completely executed without exhausting the trust-property, the trustee, in the
absence of a direction to the contrary, must hold the trust-property, or so
much thereof as is unexhausted, for the benefit of the author of the trust or
his legal representative.Illustrations(a)A conveys certain land to Bupon
trust, and no trust is declared; orupon trust to be thereafter declared, and
no such declaration is ever made; orupon trusts that are too vague to be
executed; orupon trusts that become incapable of taking effect; orin trust for
C, and C renounces his interest under the trust.In each of these cases B holds
the land for the benefit of A.(b)A transfers Rs. 10,000 in the four per cents
to B, in trust to pay the interest annually accruing due to C for her life. A
dies.Then C dies. B holds the fund for the benefit of As legal
representative.(c)A conveys land to B upon trust to sell it and apply one
moiety of the proceeds for certain charitable purposes, and the other for the
maintenance of the worship of an idol. B sells the land, but the charitable
purposes wholly fail, and the maintenance of the worship does not exhaust the
second moiety of the proceeds. B holds the first moiety and the part unapplied
of the second moiety for the benefit of A or his legal representative.(d)A
bequeaths Rs. 10,000 to B, to be laid out in buying land to be conveyed for
purposes which either wholly or partially fail to take effect. B holds for the
benefit of As legal representative the undisposed of interest in the money or
land if purchased.

### 84. Transfer for illegal purpose.

\- Where the owner of property transfers it to another for an illegal purpose
and such purpose is not carried into execution, or the transferor is not as
guilty as the transferee, or the effect of permitting the transferee to retain
the property might be to defeat the provisions of any law, the transferee must
hold the property for the benefit of the transferor.

### 85. Bequest for illegal purpose.

\- Where a testator bequeaths certain property upon trust and the purpose of
the trust appears on the face of the will to be unlawful, or during the
testators lifetime the legatee agrees with him to apply the property for an
unlawful purpose, the legatee must hold the property for the benefit of the
testators legal representative.Bequest of which revocation is prevented by
coercion. - Where property is bequeathed and the revocation of the bequest is
prevented by coercion, the legatee must hold the property for the benefit of
the testators legal representative.

### 86. Transfer pursuant to rescindable contract.

\- Where property is transferred in pursuance of a contract which is liable to
rescission or induced by fraud or mistake, the transferee must, on receiving
notice to that effect, hold the property for the benefit of the transferor,
subject to repayment by the latter of the consideration actually paid.

### 87. Debtor becoming creditors representative.

\- Where a debtor becomes the executor or other legal representative of his
creditor, he must hold the debt for the benefit of the persons interested
therein.

### 88. Advantage gained by fiduciary.

\- Where a trustee, executor, partner, agent, director of a company, legal
adviser, or other person bound in a fiduciary character to protect the
interests of another person, by availing himself of his character, gains for
himself any pecuniary advantage, or where any person so bound enters into any
dealings under circumstances in which his own interests are, or may be,
adverse to those of such other person and thereby gains for himself a
pecuniary advantage, he must hold for the benefit of such other person the
advantage so gained.Illustrations(a)A, an executor, buys at an under-value
from B, a legatee, his claim under the will. B is ignorant of the value of the
bequest. A must hold for the benefit of B the difference between the price and
value.(b)A, a trustee, uses the trust-property for the purpose of his own
business. A holds for the benefit of his beneficiary the profits arising from
such user.(c)A, a trustee retires from his trust in consideration of his
successor paying him a sum of money. A holds such money for the benefit of his
beneficiary.(d)A, a partner, buys land in his own name with funds belonging to
the partnership. a holds such land for the benefit of the partnership.(e)A, a
partner, employed on behalf of himself and his co-partners is negotiating the
terms of a lease, clandestinely stipulates with the lessor for payment to
himself of a lakh of rupees. A holds the lakh for the benefit of the
partnership.(f)A and B are partners. A dies. B , instead of winding up the
affairs of the partnership, retains all the assets in the business. B must
account to As legal representative for the profits arising from As share of
the capital.(g)A, an agent employed to obtain a lease for B, obtains the lease
for himself. A holds the lease for the benefit of B.(h)A, a guardian, buys up
for himself incumbrances on his ward Bs estate at an undervalue. A holds for
the benefit of B the incumbrances so bought, and can only charge him with what
he has actually paid.

### 89. Advantage gained by exercise of undue influence.

\- Where, by the exercise of undue influence, any advantage is gained in
derogation of the interests of another, the person gaining such advantage
without consideration, or with notice that such influence has been exercised,
must hold the advantage for the benefit of the person whose interests have
been so prejudiced.

### 90. Advantage gained by qualified owner.

\- Where a tenant for life, co-owner, mortgagee or other qualified owner of
any property, by availing himself of his position as such, gains an advantage
in derogation of the rights of the other persons interested in the property,
or where any such owner, as representing all persons interested in such
property, gains any advantage, he must hold, for the benefit of all persons so
interested, the advantage so gained, but subject to repayment by such persons
of their due share of the expenses properly incurred, and to an indemnity by
the same persons against liabilities properly contracted, in gaining such
advantage.Illustrations(a)A, the tenant for life of leasehold property, renews
the lease in his own name and for his own benefit. A holds the renewed lease
for the benefit of all those interested in the old lease.(b)A village belongs
to a Hindu family. A, one of its members, pays nazrana to Government and
thereby procures his name to be entered as the inamdar of the village. A holds
the village for the benefit of himself and the other members.(c)A mortgages
land to B, who enters into possession. B allows the Government revenue to fall
into arrear with a view to the land being put up for sale and his becoming
himself the purchaser of it. The land is accordingly sold to B. Subject to the
repayment of the amount due on the mortgage and of his expenses properly
incurred as mortgagee, B holds the land for the benefit of A.

### 91. Property acquired with notice of existing contract.

\- Where a person acquires property with notice that another person has
entered into an existing contract affecting that property, of which specific
performance could be enforced, the former must hold that property for the
benefit of the latter to the extent necessary to give effect to the contract.

### 92. Purchase by person contracting to buy property to be held on trust.

\- Where a person contracts to buy property to be held on trust for certain
beneficiaries and buys the property accordingly, he must hold the property for
their benefit to the extent necessary to give effect to the contract.

### 93. Advantage secretly gained by one of several compounding creditors.

\- Where creditors compound the debts due to them, and one of such creditors,
by a secret arrangement with the debtor, gains an undue advantage over his co-
creditors, he must hold, for the benefit of such creditors, the advantage so
gained.

### 94. Constructive trusts in cases not expressly provided for.

\- [Repealed by the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988),
section 7 (w.e.f. 19-5-1988).]...

### 95. Obligors duties, liabilities and disabilities.

\- The person holding property in accordance with any of the preceding
sections of this Chapter must, so far as may be, perform the same duties, and
is subject, so far as may be, to the same liabilities and disabilities, as if
he were a trustee of the property for the person for whose benefit he holds
it:Provided that (a) where he rightfully cultivates the property or employs it
in trade or business, he is entitled to reasonable remuneration for his
trouble, skill and loss of time in such cultivation or employment; and (b)
where he holds the property by virtue of a contract with the person for whose
benefit he holds it, or with any one through whom such person claims, he may,
without the permission of the Court, buy or become lessee or mortgagee of the
property or any part thereof.

### 96. Saving of rights of bona fide purchasers.

\- Nothing contained in this Chapter shall impair the rights of transferees in
good faith for consideration, or create an obligation in evasion of any law
for the time being in force.The Schedule(See section 2)Statute

Year and Chapter | Short Title | Extent of Repeal  
---|---|---  
29 Car. II, c. 3 | The Statute of[Frauds] [Repealed in its application to India. ] | Sections 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11  
ACTS OF THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL IN COUNCIL  
Number and Year | Short Title | Extent of Repeal  
XXVIII of 1866 | [The Trustees and Mortgagees Powers Act, 1866] [Repealed] | Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36 and 37.  
|  | In section[***] [The figure " 39" , and by implication the word "and" repealed by Act 12 of 1891, Section 2 and Sch.I.]43, the word "trustee" wherever it occurs; and in section 43 the words "management or" and the "the trust-property or'.  
I of 1877 | [The Specific Relief Act, 1877] [Now see the Specific Relief Act, 963 (47 of 1963).] | In section 12 the first illustration

