## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Intimation of Accidents (form and time of Service of Notice) Rules,
2005

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Intimation of Accidents (form and time of Service of Notice) Rules, 2005

## Rule THE-INTIMATION-OF-ACCIDENTS-FORM-AND-TIME-OF-SERVICE-OF-NOTICE-
RULES-2005 of 2005

  * Published on 1 January 2005 
  * Commenced on 1 January 2005 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2005.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Intimation of Accidents (form and time of Service of Notice) Rules,
2005Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 1 (E), dated 1st January, 2005In
exercise of the powers conferred by Clause (w) of sub-section (2) of Section
176 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003), the Central Government hereby
makes the following rules regarding the form and time of service of notices of
electrical accidents, namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

\- [(1) These rules may be called the Intimation of Accidents (Form and Time
of Service of Notice) Rules, 2005.] [Substituted, by G.S.R. 529 (E), dated
11.8.2005, w.e.f. 11.8.2005.](2)They shall [come into force on the date]
[Enforced from 1.1.2005.] of their publication in the official gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these rules unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Electricity Act, 2003 ;(b)"Inspector" means the Chief Electrical Inspector or
the Electrical Inspector appointed under sub-section (1) of Section 162 of the
Act.(2)Words and expression used and not defined in these rules but defined in
the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003), shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in that Act.

### 3. Intimation of accidents.

(1)If any accident occurs in connection with the generation, transmission,
supply or use of electricity in or in connection with, any part of the
electric lines or other works of any person and the accident results in or is
likely to have resulted in loss of human or animal life or in any injury to a
human being or an animal, such person or any authorized person of the
generating company or licensee, not below the rank of a Junior Engineer or
equivalent shall sent to the Inspector a telegraphic report within 24 hours of
the knowledge of the occurrence of the fatal accident and a report in writing
in Form A within 48 hours of the knowledge of occurrence of fatal and all
other accidents. Where possible a telephonic message should also be given to
the Inspector immediately, if the accident comes to the knowledge of the
authorized officer of the generating company/licensee or other person
concerned.(2)For the intimation of the accident, telephone numbers, fax
numbers and addresses of Chief Electrical Inspector or Electrical Inspectors,
District Magistrate, police station, Fire Brigade and nearest hospital shall
be displayed at the conspicuous place in the generating station, sub-section,
enclosed sub-station/switching station and maintained in the Office of the in-
charge owner of the Medium Voltage (MV)/FIigh Voltage (FFV)/ Extra High
Voltage (EHC) installations.Form AForm for reporting electrical accidents

### 1\. Date and time of accident.

### 2\. Place of accident.

(Village/Town, Tehsil/Thana, District and State).

### 3\. System and voltage of supply (Whether Extra High Voltage (EHV)/ High
Voltage (HV)/Low Voltage (LV) Line, sub-station/generation station/consumer's
installations/service lines/other installations).

### 4. Designation of the Officer-in-charge of the generating company/licensee
in whose jurisdiction the accident occurred.

### 5. Name of owner/user of energy in whose premises the accident occurred.

### 6. Details of victim(s):

(a)Human

SI. No. | Name | Father’s Name | Sex of victim | Full Postal address | Approximate age | Fatal/non-fatal  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
(b)Animal

SI. No. | Description of animal(s) | Number(s) | Name(s) of owner(s) | Address(es) of owner(s) | Fatal/non-fatal  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
### 7. In case the victim(s) is/are employee(s) of supplier :-

(a)designation of such of person(s);(b)brief description of the job
undertaken, in any ;(c)whether such person/persons was/were allowed to work on
the job.

### 8. In case the victim(s) is/are employee(s) of a licensed contractor,-. -
(a) did the victim(s) possess any electric workmen's permit(s) supervisor's
certificate of competency ?

If yes, give number and date of issue and the name of issuing
authority;(b)name and designation of the person who assigned the duties of the
victim(s).

### 9. In case of accident in the system of the generating company/licensee,
was the permit to work (PTW) taken ?

### 10. (a) Describe fully the nature and extent of injuries, e.g.,
fatal/disablement (permanent or temporary) of any portion of the body or bums
or other injuries.

(b)In case of fatal accident, was the post mortem performed?

### 11. Detailed causes leading to the accident.

(To be given in a separate sheet annexed to this form.)

### 12. Action taken regarding first aid, medical attendance etc. immediately
after the occurrence of the accident (give details).

### 13. Whether the District Magistrate and Police Station concerned have been
informed of the accident (if so, give detail).

### 14. Steps taken to preserve the evidence in connection with the accident
to extent possible.

### 15. Name and designation^) of the person(s) assisting, supervising the
person(s) killed or injured.

### 16. What safety equipments were given to or used by the person(s) who met
with this accident (e.g. rubber gloves, rubber mats, safety belts and ladders
etc.)?

### 17. Whether isolating switches and other sectionalizing devices were
employed to deaden the sections for working on the same? Whether working
section was earthed at the site of work?

### 18. Whether the work on the live lines was undertaken by authorised
person(s)? If so, the name and the designation of such person(s) may be given.

### 19. Whether artificial resuscitation treatment was given to the person(s)
who met with the electric accident? If yes, how long was it continued before
its abandonment?

### 20. Names and designations of persons present at, and witnessed, the
accident.

### 21. Any other information/remarks.

Place :Time :Date :SignatureNameDesignationAddress of the person reporting

