## Union of India - Act

## The Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules,1957

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules,1957

## Rule THE-INDUSTRIAL-DISPUTES-CENTRAL-RULES-1957 of 1957

  * Published on 10 March 1957 
  * Commenced on 10 March 1957 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 March 1957.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules,1957Published vide Notification S.O.R.
770, dated 10-3-1957, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part
2, Section 3, pp.1137-59, dated 10-3-1957.

### 13.

/622S.O.R. 770, dated 10th March, 1957. - In exercise of the powers conferred
by section 38 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central
Government hereby makes the following rules, the same having been previously
published as required by sub-section (1) of the said section, namely
:-Preliminary

### 1. Title and application.

(1)These rules may be called The Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules,
1957.(2)They extend to Union territories in relation to all industrial
disputes and to the States in relation only to an industrial dispute
concerning-(a)any industry carried on by or under the authority of the Central
Government or by a railway company; or(b)a banking or an insurance company, a
mine, an oilfield, or a major port; or(c)any such controlled industry as may
be specified under section 2(a)(i) of the Act by the Central Government:[* *
*] [ Proviso omitted by G.S.R. 795, dated 5.6.1972.]

### 2. Interpretation.

\- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context-(a)"Act "means the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of
1947);(b)"Chairman "means the Chairman of a Board or Court or, if the Court
consists of one person only, such person;(c)"Committee "means a Works
Committee constituted under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act;(d)"form
"means a form in the Schedule to these rules;(e)"section "means a section of
the Act;(f)in relation to an industrial dispute in a Union territory, for
which the appropriate Government is the Central Government, reference to the
Central Government or the Government of India shall be construed as a
reference to the Administrator of the territory, and reference to the Chief
Labour Commissioner (Central), Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) and the
[Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central)] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 1253, dated
3.8.1966,] shall be construed as reference to the appropriate authority,
appointed in that behalf by the Administrator of the territory;(g)[ with
reference to clause (g) of section 2, it is hereby prescribed that- [
Substituted by G.S.R. 1182, dated 19.10.1959.](i)in relation to an industry,
not being an industry referred to in sub-clause ii), carried on by or under
the authority of a Department of the Central or a State Government, the
officer-in-charge of the industrial establishment shall be the "employer "in
respect of that establishment; and(ii)in relation to an industry concerning
railways, carried on by or under the authority of a Department of the Central
Government,-(a)in the case of establishment of a Zonal Railway, the General
Manager of that Railway shall be the "employer "in respect of regular railway
servants other than casual labour;(b)in the case of an establishment
independent of a Zonal Railway, the officer-in-charge of the establishment
shall be the "employer "in respect of regular railway servants other than
casual labour; and(c)the District Officer-in-charge or the Divisional
Personnel Officer or the Personnel Officer shall be the "employer "in respect
of casual labour employed in a Zonal Railway or any other railway
establishment independent of a Zonal Railway.]

## Part I

Procedure For Reference Of Industrial Disputes To Boards Of Conciliation,
Courts Of Enquiry, Labour Courts, Industrial Tribunals Or National Tribunals

### 3. Application.

\- An application under sub-section (2) of section 10 for the reference of an
industrial dispute to a Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National
Tribunal shall be made in Form A and shall be delivered personally or
forwarded by registered post [to the Secretary to the Government of India in
the Ministry of Labour and Employment (in triplicate)] [ Substituted by G.S.R.
811, dated 3.7.1959.], the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central), New Delhi, and
the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), and the Assistant Labour
Commissioner (Central) concerned. The application shall be accompanied by a
statement setting forth-(a)the parties to the dispute;(b)the specific matters
in dispute;(c)the total number of workmen employed in the undertaking
affected;(d)an estimate of the number of workmen affected or likely to be
affected by the dispute; and(e)the efforts made by the parties themselves to
adjust the dispute.

### 4. Attestation of application.

\- The application and the statement accompanying it shall be signed-(a)in the
case of an employer by the employer himself, or when the employer is an
incorporated company or other body corporate, by the agent, manager or other
principal officer of the Corporation;(b)in the case of workmen, either by the
President and Secretary of a trade union of the workmen, or by five
representatives of the workmen duly authorised in this behalf at a meeting of
the workmen held for the purpose;(c)[ in the case of an individual workman, by
the workman himself or by any officer of the trade union of which he is a
member or by another workman in the same establishment duly authorised by him
in this behalf: [ Inserted by G.S.R. 1959, dated 30.5.1968.]Provided that such
workman is not a member of a different trade union.]

### 5. Notification of appointment of Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or
National Tribunal.

\- The appointment of a Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National
Tribunal together with the names of persons constituting the Board, Court,
Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal shall be notified in the Official
Gazette.

### 6. Notice to parties to nominate representatives.

(1)If the Central Government proposes to appoint a Board, it shall send a
notice in Form B to the parties requiring them to nominate within a reasonable
time persons to represent them on the Board.(2)The notice to the employer
shall be sent to the employer personally, or if the employer is an
incorporated company or a body corporate, to the agent, manager or other
principal officer of such company or body.(3)The notice to the workmen shall
be sent-(a)in the case of workmen who are members of a trade union, to the
President or Secretary of the trade union; and(b)in the case of workmen who
are not members of a trade union, to any one of the five representatives of
the workmen who have attested the application made under rule 3; and in this
case a copy of the notice shall also be sent to the employer who shall display
copies thereof on notice-boards in a conspicuous manner at the main entrance
to the premises of the establishment.

## Part II – Arbitration Agreement

### 7. Arbitration agreement.

\- An arbitration agreement for the reference of an industrial dispute to an
arbitrator or arbitrators shall be made in Form C and shall be delivered
personally or forwarded by registered post to the Secretary to the Government
of India in the Ministry of Labour (in triplicate, the Chief Labour
Commissioner (Central), New Delhi, and the Regional Labour Commissioner
(Central) and the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) concerned. The
agreement shall be accompanied by the consent, in writing, of the arbitrator
or arbitrators.

### 8. Attestation of the arbitration agreement.

\- The arbitration agreement shall be signed-(a)in the case of an employer, by
the employer himself, or when the employer is an incorporated company or other
body corporate by the agent, manager, or other principal officer of the
Corporation;(b)[ in the case of the workmen, by any officer of a trade union
of the workmen or by five representatives of the workmen duly authorised in
this behalf at a meeting of the workmen held for the purpose;] [ Substituted
by G.S.R. 398, dated 21.3.1959.](c)[ in the case of an individual workman, by
the workman himself or by any officer of a trade union of which he is a member
or by another workman in the same establishment duly authorised by him in this
behalf: [ Inserted by G.S.R. 1059, dated 30.5.1968.]Provided that such workman
is not a member of a different trade union.]Explanation .-In this rule,
"officer "means any of the following officers, namely:-(a)the President;(b)the
Vice-President;(c)the Secretary (including the General Secretary);(d)a Joint
Secretary;(e)any other officer of the trade union authorised in this behalf by
the President and Secretary of the Union.[8-A. Notification regarding
arbitration agreement by majority of each party. [ Inserted by G.S.R. 488,
dated 16.3.1965.]\- Where an industrial dispute has been referred to
arbitration and the Central Government is satisfied that the persons making
the reference represent the majority of each party, it shall publish a
notification in this behalf in the Official Gazette for the information of the
employers and workmen who are not parties to the arbitration agreement but are
concerned in the dispute.]

## Part III – Powers, Procedure And Duties Of Conciliation Officers, Boards,
Courts, Labour Courts, Tribunals, National Tribunals And Arbitrators

### 9. Conciliation proceedings in public utility service.

\- [(1)] [ R. 9 renumbered as sub-R. (1) by G.S.R. 1220, dated 7.10.1960.] The
Conciliation Officer, on receipt of a notice of a strike or lock-out given
under rule 71 or rule 72, shall forthwith arrange to interview both the
employer and the workmen concerned with the dispute at such places and at such
times as he may deem fit and shall endeavour to bring about a settlement of
the dispute in question.(2)[ Where the Conciliation Officer receives no notice
of a strike or lock-out under rule 71 or rule 72 but he considers it necessary
to intervene in the dispute he may give formal intimation in writing to the
parties concerned declaring his intention to commence conciliation proceedings
with effect from such date as he may be inserted therein.] [ Added by G.S.R.
1220, dated 7.10.1960.]

### 10. Conciliation proceedings in non-public utility service.

\- Where the Conciliation Officer receives any information about an existing
or apprehended industrial dispute which does not relate to public utility
service and he considers it necessary to intervene in the dispute, he shall
give formal intimation in writing to the parties concerned declaring his
intention to commence conciliation proceedings with effect from such date as
may be specified therein.[10-A. Parties to submit statements. [ Substituted by
G.S.R. 857, dated 22.6.1961.]\- The employer or the party representing workmen
][or in the case of an individual workman, the workman himself] [ Inserted by
G.S.R. 1059, dated 30.5.1968.][involved in an industrial dispute shall forward
a statement setting forth the specific matters in dispute to the Conciliation
Officer concerned whenever his intervention in the dispute is required.] [
Substituted by G.S.R. 857, dated 22.6.1961.][10-B. Proceeding before the
Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal. [ Substituted by G.S.R. 932,
dated 18.8.1984.](1)While referring an industrial dispute for adjudication to
a Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal, the Central Government shall
direct the party raising the dispute to file a statement of claim complete
with relevant documents, list of reliance and witnesses with the Labour Court,
Tribunal or National Tribunal within fifteen days of the receipt of the order
of reference and also forward a copy of such statement to each one of the
opposite parties involved in the dispute.(2)The Labour Court, Tribunal or
National Tribunal after ascertaining that copies of statement of claim are
furnished to the other side by party raising the dispute shall fix the first
hearing on a date not beyond one month from the date of receipt of the order
of reference and the opposite party or parties shall file their written
statement together with documents, list of reliance and witnesses within a
period of 15 days from the date of first hearing and simultaneously forward a
copy thereof to the other party.(3)Where the Labour Court, Tribunal or
National Tribunal, as the case may be, finds that the party raising the
dispute though directed did not forward the copy of the statement of claim to
the opposite party or parties, it shall give direction to the concerned party
to furnish the copy of the statement to the opposite party or parties and for
the said purpose or for any other sufficient cause, extend the time-limit for
filing the statement under sub-rule (1) or written statement under sub-rule
(2) by an additional period of 15 days.(4)The party raising a dispute may
submit a rejoinder if it chooses to do so, to the written statement(s) by the
appropriate party or parties within a period of fifteen days from the filing
of written statement by the latter.(5)The Labour Court, Tribunal or National
Tribunal, as the case may be, shall fix a date for evidence within one month
from the date of receipt of the statements, documents, list of witnesses,
etc., which shall be ordinarily within sixty days of the date on which the
dispute was referred for adjudication.(6)Evidence shall be recorded either in
Court or on affidavit but in the case of affidavit the opposite party shall
have the right to cross-examine each of the deponents filing the affidavit. As
the oral examination of each witness proceeds, the Labour Court, Tribunal or
National Tribunal shall make a memorandum of the substance of what is being
deposed. While recording the evidence the Labour Court, Tribunal or National
Tribunal shall follow the procedure laid down in rule 5 of Order XVIII of the
First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).(7)On
completion of evidence either arguments shall be heard immediately or a date
shall be fixed for arguments/oral hearing which shall not be beyond a period
of fifteen days from the close of evidence.(8)The Labour Court, Tribunal or
National Tribunal, as the case may be, shall not ordinarily grant an
adjournment for a period exceeding a week at a time but in any case not more
than three adjournments in all at the instance of the parties to the
dispute:Provided that the Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal, as the
case may be, for reasons to be recorded in writing, grant an adjournment
exceeding a week at a time but in any case not more than three adjournments at
the instance of any one of the parties to the dispute.(9)In case any party
defaults or fails to appear at any stage the Labour Court, Tribunal or
National Tribunal, as the case may be, may proceed with the reference ex parte
and decide the reference application in the absence of the defaulting
party:Provided that the Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal, as the
case may be, may on the application of either party filed before the
submission of the award revoke the order that the case shall proceed ex parte
, if it is satisfied that the absence of the party was on justifiable
grounds.(10)The Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal, as the case may
be, shall submit its award to the Central Government within one month from the
date of oral hearing/arguments or within the period mentioned in the order of
reference whichever is earlier.(11)In respect of a reference under section
2-A, the Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal, as the case may be,
shall ordinarily submit its awards within a period of three months: Provided
that the Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal may, as and when
necessary, extend the period of three months and shall record its reasons in
writing to extend the time for submission of the award for another specified
period. ]

### 11.

The Conciliation Officer may hold a meeting of the representatives of both
parties jointly or of each party separately.

### 12.

The Conciliation Officer shall conduct the proceedings expeditiously and in
such manner as he may deem fit.

### 13\. Place and time of hearing.

\- [Subject to the provisions contained in rules 10-A and 10-B] [ Inserted by
G.S.R. 141, dated 31.12.1957.] the sittings of a Board, Court, Labour Court,
Tribunal or National Tribunal or of an Arbitrator shall be held at such times
and places as the Chairman or the Presiding Officer or the Arbitrator, as the
case may be, may fix and the Chairman, Presiding Officer or the Arbitrator, as
the case may be, shall inform the parties of the same in such manner as he
thinks fit.

### 14. Quorum for Boards and Courts.

\- The quorum necessary to constitute a sitting of a Board or Court shall be
as follows-

(i) in the case of a Board | Quorum  
---|---  
where the number of members is 3 | 2  
where the number of members is 5 | 3  
(ii) in the case of a Court where the number of members is not more than 2 | 1  
where the number of members is more than 2 but less than 5 | 2  
where the number of members is 5 or more | 3  
|  
  
### 15. Evidence.

\- A Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal or an
arbitrator may accept, admit or call for evidence at any stage of the
proceedings before it/him and such manner as it/he may think fit.

### 16. Administration of oath.

\- Any member of a Board or Court or Presiding Officer of a Labour Court,
Tribunal or National Tribunal or an arbitrator may administer an oath.

### 17. Summons.

\- Summons issued by a Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National
Tribunal shall be in Form D and may require any person to produce before it
any books, papers or other documents and things in the possession of or under
the control of such person in any way relating to the matter under
investigation or adjudication by the Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or
National Tribunal which the Board, Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal thinks
necessary for the purposes of such investigation or adjudication.

### 18. [ Service of summons or notice. [ Substituted by G.S.R. 1151, dated
11.10.1974.]

\- Subject to the provisions contained in rule 20, any notice, summons,
process or order issued by a Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal, National
Tribunal or an Arbitrator empowered to issue such notice, summons, process or
order, may be served either personally or by registered post and in the event
of refusal by the party concerned to accept the said notice, summons, process
or order, the same shall be sent again under certificate of posting. ]

### 19. Description of parties in certain cases.

\- Where in any proceeding before a Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or
National Tribunal or an Arbitrator, there are numerous persons arrayed on any
side, such persons shall be described as follows-(i)all such persons as are
members of any trade union or association shall be described by the name of
such trade union or association; and(ii)all such persons as are not members of
any trade union or association shall be described in such manner as the Board,
Court, Labour Court, Tribunal, National Tribunal or Arbitrator, as the case
may be, may determine.

### 20. Manner of service in the case of numerous persons as parties to a
dispute.

(1)Where there are numerous persons as parties to any proceedings before a
Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal or an Arbitrator and
such persons are members of any trade union or association, the service of
notice on the Secretary, or where there is no Secretary, on the principal
officer, of the trade union or association shall be deemed to be service on
such persons.(2)Where there are numerous persons as parties to any proceedings
before a Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal or an
Arbitrator and such persons are not members of any trade union or association,
the Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal, National Tribunal or Arbitrator, as
the case may be, shall, where personal service is not practicable, cause the
service of any notice to be made by affixing the same at or near the main
entrance of establishment concerned. (3) A notice served in the manner
specified in sub-rule (2) shall also be considered as sufficient in the case
of such workmen as cannot be ascertained and found.

### 21. Procedure at the first sitting.

\- At the first sitting of a Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National
Tribunal, the Chairman or the Presiding Officer, as the case may be, shall
call upon the parties in such order as he may think fit to state their case.

### 22. Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal, National Tribunal or Arbitrator
may proceed ex parte .

\- If without sufficient cause being shown, any party to proceedings before a
Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal, National Tribunal or Arbitrator fails to
attend or to be represented, the Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal,
National Tribunal or Arbitrator may proceed, as if the party had duly attended
or had been represented.

### 23. Power of entry and inspection.

\- A Board, or Court, or any member thereof, or a conciliation officer, a
Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal, or any person authorised in
writing by the Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal in
this behalf may, for the purposes of any conciliation, investigation, enquiry
or adjudication entrusted to the Conciliation Officer, Board, Court, Labour
Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal under the Act, at any time between the
hours of sunrise and sunset and in the case of a person authorised in writing
by a Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal after he has
given reasonable notice enter any building, factory, workshop, or other place
or premises whatsoever, and inspect the same or any work, machinery, appliance
or article therein or interrogate any person therein in respect of anything
situated therein or any matter relevant to the subject-matter of the
conciliation, investigation, enquiry or adjudication.

### 24. Power of Boards, Courts, Labour Courts, Tribunals and National
Tribunals.

\- In addition to the powers conferred by the Act, Boards, Courts, Labour
Courts, Tribunals and National Tribunals shall have the same powers as are
vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908),
when trying a suit, in respect of the following matters, namely:-(a)discovery
and inspection;(b)granting adjournment;(c)reception of evidence taken on
affidavit;and the Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal
may summon and examine any person whose evidence appears to it to be material
and shall be deemed to be a Civil Court within the meaning of sections 480 and
482 of the [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)] [Now see the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974). ].

### 25. Assessors.

\- Where assessors are appointed to advise a Tribunal or National Tribunal
under sub-section (4) of section 7-A or sub-section (4) of section 7-B or by
the Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal under sub-section (5)
of section 11, the Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal as the
case may be, shall, in relation to proceeding before it, obtain the advice of
such assessors, but such advice shall not be binding on it.

### 26. Fees for copies of awards or other documents of Labour Court, Tribunal
or National Tribunal.

\- [(1) Fees for making a copy of an award or an order of a Labour Court,
Tribunal or National Tribunal of any document filed in any proceedings before
a Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal shall be charged at the rate of
Re. 1 per page.] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 116, dated 3.2.1987.](2)For
certifying a copy of any such award or order or document, a fee of Re. 1 shall
be payable.(3)Copying and certifying fees shall be payable in cash in
advance.(4)Where a party applies for immediate delivery of a copy of any such
award or order or document, an additional fee equal to one-half of the fee
leviable under this rule shall be payable.

### 27. Decision by majority.

\- All questions arising for decision at any meeting of a Board or Court, save
where the Court consists of one person, shall be decided by a majority of the
votes of the members thereof (including the Chairman) present at the meeting.
In the event of an equality of votes, the Chairman shall also have a casting
vote.

### 28. [ Correction of errors. [ Substituted by G.S.R. 1151, dated
11.10.1974.]

\- A Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal, National Tribunal or Arbitrator may
at any time correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental
slip or omission in any proceedings, report, award or decision either of its
or his own motion or on application of any of the parties.]

### 29. Right of representatives.

\- The representatives of the parties appearing before a Board, Court, Labour
Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal or an Arbitrator shall have the right of
examination, cross-examination and of addressing the Board, Court, Labour
Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal or Arbitrator when an evidence has been
called.

### 30. Proceedings before a Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National
Tribunal.

\- The proceedings before a Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National
Tribunal shall be held in public: Provided that the Board, Court, Labour
Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal may at any stage direct that any witness
shall be examined or its proceedings shall be held in camera.

## Part IV – Remuneration Of Chairman And Members Of Courts, Presiding
Officers Of Labour Courts, Tribunals And National Tribunals, Assessors And
Witnesses

### 31. Travelling allowance.

\- The Chairman or a member of a Board or Court or the Presiding Officer or an
Assessor of a Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal, if a non-official,
shall be entitled to draw travelling allowance and halting allowance for any
journey performed by him in connection with the performance of his duties, at
the rates admissible and subject to the conditions applicable to a Government
servant of the first grade under the Supplementary Rules issued by the Central
Government from time to time.

### 32. Fees.

\- The Chairman and a member of a Board or Court, the Presiding Officer and an
Assessor of a Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal wherever he is not a
salaried officer of Government may be granted such fees as may be sanctioned
by the Central Government in each case.

### 33. Expenses of witnesses.

\- Every person who is summoned and duly attends or otherwise appears as a
witness before a Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal or
an Arbitrator shall be entitled to an allowance for expenses according to the
scale for the time being in force with respect to witnesses in Civil Courts in
the State where the investigation, enquiry, adjudication or arbitration is
being conducted.

## Part V – Notice Of Change

### 34. Notice of change.

\- Any employer intending to effect any change in the conditions of service
applicable to any workman in respect of any matter specified in the Fourth
Schedule to the Act shall give notice of such intention in Form E.[The notice
shall be displayed conspicuously by the employer on a notice board at the main
entrance to the establishment in the Manager 's Office:Provided that where any
registered trade union of workmen exists, a copy of the notice shall also be
served by registered post on the secretary of such union.] [ Inserted by
G.S.R. 402, dated 31.3.1960.][* * *] [ R. 35 omitted by G.S.R. 402, dated
31.3.1960.]

## Part VI – Representation Of Parties

### 36. Form of authority under section 36.

\- The authority in favour of a person or persons to represent a workman or
group of workmen or an employer in any proceeding under the Act shall be in
Form F.

### 37. Parties bound by acts of representative.

\- A party appearing by a representative shall be bound by the acts of that
representative.

## Part VII – Works Committee

### 38. Constitution.

\- Any employer to whom an order made under sub-section (1) of section 3
relates shall forthwith proceed to constitute a Works Committee in the manner
prescribed in this part.

### 39. Number of members.

\- The number of members constituting the Committee shall be fixed so as to
afford representation to the various categories, groups and classes of workmen
engaged in, and to the sections, shops or departments of the
establishment:Provided that the total number of members shall not exceed
twenty:Provided further that the number of representatives of the workmen
shall not be less than the number of representatives of the employer.

### 40. Representatives of employer.

\- Subject to the provisions of these rules, the representatives of the
employer shall be nominated by the employer and shall, as far as possible be
officials in direct touch with or associated with the working of the
establishment.

### 41. Consultation with trade unions.

(1)Where any workmen of an establishment are members of a registered trade
union the employer shall ask the union to inform him in writing-(a)how many of
the workmen are members of the union; and(b)how their membership is
distributed among the sections, shops or departments of the
establishment.(2)Where an employer has reason to believe that the information
furnished to him under sub-rule (1) by any trade union is false, he may, after
informing the union, refer the matter to the Assistant Labour Commissioner
(Central) concerned for his decision; and the Assistant Labour Commissioner
(Central), after hearing the parties, shall decide the matter and his decision
shall be final.

### 42. Group of workmen 's representatives.

\- On receipt of the information called for under rule 41, the employer shall
provide for the election of workmen 's representative on the Committee in two
groups-(i)those to be elected by the workmen of the establishment who are
members of the registered trade union or unions, and(ii)those to be elected by
the workmen of the establishment who are not members of the registered trade
union or unions, bearing the same proportion to each other as the union
members in the establishment bear to the non-members:Provided that where more
than half the workmen are members of the union or any one of the unions, no
such division shall be made:Provided further that where a registered trade
union neglects or fails to furnish the information called for under sub-rule
(1) of rule 41 within one month of the date of the notice requiring it to
furnish such information such union shall for the purpose of this rule be
treated as if it did not exist:Provided further that where any reference has
been made by the employer under sub-rule (2) of rule 41, the election shall be
held on receipt of the decision of Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central).

### 43. Electoral constituencies.

\- Where under rule 42 the workmen 's representatives are to be elected in two
groups, the workmen entitled to vote shall be divided into two electoral
constituencies, the one consisting of those who are members of a registered
trade union and the other of those who are not:Provided that the employer may,
if he thinks fit, sub-divide the [electoral constituency or constituencies, as
the case may be] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 1253, dated 3.8.1966.] and direct
that workmen shall vote in either by groups, sections, shops or departments.

### 44. Qualifications of candidates for election.

\- Any workman of not less than 19 years of age and with a service of not less
than one year in the establishment may, if nominated as provided in these
rules, be a candidate for election as a representative of the workmen on the
Committee: Provided that the service qualification shall not apply to the
first election in an [Explanation .-A workman who has put in a continuous
service of not less than one year in two or more establishments belonging to
the same employer shall be deemed to have satisfied the service qualification
prescribed under this rule.] [ Added by G.S.R. 1078, dated 4.8.1962.]

### 45. Qualifications for voters.

\- All workmen [* * *] [ Certain words omitted by G.S.R. 1078, dated
4.8.1962.] who are not less than 18 years of age and who have put in not less
than six months '[continuous service in the establishment shall be entitled to
vote in the election of the representative of workmen.] [ Substituted by
G.S.R. 1078, dated 4.8.1962.][Explanation .-A workman who has put in a
continuous service of not less than six months in two or more establishments
belonging to the same employer shall be deemed to have satisfied the service
qualification prescribed under this rule.] [ Added by G.S.R. 1078, dated
4.8.1962.]

### 46. Procedure for election.

(1)The employer shall fix a date as the closing date for receiving nominations
from candidates for election as workmen 's representatives on the
committee.(2)For holding the election, the employer shall also fix a date
which shall not be earlier than three days and later than fifteen days after
the closing date for receiving nominations.(3)The dates so fixed shall be
notified at least seven days in advance to the workmen and the registered
trade union or unions concerned. Such notice shall be affixed on the notice
board or given adequate publicity amongst the workmen. The notice shall
specify the number of seats to be elected by the groups, sections, shops or
departments and the number to be elected by the members of the registered
trade union or unions and by the non-members.(4)A copy of such notice shall be
sent to the registered trade union or unions concerned.

### 47. Nomination of candidates for election.

(1)Every nomination shall be made on a nomination paper in Form "G "copies of
which shall be supplied by the employer to the workmen requiring them.(2)Each
nomination paper shall be signed by the candidate to whom it relates and
attested by at least two other voters belonging to the group, section, shop or
department the candidate seeking election will represent, and shall be
delivered to the employer.

### 48. Scrutiny of nomination papers.

(1)On the day following the last day fixed for filing nomination papers, the
nomination papers shall be scrutinised by the employer in the presence of the
candidates and the attesting persons and those which are not valid shall be
rejected.(2)For the purpose of sub-rule (1), a nomination paper shall be held
to be not valid if (a) the candidate nominated is ineligible for membership
under rule 44, or (b) the requirements of rule 47 have not been complied
with:Provided that where a candidate or an attesting person is unable to be
present at the time of scrutiny, he may send a duly authorised nominee for the
purpose.[48-A. Withdrawal of candidates validly nominated. [ Added by G.S.R.
1078, dated 4.8.1962.]\- Any candidate whose nomination for election has been
accepted may withdraw his candidature within 48 hours of the completion of
scrutiny of nomination papers.]

### 49. Voting in election.

(1)If the number of candidates who have been validly nominated is equal to the
number of seats, the candidates shall be forthwith declared duly elected.(2)If
in any constituency the number of candidates is more than the number of seats
allotted to it, voting shall take place on the day fixed for election.(3)The
election shall be held in such manner as may be convenient for each electoral
constituency.(4)The voting shall be conducted by the employer, and if any of
the candidates belong to a union such of them as the union may nominate shall
be associated with the election.(5)Every workman entitled to vote at an
electoral constituency shall have as many votes as there are seats to be
filled in the constituency:Provided that each voter shall be entitled to cast
only one vote in favour of any one candidate.

### 50. Arrangements for election.

\- The employer shall be responsible for all arrangements in connection with
the election.

### 51. Officers of the Committee.

(1)The Committee shall have among its office-bearers a Chairman, a Vice-
Chairman, a Secretary and a Joint-Secretary. The Secretary and the Joint-
Secretary shall be elected every year.(2)[ The Chairman shall be nominated by
the employer from amongst the employer 's representatives on the Committee and
he shall, as far as possible, be the head of establishment.(2-A) The Vice-
Chairman shall be elected by the members on the Committee representating the
workers, from amongst themselves:Provided that in the event of equality of
votes in the election of the Vice-Chairman, the matter shall be decided by
draw of a lot.] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 1078, dated 4.8.1962.](3)The Committee
shall elect the Secretary and the Joint Secretary provided that where the
Secretary is elected from amongst the representatives of the employers, the
Joint Secretary shall be elected from amongst the representatives of the
workmen and vice versa :Provided that the post of the Secretary or the Joint
Secretary, as the case may be, shall not be held by a representative of the
employer or the workmen for two consecutive years:[Provided that the
representatives of the employer shall not take part in the election of the
Secretary or Joint Secretary, as the case may be, from amongst the
representatives of the workmen and only the representatives of the workmen
shall be entitled to vote in such elections.] [ Inserted by G.S.R. 289, dated
2.3.1982 (w.e.f. 13.3.1982).](4)[ In any election under sub-rule (3), in the
event of equality of votes, the matter shall be decided by a draw of lot.]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 289, dated 2.3.1982 (w.e.f. 13.3.1982). ]

### 52. Term of office.

\- [(1) The term of office of the representatives on the Committee other than
a member chosen to fill a casual vacancy shall be two years.] [ Substituted by
G.S.R. 1078, dated 4.8.1962.](2)A member chosen to fill a casual vacancy shall
hold office for the unexpired term of his predecessor.(3)A member who without
obtaining leave from the Committee, fails to attend three consecutive meetings
of the Committee shall forfeit his membership.

### 53. [ Vacancies. [ Substituted by G.S.R. 1151, dated 11.10.1974.]

\- In the event of workmen 's representative ceasing to be a member under sub-
rule (3) of rule 52 or ceasing to be employed in the establishment or in the
event of his ceasing to represent the trade or vocation he was representing,
or resignation or death, his successor shall be elected in accordance with the
provisions of this Part from the same category, group, section, shop or
department to which the member vacating the seat belonged.]

### 54. Power to co-opt.

\- The Committee shall have the right to co-opt in a consultative capacity
persons employed in the establishment having particular or special knowledge
of a matter under discussion. Such co-opted member shall not be entitled to
vote and shall be present at meetings only for the period during which the
particular question is before the Committee.

### 55. Meetings.

(1)The Committee may meet as often as necessary but not less often than once
in three months (a quarter).(2)The Committee shall at its first meeting
regulate its own procedure.

### 56. Facilities for meeting, etc.

\- [(1)] [ Original R. 54 renumbered as sub-R. (1) by G.S.R. 1078, dated
4.8.1962.] The employer shall provide accommodation for holding meetings of
the Committee. He shall also provide all necessary facilities to the Committee
and to the members thereof for carrying out the work of the Committee. The
Committee shall ordinarily meet during working hours of the establishment
concerned on any working day and the representative of the workmen shall be
deemed to be on duty while attending the meeting.(2)[ The Secretary of the
Committee may, with the prior concurrence of the Chairman, put up notice
regarding the work of the Committee on the notice board of the establishment.]
[ Added by G.S.R. 1078, dated 4.8.1962.]

### 56A. [ Annual returns. [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 417 (E),
dated 25.5.2015 (w.e.f. 10.3.1957).]

\- Every employer shall on or before the 1st day of February in each year
upload annual returns in Form G1 on the web portal of the Ministry of Labour
and Employment giving information as to the particulars specified in respect
of the preceding year.(2)Every employer on or before the 1st day of February
in each year may file annual returns in the Form G1 to the concerned Authority
manually giving information as to the particulars specified in respect of the
preceding year.Provided that during inspection, the inspector/ concerned
Authority shall require the production of the accounts, books, register and
other documents if the same are maintained in manual form or in electronic
form, as the case may be.Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-rule, the
expression "electronic form" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
clause (r) of section 2 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000).]

### 57. Dissolution of Works Committee.

\- The Central Government, or where the power under section 3 has been
delegated to any officer or authority under section 39, such officer or
authority may, after making such inquiry as it or he may deem fit, dissolve
any Works Committee at any time, by an order in writing, if he or it is
satisfied that the Committee has not been constituted in accordance with these
rules or that not less than two-thirds of the number of representatives of the
workmen have, without any reasonable justification, failed to attend three
consecutive meetings of the Committee or that the Committee has, for any other
reason, ceased to function:Provided that where a Works Committee is dissolved
under this rule the employer may, and if so required by the Central Government
or, as the case may be, by such officer or authority, shall take steps to re-
constitute the Committee in accordance with these rules.

## Part VIII – Miscellaneous

### 58. Memorandum of settlement.

(1)A settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings or
otherwise, shall be in Form H.(2)The settlement shall be signed by-(a)in the
case of an employer, by the employer himself, or by his authorised agent, or
when the employer is an incorporated company or other body corporate, by the
agent, manager or other principal officer of the corporation;(b)[ in the case
of the workmen, by any officer of a trade union of the workmen or by five
representatives of the workmen duly authorised in this behalf at a meeting of
the workmen held for the purpose;] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 284, dated
31.7.1959.](c)[ in the case of the workman is an industrial dispute under
section 2-A of the Act, by the workman concerned.] [ Inserted by G.S.R. 908,
dated 2.6.1967.]Explanation .-In this rule "officer "means any of the
following officers, namely:-(a)the President;(b)the Vice-President;(c)the
Secretary (including the General Secretary);(d)a Joint-Secretary;(e)any other
officer of the trade union authorised in this behalf by the President and
Secretary of the Union.(3)Where a settlement is arrived at in the course of
conciliation proceeding the Conciliation Officer shall send a report thereof
to the Central Government together with a copy of the memorandum of settlement
signed by the parties to the dispute.(4)Where a settlement is arrived at
between an employer and his workmen otherwise than in the course of
conciliation proceeding before a Board or a Conciliation Officer, the parties
to the settlement shall jointly send a copy thereof to the Central Government,
the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) New Delhi, and the Regional Labour
Commissioner (Central) and to the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central)
concerned.

### 59. Complaints regarding change of conditions of service, etc.

(1)Every complaint under section 33-A of the Act shall be presented in
triplicate in Form "I "and shall be accompanied by as many copies of the
complaint as there are opposite parties to the complaint.(2)Every complaint
under sub-rule (1) shall be verified at the foot by the workmen making it or
by some other person proved to the satisfaction of the Labour Court, Tribunal
or National Tribunal to be acquainted with the facts of the case.(3)The person
verifying shall specify, by references to the numbered paragraphs of the
complaint, what he verifies of his own knowledge and what he verifies upon
information received and believed to be true.(4)The verification shall be
signed by the person making it and shall state the date on which and the place
at which it was signed.

### 60. Application under section 33.

(1)An employer intending to obtain the express permission in writing of the
Conciliation Officer, Board, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal, as
the case may be, under sub-section (1) or sub-section (3) of section 33 shall
present an application in Form J in triplicate to such Conciliation Officer,
Board, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal and shall file alongwith
the application as many copies thereof as there are opposite parties.(2)An
employer seeking the approval of the Conciliation Officer, Board, Labour
Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal, as the case may be, of any action taken
by him under clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 33 shall
present an application in Form K in triplicate to such Conciliation Officer,
Board, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal and shall file alongwith
the application as many copies thereof as there are opposite parties.(3)Every
application under sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) shall be verified at the foot
by the employer making it or by some other person proved to the satisfaction
of the Conciliation Officer, Board, Labour Court, Tribunal or National
Tribunal to be acquainted with the facts of the case.(4)The person verifying
shall specify by reference to the numbered paragraphs of the application, what
he verifies of his own knowledge and what he verifies upon information
received and believed to be true.(5)The verification shall be signed by the
person making it and shall state the date on which and the place at which it
was verified.

### 61. Protected workmen.

(1)Every registered trade union connected with an industrial establishment, to
which the Act applies, shall communicate to the employer before the [30th
April] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 1283 dated 28.5.1969.] every year, the names
and addresses of such of the officers of the union who are employed in that
establishment and who, in the opinion of the union should be recognised as
"protected workmen ". Any change in the incumbency of any such officer shall
be communicated to the employer by the union within fifteen days of such
change.(2)The employer shall, subject to section 33, sub-section (4),
recognise such workmen to be "protected workmen "for the purposes of sub-
section (3) of the said section and communicate to the union, in writing,
within fifteen days of the receipt of the names and addresses under sub-rule
(1), the list of workmen recognised as protected workmen [for the period of
twelve months from the date of such communication. ] [ Inserted by G.S.R. 1283
dated 28.5.1969.](3)Where the total number of names received by the employer
under sub-rule (1) exceeds the maximum number of protected workmen, admissible
for the establishment, under section 33, sub-section (4), the employer shall
recognise as protected workmen only such maximum number of workmen:Provided
that where there is more than one registered trade union in the establishment,
the maximum number shall be so distributed by the employer among the unions
that the numbers of recognised protected workmen in individual unions bears
roughly the same proportion to one another as the membership figure of the
unions. The employer shall in that case intimate in writing to the President
or the Secretary of the union the number of protected workmen allotted to
it:Provided further that where the number of protected workmen allotted to a
union under this sub-rule, falls short of the number of officers of the union
seeking protection, the union shall be entitled to select the officers to be
recognised as protected workmen. Such selection shall be made by the union and
communicated to the employer within five days of the receipt of the employer
's letter.(4)When a dispute arises between an employer and any registered
trade union in any matter connected with the recognition of "protected workmen
"under this rule, the dispute shall be referred to [any Regional Labour
Commissioner (Central) or] [ Inserted by G.S.R. 289, dated 2.3.1982 (w.e.f.
3.3.1982).] Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) concerned, whose decision
thereon shall be final.

### 62. [ Application for recovery of dues. [Substituted by G.S.R. 488, dated
16.3.1965. ]

(1)Where any money is due from an employer to a workman or a group of workmen
under a settlement or an award or under the provisions of Chapter V-A
][/Chapter V-B] [ Inserted by G.S.R. 1070 dated 23.7.1977.][, the workman or
the group of workmen, as the case may be, may apply in Form K-1 for the
recovery of the money due:Provided that in the case of a person authorised in
writing by the workman, or in the case of the death of the workman, the
assignee or heir of the deceased workman, the application shall be made in
Form K-2.(2)Where any workman or a group of workmen is entitled to receive
from the employer any money or any benefit which is capable of being computed
in terms of money, the workman or the group of workmen, as the case may be,
may apply to the specified Labour Court in Form K-3 for the determination of
the amount due or, as the case may be, the amount at which such benefit should
be computed: ] [Substituted by G.S.R. 488, dated 16.3.1965. ][Provided that in
the case of the death of the workman, application shall be made in Form K-4 by
the assignee or heir of the deceased workman.] [ Inserted by G.S.R. 1070 dated
23.7.1977.]

### 63. Appointment of Commissioner.

\- Where it is necessary to appoint a Commissioner under sub-section (3) of
section 33-C of the Act, the Labour Court may appoint a person with experience
in the particular industry, trade or business involved in the industrial
dispute or a person with experience as a Judge of a Civil Court, or as a
Stipendiary Magistrate or as a Registrar or Secretary of a Labour Court, or
Tribunal constituted under any Provincial Act or State Act or of a Labour
Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal constituted under the Act or of the
Labour Appellate Tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes (Appellate
Tribunal) Act, 1950.

### 64. Fees for the Commissioner, etc.

(1)The Labour Court shall, after consultation with the parties, estimate the
probable duration of the enquiry and fix the amount of the Commissioner 's
fees and other incidental expenses and direct the payment thereof, into the
nearest treasury, within a specified time, by such party or parties and in
such proportion as it may consider fit. The Commissioner shall not issue until
satisfactory evidence of the deposit into the treasury of the sum fixed is
filed before the Labour Court:Provided that the Labour Court may from time to
time direct that any further sum or sums be deposited into the treasury within
such time and by such parties as it may consider fit: Provided further that
the Labour Court may in its discretion, extend the time for depositing the sum
into the treasury.(2)The Labour Court may, at any time, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, vary the amount of the Commissioner 's fees in
consultation with the parties.(3)The Labour Court may direct that the fees
shall be disbursed to the Commissioner in such instalments and on such date as
it may consider fit.(4)The undisbursed balance, if any, of the sum deposited
shall be refunded to the party or parties who deposited the sum in the same
proportion as that in which it was deposited.

### 65. Time for submission of report.

(1)Every order for the issue of a Commission shall appoint a date, allowing
sufficient time, for the Commissioner to submit his report.(2)If for any
reason the Commissioner anticipates that the date fixed for the submission of
his report is likely to be exceeded, he shall apply, before the expiry of the
said date, for extension of time setting forth grounds thereof and the Labour
Court shall take such grounds into consideration in passing orders on the
application:Provided that the Labour Court may grant extension of time
notwithstanding that no application for such extension has been received from
the Commissioner within the prescribed time-limit.

### 66. Local investigation.

-In any industrial dispute in which the Labour Court deems a local investigation to be requisite or proper for the purpose of computing the money value of a benefit, the Labour Court may issue a commission to a person referred to in rule 63 directing him to make such investigation and to report thereon to it.

### 67. Commissioner 's report.

(1)The Commissioner after such local inspection as he deems necessary and
after reducing to writing the evidence taken by him, shall return such
evidence together with his report in writing signed by him to the Labour
Court.(2)The report of the Commissioner and the evidence taken by him (but not
the evidence without the report) shall be evidence in the industrial dispute
and shall form part of the record of the proceedings in the industrial
dispute; but the Labour Court or, with the permission of the Labour Court, any
of the parties to the industrial dispute may examine the Commissioner
personally before the Labour Court regarding any of the matters referred to
him or mentioned in his report or as to his report, or as to the manner in
which he had made the investigation.(3)Where the Labour Court is for any
reason dissatisfied with the proceedings of the Commissioner it may direct
such further enquiry to be made as it shall think fit.

### 68. Powers of Commissioner.

\- Any Commissioner appointed under these rules may unless otherwise directed
by the order of appointment-(a)examine the parties themselves and any
witnesses whom they or any of them may produce, and any other person whom the
Commissioner thinks proper to call upon to give evidence in the matter
referred to him;(b)call for and examine documents and other things relevant to
the subject of enquiry;(c)at any reasonable time enter upon or into any
premises mentioned in the order.

### 69. Summoning of witnesses, etc.

(1)The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) relating to
the summoning, attendance, examination of witnesses and penalties to be
imposed upon witnesses, shall apply to persons required to give evidence or to
produce documents before the Commissioner under these rules.(2)Every person
who is summoned and appears as a witness before the Commissioner shall be
entitled to payment by the Labour Court out of the sum deposited under rule
64, of an allowance for expenses incurred by him in accordance with the scale
for the time being in force for payment of such allowance to witnesses
appearing in the Civil Courts.

### 70. Representation of parties before the Commissioner.

\- The parties to the Industrial Dispute shall appear before the Commissioner,
either in person or by any other person who is competent to represent them in
the proceedings before the Labour Court.[70-A. Preservation of records by the
National Industrial Tribunals, Industrial Tribunals or Labour Courts. [
Inserted by G.S.R. 931, dated 15.7.1975.](1)The records of the National
Industrial Tribunals, Industrial Tribunals or Labour Courts specified in
Column 1 of the Table below shall be preserved, for the period specified in
the corresponding entry in column 2 thereof, after the proceedings are finally
disposed of by such National Tribunals, Industrial Tribunals or Labour
Courts.Table

Records | Number of years for which the records shall be preserved  
---|---  
1 | 2  
(i) Orders and judgments of National Industrial Tribunals | 10 years.  
(ii) Exhibited documents in the above mentioned Tribunals or Court | 10 years  
(iii) Other papers | 7 years.  
  
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the records of the
National Industrial Tribunals, Industrial Tribunals or Labour Courts,
connected with writ petitions, if any, filed in the High Courts or Supreme
Court, or connected with appeals by special leave, if any, filed in the
Supreme Court shall be preserved at least till the final disposal of such writ
petitions or appeal by special leave.]

### 71. Notice of strike.

(1)The notice of strike to be given by workmen in a public utility service
shall be in Form L.(2)On receipt of a notice of a strike under sub-rule (1),
the employer shall forthwith initiate the fact to the Conciliation Officer
having jurisdiction in the matter.

### 72. Notice of lock-out.

\- The notice of lock-out to be given by an employer carrying on a public
utility service shall be in Form M. [The notice shall be displayed
conspicuously by the employer on a notice board at the main entrance to the
establishment and in the Manager 's Office:Provided that where a registered
trade union exists, a copy of the notice shall also be served on the Secretary
of the Union.] [ Inserted by G.S.R. 1151, dated 8.10.1959.]

### 73. Report of lock-out or strike.

\- The notice of lock-out or strike in a public utility service to be
submitted by the employer under sub-section (3) of section 22, shall be in
Form N.

### 74. Report of notice of strike or lock-out.

\- The report of notice of a strike or lock-out to be submitted by the
employer under sub-section (6) of section 22, shall be sent by registered post
or given personally to the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) appointed
for the local area concerned, with copy by registered post to-(1)The
Administrative Department of the Government of India concerned,(2)The Regional
Labour Commissioner (Central) for the Zone,(3)Chief Labour Commissioner
(Central),(4)Ministry of Labour of the Government of India,(5)Labour
Department of the State Government concerned, and(6)The District Magistrate
concerned.

### 75. Register of settlements.

\- The Conciliation Officer shall file all settlements effected under this Act
in respect of disputes in the area within his jurisdiction in a register
maintained for the purpose as in Form O.[75-A. Notice of lay-off .-(1)
[Inserted by G.S.R. 229, dated 22.2.1960. ]If any workman employed in an
industrial establishment as defined in the Explanation below section 25-A [not
being an industrial establishment referred to in sub-section (1) of that
section is laid-off, then, the employer concerned shall give notices of
commencement and termination of such lay-off in Form O-1 and O-2 respectively
within seven days of such commencement or termination, as the case may
be.(2)Such notices shall be given by an employer in every case irrespective of
whether, in his opinion, the workman laid-off is or is not entitled to
compensation under section 25-C.][75-B. Application for permission for lay-off
under section 25-M. [Inserted by G.S.R. 111(E), dated 5.3.1976.
](1)Application for permission to lay-off any workman under sub-section (1),
or for permission to continue a lay-off under ][sub-section (2)] [ Substituted
by S.O. 2485, dated 20.5.1985.][of section 25-M shall be made in Form O-3 and
delivered to the authority specified under sub-section (1) either personally
or by registered post acknowledgment due and where the application is sent by
registered post the date on which the same is delivered to the said authority
shall be deemed to be the date on which the application is made, for the
purposes of ] [Inserted by G.S.R. 111(E), dated 5.3.1976. ] [sub-section (5)]
[ Substituted by S.O. 2485, dated 20.5.1985.][of the said section.] [Inserted
by G.S.R. 111(E), dated 5.3.1976. ](2)[ The application for permission shall
be made in triplicate and copies of such application shall be served by the
employer on the workmen concerned and a proof to that effect shall also be
submitted by the employer alongwith the application. ] [ Substituted by G.S.R.
289, dated 2.3.1982 (w.e.f. 13.3.1982).](3)[ The employer concerned shall
furnish to the authority to whom the application for permission has been made
such further information as the authority considers necessary for arriving at
a decision on the application, as and when called for by such authority, so as
to enable the authority to communicate the permission or refusal to grant
permission within the period specified in ] [Inserted by G.S.R. 111(E), dated
5.3.1976. ][sub-section (5)] [ Substituted by S.O. 2485, dated 20.5.1985.][of
section 25-M.(4)Where the permission to lay-off has been granted by the said
authority, the employer concerned shall give to the Regional Labour
Commissioner (Central) concerned, a notice of commencement and termination of
such lay-off in Forms O-1 and O-2 respectively and where permission to
continue a lay-off has been granted by the said authority, the employer shall
give to the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) concerned, a notice of
commencement of such lay-off in Form O-1, in case such a notice has not
already been given under sub-rule (1) of rule 75-A, and a notice of
termination of such lay-off in Form O-2.(5)The notice of commencement and
termination of lay-off referred to in sub-rule (4) shall be given within the
period specified in sub-rule (1) of rule 75-A.] [Inserted by G.S.R. 111(E),
dated 5.3.1976. ]

### 76. Notice of retrenchment.

\- If any employer desires to retrench any workman employed in his industrial
establishment who has been in continuous service for not less than one year
under him (hereinafter referred to as "workman "in this rule and in rules 77
and 78), he shall give notice of such retrenchment as in Form P to the Central
Government, the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) and Assistant Labour
Commissioner (Central) and the Employment Exchange concerned and such notice
shall be served on that Government, the Regional Labour Commissioner
(Central), the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), and the Employment
Exchange concerned, by registered post in the following manner:-(a)where
notice is given to the workman, notice of retrenchment shall be sent within
three days from the date on which notice is given to the workman;(b)where no
notice is given to the workman and he is paid one month 's wages in lieu
thereof, notice of retrenchment shall be sent within three days from the date
on which such wages are paid; and(c)where retrenchment is carried out under an
agreement which specifies a date for the termination of service, notice of
retrenchment shall be sent so as to reach the Central Government, the Regional
Labour Commissioner (Central), the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central),
and the Employment Exchange concerned, at least one month before such
date:Provided that if the date of termination of service agreed upon is within
30 days of the agreement, the notice of retrenchment shall be sent to the
Central Government, the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), the Assistant
Labour Commissioner (Central), and the Employment Exchange concerned, within 3
days of the agreement.[76-A. Notice of, and application for permission for,
retrenchment. [Inserted by G.S.R. 111(E), dated 5.3.1976. ](1)Notice ][or, as
the case may be, the application under] [ Substituted by S.O. 2485, dated
20.5.1985.][sub-section (1) of section 25-N for retrenchment shall be served
in Form PA and served on the Central Government or such authority as may be
specified by that Government under the said clause either personally or by
registered post acknowledgment due and where the notice is served by
registered post, the date on which the same is delivered to the Central
Government or the authority shall be deemed to be the date of service of the
notice for the purposes of ] [Inserted by G.S.R. 111(E), dated 5.3.1976. ]
[sub-section (4)] [<SPAN class=amd1><A TITLE =][of the said section.]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 111(E), dated 5.3.1976. ][[(2)] [Substituted by G.S.R.
289, dated 2.3.1982 (w.e.f. 13.3.1982). ][The notice or, as the case may be,
the application, shall be made in triplicate and copies of such notice or, as
the case may be, the application shall be served by the employer on the
workmen concerned and a proof to that effect shall also be submitted by the
employer alongwith the notice or, as the case may be, the application.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 289, dated 2.3.1982 (w.e.f. 13.3.1982). ](3)[ The
employer concerned shall furnish to the Central Government or the authority to
whom the notice for retrenchment has been given or the application for
permission for retrenchment has been made, under sub-section (1) of section
25-N, such further information as the Central Government or, as the case may
be, the authority considers necessary for arriving at a decision on the notice
or, as the case may be, the application, as and when called for by such
authority so as to enable the Central Government or the authority to
communicate its permission or refusal to grant permission within the period
specified in sub-section (4) of section 25-N.] [ Sub-R. (3) as so renumbered
is substituted by S.O. 2485, dated 20.5.1985.]

### 76\.

-B. Notice of closure.\- If an employer intends to close down an undertaking, he shall give notice of such closure in Form Q to the Central Government, the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), and the Employment Exchange concerned, by registered post.

### 76\.

-C. Notice of, and application for permission for, closure.(1)Notice under sub-section (1) of section 25-O of intended closure shall be given in Form Q-A and served on the Central Government either personally or by registered post acknowledgment due.[A copy of such application shall be served simultaneously by registered post on the President or Secretary of registered trade union(s) functioning in the establishment and a notice in this regard shall also be displayed conspicuously by the employer on a notice board at the main entrance to the establishment for the information of all the concerned workmen at the same time when applications are served on the Central Government.] [ Inserted by S.O. 2485, dated 20.5.1985.](2)[] [ Sub-R. (2) shall be omitted and sub-Rr. (3) and (4) renumbered by S.O. 2485, dated 20.5.1985 as sub-Rr. (2) and (3), respectively.] The notice, or, as the case may be, the application shall be made in triplicate.(3)[] [ Sub-R. (2) shall be omitted and sub-Rr. (3) and (4) renumbered by S.O. 2485, dated 20.5.1985 as sub-Rr. (2) and (3), respectively.] The employer concerned shall furnish to the Central Government to whom the notice of intended closure has been given or the application for permission to close down has been made such further information as that Government considers necessary, for arriving at a decision on the notice, or, as the case may be, the application, and calls for from such employer.

### 77. Maintenance of seniority list of workmen.

\- The employer shall prepare a list of all workmen in the particular category
from which retrenchment is contemplated to be arranged according to the
seniority of their service in that category and cause a copy thereof to be
pasted on a notice board in a conspicuous place in the premises of the
industrial establishment at least seven days before the actual date of
retrenchment.

### 78. Re-employment of retrenched workmen.

(1)At least ten days before the date on which vacancies are to be filled, the
employer shall arrange for the display on a notice board in a conspicuous
place in the premises of the industrial establishment details of those
vacancies and shall also give intimation of those vacancies by registered post
to every one of all the retrenched workmen eligible to be considered therefor,
to the address given by him at the time of retrenchment or at any time
thereafter:Provided that where the number of such vacancies is less than the
number of retrenched workmen, it shall be sufficient if intimation is given by
the employer individually to the senior-most retrenched workmen in the list
referred to in rule 77 the number of such senior-most workmen being double the
number of such vacancies:Provided further that where the vacancy is of a
duration of less than one month there shall be no obligation on the employer
to send intimation of such vacancy to individual retrenched workmen:[Provided
also that if a retrenched workman, without sufficient cause being shown in
writing to the employer, does not offer himself for re-employment on the date
or dates specified in the intimation sent to him by the employer under this
sub-rule, the employer may not intimate to him the vacancies that may be
filled on any subsequent occasion.] [ Inserted by G.S.R. 40, dated
31.12.1958.](2)Immediately after complying with the provisions of sub-rule
(1), the employer shall also inform the trade unions connected with the
industrial establishment, of the number of vacancies to be filled and names of
the retrenched workmen to whom intimation has been sent under that sub-rule:
Provided that the provisions of this sub-rule need not be complied with by the
employer in any case where an intimation is sent to every one of the workmen
mentioned in the list prepared under rule 77.

### 79. Penalties.

\- Any breach of these rules shall be punishable with fine not exceeding fifty
rupees.

### 80. Repeal.

\- The Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules, 1947, are hereby repealed:Provided
that any order made or action taken under the rules so repealed shall be
deemed to have been made or taken under the corresponding provisions of these
rules.

## Schedule

[Form A [Substituted by G.S.R. 302, dated 23-4-1958]][See rule 3]Form Of
Application For The Reference Of An Industrial Dispute To A Board Of
ConciliationCourt Of Enquiry under Section 10(2) Of The Industrial Disputes
Act, 1947.Labour Court

TribunalNational Tribunal  
---  
  
Whereas an industrial dispute| is apprehendedexists| between
.....................................  
---  
  
and ..............................and it is expedient the
dispute/investigation and settlement the matters specified in the enclosed
statement which are connected withrelevant to the disputefor dispute,
investigation and settlement

should he referred for| " enquiryadjudication| by  
---  
  
a Board of Conciliationa Court of Enquirea Labour Court an application is
hereby made under sub-section (2)a Tribunala National Tribunal

of section 10 of the industrial Disputes Act, 1947, that the| ""said
matterssaid dispute  
---  
  
"a Board of Conciliation

should be referred to a Labour Court| a Court of Enquirya Tribunal  
---  
  
a National Tribunal.This application is made by the undersigned who have/has
been duly authorised to do so by virtue of a resolution (copy enclosed)
adopted by a majority of the members present at a meeting of the
............................... held on
the...........................20...........A statement giving the particulars
required under rule 3 of the Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules, 1957, is
attached.Dated the ........................................Signature of
employer ** .....................................or agent
.................................................or manager
...........................................or principal officer of
theCorporation ..........................................Signature of
thePresident of the trade union **...............................Secretary of
the trade unionor**Signature of five representativesduly authorised (vide
resolutionenclose
............................................................**Signature of the
workman ...................................................[or [Inserted by
G.S.R. 1059, dated 30-5-1968.]**Signature of the workman inthe same
establishment dulyauthorised (vide authorisation enclosed)
..............................................................]ToThe Secretary
to the Government of India,Ministry of Labour.Statement required under rule 3
of the Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules, 1957, to accompany the form of
application prescribed under sub-section (2) of section 10 of the Industrial
Disputes Act, 1947:(a)Parties to the dispute including the name and address of
the establishment or undertaking involved;(b)Specific matters in
dispute;(c)Total number of workmen employed in the undertaking
affected;(d)Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by
the dispute;(e)Efforts made by the parties themselves to adjust the
dispute.[Copy to---(i)The Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central)
................................:[here enter office address of the Assistant
Labour Commissioner (Central) in the local area concerned];(ii)The Regional
Labour Commissioner (Central);(iii)The Chief Labour Commissioner (Central),
New Delhi.]**Delete whichever is not applicable.Form B[See rule 6]Notice To
Parties To Nominate RepresentativesWhereas an industrial dispute has arisen/is
apprehended between ............................ and ....................and
it is expedient to refer the said dispute under section 10 of the Industrial
Disputes Act, 1947, to a Board of Conciliation for the purpose of
investigating the same and for promoting a settlement thereof, you are hereby
required to intimate to the undersigned not later than the ............. the
name(s) and address(es) of one (two) person(s) whom you wish to recommend for
appointment as your representative(s) on the said Board.If you fail to make
the recommendation by the date specified above, the Central Government will
select and appoint such person(s) as it thinks fit to represent you.Secretary
to the Government of India,Ministry of Labour[Form C] [Substituted by G.S.R.
1059, dated 30-5-1968.][See rule 7]Agreement[Under section 10-A of the
Industrial Disputes Act-, 1947]BetweenName of the Parties.-Representing
employers:Representing workmen/workman:It is hereby agreed between the parties
to refer the following dispute to the arbitration of ................... [here
specify the name(s) and address(es) of the arbitrator(s)].(i)Specific matters
in dispute;(ii)Details of the parties to the dispute including the name and
address of the establishment or undertaking involved;(iii)Name of the workman
in case he himself is involved in the dispute or the name of the union, if
any, representing the workman or workmen in question;(iv)Total number of
workmen employed in the undertaking affected;(v)Estimated number of workmen
affected or likely to be affected by the dispute.We further agree that the
majority decisions of the arbitrator(s) be binding on us/in case the
arbitrators are equally divided in their opinion, that they shall appoint
another person as umpire whose award shall be binding on us.The arbitrator(s)
shall make his (their) award within a period of ........................(here
specify the period agreed upon by the parties) [from the date of publication
of this agreement in the Official Gazette by the appropriate a Government]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 1157, dated 11-10-1974.] or within such further time as is
extended by mutual agreement between us in writing. In case the award is not
made within the period aforementioned, the reference to arbitration shall
stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free to negotiate for fresh
arbitration.Signature of the partiesRepresenting
employer**Workman/Representing workman/workmenWitnesses :(1)(2)Copy to :(i)The
Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), (here enter office address of the
Conciliation Officer in local area concerned).(ii)The Regional Labour
Commissioner (Central) ...............................(iii)The Chief Labour
Commissioner (Central), New Delhi.(iv)The Secretary to the Government of
India, Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour
and Employment), New Delhi.*Where applicable.**Delete whichever is not
applicable.Form D[See rule 17]SummonsWhereas an industrial dispute between
....................................and.....................................has
been referred to this Board of Conciliation for investigation andsettlement
Court of Enquiry for investigationLabour Court/National Tribunalfor
adjudicationunder section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, you are
hereby summoned to appear before the Board/Court/Labour
Court/Tribunal/National Tribunal in person on the .....................day
of............at............o'clock in the noon to answer all material
questions relating to the said dispute and you are directed to produce on that
day all the books, papers and other documents and things in your possession or
under control in any way relating to the matter under investigation by this
Board/Court/Labour Court/Tribunal/National Tribunal.Date:

| Chairman/Secretary, |  Board of ConciliationCourt of Enquiry  
---|---|---  
Presiding Officer/Secretary, |   
Labour Court TribunalNational Tribunal  
|  
  
[Form E] [Substituted by G.S.R. 402, dated 31-3-1960.][See rule 34]Notice Of
Change Of Service Condition Proposed By An EmployerName of employer
.........................................................................................................................Address
............................................................................................................................................Dated
the ................... day of ........................ 20
.....................In accordance with section 9-A of the Industrial Disputes
Act, 1947, I/We hereby give notice to all concerned that it is my/our
intention to effect the change/changes specified in the annexure, with effect
from .............in the conditions of service applicable to workmen in
respect of the matters specified in the Fourth Schedule to the said
Act.Signature ...............................Designation
...........................Annexure(Here specific the change/changes in tended
to be effected)Copy forwarded to :(1)The Secretary of registered trade union,
if any;(2)Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central)
.................................... [here enter office address of the
Assistant labour Commissioner (Central) in the local area
concerned];(3)Regional Labour Commissioner (Central)
...........................Zone;(4)Chief Labour Commissioner (Central), New
Delhi.Form F[see rule 36]Before(Here mention the authority concerned)Reference
No. ............................................... of
...............................................................................
workmenversus.............................EmployerIn the matter of :I/We
hereby authorise Shri/Sarvashree ......................to represent me/us in
the above matter.Dated this .............................. day of ...........
20 ..........Signature of person(s) nominating the representative(s)
AddressAccepted.Signature of representative(s)AddressForm G[See rule 47]Form
Of Nomination Paper

Nameof Industrial Establishment | Group/Section/Shop/Department  
---|---  
  
I nominate .............................(here enter the name of the workmen's
representative eligible for election) as a candidate for election to the Works
Committee. He is eligible as a voter in the constituency for which he is
nominated.Dated
........................................................Signature of
proposer.I agree to the proposed nomination.Signature of candidate.Date
...................................................Attested by :(1)(2)(To be
signed by any two voters belonging to the electoral constituency).[Form G-I]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 417(E), dated 25.5.2015 (w.e.f.
10.3.1957).][See rule 56 (A)]Unified Annual Return FormA. General
Part:Particulars:(a)Name of the establishmentaddress of the establishment.
House no./Flat No. Street/Plot No. Town District State Pin Code(b)Name of the
employeraddress of the employer. House no./Flat No. Street/Plot No. Town
District State Pin CodeE-mail ID Telephone Number Mobile Number(c)Name of the
manager or person responsible for supervision and control of
establishmentAddress. House no./Flat No. Street/Plot No. Town District State
Pin CodeE-mail ID Telephone Number Mobile NumberB. Employer's Registration/
License number under the Acts mentioned in column (2) of the table below:

S. No. | Name | Registration | If yes (Registration No.)  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
01. |  The Building and other Construction Workers (Regulation ofEmployment & Conditions of Service) Act, 1996. |  |  |   
02. | The Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition) Act, 1970. |  |  |   
03. |  The Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment andCondition of Service) Act, 1979. |  |  |   
04. |  The Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous ProvisionsAct, 1952. |  |  |   
05. | The Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948. |  |  |   
06. |  The Mines Act, 1952.Notice of opening under Regulation 3of Coal Mines Regulation, 1957 or Regulation 3 of MetalliferousMines Regulation, 1961. |  |  |   
07. | The Factories Act, 1948. |  |  |   
08. | The Motor Transport Workers Act, 1961. |  |  |   
09. | The Shops and Establishments Act (State Act). |  |  |   
10. | Any other Law for the time being in force. |  |  |   
  
C. Details of Principal Employer, Contractor and Contract Labour:

01. |  Name of the principal employer in the case of a contractor’sestablishment. |   
---|---|---  
02. | Date of commencement of the establishment. |   
03. |  Number of Contractors engaged in the establishment during theyear. |   
04. |  Total Number of days during the year on which Contract Labourwas employed. |   
05. |  Total number of man-days worked by Contract Labour during theyear. |   
06. | Name of the Manager or Agent (in case of mines). |   
07. |  AddressHouse No./Flat No.Street/Plot No.TownDistrictStatePin CodeE-mail IDTelephone NumberM. No.  
  
D. Working hours and weekly rest day:

01. | Number of days worked during the year. |   
---|---|---  
02. | Number of mandays worked during the year. |   
03. | Daily hours of work. |   
04. | Weekly day of rest. |   
  
E. Maximum number of persons employed in any day during the year:

Sl. No. | Males | Females | Adolescents (between the age of 14 to 18 years.) | Children (below 14 years of age.) | Total  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
F. Wage rates (Category Wise):

Category | Rates of Wages | No. of workers  
---|---|---  
Regular | Contract  
male | female | children | Adolescent | male | female | children | Adolescent  
Highly |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Skilled |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Skilled |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Semiskilled |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Unskilled |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
G. (a) Details of Payments:

Gross wages paid | Deductions | Net wages paid  
---|---|---  
In cash | In kind | Fines | Deductions for damage or loss | Others | In cash | In kind  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
(b)Number of workers who were granted leave with wages during the year:

Sl. No. | During the year | Number of workers | Granted leave with wages  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  |   
  
H. Details of various welfare amenities provided under the statutory schemes:

Sl. No. | Nature of various welfare amenities provided | Statutory (specify the statute)  
---|---|---  
|  |   
  
M. The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules,
1957:

(1). |  If the workscommittee has been functioning. | Yes/No  
---|---|---  
1(a). |  Date of itsconstitution. |   
1(b). |  Number ofworkmen's representatives (elected members). |   
1(c). |  Number ofemployer's representatives (nominated members). |   
1(d). |  Number of meetingsheld during the year with dates. |   
2. |  If the workscommittee had not been functioning, the difficulties encounteredin its constitution or functioning. |   
3. |  Number of Unionsin the establishments. |   
  
(a)Number of workers discharged, dismissed, retrenched or whose services were
terminated during the year:

No. of workers | Discharged | Dismissed | Retrenched | Terminated or Removed  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
  
(b)Man-days lost during the year on account of:

Sl. No. | Reasons | No. of man-days lost | Loss in term of money  
---|---|---|---  
(a). | Strike |  |   
(b). | Lockout |  |   
(c). | Fatal accidents |  |   
(d). | Non-fatal accidents or serious accidents in Mines |  |   
  
DeclarationIt is to certify that the above information is true and correct and
also I certify that I have complied with the all provisions of Labour Laws
applicable to my establishment.

Place | Date | Sign. Here  
---|---|---  
  
Digital Signature of the Employer, if
anyDate___________________Place___________________Form H[See rule 58]Form of
Memorandum for SettlementNames of Parties:Representing
employer(s):Representing workmen:Short Recital of the CaseTerms of
settlementSignature of the parties
.............................................................Witness
:(1)................................................(2)................................................

*Signature of | Conciliation Officer  
---|---  
Board of Conciliation  
  
Copy to :[Here enter the office address of the Assistant Labour Commissioner
(Central) in the local area concerned].*(1) Assistant Labour Commissioner
(Central) .................(2)Regional Labour Commissioner (Central)
......................(3)Chief Labour Commissioner (Central), New Delhi;(4)The
Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Labour, New Delhi.

*In case ofsettlements effected by | Conciliation Officer  
---|---  
Board of Conciliation  
  
**In case where settlements are arrived at between the employer and his
workmen otherwise than in the course of conciliation proceeding.Form I[See
rule 59]Complaints Regarding Change Of Conditions Of ServiceLabour Court
....................................................

Before the | Tribunal |  ......complaintsunder Section 33-A of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947.  
---|---|---  
National Tribunal  
  
Reference No
......................................................................................In
the matter of:A
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Complainant(s);versusB
.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Opposite Party(ies).Address:The petitioner(s) begs/beg to complain that the
Opposite Party/Parties) has/have been guilty of a contravention of the
provisions of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), as
shown below :(Here set out briefly the particulars showing the manner in which
the alleged contravention has to place and the grounds on which the order or
act of the Management is challenged.)

| LabourCourt  
---|---  
Thecomplainant(s) accordingly prays/pray that the | Tribunal  
| National Tribunal  
  
may be pleased to decide the complaint set-out above and pass such order or
orders thereon as it may deem fit and proper.The number of copies of the
complaint and its annexures required under rule 59 of the Industrial Disputes
(Central) Rules, 1957, are submitted herewith.Signature of the
Complainant(s)Dated this.......................... day
of...................... 20...........VerificationI do solemnly declare that
what is stated in paragraphs...........above is true to my knowledge and that
what is stated in paragraphs ................above is stated upon information
received and believed by me to be true. This verification is signed by me
at............ on.........day of..........20............Signature or thumb-
impression of the person verifying.Form J[See rule 60(1)]Conditions Of
Service, Etc., Pending ProceedingsBefore (here mention the Conciliation
Officer, Board, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal.)

Application for permission under | Sub-section (1) |  Of section33 of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947 (14 of 1947).  
---|---|---  
Sub-section (1)  
  
Reference No
......................................................................................In
the matter of:A
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Complainant(s);versusB
.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Opposite Party(ies).Address(es):The above-mentioned applicant begs to state as
follows:[Here mention the action specified in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-
section (1) grounds on which the permission is sought for.]The applicant,
therefore, prays that express permission may kindly be granted to him to take
the following action, namely:

[Here mention theaction specified in clause (a) or clause (b) of | sub-section (1) | ofsection 33.]  
---|---|---  
sub-section (3)  
  
Signature of the applicant.Dated this ..........................day
of....................20...............(Space for Verification)Date (on which
the verification was signed) ...................Place (at which the
verification was signed) .............(Signature of person verifying).Form
K[See rule 60(2)]Discharge, Dismissal, Etc., Pending ProceedingsBefore (here
mention the Conciliation Officer, Board, Labour Court, Tribunal or National
Tribunal)Application under sub-section (2) of section 33 of the Industrial
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947),Reference No.
......................................................................................In
the matter of:A.
...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Complainant(s);versusB.
.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Opposite Party(ies).Address(es):The above-mentioned applicant begs to state as
follows:(Here set out the relevant facts and circumstances of the case)*The
workman/workmen discharged/dismissed under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of
section 33 has/have been paid wages for one month.The applicant prays that the
Conciliation Officer/Board/Labour Court/Tribunal/National Tribunal maybe
pleased to approve of the action taken, namely:[Here mention the action taken
wider clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 33.]Signature of
the applicant.Space for VerificationDated this .......................... day
of .....................20...........Date (on which the verification was
signed) .................Place (at which the verification was signed)
.......................... (Signature of the person verifying).*Delete, if not
applicable.[Form K-1] [Substituted by G.S.R.488, dated 16-3-1965][See rule
62(1)]Application Under Sub-Section (1) Of Section 33-C Of The Industrial
Disputes Act, 1947To(1)The Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of
Labour and Employment, New Delhi.(2)The Regional Labour Commissioner (Central)
.................(here insert the name of the region).Sir,I/We have to state
that I am/We are entitled to receive from M/s ..................a sum of Rs
.................on account of...........under the provisions of Chapter
VA/Chapter VB of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947/in terms of the award dated
the.......... given by........../in terms of the settlement dated the
...............arrived at between the said M/s.............and their workmen
through ..................the duly elected representatives.I/We further state
that I/we served the management with a demand notice by registered post on
.............for the said amount which the management has neither paid nor
offered to pay to me/us even though a fortnight has since elapsed. The details
of the amount have been mentioned in the statement hereto annexed.I/We request
that the said sum may kindly be recovered for the management under sub-section
(1) of section 33-C of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and paid to me/us as
early as possible.

|  Signature of the applicant(s)Address  
---|---  
| 1.  
| 2.  
Station : | 3.  
Date : | 4.  
  
Annexure(Here indicate the details of the amount(s) claimed)[Form K-2]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 488, dated 16-3-1965][See rule 62(1)]Application By A
Person Authorised By A Workman Or By The Assignee Or Heir Of The Deceased
Workman Under Sub-Section (1) Of Section 33-C Of The Industrial Disputes Act,
1947To(1)The Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Labour and
Employment, New Delhi.(2)The Regional Labour Commissioner (Central)
..............(here insert the name of the region).Sir,I *Shri/Shrimati/Kumari
...................................................have to state that
*Shri/Shrimati Kumari ....................*is/was entitled to receive from
M/s.................. a sum of Rs...................... on account of
.............under the provisions of Chapter V-A/Chapter V-B of the Industrial
Disputes Act, 1947/in terms of the award, dated the ..............given
by.................../in terms of the settlement, dated the
................arrived at between the said M/s............and their workmen
through .............the duly elected representatives.I further state that I
served the management with a demand notice by registered post on
..............for the said amount which the management has neither paid nor
offered to pay to me even though a fortnight has since elapsed. The details of
the amount have been mentioned in the statement hereto annexed.I request that
the said sum may kindly be recovered from the management under sub-section (1)
of section 33-C of the industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and paid to me as early
as possible.*I have been duly authorised in writing by
.......................(here insert the name of the workman) to make this
application and to receive the payment of the aforesaid amount due to him.*I
am the assignee/heir of the deceased workman and am entitled to receive the
payment of the aforesaid amount due to him.Station :Date :Signature of the
applicant ...............................Address
...................................................Annexure(Here indicate the
detail of the amount claimed.)*Strike out the portions inapplicable.[Form K-3]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 488, dated 16-3-1965.][See rule 62(2)]Application Under
Sub-Section (2) Of Section 33-C Of The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947Before the
Central Government Labour Court at
.................between........................ and ................(1)Name
of the applicant(s)(2)Name of the employerThe petitioner(s)
..................................... a workman of .................. M/s
................................. of ................... The petitioner(s)
undersigned, workmen of................... is/are entitled to receive from the
said M/s ....................... the money/benefits mentioned in the statement
hereto annexed.It is prayed that the Court be pleased to determine the
amount/amounts due to the petitioner(s).

Signature orthumb-impression(s) of the applicant(s) | Address(es)  
---|---  
1. |   
2. |   
3. |   
4. |   
  
Annexure(Herein set out the details of the money due or the benefits accrued
together With the case for their admissibility.)[Form K-4] [Inserted by G.S.R.
1070, dated 23-7-1977][See rule 62(2)]Application By A Person Who Is An
Assignee Or Heir Of A Deceased Workman Under Sub-Section (2) Of Section 33-C
Of The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 OF 1947)Before the Central Government
Labour Court at
.................................................Between(i)Name of the
applicant/applicants(ii)Name of the employerI am/We are the assignee(s) of the
deceased workman and am/are entitled to make an application on his behalf.Shri
...................... former workman of
M/s....................of..................is entitled to receive from the
said M/s ....................the money/benefits mentioned in the statement
hereto annexed;It is prayed that the Court be pleased to determine the
amount/amounts due to the deceased workman.Name and Address of workman
........................................Signature or thumb-impression of the
applicant(s) ....................................................Address of
the applicant(s)
......................................................Station:Date:Annexure(Herein
set out the details of the money due or the, benefits accrued together with
the case for their admissibility).Form L[See rule 71]Form Of Notice Of Strike
To Be Given By [Union/Workmen] [Substituted by G.S.R. 488, dated 16-3-1965.]
In Public Utility ServiceName Of Union[Names of five elected representatives
of workmen.]Dated the................... day
of.........................20............To(The name of the employer).Dear
Sir/Sirs,In accordance with the provisions contained in sub-section (1) of
section 22 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 I/We hereby give you notice
that I propose to call a strike/We propose to go on strike on
.............20................ for the reasons explained in the
annexure.Yours faithfully,Secretary of the Union[Five representatives of the
workmen duly elected at a meeting held on ...............(dated), vide
resolution attached.] [Substituted by G.S.R. 1151, dated
8-10-1959]AnnexureStatement of the Case.Copy to:(1)Assistant Labour
Commissioner (Central) ...........................................(Here enter
office address of the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) in the local
area concerned).(2)Regional Labour Commissioner (Central)
..............Zone.(3)Chief Labour Commissioner (Central), New Delhi.[Form M
[Substituted by G.S.R. 1151, dated 8-10-1959.][See rule 72]Form Of Notice To
Lock-Out To Be Given By An Employer Carrying On A Public Utility ServiceName
of employer
.......................................................................Address
...............................................................................Dated
the ..............................................day
of..............20..........In accordance with the provisions of sub-section
(2) of section 22 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, I/We hereby give
notice to all concerned that it is my/our intention to effect a lock-out, in
.....................department(s), section(s) of my/our establishment with
effect from .................for the reasons explained in the
annexure.Signature ..................................Designation
................................AnnexureStatement of ReasonsCopy forwarded
to:(1)The Secretary of the Registered Union, if any,(2)Assistant Labour
Commissioner (Central)...................................(Here enter office
address of the Assistant labour Commissioner (Central) in the local area
concerned.)(3)Regional Labour Commissioner (Central).........Zone.(4)Chief
Labour Commissioner (Central), New Delhi.]Form N[See rule 73]Form Of Report Of
Strike Or Lock-Out In A Public Utility ServiceInformation to be supplied in
this form immediately on the occurrence of a strike or lock-out in a public
utility service to the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) for the local
area concerned

Nameof undertaking |  Stationand District |  Normalworking strength |  Numberof Workers involved |  Strikeor Lock-out |  Dateof commencement of strike or lock-out | Cause |  Wasnotice of strike or lockout given ? If so, on what date and forwhat period |  Isthere any permanent agency or agreement in the undertaking forthe settlement of dispute between the employer and workmen ? Ifany exists, particulars thereof |  Anyother information  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Directly | Indirectly  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11  
  
Notes.-Column (3) Give the average number of workmen employed during the month
previous to the day on which the strike or lock-out occurred. While reckoning
the average, omit the days on which the attendance was not normal for reasons
other than individual reasons of particular workmen. Thus, days on which
strike or lock-out occurs or communal holiday is enjoyed by a large section of
workers should be omitted.Column (4) If, say, 200 workers in a factory strike
work and in consequence the whole factory employing 1,000 workers has to he
closed then, 200 should be shown under "directly" and the remaining under
"indirectly". If the strike of 200 workers does not affect the working of the
other departments of the factory, the number of workers involved would only be
200, which figure should appear under "directly" and column "indirectly" would
be blank.Column (8) Give the causes of the dispute as well as the immediate
cause that led to the strike or lock-out.Form O[See rule 75]Register-Part I

SerialNo. | Industry |  Partiesto the settlement |  Dateof settlement | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
  
*Whether the settlement was effected at the intervention of the conciliation machinery or by mutual negotiations between the parties, may be indicated here.

## Part II – Should contain one copy each of the settlements in the serial
order indicated in Part I.

[Form O-1 [Inserted by G.S.R. 299, dated 22-2-1960.]](See rule 75-A)ToThe
Regional Labour Commissioner
(Central),......................................................(here specify
the region concerned.)Sir,Under rule 75-A of the Industrial Disputes (Central)
Rules, 1957, I/We hereby inform that I/We have laid-off ............. out of a
total of*............ workmen employed in the establishment with effect from
** ...................for the reasons explained in the Annexure.

### 2\. Such of the workmen concerned as are entitled to compensation under
section 25-C of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, will be paid compensation
due to them.

Yours faithfully,***Copy forwarded to Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central)
...........................................................(Here specify the
address of the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) of the local area
concerned.)AnnexureStatement of Reasons*Here insert the number of
workmen.**Here insert the date.***Here insert the position which the person
who signs the letter holds with the employer issuing the letter.][Form O-2
[Inserted by G.S.R. 111(E), dated 5-3-1976]](See rule 75-A ]ToThe Regional
Labour Commissioner
(Central),........................................................................................................................(Here
specify the region concerned)Sir,As required by rule 75-A of the Industrial
Disputes (Central) Rules, 1957 and in continuation of my/our notice dated'
.......................in Form 0-1 I/We hereby inform you that the lay-off in
my/our establishment has ended on+ ...........................Yours
faithfully,**Copy to the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central)
...............................[Here specify the address of the Assistant
Labour Commissioner (Central) of the local area concerned.]*Here insert the
date.**Here insert the position which the person who signs the letter holds
with the employer issuing the letter.Form O-3(To be submitted in triplicate
[***] [Omitted by G.S.R. 289, dated 2-3-1982 (w.e.f. 13-3-1982)][See rule
75-B(1)Form Of Application For Permission To Lay-Off, To Continue The Lay-Off
Workmen In Industrial Establishments To Which Provisions Of Chapter V-B Of The
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 Of 1947),
ApplyTo............................................................................................................................................................................................................[The
authority specified under sub-section (1) of section 25-M]Sir,Under *sub-
section (1)/sub-section [(3)] [Substituted by S.O. 2485, dated 20-5-1985] of
section 25-M of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) read with sub-
rule (1) of rule 75-B of the Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules, 1957, I/We
hereby apply for 'permission to the lay-off/permission to continue the lay-off
of ..............workmen of a total of............workmen employed in my/our
establishment with effect from .................for the reasons set out in the
Annexure.Permission is solicited *for the lay-off/to continue the lay-off of
the said workmen.Such of the workmen permitted to be laid-off will be paid
such compensation, if any, to which they are entitled under sub-section [(6)]
[Substituted by S.O. 2485, dated 20-5-1985] of section 25-M, read with section
25-C of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947).Yours
faithfully,(Signature)*Strike out whatever is inapplicable.Annexure(Please
give replies against each item)Item No.

### 1\. Name of the undertaking with complete postal address, including
telegraphic address and telephone number.

### 2\. Status of undertaking:

(i)Whether Central public sector/State public sector/foreign majority
company/joint sector, etc.(ii)If belongs to large industrial house, please
indicate the controlling group; and if a foreign majority company, indicate
the extent of foreign holdings.(iii)Whether the undertaking is
licensed/registered and if so, name of licensing/registration authority and
licence/registration certificate numbers.

### 3\.

(a)*Names and addresses of the affected workmen proposed to be laid-off/names
and addresses of the workmen laid-off before the commencement of the
industrial Disputes (Amendment) Act, 1976 (32 of 1976) and the dates from
which each of them has been laid-off.(b)The nature of the duties of the
workmen referred to in sub-item (a), the units/sections/shops where they are
or were working and the wages drawn by them.

### 4\. Items of manufacture and scheduled industry/industries under which
they fall.

### 5\. Details relating to installed capacity, licensed capacity and utilised
capacity.

### 6\. (i) Annual production, item-wise for preceding three years.

(ii)Production figures, month-wise, for the preceding twelve months.

### 7\. Work in progress, item-wise and value-wise.

### 8\. Any arrangements regarding off-loading or sub-contracting of products
or any components thereof.

### 9\. Position of the order book-item-wise and value-wise for a period of
six months, and one year next following, and for the period after the expiry
of the said one year.

### 10\. Number of working days in a week with the number of shifts per day
and the strength of workmen per each shift.

### 11\. Balance-sheets, profit and loss accounts and audit reports for the
last three years.

### 12\. Financial position of the company.

### 13\. Names of the inter-connected companies or companies under the same
management.

### 14\. (i) The total number of workmen (category wise), and the number of
employees other than workmen as defined under the Industrial Disputes Act,
1947 (14 of 1947), employed in the undertaking.

(ii)Percentage of wages of workmen to the total cost of production.

### 15\. Administrative, general and selling cost in absolute terms/per year
in the last three years and percentage thereof to the total cost.

### 16\. Details of lay-offs resorted to in the last three years (other than
the lay-off for which permission is sought), including the periods of such
lay-offs, the number of workmen involved in each such lay-off and the reasons
therefor.

### 17\. Anticipated savings due to the *proposed lay-off/lay-off for the
continuance of which permission is sought.

### 18\. Any proposal for effecting savings on account of reduction in

(i)managerial remuneration,(ii)sales promotion cost, and(iii)general
administration expenses,

### 19\. Position of stocks on last day of each of the months in the preceding
twelve months.

### 20\. Annual sales figures for the last three years and month-wise sales
figures for the preceding twelve months both item-wise and value-wise.

### 21\. Reasons for the *proposed lay-off/lay-off for the continuance of
which permission is sought.

### 22\. Any specific attempts made so far to avoid the *proposed lay-off/lay-
off for the continuance of which permission is sought.

### 23\. Any other relevant factors with details thereof.

*Strike out whatever is inapplicable.Form P[See rule 76]Form Of Notice Of Retrenchment To Be Given By An Employer Under Clause (C) Of Section 25-F Of Industrial Disputes Act, 1947Name of employer ........................................Address ..........................................................Dated the ..............day of..............20.............ToThe Secretary to the Government of India,Ministry of Labour, New DelhiSir,Under clause (c) of section 25-F of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), I/We hereby inform you that I/We have decided to retrench * ..................workmen with effect from ** ...............for the reasons explained in the Annexure.

### 2\. The workmen concerned were given on the ............20........one
month's notice in writing as required under clause (a) of section 25-F of that
Act. Retrenchment is being effected in pursuance of an agreement, a copy of
which is enclosed. The workmen were given on the ** ..................
20........... one month's pay in lieu of notice as required under clause (a)
of section 25-F of that Act.

### 3\. The total number of workmen employed in the industrial establishment
is ***...........................and the total number of those who will he
affected by the retrenchment is given below :

Categoryand designation or workmen to be retrenched |  Numberof workman  
---|---  
| Employed |  Tobe retrenched  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
|  |   
  
### 4\. I/We hereby declare that the workman/workmen concerned has/have
been/will be paid compensation due to them under section 25-F of the Act on **
......................./the expiry of the notice period.

Yours faithfully,++*Here insert the number of workmen.**Here insert the
date.+Delete the portion which is not applicable***Here insert the total
number of workmen employed in the industrial establishment.++Here insert the
position which the person who signs this letter holds with the employer
issuing the letter.AnnexureStatement of ReasonsCopy to:(1)Assistant Labour
Commissioner(Central)
............................................................................[Here
enter office address of the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) in local
area concerned).(2)Regional Labour Commissioner (Central).(3)[ Employment
Officer, Employment Exchange
..................................................................(Enter the
full address of the Employment Exchange concerned.)][Form PA] [Inserted by
G.S.R. 111(E), dated 5-3-1976](To be made in triplicate [***] [Omitted by
G.S.R. 289, dated 2-3-1982 (w.e.f. 13-3-1982)])[See rule 76-A(l)]Form Of
Notice For Permission For Retrenchment Of Workmen To Be Given By An Employer
Under Clause [(D)] [Substituted By S.O. 2484, Dated 20-5-1985] Of Sub-Section
(1) Of Section 25-N Of The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (141 Of 1947)Date
.........................................To...........................................................................................................................[The
Central Government/authority* specified under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of
section 25-N].Sir,Under [clause (c)] [Substituted by G.S.R. 761, dated
2-8-1985] of sub-section (1) of section 25-N of the Industrial Disputes Act,
1947 (14 of 1947), I/We hereby inform you that *I/We propose to retrench
..................workmen [being workmen to whom sub-section (1) of section
25-N applies] with effect from............for the reasons set out in the
Annexure.

### 2\. The workmen *concerned have been given notice in writing as required
under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 25-N/have not been given notice
since the retrenchment is under an agreement (copy of which is enclosed) as
provided in the proviso to the said clause.

### 3\. The total number of workmen employed in the industrial establishment
is ................and the total number of those who will be affected by the
proposed retrenchment is as given below:

Categoryand designation or workmen to be retrenched |  Numberof workman  
---|---  
| Employed |  Tobe retrenched  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
|  |   
  
### 4\. Permission is solicited for the proposed retrenchment under clause (c)
of sub-section (1) of section 25-N.

### 5\. I/We hereby declare that the workmen permitted to be retrenched will
be paid compensation due to them under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of
section 25-N of the Act.

Yours faithfully,(Signature)*Strike out whatever is
inapplicable.Annexure(Please give replies against each item)Item No.

### 1\. Name of the undertaking with complete postal address, including
telegraphic addresses and telephone number.

### 2\. Status of undertaking:

(i)Whether Central public sector/State public sector/foreign majority
company/joint sector, etc.(ii)if belongs to large industrial house, please
indicate the controlling group; and if a foreign majority company, indicate
the extent of foreign holdings.(iii)Whether the undertaking is
licensed/registered and if so, name of licensing/registration authority and
licence/registration certificate numbers.

### 3\. Names and addresses of the workmen proposed to be retrenched and the
nature of their duties, the units/sections/shops where they are working and
the wages drawn by them.

### 4\. Items of manufacture and scheduled industry/industries under which
they fall.

### 5\. Details relating to installed capacity licensed capacity and the
utilised capacity.

### 6\. (i) Annual production, item-wise for preceding three years.

(ii)Production figures month-wise for the preceding twelve months.

### 7\. Work in progress-item-wise and value-wise.

### 8\. Any arrangement regarding off-loading or sub-contracting of products
or any components thereof.

### 9\. Position of the order book-item-wise and value-wise for a period of
six months and one year next following, and for the period after the expiry of
the said one year.

### 10\. Number of working days in a week with number of shifts per day and
strength of workmen per each shift.

### 11\. Balance-sheet, profit and loss account and audit reports for the last
three years.

### 12\. Financial position of the company.

### 13\. Names of the inter-connected companies or companies under the same
management.

### 14\. (i) The total number of workmen (category wise), and the number of
employees other than workmen as defined in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947
(14 of 1947), employed in the undertaking.

(ii)Percentage of wages of workmen to the total cost of production.

### 15\. Administrative, general and selling cost in absolute terms per year
for the last three years and percentage thereof to the total cost.

### 16\. Details of retrenchment resorted to in the last three years,
including dates of retrenchment, the number of workmen involved in each case,
and the reasons therefor.

### 17\. Has any of the retrenched workmen been given re-employment and if so,
when? Give details.

### 18\. Are seniority lists maintained in respect of the categories of
workmen proposed to be retrenched and if so, the details and the position of
the workmen affected indicating their length of service including broken
periods of set ,rice ?

### 19\. Anticipated savings due to the proposed retrenchment.

### 20\. Any proposal for effecting savings on account of reduction in--

(i)managerial remuneration,(ii)sale promotion cost, and(iii)general
administration expenses.

### 21\. Position of stocks on the last day of each of the month in the
preceding twelve months.

### 22\. Annual sales figures for the last three years and month-wise sales
figures-for the preceding twelve months both item-wise and value-wise.

### 23\. Reasons for the proposed retrenchment.

### 24\. Any specific attempt made so far to avoid the proposed retrenchment.

### 25\. Any other relevant factors with details thereof.

[***] [Form PB omitted by S.O. 2485, dated 20-5-1985][Form Q] [Inserted by
G.S.R. 410(E), dated 13-9-1972][See rule 76-A]>Form Of Notice Of Closure To Be
Given By An Employer Under Section 25-FFA Of The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947
(14 Of 1947)Name of employer
..........................................................................
Address......................................................................................Dated
the .............................day
of..........................20.....................ToThe Secretary to the
Government of India,Department of Labour and Employment,New DelhiSir,Under
section 25-FFA of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), I/We hereby
inform you that I/We have decided to close down ......................(name of
the undertaking) with effect from .............for the reasons explained in
the Annexure. The number of workmen whose services would be terminated on
account of the closure of the undertaking is ...............(number of
workmen).Yours faithfully,*(Here insert the position which the person who
signs this letter holds with the employer issuing this
letter.)AnnexureStatement of ReasonsCopy to:(1)The Regional Labour
Commissioner (Central) .................
*...............................(2)The Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central)
................ *...............................(3)The Employment Exchange
........................ *...............................*[Here enter the
office address of the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central)/Assistant Labour
Commissioner (Central) and the Employment Exchange in the local area
concerned].Form QA(To be submitted in triplicate)[See rule 76-C(1)]Form Of
Notice For Permission Of Closure To Be Given By An Employer Under Sub-Section
(1) Of Section 25-FFA The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 Of 1947)Date
.............................................To,The Secretary to the
Government of India,Ministry of Labour,New Delhi.Sir,Under section 25-C of the
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947(14 of 1947), I/We hereby inform you that 1/We
propose to close down the undertaking specified below of (name of the
industrial establishment).(Give details of the
undertaking)................................ with effect from
............................................. for the reasons explained in the
Annexure.

### 2\. The number of workmen whose services will be terminated on account of
the closure of the undertaking is
................................................. (number of workmen).

### 3\. Permission is solicited for the proposed closure.

### 4\. [ I/We hereby declare that in the event of approval for the closure
being granted, every workman in the undertaking to whom sub-section (8) of the
said section 25-0 applies shall be paid compensation as specified in that
section.] [Substituted by S.O. 2485, dated 20-5-1985]

Yours faithfully,(Signature)Annexure(Please give replies against each
item)Item No.

### 1\. Name of the industrial establishment with complete postal address,
including telegraphic addresses and telephone number.

### 2\. Status of undertaking :-

(i)Whether Central public sector/State public sector/foreign majority
company/joint sector, etc.(ii)If belongs to large industrial house, please
indicate the controlling group; and if a foreign majority company, indicate
the extent of foreign holdings.(iii)Whether the undertaking is
licensed/registered and if so, name of licensing/registration authority and
licence/registration certificate numbers.

### 3\. The total number and categories of workmen affected by the proposed
closure, alongwith the addresses of the workmen and the details of wages drawn
by them.

### 4\. Items of manufacture and scheduled industry/industries under which
they fall.

### 5\. Details relating to licensed capacity, installed capacity and utilised
capacity.

### 6\. (i) Annual production item-wise and value-wise.

(ii)Production figures month-wise for the preceding twelve months.

### 7\. Work in progress--item-wise and value-wise.

### 8\. Any arrangement regarding off-loading or sub-contracting of products
or any component thereof.

### 9\. Details of persons or the organisations to whom the job/jobs is/are
being entrusted relationship/interest of the persons/organisations with the
director/directors or the officer/officers of the company.

### 10\. Position of the order book-item-wise and value-wise for a period of
six months and one year next following, and for the period after the expiry of
the said one year.

### 11\. Number of working days in a week with the number of shifts per day
and the strength of workmen per each shut.

### 12\. Balance-sheet and profit and loss account and audit reports for the
last three years.

### 13\. Financial position of the company.

### 14\. (i) Names of inter-connected company or companies under the same
management.

(ii)Details about inter corporate investments and changes during the last one
year.(iii)Interest of any of the directors/officers of the undertaking
producing same or similar type of product.

### 15\. Percentage of wages of workmen to the total cost of production.

### 16\. Administrative, general and selling cost in absolute terms per year
for the last three years and percentage thereof to the total cost.

### 17\. Inventory position-item-wise and value-wise for the preceding twelve
months (Inventories to he shown in respect of finished products, components
and raw materials to be shown separately item-wise and value-wise).

### 18\. Selling arrangement for the last three years and any change in the
selling arrangement in preceding twelve months.

### 19\. Full details of the interests of the directors and officers of the
company in the organisations/persons involved in selling products of the
undertaking.

### 20\. Buying arrangements for raw materials and components.

### 21\. Interests of the directors and officers with the
organisations/persons involved in buying raw materials and components for the
undertaking.

### 22\. Annual sales figures for the last three years and month-wise sales
figures for the preceding twelve months both item-wise and value-wise.

### 23\. Reasons for the proposed closure.

### 24\. Any specific attempts made so far to avoid the closure.

### 25\. Any other relevant factors with details thereof.

[***] [Form QB omitted by S.O. 2485, dated 20-5-1985][Inserted by G.S.R.
410(E), dated 13-9-1972.][Inserted by G.S.R. 811, dated 3-7-1959]

