## Union of India - Act

## The Insurance Act, 1938

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Insurance Act, 1938

## Act 4 of 1938

  * Published in Gazette 4 on 25 January 2017 
  * Assented to on 25 January 2017 
  * Commenced on 25 January 2017 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 January 2017.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Insurance (Amendment) Act, 2002 (Act 42 of 2002) on 1 January 2002] 
  2. [Amended by The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Sharing of Database for Distribution of Insurance Products) Regulations, 2010 (Regulation THE-INSURANCE-REGULATORY-AND-DEVELOPMENT-AUTHORITY of 2010) on 1 January 2010] 
  3. [Amended by The Securities and Insurance Laws (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2010 (Act 26 of 2010) on 20 August 2010] 

The Insurance Act, 1938Act, No. 4 of 1938

### 26th. February, 1938

PREAMBLEAn Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to the business of
insurance.WHEREAS it is expedient to consolidate and amend the law relating to
the business of insurance; it is hereby enacted as follows: --

## Part I – Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement

(1)This Act may be called the Insurance Act, 1938 .(2)It extends to the whole
of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint in this behalf.

### 2. Definitions

In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,--(1)"actuary" means an actuary as defined in clause (a) of sub-
section (1) of section 2 of the Actuaries Act, 2006 (35 of
2006);(1A)"Authority" means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
of India established under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999);(2)"policy-holder"
includes a person to whom the whole of the interest of the policy-holder in
the policy is assigned once and for all, but does not include an assignee
thereof whose interest in the policy is defeasible or is for the time being
subject to any condition;(3)"approved securities" means--(i)Government
securities and other securities charged on the revenue of the Central
Government or of the Government of a State or guaranteed fully as regards
principal and interest by the Central Government or the Government of any
State;(ii)debentures or other securities for money issued under the authority
of any Central Act or Act of a State Legislature by or on behalf of a port
trust or municipal corporation or city improvement trust in any presidency-
town;(iii)shares of a corporation established by law and guaranteed fully by
the Central Government or the Government of a State as to the repayment of the
principal and the payment of dividend;(iv)securities issued or guaranteed
fully as regards principal and interest by the Government of any Part B State
and specified as approved securities for the purposes of this Act by the
Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette; andExplanation.--
In sub-clauses (i) and (iii) "Government of a State" in relation to any period
before the 1st November, 1956, means the Government of a Part A
State;(4)"auditor" means a person qualified under the Chartered Accountants
Act, 1949 (38 of 1949) to act as an auditor of companies;(4A)"banking company"
and "company" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in clauses
(c) and (d) of sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949
(10 of 1949);(5)"certified" in relation to any copy or translation of a
document required to be furnished by or on behalf of an insurer or a provident
society as defined in Part III means certified by a principal officer of such
insurer or provident society to be a true copy or a correct translation, as
the case may be;(5B)"Controller of Insurance" means the officer appointed by
the Central Government under section2B to exercise all the powers, discharge
the functions and perform the duties of the Authority under this Act or the
Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 (31 of 1956) or the General
InsuranceBusiness (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 (57 of 1972) or the Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999;(6)"Court" means the principal
Civil Court of original jurisdiction in a district, and includes the High
Court in exercise of its ordinary original civil jurisdiction;(6A)"fire
insurance business" means the business of effecting, otherwise than
incidentally to some other class of insurance business, contracts of insurance
against loss by or incidental to fire or other occurrence customarily included
among the risks insured against in fire insurance policies;(6B)"general
insurance business" means fire, marine or miscellaneous insurance business,
whether carried on singly or in combination with one or more of
them;(6C)"health insurance business" means the effecting of contracts which
provide for sickness benefits or medical, surgical or hospital expense
benefits, whether in-patient or out-patient travel cover and personal accident
cover;(7)"Government security" means a Government security as defined in the
Public Debt Act,1944 (18of 1944);(7A)"Indian insurance company" means any
insurer, being a company which is limited by shares, and,--(a)which is formed
and registered under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) as a public company
or is converted into such a company within one year of the commencement of the
Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015;(b)in which the aggregate holdings of
equity shares by foreign investors, including portfolio investors, do not
exceed forty-nine per cent. of the paid up equity capital of such Indian
insurance company, which is Indian owned and controlled, in such manner as may
be prescribed.Explanation.--For the purposes of this sub-clause, the
expression "control" shall include the right to appoint a majority of the
directors or to control the management or policy decisions including by virtue
of their shareholding or management rights or shareholders agreements or
voting agreements;(c)whose sole purpose is to carry on life insurance business
or general insurance business or re-insurance business or health insurance
business;(8A)"insurance co-operative society" means any insurer being a co-
operative society,--(a)which is registered on or after the commencement of the
Insurance (Amendment) Act, 2002, as a co-operative society under the Co-
operative Societies Act, 1912 (2 of 1912) or under any other law for the time
being in force in any State relating to Co-operative Societies or under the
Multi-State Co-operative Societies Act, 1984 (51 of 1984);(b)having a minimum
paid-up capital of rupees one hundred crore in case of life insurance
business, general insurance business and health insurance business;(c)in which
no body corporate, whether incorporated or not, formed or registered outside
India, either by itself or through its subsidiaries or nominees, at any time,
holds more than twenty-six per cent of the capital of such Co-operative
Society;(d)whose sole purpose is to carry on life insurance business or
general insurance business or health insurance business in India;(9)"insurer"
means--(a)an Indian Insurance Company, or(b)a statutory body established by an
Act of Parliament to carry on insurance business, or(c)an insurance co-
operative society, or(d)a foreign company engaged in re-insurance business
through a branch established in India.Explanation.--For the purposes of this
sub-clause, the expression "foreign company" shall mean a company or body
established or incorporated under a law of any country outside India and
includes Lloyd's established under the Lloyd's Act, 1871 (United Kingdom) or
any of its Members;(10)"insurance agent" means an insurance agent who receives
or agrees to receive payment by way of commission or other remuneration in
consideration of his soliciting or procuring insurance business including
business relating to the continuance, renewal or revival of policies of
insurance;(10A)"investment company" means a company whose principal business
is the acquisition of shares, stocks, debentures or other
securities;(10B)"intermediary or insurance intermediary" shall have the
meaning assigned to it in clause (f) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of
1999);(11)"life insurance business" means the business of effecting contracts
of insurance upon human life, including any contract whereby the payment of
money is assured on death (except death by accident only) or the happening of
any contingency dependent on human life, and any contract which is subject to
payment of premiums for a term dependent on human life and shall be deemed to
include--(a)the granting of disability and double or triple indemnity accident
benefits, if so provided in the contract of insurance;(b)the granting of
annuities upon human life; and(c)the granting of superannuation allowances and
benefit payable out of any fund applicable solely to the relief and
maintenance of persons engaged or who have been engaged in any particular
profession, trade or employment or of the dependents of such
persons;Explanation.-- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that
"life insurance business" shall include any unit linked insurance policy or
scrips or any such instrument or unit, by whatever name called, which provides
a component of investment and a component of insurance issued by an insurer
referred to in clause (9) of this section.(12)***(13A)"marine insurance
business" means the business of effecting contracts of insurance upon vessels
of any description, including cargoes, freights and other interest which may
be legally insured, in or in relation to such vessels, cargoes and freights,
goods, wares, merchandise and property of whatever description insured for any
transit by land or water, or both, and whether or not including warehouse
risks or similar risks in addition or as incidental to such transit, and
includes any other risks customarily included among the risks insured against
in marine insurance policies;(13B)"miscellaneous insurance business" means the
business of effecting contracts of insurance which is not principally or
wholly of any kind or kinds included in clauses (6A), (11) and
(13A);(13BA)"National Company Law Tribunal" means the National Company Law
Tribunal constituted under section 10FB of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
1956);(13BB)"the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal" means the National
Company Law Appellate Tribunal constituted under sub-section (1) of section
10FR of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);(14)"prescribed" means prescribed
by rules made under this Act; and(15)***(16)"private company" and "public
company" have the meanings respectively assigned to them inclause (68) and
clause (72) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of
2013)(16A)"regulations" means the regulations framed by the Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority of India established under the Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999);(16B)"re-
insurance" means the insurance of part of one insurer's risk by another
insurer who accepts the risk for a mutually acceptable
premium;(16C)"Securities Appellate Tribunal" means the Securities Appellate
Tribunal established under section 15K of the Securities and Exchange Board of
India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);

### 2A. Interpretation of certain words and expressions

Words and expressions used and not defined in this Act but defined in the Life
Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 (31 of 1956), the General Insurance Business
(Nationalisation) Act, 1972 (57 of 1972) and the Insurance Regulatory and
Development Authority Act, 1999 shall have the meanings respectively assigned
to them in those Acts.

### 2B. Appointment of Controller of Insurance

(1)If at any time, the Authority is superseded under sub-section (1) of
section 19 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999,
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint a
person to be the Controller of Insurance till such time the Authority is
reconstituted under sub-section (3) of section 19 of that Act.(2)In making any
appointment under this section, the Central Government shall have due regard
to the following considerations, namely, whether the person to be appointed
has had experience in industrial, commercial or insurance matters and whether
such person has actuarial qualification.

## Part II – Provisions Applicable to Insurers

### 2C. Prohibition of transaction of insurance business by certain persons

(1)Save as hereinafter provided, no person shall, after the commencement of
the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1950, begin to carry on any class of insurance
business in India and no insurer carrying on any class of insurance business
in India shall after the expiry of one year from such commencement, continue
to carry on any such business unless he is--(a)a public company, or(b)a
society registered under the Co-operative Societies Act, 1912 (2 of 1912), or
under any other law for the time being in force in any State relating to co-
operative societies, or(c)a body corporate incorporated under the law of any
country outside India not being of the nature of a private company:Provided
that the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
exempt from the operation of this section to such extent for such period and
subject to such conditions as it may specify, any person or insurer for the
purpose of carrying on the business of granting superannuation allowances and
annuities of the nature specified in sub-clause (c) of clause (11) of section
2 or for the purpose of carrying on any general insurance business:Provided
further that in the case of an insurer carrying on any general insurance
business no such notification shall be issued having effect for more than
three years at any one time:Provided also that no insurer other than an Indian
insurance company shall begin to carry on any class of insurance business in
India under this Act on or after the commencement of the Insurance Regulatory
and Development Authority Act, 1999.Provided also an insurer, being an Indian
Insurance Company, insurance co-operative society or, a body corporate
referred to in clause (c) of this sub-section carrying on the business of
insurance, may carry on any business of insurance in any Special Economic Zone
as defined in clause (za) of section 2 of the Special Economic Zones Act,
2005..(2)Every notification issued under sub-section (1) shall be laid before
Parliament as soon as may be after it is issued.(3)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1), an insurance co-operative society may carry on
any class of insurance business in India under this Act on or after the
commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 2002.

### 2CA. Power of Central Government to apply provisions of this Act to
Special Economic Zones.

The Central Government may, by notification, direct that any of the provisions
of this Act,--(a)shall not apply to insurer, being an Indian Insurance
Company, insurance co-operative society or a body corporate referred to in
clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 2C, carrying on the business of
insurance, in any Special Economic Zone as defined in clause (za) of section 2
of the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005; or(b)shall apply to any insurer,
being an Indian Insurance Company, insurance co-operative society or a body
corporate referred to in clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 2C, carrying
on the business of insurance, in any Special Economic Zone as defined in
clause (za) of section 2 of the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 only with
such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as may be specified in the
notification..

### 2CB. Properties in India not to be insured with foreign insurers except
with the permission of Authority.--

(1)No person shall take out or renew any policy of insurance in respect of any
property in India or any ship or other vessel or aircraft registered in India
with an insurer whose principal place of business is outside India save with
the prior permission of the Authority.(2)If any person contravenes the
provision of sub-section (1), he shall be liable to a penalty which may extend
to five crore rupees.".

### 2D. Insurers to be subject to this Act while liabilities remain
unsatisfied

Every insurer shall be subject to all the provisions of this Act in relation
to any class of insurance business so long as his liabilities in India in
respect of business of that class remain unsatisfied or not otherwise provided
for.

### 2E. Repealed

### 3. Registration

(1)No person shall, after the commencement of this Act, begin to carry on any
class of insurance business in India and no insurer carrying on any class of
insurance business in India shall, after the expiry of three months from the
commencement of this Act, continue to carry on any such business, unless he
has obtained from the Authority a certificate of registration for the
particular class of insurance business:Provided that in case an insurer who
was carrying on any class of insurance business in India at the commencement
of this Act, failure to obtain a certificate of registration in accordance
with the requirements of this sub-clause shall not operate to invalidate any
contract of insurance entered into by him if before such date as may be fixed
in this behalf by the Central Government by notification in the Official
Gazette he has obtained that certificate:Provided further that a person or
insurer, as the case may be, carrying on any class of insurance business in
India, on or before the commencement of the Insurance Regulatory and
Development Authority Act, 1999, for which no registration certificate was
necessary prior to such commencement, may continue to do so for a period of
three months from such commencement or, if he had made an application for such
registration within the said period of three months, till the disposal of such
application:Provided also that any certificate of registration, obtained
immediately before the commencement of the Insurance Regulatory and
Development Authority Act, 1999, shall be deemed to have been obtained from
the Authority in accordance with the provisions of this Act.(2)Every
application for registration shall be made in such manner and shall be
accompanied by such documents as may be specified by the regulations.(2A)If,
on receipt of an application for registration and after making such inquiry as
he deems fit, the Authority is satisfied that--(a)the financial condition and
the general character of management of the applicant are sound;(b)the volume
of business likely to be available to, and the capital structure and earning
prospects of, the applicant will be adequate;(c)the interests of the general
public will be served if the certificate of registration is granted to the
applicant in respect of the class or classes of insurance business specified
in the application; and(d)the applicant has complied with the provisions of
sections 2C, 5 and 31A and has fulfilled all the requirements of this section
applicable to him,the Authority may register the applicant as an insurer and
grant him a certificate of registration.(2AA)The Authority shall give
preference to register the applicant and grant him a certificate of
registration if such applicant agrees, in the form and manner as may be
specified by the regulations made by the Authority, to carry on the life
insurance business or general insurance business for providing health cover to
individuals or group of individuals.(2B)Where the Authority refuses
registration, it shall record the reasons for such decision and shall furnish
a copy thereof to the applicant.(2C)Any person aggrieved by the decision of
the Authority refusing registration may, within thirty days from the date on
which a copy of the decision is received by him, appeal to the Securities
Appellate Tribunal.(3)In the case of any insurer having joint venture with a
person having its principal place of business domiciled outside India or any
insurer as defined in sub-clause (d) of clause (9) of section 2, the Authority
may withhold registration already made if it is satisfied that in the country
in which such person has been debarred by law or practice of that country to
carry on insurance business.(4)The Authority may suspend or cancel the
registration of an insurer either wholly or in so far as it relates to a
particular class of insurance business, as the case may be,--(a)if the insurer
fails, at any time, to comply with the provisions of section 64VA as to the
excess of the value of his assets over the amount of his liabilities, or(b)if
the insurer is in liquidation or is adjudged as an insolvent, or(c)if the
business or a class of the business of the insurer has been transferred to any
person or has been transferred to or amalgamated with the business of any
other insurer without the approval of the Authority, or(d)if the insurer makes
default in complying with, or acts in contravention of, any requirement of
this Act or of any rule or any regulation or order made or, any direction
issued thereunder, or(e)if the Authority has reason to believe that any claim
upon the insurer arising in India under any policy of insurance remains unpaid
for three months after final judgment in regular court of law, or(f)if the
insurer carries on any business other than insurance business or any
prescribed business, or(g)if the insurer makes a default in complying with any
direction issued or order made, as the case may be, by the Authority under the
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999), or(h)if
the insurer makes a default in complying with, or acts in contravention of,
any requirement of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or the General
Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 (57 of 1972) or the Foreign
Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) or the Prevention of Money
Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2002), or(i)if the insurer fails to pay the annual
fee required under section 3A, or(j)if the insurer is convicted for an offence
under any law for the time being in force, or(k)if the insurer being a co-
operative society set up under the relevant State laws or, as the case may be,
the Multi-State Co-operative Societies Act, 2002 (39 of 2002), contravenes the
provisions of law as may be applicable to the insurer.(5)When the Authority
suspends or cancels any registration under clause (a), clause (d), clause (e),
clause (f), clause (g) or clause (i) of sub-section (4), it shall give notice
in writing to the insurer of its decision, and the decision shall take effect
on such date as it may specify in that behalf in the notice, such date not
being less than one month not more than two months from the date of the
receipt of the notice in the ordinary course of transmission.(5A)When the
Authority suspends or cancels any registration under clause (b), (c), (j) or
(k) of sub-section (4), the suspension or cancellation, as the case may be,
shall take effect on the date on which notice of the order of suspension or
cancellation is served on the insurer.(5B)When a registration is cancelled the
insurer shall not, after the cancellation has taken effect, enter into any new
contracts of insurance, but all rights and liabilities in respect of contracts
of insurance entered into by him before such cancellation takes effect shall,
subject to the provisions of sub-section (5D), continue as if the cancellation
had not taken place.(5C)Where a registration is suspended or cancelled under
clause (a), clause (d), clause (e), clause (f), clause (g) or clause (i) of
sub-section (4), the Authority may at its discretion revive the registration,
if the insurer within six months from the date on which the suspension or
cancellation took effect complies with the provisions of section 64VA as to
the excess of the value of his assets over the amount of his liabilities or
has had an application under subsection (4) of section 3A accepted, or
satisfies the Authority that no claim upon him such as is referred to in
clause (e) of sub-section (4) remains unpaid or that he has complied with any
requirement of this Act or the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
Act, 1999 (41 of 1999), or of any rule or any regulation, or any order made
thereunder or any direction issued under those Acts, or that he has ceased to
carry on any business other than insurance business or any prescribed
business, as the case may be, and complies with any directions which may be
given to him by the Authority.(5D)Where the registration of an insurance
company is cancelled under sub-section (4), the Authority may, after the
expiry of six months from the date on which the cancellation took effect,
apply to the Court for an order to wind up the insurance company, or to wind
up the affairs of the company in respect of a class of insurance business,
unless the registration of the insurance company has been revived under sub-
section (5C) or an application for winding up the company has been already
presented to the Court. The Court may proceed as if an application under this
sub-section were an application under sub-section (2) of section 53, or sub-
section (1) of section 58, as the case may be.(5E)The Authority may, by order,
suspend or cancel any registration in such manner as may be determined by the
regulations made by it:Provided that no order under this sub-section shall be
made unless the person concerned has been given a reasonable opportunity of
being heard.(7)The Authority may, on payment of such fee, not exceeding five
thousand rupees, as may be determined by the regulations, issue a duplicate
certificate of registration to replace a certificate lost, destroyed or
mutilated, or in any other case where the Authority is of opinion that the
issue of duplicate certificate is necessary.

### 3A. Payment of annual fee by insurer

(1)An insurer who has been granted a certificate of registration under section
3 shall pay such annual fee to the Authority in such manner as may be
specified by the regulations.(2)Any failure to deposit the annual fee shall
render the certificate of registration liable to be cancelled.".

### 3B. Certification of soundness of terms of life insurance business

If, when considering an application for registration under section 3 or at any
other time, it appears to the Authority that the assured rates, advantages,
terms and conditions offered or to be offered in connection with life
insurance business are in any respect not workable or sound, it may require
that a statement thereof shall be submitted to an actuary appointed by the
insurer for the purpose and approved by the Authority, and may by order in
writing further require the insurer to make within such time as may be
specified in the order such modifications in the said rates, advantages, terms
or conditions, as the case may be, as the said actuary may report to be
necessary to enable him to certify that the said rates, advantages, terms and
conditions are workable and sound.

### 4. Minimum limits for annuities and other benefits secured by policies of
life insurance

The insurer shall pay or undertake to pay on any policy of life insurance or a
group policy issued, a minimum annuity and other benefits as may be determined
by regulations excluding any profit or bonus provided that this shall not
prevent an insurer from converting any policy into a paid-up policy of any
value or payment of surrender value of any amount.

### 5. Restriction on name of insurer

(1)An insurer shall not be registered by a name identical with that by which
an insurer in existence is already registered, or so nearly resembling that
name as to be calculated to deceive except when the insurer in existence is in
the course of being dissolved and signifies his consent to the Authority,(2)If
an insurer, through inadvertence or otherwise, is without such consent as
aforesaid registered by a name identical with that by which an insurer already
in existence whether previously registered or not is carrying on business or
so nearly resembling it as to be calculated to deceive, the first-mentioned
insurer shall, if called upon to do so by the Authority on the application of
the second-mentioned insurer, change his name within a time to be fixed by the
Authority:

### 6. Requirement as to capital

(1)No insurer not being an insurer as defined in sub-clause (d) of clause (9)
of section 2, carrying on the business of life insurance, general insurance,
health insurance or re-insurance in India or after the commencement of the
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999), shall
be registered unless he has,--(i)a paid-up equity capital of rupees one
hundred crore, in case of a person carrying on the business of life insurance
or general insurance; or(ii)a paid-up equity capital of rupees one hundred
crore, in case of a person carrying on exclusively the business of health
insurance; or(iii)a paid-up equity capital of rupees two hundred crore, in
case of a person carrying on exclusively the business as a re-insurer:Provided
that the insurer, may enhance the paid-up equity capital, as provided in this
section in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of
2013), the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) and
the rules, regulations or directions issued thereunder or any other law for
the time being in force:Provided further that in determining the paid-up
equity capital, any preliminary expenses incurred in the formation and
registration of any insurer as may be specified by the regulations made under
this Act, shall be excluded.(2)No insurer, as defined in sub-clause (d) of
clause (9) of section 2, shall be registered unless he has net owned funds of
not less than rupees five thousand crore.

### 6A. Requirements as to capital structure and voting rights and maintenance
of registers of beneficial owners of shares

(1)No public company limited by shares having its registered office in India,
shall carry on life insurance business or general insurance business or health
insurance business or re-insurance business, unless it satisfies the following
conditions, namely:--(i)that the capital of the company shall consist of
equity shares each having a single face value and such other form of capital,
as may be specified by the regulations;(ii)that the voting rights of
shareholders are restricted to equity shares;(iii)that, except during any
period not exceeding one year allowed by the company for payment of calls on
shares, the paid-up amount is the same for all shares, whether existing or
new:Provided that the conditions specified in this sub-section shall not apply
to a public company which has, before the commencement of the Insurance
(Amendment) Act, 1950 (47 of 1950), issued any shares other than ordinary
shares each of which has a single face value or any shares, the paid-up amount
whereof is not the same for all of them for a period of three years from such
commencement.(2)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law
for the time being in force or in thememorandum or articles of association but
subject to the other provisions contained in this section the voting right of
every shareholder of any public company as aforesaid shall in all cases be
strictly proportionate to the paid-up amount of the equity shares held by
him.(3)***(4)A public company as aforesaid which carries on life insurance
business, general and health insurance business and re-insurance
business--(a)shall, in addition to the register of members maintained under
the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), maintain a register of shares in which
the name, occupation and address of the beneficial owner of each share shall
be entered including any change of beneficial owner declared to it within
fourteen days from the receipt of such declaration;(b)shall not register any
transfer of its shares--(i)unless, in addition to compliance being made with
the provisions of section 56 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), the
transferee furnishes a declaration in the prescribed form as to whether he
proposes to hold the shares for his own benefit or as a nominee, whether
jointly or severally, on behalf of others and in the latter case giving the
name, occupation and address of the beneficial owner or owners, and the extent
of the beneficial interest of each;(ii)where, after the transfer, the total
paid-up holding of the transferee in the shares of the company is likely to
exceed five per cent. of its paid-up capital unless the previous approval of
the Authority has been obtained to the transfer;(iii)where, the nominal value
of the shares intended to be transferred by any individual, firm, group,
constituents of a group, or body corporate under the same management, jointly
or severally exceeds one per cent. of the paid-up equity capital of the
insurer, unless the previous approval of the Authority has been obtained for
the transfer.Explanation.--For the purposes of this sub-clause, the
expressions "group" and "same management" shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Competition Act, 2002 (12 of 2003).(5)Every person who
has any interest in any share of a company referred to in sub-section (4)
which stands in the name of another person in the register of members of the
company, shall, within thirty days from the commencement of the Insurance
(Amendment) Act, 1950, or from the date on which he acquires such interest,
whichever is later, make a declaration in the prescribed form (which shall be
countersigned by the person in whose name the shares is registered) to the
company declaring his interest in such share, and notwithstanding anything
contained in any other law or in any contract to the contrary, a person who
fails to make a declaration as aforesaid in respect of any share shall be
deemed to have no right or title whatsoever in that share:Provided that
nothing in this sub-section shall affect the right of a person who has an
interest in any such share to establish in a Court his right thereto, if the
person, in whose name the share is registered, refuses to countersign the
declaration as required by this sub-section:Provided further that where any
share, belonging to an individual who has made any such declaration as is
referred to in this sub-section is held by a company in its name in pursuance
of any trust or for the purpose of safe custody or collection or realisation
of dividend, such individual shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the
Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913)or in thememorandum or articles of
association of the company which has issued the share, be deemed to be the
holder of the said share for the purpose of exercising any voting rights under
this section to the exclusion of any other person.***(11)The provisions of
this section, , shall, on and from, the commencement of the Insurance
(Amendment) Act, 1968, also apply to insurers carrying on general insurance
business subject to the following modifications, namely:--(i)that references
in sub-sections (1), (3), (5) and (6) to the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1950,
shall be construed as references to the Insurance (Amendment) Act,
1968;Explanation--For the purpose of this section, the holding of a person in
the shares of a company shall be deemed to include--(i)the total paid-up
holding in such shares held by such person in the name of others; and(ii)if
any shares of the company are held--(a)by a public limited company, of which
such person is a member holding more than ten per cent of the paid-up capital,
or(b)by a private limited company, of which such person is a member, or(c)by a
company, of which such person is a managing director, manager, or in which he
has a controlling interest, or(d)by a firm in which such person is a partner,
or(e)by such person jointly with others, such part of the total paid-up
holding of the company or firm or of the total joint holding in those shares,
as is proportionate to the contribution made by such person to the paid-up
capital of the company, the paid-up capital of the firm or the joint holding,
as the case may be.

### 6AA. Omitted

### 6B. Provision for securing compliance with requirements relating to
capital structure

(1)For the purpose of enabling any public company carrying on life or general
or health insurance or re-insurance business to bring its capital structure
into conformity with the requirements of section 6A, an officer appointed on
this behalf by the Authority may, notwithstanding anything contained in the
Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913) ,--(a)examine any scheme proposed for
the purpose aforesaid by the directors of the company:Provided that--(i)the
scheme has been placed before a meeting of the share holders for their opinion
and has been forwarded to the officer together with the opinion of the
shareholders thereon, and(ii)the scheme does not involve any diminution of the
liability of the shareholders in respect of unpaid-up share capital;(b)invite
objections and suggestions in respect of the scheme so proposed; and(c)after
considering such objections and suggestions to the scheme so proposed,
sanction it with such modifications as he may consider necessary or
desirable.(2)Any shareholder or other person aggrieved by the decision of the
officer sanctioning a scheme under sub-section (1) may, within ninety days of
date of the order sanctioning the scheme, prefer an appeal to the Securities
Appellate Tribunal within whose jurisdiction the registered office of the
insurer is situate for the purpose of modifying or correcting any such scheme
for the purpose specified in sub-section (1).(3)The decision of the High Court
where an appeal has been preferred to it under sub-section (2), or of the
officer aforesaid where no such appeal has been preferred, shall be final and
binding on all the shareholders and other persons concerned.

### 6C. Omitted

### 7. Omitted

### 8. Omitted

### 9. Omitted

### 10. Separation of accounts and funds

(1)Where the insurer carries on business of more than one of the following
classes, namely, life insurance, fire insurance, marine insurance or
miscellaneous insurance, he shall keep a separate account of all receipts and
payments in respect of each such class of insurance business and where the
insurer carries on business of miscellaneous insurance whether alone or in
conjunction with business of another class, he shall, unless the Authority
waives this requirement in writing, keep a separate account of all receipts
and payments in respect of each of such sub-classes of miscellaneous insurance
business as may be specified by the regulations:Provided that no sub-class of
miscellaneous insurance business shall be prescribed under this sub-section if
the insurance business comprised in the sub-class consist of insurance
contracts which are terminable by the insurer at intervals not exceeding
twelve months and under which, if a claim arises, the insurer's liability to
pay benefit ceases within one year of the date on which the claim
arose.(2)Where the insurer carries on the business of life insurance all
receipts due in respect of such business, shall be carried to and shall form a
separate fund to be called the life insurance fund the assets of which shall,
, be kept distinct and separate from all other assets of the insurer and the
deposit made by the insurer in respect of life insurance business shall be
deemed to be part of the assets of such fund; and every insurer shall, within
the time limited in sub-section (1) of section 15 in regard to the furnishing
of the statements and accounts referred to in section 11, furnish to the
Controller a statement showing in detail such assets as at the close of every
calendar year duly certified by an auditor or by a person qualified to audit
:Provided that such statement shall, in the case of an insurer to whom section
11 applies, be set out as a part of the balance-sheetmentioned in clause (a)
of sub-section (I) of that section:Provided further that an insurer may show
in such statement all the assets held in his life department, but at the same
time showing any deductions on account of general reserves and other
liabilities of that department:Provided also that the Authority may call for a
statement similarly certified of such assets as at any other date specified
byhim to be furnished within a period of three months from the date with
reference to which the statement is called for.(2A)No insurer carrying on life
insurance business shall be entitled to be registered for any class of
insurance business in addition to the class or classes for which he has been
already registered unless the Authority is satisfied that the assets of the
life insurance fund of the insurer are adequate to meet all his liabilities on
policies of life insurance maturing for payment.(2AA)Where the insurer carries
on the business of insurance, all receipts due in respect of each sub-class of
such insurance business shall be carried to and shall form a separate fund,
the assets of which shall be kept separate and distinct from other assets of
the insurer and every insurer shall submit to the Authority the necessary
details of such funds as may be required by the Authority from time to time
and such funds shall not be applied directly or indirectly, save as expressly
permitted under this Act or regulations made thereunder.(3)The life insurance
fund shall be as absolutely the security of the life policy-holders as though
it belonged to an insurer carrying on no other business than life insurance
business and shall not be liable for any contracts of the insurer for which it
would not have been liable had the business of the insurer been only that of
life insurance and shall not be applied directly or indirectly for any
purposes other than those of the life insurance business of the insurer.

### 11. Accounts and balance-sheet

(1)Every insurer, on or after the date of the commencement of the Insurance
Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, in respect of insurance business transacted by him
and in respect of his shareholders' funds, shall, at the expiration of each
financial year, prepare with reference to that year, balance sheet, a profit
and loss account, a separate account of receipts and payments, a revenue
account in accordance with the regulations as may be specified.(2)Every
insurer shall keep separate accounts relating to funds of shareholders and
policyholders.(3)Unless the insurer is a company as defined in clause (20) of
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), the accounts and statements
referred to in sub-section (1) shall be signed by the insurer, or in the case
of a company by the chairman, if any, and two directors and the principal
officer of the company, or in case of an insurance cooperative society by the
person in charge of the society and shall be accompanied by a statement
containing the names, descriptions and occupations of, and the directorships
held by, the persons in charge of the management of the business during the
period to which such accounts and statements refer and by a report on the
affairs of the business during that period.".

### 12. Audit

The balance sheet, profit and loss account, revenue account and profit and
loss appropriation account of every insurer, in respect of all insurance
business transacted by him, shall, unless they are subject to audit under the
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), be audited annually by an auditor, and the
auditor shall in the audit of all such accounts have the powers of, exercise
the functions vested in, and discharge the duties and be subject to the
liabilities and penalties imposed on, auditors of companies by section 147 of
the Companies Act, 2013.

### 13. Actuarial report and abstract

(1)Every insurer carrying on life insurance business shall, once at least
every year cause an investigation to be made by an actuary into the financial
condition of the life insurance business carried on by him, including a
valuation of his liabilities in respect thereto and shall cause an abstract of
the report of such actuary to be made in accordance with the
regulations:Provided that the Authority may, having regard to the
circumstances of any particular insurer, allow him to have the investigation
made as at a date not later than two years from the date as at which the
previous investigation was made:Provided further that every insurer, on or
after the commencement of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
Act, 1999 (41 of 1999), shall cause an abstract of the report of the actuary
to be made in such manner as may be specified by the regulations.(2)The
provisions of sub-section (1) regarding the making of an abstract shall apply
whenever at any other time an investigation into the financial condition of
the insurer is made with a view to the distribution of profits or an
investigation is made of which the results are made public.(3)There shall be
appended to every such abstract as is referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) a certificate signed by the principal officer of the insurer that
full and accurate particulars of every policy under which there is a liability
either actual or contingent have been furnished to the actuary for the purpose
of the investigation.(4)There shall be appended to every such abstract a
statement prepared in such form and in such manner as may be specified by the
regulations:Provided that, if the investigation referred to in sub-sections
(1) and (2) is made annually by any insurer, the statement need not be
appended every year but shall be appended at least once in every three
years.(5)Where an investigation into the financial condition of an insurer is
made as at a date other than the expiration of the year of account, the
accounts for the period since the expiration of the last year of account and
the balance-sheet as at the date at which the investigation is made shall be
prepared and audited in the manner provided by this Act.(6)The provisions of
this section relating to the life insurance business shall apply also to any
such sub-class of insurance business included in the class "Miscellaneous
Insurance" and the Authority may authorise such modifications and variations
of regulations as may be necessary to facilitate their application to any such
sub-class of insurance business:Provided that, if the Authority is satisfied
that the number and amount of the transactions carried out by an insurer in
any such sub-class of insurance business is so small as to render periodic
investigation and valuation unnecessary, it may exempt that insurer from the
operation of this sub-section in respect of that sub-class of insurance
business.

### 14. Record of policies and claims

(1)Every insurer, in respect of all business transacted by him, shall
maintain--(a)a record of policies, in which shall be entered, in respect of
every policy issued by the insurer, the name and address of the policyholder,
the date when the policy was effected and a record of any transfer, assignment
or nomination of which the insurer has notice;(b)a record of claims, every
claim made together with the date of the claim, the name and address of the
claimant and the date on which the claim was discharged, or, in the case of a
claim which is rejected, the date of rejection and the grounds thereof;
and(c)a record of policies and claims in accordance with clauses (a) and (b)
may be maintained in any such form, including electronic mode, as may be
specified by the regulations made under this Act.(2)Every insurer shall, in
respect of all business transacted by him, endeavour to issue policies above a
specified threshold in terms of sum assured and premium in electronic form, in
the manner and form to be specified by the regulations made under this
Act.".Every insurer in the case of insurer specified in sub-clause (a)(ii) or
sub-clause (b) of clause (9) of section 2 in respect of all business
transacted by him, and in the case of any other insurer in respect of the
insurance business transacted by him in India, shall maintain--(a)a register
or record of policies, in which shall be entered, in respect of every policy
issued by the insurer, the name and address of the policy-holder, the date
when the policy was effected and a record of any transfer, assignment or
nomination of which the insurer has notice, and(b)a register of record of
claims, in which shall be entered every claim made together with the date of
the claim, the name and address of the claimant and the date on which the
claim was discharged, or, in the case of a claim which is rejected, the date
of rejection and the ground therefore."

### 15. Submission of returns

(1)The audited accounts and statements referred to in section 11 or subsection
(5) of section 13 and the abstract and statement referred to in section 13
shall be printed, and four copies thereof shall be furnished as returns to the
Authority within six months from the end of the period to which they
refer.(2)Of the four copies so furnished, one shall be signed in the case of a
company by the chairman and two directors and by the principal officer of the
company and, if the company has a managing director by that managing director
and one shall be signed by the auditor who made the audit or the actuary who
made the valuation, as the case may be.

### 16. Omitted

### 17. Omitted

### 17A. Omitted

### 18. Furnishing reports

Every insurer shall furnish to the Authority a certified copy of every report
on the affairs of the concern which is submitted to theme mbers or policy-
holders of the insurer immediately after its submission to the me mbers or
policy-holders, as the case may be.

### 19. Abstract of proceedings of general meetings

Every insurer, being a company or body incorporated under any law for the time
being in force in India, shall furnish to the Authority

### 20. Custody and inspection of documents and supply of copies

(1)Every return furnished to the Authority or certified copy thereof shall be
kept by the Authority and shall be open to inspection; and any person may
procure a copy of any such return, or of any part thereof, on payment of such
fee as may be specified by the regulations.(2)A printed or certified copy of
the accounts, statements and abstract furnished in accordance with the
provisions of section 15 shall, on the application of any shareholder or
policy-holder made at any time within two years from the date on which the
documents was so furnished, be supplied to him by the insurer within fourteen
days when the insurer is constituted, incorporated or domiciled in India and
in any other case within one month of such application.(3)A copy of the
memorandum and articles of association of the insurer, if a company shall on
the application of any policy-holder, be supplied to him by the insurer on
payment of such fee as may be specified by the regulations.

### 21. Powers of Authority regarding returns

(1)If it appears to the Authority that any return furnished to it under the
provisions of this Act isinaccurate or defective in any respect, it
may--(a)require from the insurer such further information, certified if he so
directs by an auditor or actuary, as he may consider necessary to correct or
supplement such return;(b)call upon the insurer to submit for its examination
at the principal place of business of the insurer in India any book of
account, register or other document or to supply any statement which it may
specify in a notice served on the insurer for the purpose;(c)examine any
office of the insurer on oath in relation to the return;(d)decline to accept
any such return unless the inaccuracy has been corrected or the deficiency has
been supplied before the expiry of one month from the date on which the
requisition asking for correction of (he inaccuracy or supply of the
deficiency was delivered to the insurer or of such further time as the
Authority may specify in the requisition and if it declines to accept any such
return, the insurer shall be deemed to have failed to comply with the
provisions of section 15 or section 28 or section 28A or section 28B or
section 64V relating to the furnishing of returns.(2)The Securities Appellate
Tribunal may, on the application of an insurer and after hearing the
Authority, cancel any order made by the Authority under clause (d) of sub-
section (1) or may direct the acceptance of such a return which the Authority
has declined to accept, if the insurer satisfies the Tribunal that the action
of the Authority was in the circumstances unreasonable:Provided that no
application under this sub-section shall be entertained unless it is made
before the expiration of four months from the date when the Authority made the
order or declined to accept the return.

### 22. Power of Authority to order revaluation

(1)If it appears to the Authority that an investigation or valuation to which
section 13 refers does not properly indicate the condition of the affairs of
the insurer by reason of the faulty basis adopted in the valuation, it may,
after giving notice to the insurer and giving him an opportunity to be heard,
cause an investigation and valuation as at such date as the Authority may
specify to be made at the expense of the insurer by an actuary appointed by
the insurer for this purpose and approved by the Authority and and the insurer
shall place at the disposal of the actuary so appointed and approved all the
material required by the actuary for the purposes of the investigation and
valuation within such period, not being less than three months, as the
Authority may specify,(2)The provisions of sub-sections (1) and (4) of section
13, and of sub-sections (I) and (2) of section, shall apply in relation to an
investigation and valuation under this section:Provided that the abstract and
statement prepared as the result of such investigation and valuation shall be
furnished by such date as the Authority may specify.

### 23. Evidence of documents

(1)Every return furnished to the Authority which has been certified by the
Authority to be a return so furnished, shall be deemed to be a return so
furnished.(2)Every document, purporting to be certified by the Authorityto be
a copy of a return so furnished, shall be deemed to be a copy of that return
and shall be received in evidence as if it were the original return, unless
some variation between it and the original return is proved.

### 24. Omitted

### 25. Returns to be published in statutory forms

No insurer shall publish in India any return in a form other than that in
which it has been furnished to the Authority:Provided that nothing contained
in this section shall prevent an insurer from publishing a true and accurate
abstract from such returns for the purposes of publicity.

### 26. Alterations in the particulars furnished with application for
registration to be reported

Whenever any alteration occurs or is made which affects any of the matters
which are required under the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 3 to
accompany an application by an insurer for registration, the insurer shall
forthwith furnish to the Authority full particulars of such alteration. All
such particulars shall be authenticated in the manner required by that sub-
section for the authentication of the matters therein referred to, and, where
the alteration affects the assured rates, advantages, terms and conditions
offered in connection with life insurance policies the actuarial certificate
referred to in clause (f) of the said sub-section shall accompany the
particulars of the alteration.

### 27. Investment of assets

(1)Every insurer shall invest and at all times keep invested assets equivalent
to not less than the sum of--(a)the amount of his liabilities to holders of
life insurance policies in India on account of matured claims, and(b)the
amount required to meet the liability on policies of life insurance maturing
for payment in India, less--(i)the amount of premiums which have fallen due to
the insurer on such policies but have not been paid and the days of grace for
payment of which have not expired, and(ii)any amount due to the insurer for
loans granted on and within the surrender values of policies of life insurance
maturing for payment in India issued by him or by an insurer whose business he
has acquired and in respect of which he has assumed liability in the following
manner, namely:--(a)twenty-five per cent. of the said sum in Government
securities, a further sum equal to not less than twenty-five per cent. of the
said sum in Government securities or other approved securities; and(b)the
balance in any of the approved investments,as may be specified by the
regulations subject to the limitations, conditions and restrictions specified
therein.(2)In the case of an insurer carrying on general insurance business,
twenty per cent. of the assets in Government Securities, a further sum equal
to not less than ten per cent. of the assets in Government Securities or other
approved securities and the balance in any other investment in accordance with
the regulations of the Authority and subject to such limitations, conditions
and restrictions as may be specified by the Authority in this
regard.Explanation.--In this section, the term "assets" means all the assets
of insurer at their carrying value but does not include any assets
specifically held against any fund or portion thereof in respect of which the
Authority is satisfied that such fund or portion thereof, as the case may be,
is regulated by the law of any country outside India or miscellaneous
expenditure or in respect of which the Authority is satisfied that it would
not be in the interest of the insurer to apply the provisions of this
section.(3)For the purposes of sub-sections (1) and (2), any specified assets
shall, subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified, be deemed to
be assets invested or kept invested in approved investments specified by
regulations.(4)In computing the assets referred to in sub-sections (1) and
(2), any investment made with reference to any currency other than the Indian
rupee which is in excess of the amount required to meet the liabilities of the
insurers in India with reference to that currency, to the extent of such
excess, shall not be taken into account:Provided that nothing contained in
this sub-section shall affect the operation of sub-section (2):Provided
further that the Authority may, either generally or in any particular case,
direct that any investment shall, subject to such conditions as may be
imposed, be taken into account, in such manner as may be specified in
computing the assets referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2) and where any
direction has been issued under this proviso, copies thereof shall be laid
before each house of Parliament as soon as may be after it is issued.(5)Where
an insurer has accepted re-insurance in respect of any policies of life
insurance issued by another insurer and maturing for payment in India or has
ceded re-insurance to another insurer in respect of any such policies issued
by himself, the sum referred to in sub-section (1) shall be increased by the
amount of the liability involved in such acceptance and decreased by the
amount of the liability involved in such cession.(6)The Government securities
and other approved securities in which assets are under sub-section (1) or
sub-section (2) to be invested and kept invested shall be held by the insurer
free of any encumbrance, charge, hypothecation or lien.(7)The assets required
by this section to be held invested by an insurer incorporated or domiciled
outside India shall, except to the extent of any part thereof which consists
of foreign assets held outside India, be held in India and all such assets
shall be held in trust for the discharge of the liabilities of the nature
referred to in subsection (1) and shall be vested in trustees resident in
India and approved by the Authority, and the instrument of trust under this
sub-section shall be executed by the insurer with the approval of the
Authority and shall define the manner in which alone the subject-matter of the
trust shall be dealt with.Explanation.--This sub-section shall apply to an
insurer incorporated in India whose share capital to the extent of one-third
is owned by, or the members of whose governing body to the extent of one-third
consists of members domiciled elsewhere than in India.

### 27A. Further provisions regarding investments

(1)No insurer carrying on life insurance business shall invest or keep
invested any part of his controlled fund and no insurer carrying on general
business shall invest or keep invested any part of his assets otherwise than
in any of the approved investments as may be specified by the regulations
subject to such limitations, conditions and restrictions
therein.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) of section 27, an insurer may, subject to the provisions contained
in the next succeeding sub-sections, invest or keep invested any part of his
controlled fund or assets otherwise than in an approved investment,
if--(i)after such investment, the total amounts of all such investments of the
insurer do not exceed fifteen per cent. of the sum referred to in sub-section
(1) of section 27 or fifteen per cent. of the assets referred to in sub-
section (2) as the case may be;(ii)the investment is made, or, in the case of
any investment already made, the continuance of such investment is with the
consent of all the directors present at a meeting and eligible to vote,
special notice of which has been given to all the directors then in India, and
all such investments, including investments in which any director is
interested, are reported without delay to the Authority with full details of
the investments and the extent of the director's interest in any such
investment.(3)An insurer shall not out of his controlled fund or assets as
referred to in section 27,--(a)invest in the shares of any one banking
company; or(b)invest in the shares or debentures of any one company, more than
the percentage specified by the regulations.(4)An insurer shall not out of his
controlled fund or assets as referred to in sub-section (2) of section 27
invest or keep invested in the shares or debentures of any private limited
company.(5)All assets forming the controlled fund or assets as referred to in
sub-section (2) of section 27, not being Government securities or other
approved securities in which assets are to be invested or held invested in
accordance with this section, shall (except for a part thereof not exceeding
one-tenth of the controlled fund or assets as referred to in sub-section (2)
thereof in value which may, subject to such conditions and restrictions as may
be prescribed, be offered as security for any loan taken for purposes of any
investment), be held free of any encumbrance, charge, hypothecation or
lien.(6)If at any time the Authority considers any one or more of the
investments of an insurer to be unsuitable or undesirable, the Authority may,
after giving the insurer an opportunity of being heard, direct him to realise
the investment or investments, and the insurer shall comply with the direction
within such time as may be specified in this behalf by the
Authority.(7)Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to affect in
any way the manner in which any moneys relating to the provident fund of any
employee or to any security taken from any employee or other moneys of a like
nature are required to be held by or under any Central Act, or Act of a State
legislature.Explanation.--In this section "controlled fund" means--(a)in the
case of any insurer carrying on life insurance business--(i)all his funds, if
he carries on no other class of insurance business;(ii)all the funds in India
appertaining to his life insurance business if he carries on some other class
of insurance business also.Explanation.--For the purposes of sub-clauses (i)
and (ii), the fund does not include any fund or portion thereof in respect of
which the Authority is satisfied that such fund or portion, as the case may
be, is regulated by the law in force of any country outside India or it would
not be in the interest of the insurer to apply the provisions of this
section;(b)in the case of any other insurer carrying on life insurance
business--(i)all his funds in India, if he carries on no other class of
insurance business;(ii)all the funds in India appertaining to his life
insurance business if he carries on some other class of insurance business
also; but does not include any fund or portion thereof in respect of which the
Authority is satisfied that such fund or portion thereof, as the case may be,
is regulated by the law of any country outside India or in respect of which
the Authority is satisfied that it would not be in the interest of the insurer
to apply the provisions of this section.

### 27B. Provisions regarding investments of assets of insurer carrying
general insurance business

(1)All assets of an insurer carrying on general insurance business shall,
subject to such conditions, if any, as may be prescribed, be deemed to be
assets invested or kept invested in approved investments specified in section
27.(2)All assets shall (except for a part thereof not exceeding one-tenth of
the total assets in value which may subject to such conditions and
restrictions as may be prescribed, be offered as security for any loan taken
for purposes of any investment or for payment of claims, or which may be kept
as security deposit with the banks for acceptance of policies) be held free of
any encumbrance, charge, hypothecation or lien.(3)Without prejudice to the
powers conferred on the Authority by sub-section (5) of section 27A nothing
contained in this section shall be deemed to require any insurer to realise
any investment made in conformity with the provisions of sub-section (1) of
section 27 after the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1968 (62
of 1968), which, after the making thereof, has ceased to be an approved
investment within the meaning of this section.

### 27C. Investment by insurer in certain cases

An insurer may invest not more than five per cent. in aggregate of his
controlled fund or assets as referred to in sub-section (2) of section 27 in
the companies belonging to the promoters, subject to such conditions as may be
specified by the regulations.

### 27D. Manner and conditions of investment

(1)Without prejudice to anything contained in this section, the Authority may,
in the interests of the policyholders, specify by the regulations, the time,
manner and other conditions of investment of assets to be held by an insurer
for the purposes of this Act.(2)The Authority may give specific directions for
the time, manner and other conditions subject to which the funds of
policyholders shall be invested in the infrastructure and social sector as may
be specified by the regulations and such regulations shall apply uniformly to
all the insurers carrying on the business of life insurance, general
insurance, or health insurance or re-insurance in India on or after the
commencement of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999
(41 of 1999).(3)The Authority may, after taking into account the nature of
business and to protect the interests of the policyholders, issue to an
insurer the directions relating to the time, manner and other conditions of
investment of assets to be held by him:Provided that no direction under this
sub-section shall be issued unless the insurer concerned has been given a
reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 27E. Prohibition for investment of funds outside India

No insurer shall directly or indirectly invest outside India the funds of the
policyholders.

### 28. Statement and return of investment of assets.--

Every insurer shall submit to the Authority returns giving details of
investments made, in such form, time and manner including its authentication
as may be specified by the regulations.(1)Every insurer carrying on the
business of life insurance shall every year, within thirty-one days from the
beginning of the year, submit to the Authority a return showing as at the31st
day of December of the preceding year the assets held invested in accordance
with section 27, and all other particulars necessary to establish that the
requirements of that section have been complied with, and such return shall be
certified by a principal officer of the insurer.(2)Every such insurer shall
also furnish, within fifteen days from the last day of March, June and
September, a return certified as aforesaid showing as at the end of each of
said months the assets held invested in accordance with section 27.(2A)In
respect of the Government securities and other approved securities invested
and kept invested in accordance with sub-section (1) of section 27 an insurer
shall submit along with the returns referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2) a
certificate, where such assets are in the custody of a banking company, from
that company, and in any other case, from the chairman, two directors and a
principal officer, if the insurer is a company, or otherwise from a principal
officer of the insurer, to the effect that the securities are held free of any
encumbrance, charge, hypothecation, or lien, and every such certificate after
the first shall also state that since the date of the certificate immediately
preceding all the securities have been so held.(2B)In respect of the assets
forming the controlled fund within the meaning of section 27A, and which do
not form part of the Government securities and approved securities invested
and kept invested in accordance with section 27, an insurer shall submit,
along with the returns referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2), a statement,
where such assets are in the custody of a banking company, from that company,
and, in any other case, from the chairman, two directors and a principal
officer if the insurer is a company, or from a principal officer of the
insurer if the insurer is not a company, specifying the assets, which are
subjected to a charge and certifying that the other assets are held free of
any encumbrance, charge, hypothecation, or lien, and every such statement
after the first shall also specify the charges created in respect of any of
those assets since the date of the statement immediately preceding, and, if
any such charges have been liquidated, the date on which they were so
liquidated.(3)The Authority may at his discretion require any insurer to whom
sub-section (1) applies to submit before the 1st day of August in each or any
year a return of the nature referred to in sub-section (1), certified as
required by that sub-section and prepared as at the 30th day of June.(4)In the
case of an insurer having his principal place of business or domicile outside
India, the Authority may, on application made by the insurer, extend the
periods of fifteen and thirty-one daysmentioned in the foregoing sub-sections
to thirty days and sixty days, respectively.(5)The Authority shall be entitled
at any time to take such steps as it may consider necessary for the inspection
or verification of the assets invested in compliance with section 27 or for
the purpose of securing the particulars necessary to establish that the
requirements of the section have been complied with. The insurer shall comply
with any requisition made in this behalf by the Authority, and if he fails to
do so within two months from the receipt of the requisition he shall be deemed
to have made default in complying with the requirements of this section.

### 29. Prohibition of loans

(1)No insurer shall grant loans or temporary advances either on hypothecation
of property or on personal security or otherwise, except loans on life
insurance policies issued by him within their surrender value, to any
director, manager, actuary, auditor or officer of the insurer, if a company or
to any other company or firm in which any such director, manager, actuary or
officer holds the position of a director, manager, actuary, officer or
partner:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply to
such loans, made by an insurer to a banking company, as may be specified by
the Authority:Provided further that nothing in this section shall prohibit a
company from granting such loans or advances to a subsidiary company or to any
other company of which the company granting the loan or advance is a
subsidiary company if the previous approval of the Authority is obtained for
such loan or advance.(2)The provisions of section 185 of the Companies Act,
2013 (18 of 2013) shall not apply to a loan granted to a director of an
insurer being a company, if the loan is one granted on the security of a
policy on which the insurer bears the risk and the policy was issued to the
director on his own life, and the loan is within the surrender value of the
policy.(3)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), no insurer shall
grant--(a)any loans or temporary advances either on hypothecation of property
or on personal security or otherwise, except such loans as may be specified by
the regulations including the loans sanctioned as part of their salary package
to the full-time employees of the insurer as per the scheme duly approved by
its Board of Directors;(b)temporary advances to any insurance agent to
facilitate the carrying out of his functions as such except in cases where
such advances do not exceed in the aggregate the renewal commission earned by
him during the immediately preceding year.(4)Where any event occurs giving
rise to circumstances, the existence of which at the time of grant of any
subsisting loan or advance would have made such grant a contravention of this
section, such loan or advance shall, notwithstanding anything in any contract
to the contrary, be repaid within three months from the occurrence of such
event.(5)In case of default in complying with the provisions of sub-section
(4), the director, manager, auditor, actuary, officer or insurance agent
concerned shall, without prejudice to any other penalty which he may incur,
cease to hold office under, or to act for, the insurer granting the loan on
the expiry of three months.

### 30. Liability of directors, etc., for loss due to contravention of section
27, 27A, 27B, 27C, 27D or section 29

If by reason of a contravention of any of the provisions of section 27, 27A,
27B, 27C, 27D or section 29, any loss is sustained by the insurer or by the
policyholders, every director, manager or officer who is knowingly a party to
such contravention shall, without prejudice to any other penalty to which he
may be liable under this Act, be jointly and severally liable to make good the
amount of such loss.

### 31. Assets of insurer how to be kept

(1)None of the assets in India of any insurer shall, except in so far as
assets are required to be vested in trustees under sub-section (7) of section
27, be kept otherwise than in the name of a public officer approved by the
Authority, or in the corporate name of the undertaking, if a company or an
insurance co-operative society, as the case may be.(2)Nothing contained in
this section shall be deemed to prohibit the endorsement in favour of a
banking company of any security or other document solely for the purpose of
collection or for realisation of interest, bonus or dividend.

### 31A. Provisions relating to managers, etc.

(1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Indian Companies
Act, 1913 ( 7 of 1913 ), or in the articles of association of the insurer, if
a company, or in any contract or agreement, no insurer shall after expiry of
one year from the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1950 ( 47 of
1950 ), --(a)be directed or managed by, or employ as manager or officer,(b)be
directed or managed by, or employ as manager or officer or in any capacity,
any person whose remuneration or any part thereof takes the form of commission
or bonus or a share in the valuation surplus in respect of the life insurance
business of the insurer, or(c)be directed or managed by, or employ as manager
or officer or in any capacity, any person whose remuneration or any part
thereof takes the form of commission or bonus in respect of the general
insurance business of the insurer:Provided that nothing in this sub-section
shall be deemed to prohibit --(i)the payment of commission to an insurance
agent, in respect of insurance business procured by or through him;(iv)the
employment of any individual in a clerical or other subordinate capacity who,
as an insurance agent, receives commission in respect of insurance business
procured by hi m;(v)the employment as an officer of any individual who
receives renewal commission in respect of life insurance business procured by
hi m in hi s capacity as an insurance agent or as an employer of agents before
such employment, or before the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act,
1950 ( 47 of 1950 ), whichever is later;(vi)the payment of a share in the
profits of general insurance business;(vii)the payment of bonus in any year on
a uniform basis to all salaried employees or any class of them by way of
additional remuneration(2)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ( 7 of 1913 ), or in the articles of
association of the insurer, being a company, or in any contract or agreement,
no manager, managing director or any other person concerned in the management
of an insurer's business shall be entitled to nominate a successor to hi s
office, and no person so nominated, whether before or after the commencement
of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1950 ( 47 of 1950 ), shall be entitled to
hold or to continue in such office.(3)If in the case of any insurance company
provision is made by the articles of association of the company or by an
agreement entered into between any person and the company for empowering a
director or manager or other officer of the company to assign hi s office to
any other person, any assignment of office made in pursuance of the said
provision, shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
said provisionor in any other law for the time being in force be void.(4)No
person shall have any right, whether in contract or otherwise, to any
compensation for any loss incurred by reason of the operation of any provision
of this section.

### 31B. Power to restrict payment of excessive remuneration

No insurer shall in respect of insurance business transacted by him, shall pay
to any person by way of remuneration, whether by way of commission or
otherwise in excess of such sum as may be specified by the regulations.

### 32. Omitted

### 32A. Prohibition of common officers and requirement as to whole-time
officers

(1)A managing director or other officer of an insurer carrying on life
insurance business shall not be a managing director or other officer of any
other insurer carrying on life insurance business or of a banking company or
of an investment company:Provided that theAuthority may permit such managing
director or other officer to be a managing director or other officer of any
other insurer carrying on life insurance business for the purpose of
amalgamating the business of the two insurers or transferring the business of
one insurer to the other.

### 32B. Insurance business in rural and social sectors

Every insurer shall, after the commencement of the Insurance Regulatory and
Development Authority Act, 1999 , undertake such percentages of life insurance
business and general insurance business in the rural and social sectors, as
may by specified, in the Official Gazette by the Authority, in this behalf.

### 32C. Obligations of insurer in respect of rural or unorganised sector and
backward classes

Every insurer shall, after the commencement of the Insurance Regulatory and
Development Authority Act, 1999 , discharge the obligations specified under
section 32B to provide life insurance or general insurance policies to the
persons residing in the rural sector, workers in the unorganised or informal
sector or for economically vulnerable or backward classes of the society and
other categories of persons as may specified by regulations made by the
Authority and such insurance policies shall include insurance for crops.

### 32D. Obligation of insurer in respect of insurance business in third party
risks of motor vehicles

Every insurer carrying on general insurance business shall, after the
commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, underwrite such
minimum percentage of insurance business in third party risks of motor
vehicles as may be specified by the regulations:Provided that the Authority
may, by regulations, exempt any insurer who is primarily engaged in the
business of health, re-insurance, agriculture, export credit guarantee, from
the application of this section.

### 33. Power of investigation and inspection by Authority

(1)The Authority may, at any time, if it considers expedient to do so by order
in writing, direct any person (herein referred to as "Investigating Officer")
specified in the order to investigate the affairs of any insurer or
intermediary or insurance intermediary, as the case may be, and to report to
the Authority on any investigation made by such Investigating Officer:Provided
that the Investigating Officer may, wherever necessary, employ any auditor or
actuary or both for the purpose of assisting him in any investigation under
this section.(2)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in section
210 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), the Investigating Officer may, at
any time, and shall, on being directed so to do by the Authority, cause an
inspection to be made by one or more of his officers of the books of account
of any insurer or intermediary or insurance intermediary, as the case may be,
and the Investigating Officer shall supply to the insurer or intermediary or
insurance intermediary, as the case may be, a copy of the report on such
inspection.(3)It shall be the duty of every manager, managing director or
other officer of the insurer including a service provider, contractor of an
insurer where services are outsourced by the insurer, or intermediary or
insurance intermediary, as the case may be, to produce before the
Investigating Officer directed to make the investigation under sub-section
(1), or inspection under sub-section (2), all such books of account,
registers, other documents and the database in his custody or power and to
furnish him with any statement and information relating to the affairs of the
insurer or intermediary or insurance intermediary, as the case may be, as the
Investigating Officer may require of him within such time as the said
Investigating Officer may specify.(4)Any Investigating Officer, directed to
make an investigation under subsection (1), or inspection under sub-section
(2), may examine on oath, any manager, managing director or other officer of
the insurer including a service provider or contractor where the services are
outsourced by the insurer or intermediary or insurance intermediary, as the
case may be, in relation to his business.(5)The Investigating Officer shall,
if he has been directed by the Authority to cause an inspection to be made,
make a report to the Authority on such inspection.(6)On receipt of any report
under sub-section (1) or sub-section (5), the Authority may, after giving such
opportunity to the insurer or intermediary or insurance intermediary, as the
case may be, to make a representation in connection with the report as, in the
opinion of the Authority, seems reasonable, by order in writing, --(a)require
the insurer, to take such action in respect of any matter arising out of the
report as the Authority may think fit; or(b)cancel the registration of the
insurer or intermediary or insurance intermediary, as the case may be;
or(c)direct any person to apply to the court for the winding up of the insurer
or intermediary or insurance intermediary, as the case may be, if it is a
company, whether the registration of the insurer or intermediary or insurance
intermediary, as the case may be, has been cancelled under clause (b) or
not.(7)The Authority may by the regulations made by it specify the minimum
information to be maintained by insurers or intermediary or insurance
intermediary, as the case may be, in their books, the manner in which such
information shall be maintained, the checks and other verifications to be
adopted by insurers or intermediary or insurance intermediary, as the case may
be, in that connection and all other matters incidental thereto as are, in its
opinion, necessary to enable the Investigating Officer to discharge
satisfactorily his functions under this section.Explanation.--For the purposes
of this section, the expression "insurer" shall include in the case of an
insurer incorporated in India--(a)all its subsidiaries formed for the purpose
of carrying on the business of insurance exclusively outside India; and(b)all
its branches whether situated in India or outside India.(8)Any insurer or
intermediary or insurance intermediary aggrieved by any order made under this
section may prefer an appeal to the Securities Appellate Tribunal.(9)All
expenses of, and incidental to, any investigation made under this section
shall be defrayed by the insurer or intermediary or insurance intermediary, as
the case may be, shall have priority over the debts due from the insurer and
shall be recoverable as an arrear of land revenue.

### 33A. Power to appoint staff

The Authority may appoint such staff, and at such places at it or he may
consider necessary, for the scrutiny of the returns, statements and
information furnished by insurers under this Act and generally to ensure the
efficient performance of the functions of the Authority under this Act.

### 34. Power of the Authority to issue directions

Power to issue directions

### 34\. Power of the Authority to issue directions

(1)Where the Authority is satisfied that--(a)in the public interest; or(b)to
prevent the affairs of any insurer being conducted in a manner detrimental to
the interests of the policy-holders or in a manner prejudicial to the
interests of the insurer; or(c)generally to secure the proper management of
any insurer,it is necessary to issue directions to insurers generally or to
any insurer in particular, he may, from time to time, issue such directions a
s it deems fit, and the insurers or the insurer, as the case may be, shall be
bound to comply with such directions:Provided that no such direction shall be
issued to any insurer in particular unless such insurer has been given a
reasonable opportunity of being heard.(2)The Authority may, on representation
made to it or on its own motion, modify or cancel any direction issued under
sub-section (1), and in so modifying or cancelling any direction, may impose
such conditions as it thinks fit, subject to which the modification or
cancellation shall have effect.

### 34A. Amendment of provisions relating to appointments of managing
directors, etc., to be subject to previous approval of the Authority

(1)In the case of an insurer, --(a)no amendment made after the commencement of
the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1968, of any provision relating to the
appointment, reappointment, termination of appointment or remuneration of a
managing or whole-time director, or of a manager or a chief executive officer,
by whatever name called, whether that provision be contained in the insurer's
memorandum or articles of association, or in an agreement entered into by him,
or in any resolution passed by the insurer in general meeting or by his Board
of directors shall have effect unless approved by theAuthority;(b)no
appointment, re-appointment or termination of appointment, made after the
commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1968 , of a managing or whole-
time director, or a manager or a chief executive officer, by whatever name
called, shall have effect unless such appointment, reappointment or
termination of appointment is made with the previous approval of
theAuthority.Explanation-- For the purposes of this sub-section, any provision
conferring any benefit or providing any amenity or perquisite, in whatever
form, whether during or after the termination of the term of office of the
manager or the chief executive officer, by whatever name called, or a managing
or whole-time director, shall be deemed to be a provision relating to hi s
remuneration.(2)Nothing contained in sections 268 and 269 , the proviso to
sub-section (3) of section 309 , sections 310 and 311 , the proviso to section
387 , and section 388 (in so far as section 388 makes the provisions of
sections 310 and 311 apply in relation to the manager of a company) of the
Companies Act, 1956 ( 1 of 1956 ), shall apply to any matter in respect of
which the approval of theauthority has to be obtained under sub-section
(1).(3)No act done by a person as a managing or whole-time director or a
director not liable to retire by rotation or a manager or a chief executive
officer, by whatever name called, shall be deemed to be invalid on the ground
that it is subsequently discovered that hi s appointment or re-appointment had
not taken effect by reason of any of the provisions of this Act; but nothing
in this sub-section shall be construed as rendering valid any act done by such
person after hi s appointment or re-appointment has been shown to the insurer
not to have had effect.

### 34B. Power of Authority to remove managerial persons from office

(1)Where the Authority is satisfied that in the public interest or for
preventing the affairs of an insurer being conducted in a manner detrimental
to the interests of the policy-holders or for securing the proper management
of any insurer it is necessary so to do, it may, for reasons to be recorded in
writing, by order, remove from office, with effect from such date as may be
specified in the order, any director or the chief executive officer, by
whatever name called, of the insurer.(2)No order under sub-section (1) shall
be made unless the director or chief executive officer concerned has been
given a reasonable opportunity of making a representation to the Authority
against the proposed order:Provided that if, in the opinion of the Authority,
any delay would be detrimental to the interests of the insurer or his policy-
holders, it may, at the time of giving the opportunity aforesaid or at any
time thereafter, by order direct that, pending the consideration of the
representation aforesaid, if any, the director or, as the case may be, chief
executive officer, shall not, with effect from the date of such order,
--(a)act as such director or chief executive officer of the insurer;(b)in any
way, whether directly or indirectly, be concerned with, or take part in, the
management of the insurer.(3)Where any order is made in respect of a director
or chief executive officer of an insurer under sub-section (1), he shall cease
to be a director or, as the case may be, chief executive officer of the
insurer and shall not, in any way, whether directly or indirectly, be
concerned with, or take part it, the management of any insurer for such period
not exceeding five years as may be specified in the order.(4)If any person in
respect of whom an order is made by the Authority under sub-section (1) or
under the proviso to sub-section (2), contravenes the provisions of this
section, he shall be liable to a penalty of one lakh rupees for each day
during which such contravention continues or one crore rupees, whichever is
less.(5)Where an order under subsection (1) has been made, the Authority may,
by order in writing, appoint a suitable person in place of the director or
chief executive officer who has been removed from hi s office under that sub-
section, with effect from such date as may be specified in the order.(6)Any
person appointed as director or chief executive officer under this section
shall --(a)hold office during the pleasure of the Authority and subject
thereto for a period not exceeding three years or such farther periods not
exceeding three years at a time as the Authority may specify;(b)not insure any
obligation or liability by reason only of hi s being a director or chief
executive officer or for anything done or omitted to be done in good faith in
the execution of the duties of hi s office or in relation
thereto.(7)Notwithstanding anything contained in any law or in any contract,
memorandum or articles of association, on the removal of a person from office
under this section, that person shall not be entitled to claim any
compensation for the loss or termination of office.

### 34C. Power of Authority to appoint additional directors

(1)If the Authority is of opinion that in the public interest or in the
interest of an insurer, or hi s policy-holders it is necessary so to do, it
may, from time, to time, by order in writing, appoint, with effect from such
date as may be specified in the order, one or more persons to hold office as
additional directors of the insurer:Provided that the number of additional
directors so appointed shall not, at any time, exceed five or one-third of the
maximum strength fixed for the Board by the articles of association of the
insurer, whichever is less.(2)Any person appointed as additional director in
pursuance of this section, --(a)shall hold office during the pleasure of the
Authority, and subject thereto for a period not exceeding three years or such
further periods not exceeding three years at a time as the Authority may
specify;(b)shall not incur any obligation or liability by reason only of his
being a director or for anything done or omitted to be done in good faith in
the execution of the duties of his office or in relation thereto; and(c)shall
not be required to hold qualification shares of the insurer.(3)For the purpose
of reckoning any proportion of the total number of directors of the insurer,
any additional director appointed under this section shall not be taken into
account.

### 34D. Sections 34B and 34 C to override other laws

Any appointment or removal of a director or executive officer in pursuance of
section 34B or section 34 C shall have effect notwithstanding anything the
contrary contained in the Companies Act, 1956 ( 1 of 1956 ), or any other law
for the time being in force or any contract or any other instrument.

### 34E. Further powers

The Authority may, --(a)caution or prohibit insurers, generally or any insurer
in particular against entering into any particular transaction or class of
transactions, and generally give advice to any insurer;(b)at any time, if it
is satisfied that in the public interest or in the interests of the insurer or
for preventing the affairs of the insurer being conducted in a manner
detrimental to the interests of the insurer or hi s policy-holders, it is
necessary so to do, by order in writing and on such terms and conditions as
may be specified therein, --(i)require the insurer to call a meeting of hi s
directors for the purpose of considering any matter relating to or arising out
of the affairs of the insurer;(ii)depute one or more of hi s officers to watch
the proceedings at any meeting of the Board of directors of the insurer or of
any committee or of any other body constituted by it; require the insurer to .
give an opportunity to the officers so deputed to be heard at such meetings
and also require such officers to send a report of such proceedings to
theAuthority;(iii)require the Board of directors of the insurer or any
committee or any other body constituted by it to give in writing to any
officer specified by the Authority in this behalf at hi s usual address all
notices if, and other communications relating to, any meeting of the Board,
committee or other body constituted by it;(iv)appoint one or more of hi s
officers to observe the manner in which the affairs of the insurer or of hi s
offices or branches are being conducted and make a report thereon;(v)require
the insurer to make, within such time as may be specified in the order, such
changes in the management as theAuthoritymay consider necessary.

### 34F. Power of Authority to issue directions regarding re-insurance
treaties, etc.

(1)Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by sub-section
(1) of section 34 , theAuthority may, ifit is of opinion that the terms or
conditions of any re-insurance treaty or other re-insurance contract entered
into by an insurer are not favourable to the insurer or are detrimental to the
public interest,it may, by order, require the insurer to make, at the time
when the renewal of such treaty or contract becomes next due, such
modifications in the terms and conditions of such treaty or contract asit may
specify in the order or not to renew such treaty or contract, and, if the
insurer fails to comply with such order, he shall be deemed to have failed to
comply with the provisions of this Act.(2)The Authority may, if it has reason
to believe that an insurer is entering into or is likely to enter into re-
insurance treaties or other re-insurance contracts which are not favourable to
the insurer or are detrimental to the public interest, it may, by order,
direct that the insurer shall not enter into such re-insurance treaty or other
re-insurance contract unless a copy of such treaty or contract has been
furnished to it in advance and the terms and conditions thereof have been
approved by it and if the insurer fails to comply with such order he shall be
deemed to have failed to comply with the requirements of this Act.

### 34G. Power ofAuthority to order closure of foreign branches

Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by sub-section (1)
of section 34 , the Authority may, if it has reason to believe that the
working of any branch outside India of an insurer being an insurer specified
in sub-clause (b) of clause (9) of section 2 , is generally resulting in a
loss or that the affairs of that branch are being conducted in a manner
prejudicial to the interests of the policy-holders or the public interest, it
may, after giving an opportunity to the insurer of being heard, direct that
the insurer shall cease, within such period, not being less than one year, as
may be specified in the order, to carry on insurance business in the country
in which such branch is situated and if the insurer fails to comply with such
order he shall be deemed to have failed to comply with the provisions of this
Act.

### 34H. Search and seizure

(1)Where the Chairperson of the Authority, in consequence of information in hi
s possession, has reason to believe that --(a)any person who has been required
under sub-section (2) of section 33 to produce, or cause to be produced, any
books, accounts or other documents in his custody or power has omitted or
failed to produce, or cause to be produced, such books, accounts or other
documents, or(b)Any person to whom a requisition to produce any books,
accounts or other documents as aforesaid has been or might be issued will not,
or would not, produce or cause to be produced, any books, accounts or other
documents which will be useful for, or relevant to, an investigation under
sub-section (1) of section 33 or an inspection under sub-section (1A) of that
section, or(c)a contravention of any provision of this Act has been committed
or is likely to be committed by an insurer, or(d)any claim which is due to be
settled by an insurer, has been or is likely to be rejected or settled at a
figure higher than a reasonable amount, or(e)any claim which is due to be
settled by an insurer, has been or is likely to be rejected or settled at a
figure lower than a reasonable amount, or(f)any illegal rebate or commission
has been paid or is likely to be paid by an insurer, or(g)any books, accounts,
receipts, vouchers, survey reports or other documents, belonging to an insurer
are likely to be tampered with, falsified or manufactured,he may authorise any
subordinate officer of hi s, not lower in rank than a Deputy Director or an
equivalent officer (he reafter ref erred to as the authorised officer) to
--(i)enter and search any building or place where he has reason to suspect
that such books, accounts or other documents, or any books or papers relating
to any claim, rebate or commission or any receipts, vouchers, reports or other
documents are kept;(ii)break open the lock of any door, box, locker, safe,
almirah or other receptacle for exercising the powers conferred by clause (i)
where the keys thereof are not available;(iii)seize all or any such books,
accounts or other documents, found as a result of such search;(iv)place marks
of identification on such books, accounts or other documents or make or cause
to be made extracts or copies therefrom.(2)The authorised officer may
requisition the services of any police-officer or of any officer of the
Central Government, or of both, to assist hi m for all or any of the purposes
specified in sub-section (1 ) and it shall be the duty of every such officer
to comply with such requisition.(3)The authorised officer may, where it is not
practicable to seize any such book, account or other document, specified in
sub-section (1 ), serve an order on the person who is in immediate possession
or control thereof that he shall not remove, part with or otherwise deal with
it except with the previous permission of such officer and such officer may
take such steps as may be necessary for ensuring compliance with this sub-
section.(4)The authorised officer may, during the course of the search or
seizure, examine on oath any person who is found to be in possession or
control of any books, accounts or other documents, and any statement made by
such person during such examination may thereafter be used in evidence in any
proceeding under this Act.(5)The books, accounts, papers, receipts, vouchers,
reports, or other documents seized under sub-section (1 ) shall not be
retained by the authorised officer for a period exceeding one hundred and
eighty days from the date of the seizure unless the reasons for retaining the
same recorded by hi m in writing and the approval of the Chairperson of the
Authority for such retention is obtained:Provided that the Chairperson of the
Authority shall not authorise the retention of the books, accounts, papers,
receipts, vouchers, reports, or other documents for a period exceeding thirty
days after all the proceedings under this Act for which the books, accounts,
papers, receipts, vouchers, reports, or other documents are relevant are
completed.(6)The person from whose custody and books, accounts, papers,
receipts, vouchers, reports, or other documents are seized under sub-section
(1 ) may make copies thereof, or take extracts therefrom, in the presence of
the authorised officer or any other person empowered by hi m in this behalf at
such place and time as the authorised officer may appoint in this behalf.(7)If
a person legally entitled to the books, accounts, papers, receipts, vouchers,
reports or other documents seized under sub-section (1 ) objects for any
reason to the approval given by the Chairperson of the Authority under sub-
section (5 ), he may make an application to the Securities Appellate Tribunal
stating therein the reason for such objection and requesting for the return of
the books, accounts, papers, receipts, vouchers, reports or other
documents.(8)On receipt of the application under sub-section (7), the
Securities Appellate Tribunal may, after giving the applicant an opportunity
of being heard, pass such orders as it thinks fit.(9)The provisions of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898) relating to searches and seizures
shall apply, so far as may be, to every search and seizure made under sub-
section (1).(10)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette; make rules in relation to any search or seizure under this section;
in particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for the procedure to be followed by the authorised
officer, --(i)for obtaining ingress into such building or place to be searched
where free ingress thereto is not available;(ii)for ensuring safe custody of
any books, accounts, papers, receipts, vouchers, reports, or other documents
seized under this section.

### 35. Amalgamation and transfer of insurance business

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, no insurance business of an insurer shall be transferred to or
amalgamated with the insurance business of any other insurer except in
accordance with a scheme prepared under this section and approved by the
Authority.(2)Any scheme prepared under this section shall set out the
agreement under which the transfer or amalgamation is proposed to be effected,
and shall contain such further provisions as may be necessary for giving
effect to the scheme.(3)Before an application is made to theAuthorityto
approve any such scheme notices of the intention to make the application
together with a statement of the nature of the amalgamation or transfer, as
the case may be, and of the reason therefore shall, at least two months before
the application is made, be sent to theAuthorityand certified copies, four in
number, of each of the following documents shall be furnished to theAuthority,
and other such copies shall during the two months aforesaid be kept open for
the inspection of the members and policy-holders at the principal and branch
offices and chief agencies of the insurers concerned, namely:--(a)a draft of
the agreement or deed under which it is proposed to effect the amalgamation or
transfer;(b)balance sheets in respect of the insurance business of each of the
insurers concerned in such amalgamation or transfer, prepared in such forms as
may be specified by the regulations;(c)actuarial reports and abstracts in
respect of the life insurance business of each of the insurers so concerned,
prepared in conformity with the regulations specified in this regard.(d)a
report on the proposed amalgamation or transfer, prepared by an independent
actuary who has never been professionally connected with any of the parties
concerned in the amalgamation or transfer at any time in the five years
preceding the date on which he signs hi s report;(e)any other reports on which
the scheme of amalgamation or transfer was founded.The balance-sheets, reports
and abstracts referred to in clauses (b), (c) and (d) shall be prepared as at
the date at which the amalgamation or transfer if approved by the Authority is
to take effect, which date shall not be more than twelve months before the
date on which the application to the Authority is made under this
section:Provided that if the Authority so directs in the case of any
particular insurer there may be substituted respectively for the balance-
sheet, report and abstract referred to in clauses (b) and (c) prepared in
accordance with this sub-section certified copies of the last balance-sheet
and last report and abstract prepared in accordance with sections 11 and 13 of
this Actor sections 7 and 8 of the Indian Life Assurance Companies Act, 1912 (
6 of 1912 ), if that balance-sheet is prepared as at a date not more than
twelve months, and that report and abstract as at a date not more than five
years, before the date on which the application to the Authority is made under
this section.

### 36. Sanction of amalgamation and transfer by Authority

When any application under sub-section (3) of section 35 is made to the
Authority, the Authority shall cause, a notice of the application to be given
to the holders of any kind of policy of insurer concerned alongwith statement
of the nature and terms of the amalgamation or transfer, as the case may be,
to be published in such manner and for such period as it may direct, and,
after hearing the directors and considering the objections of the
policyholders and any other persons whom it considers entitled to be heard,
may approve the arrangement, and shall make such consequential orders as are
necessary to give effect to the arrangement.

### 37. Statements required after amalgamation and transfer

Where an amalgamation takes place between any two or more insurers , orwhere
any business of an insurer is transferred, whether in accordance with a scheme
confirmed by theAuthorityor otherwise, the insurer carrying on the amalgamated
business orthe person to whom the business is transferred, as the case may be,
shall, within three months from the date of the completion of the amalgamation
or transfer,furnish in duplicate to theAuthority --(a)a certified copy of the
scheme, agreement or deed under which the amalgamation or transfer has been
effected, and(b)a declaration signed by every party concerned or in the case
of a company by the chairman and the principal officer that to the best of
their belief every payment made or to be made to any person whatsoever on
account of the amalgamation or transfer is therein fully set forth and that no
other payments beyond those set forth have been made or are to be made either
in money, policies, bonds, valuable securities or other property by or with
the knowledge of any parties to the amalgamation or transfer, and(c)where the
amalgamation or transfer has not been made in accordance with a scheme
approved by the Authority under section 36--(i)balance-sheets in respect of
the insurance business of each of the insurers concerned in such amalgamation
or transfer, prepared in the Form set forth in Part II of the First Schedule
and in accordance with the regulations contained in Part I of that Schedule,
and(ii)certified copies of any other reports on which the scheme of
amalgamation or transfer was founded.

### 37A. Power of Authority to prepare Scheme of Amalgamation

(1)If the Authority is satisfied that--(i)in the public interest; or(ii)in the
interests of the policy-holders; or(iii)in order to secure the proper
management of an insurer; or(iv)in the interest of insurance business of the
country as a whole,it is necessary so to do, it may prepare a scheme for the
amalgamation of that insurer with any other insurer (hereinafter referred to
in this section as the transferee insurer):Provided that no such scheme shall
be prepared unless the other insurer has given his written consent to the
proposal for such amalgamation.(2)The scheme aforesaid may contain provisions
for all or any of the following matters, namely:--(a)the constitution, name
and registered office, the capital, assets, powers, rights, interests,
authorities and privileges, and the liabilities, duties and obligations of the
transferee insurer;(b)the transfer to the transferee insurer of the business,
properties, assets and liabilities of the insurer on such terms and conditions
as may be specified in the scheme;(c)any change in the Board of Directors, or
the appointment of a new Board of Directors of the transferee insurer and the
authority by whom, the manner in which, and the other terms and conditions on
which, such change or appointment shall be made, and, in the case of
appointment of a new Board of Directors or of any director, the period for
which such appointment shall be made;(d)the alteration of the memorandum and
articles of association of the transferee insurer for the purpose of altering
the capital thereof or for such other purposes as may be necessary to give
effect to the amalgamation;(e)subject to the provisions of the scheme, the
continuation by or against the transferee insurer, of any actions or
proceedings pending against the insurer;(f)the reduction of the interest or
rights which the shareholders, policy-holders and other creditors have in or
against the insurer before the amalgamation to such extent as the Authority
considers necessary in the public interest or in the interests of the
shareholders, policy-holders and other creditors or for the maintenance of the
business of the insurer;(g)the payment in cash or otherwise to policy-holders,
and other creditors in full satisfaction of their claim,--(i)in respect of
their interest or rights in or against the insurer before the amalgamation;
or(ii)where their interest or rights aforesaid in or against the insurer has
or have been reduced under clause (f) in respect of such interest or rights as
so reduced;(h)the allotment to the shareholders of the insurer for shares held
by them therein before the amalgamation whether their interest in such shares
has been reduced under clause (f) or not of shares in the transferee insurer
and where any shareholders claim payment in cash and not allotment of shares,
or where it is not possible to allot shares to any shareholders, the payment
in cash to those shareholders in full satisfaction of their claim--(i)in
respect of their interest in shares in the insurer before the amalgamation;
or(ii)where such interest has been reduced under clause (f) in respect of
their interest in shares as so reduced;(i)the continuance of the services of
all the employees of the insurer (excepting such of them as not being workmen
within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), are
specificallymentioned in the scheme) in the transferee insurer at the same
remuneration and on the same terms and conditions of service, which they were
getting or, as the case may be, by which they were being governed, immediately
before the date of the amalgamation:Provided that the scheme shall contain a
provision that the transferee insurer shall pay or grant not later than the
expiry of the period of three years, from the date of the amalgamation, to the
said employees the same remuneration and the same terms and conditions of
service as are applicable to the other employees of corresponding rank or
status, of the transferee insurer subject to the qualifications and experience
of the said employees being the same as or equivalent to those of such other
employees of the transferee insurer:Provided further that if in any case any
doubt or difference arises as to whether the qualification and experience of
any of the said employees are the same as or equivalent to the qualifications
and experience of the other employees of corresponding rank or status of the
transferee insurer, the doubt or difference shall be referred to the
Controller whose decision thereon shall be final;(j)notwithstanding anything
contained in clause (i) where any of the employees of the insurer not being
workmen within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947),
are specificallymentioned in the scheme under clause (i) of where any
employees of the insurer have by notice in writing given to the insurer or, as
the case may be, the transferee insurer at any time before the expiry of one
month next following the date on which the scheme is sanctioned by the Central
Government, intimated their intention of not becoming employees of the
transferee insurer, the payment to such employees of compensation, if any, to
which they are entitled under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947),
and such pension, gratuity, provident fund, or other retirement benefits
ordinarily admissible to them under the rules or authorisations of the insurer
immediately before the date of the amalgamation;(k)any other terms and
conditions for the amalgamation of the insurer;(l)such incidental,
consequential and supplemental matters as are necessary to secure that the
amalgamation shall be fully and effectively carried out.(3)(a)A copy of the
scheme prepared by the Authority shall be sent in draft to the insurer and
also to the transferee insurer and any other insurer concerned in the
amalgamation, for suggestions and objections, if any, within such period as
the Authority may specify for this purpose.(b)The Authority may make such
modifications, if any, in the draft scheme as itmay consider necessary in the
light of the suggestions and objections received from the insurer and also
from the transferee insurer and any other insurer concerned in the
amalgamation and from any shareholder, policy-holder or other creditor of each
of those insurers and the transferee insurer.(4)The scheme shall thereafter be
placed before the Central Government for its sanction and the Central
Government may sanction the scheme without any modification or with such
modifications as it may consider necessary, and the scheme as sanctioned by
the Central Government shall come into force on such date as the Central
Government may notify in this behalf in the Official Gazette:Provided that
different dates may be specified for different provisions of the
scheme.(4A)Every policyholder or shareholder or member of each of the
insurers, before amalgamation, shall have the same interest in, or rights
against the insurer resulting from amalgamation as he had in the company of
which he was originally a policyholder or shareholder or member:Provided that
where the interests or rights of any shareholder or member are less than his
interest in, or rights against, the original insurer, he shall be entitled to
compensation, which shall be assessed by the Authority in such manner as may
be specified by the regulations.(4B)The compensation so assessed shall be paid
to the shareholder or member by the insurance company resulting from such
amalgamation.(4C)Any member or shareholder aggrieved by the assessment of
compensation made by the Authority under sub-section (4A) may within thirty
days from the publication of such assessment prefer an appeal to the
Securities Appellate Tribunal.(5)The sanction accorded by the Central
Government under sub-section (4) shall be conclusive evidence that all the
requirements of this section relating to amalgamation have been complied with
and a copy of the sanctioned scheme certified in writing by an officer of the
Central Government to be a true copy thereof shall, in all legal proceedings
(whether in appeal or otherwise) be admitted as evidence to the same extent as
the original scheme.(6)The Authority may, in like manner, add to amend or vary
any scheme made under this section.(7)On and from the date of the coming into
operation of the scheme or any provision thereof, the scheme or such provision
shall be binding on the insurer or, as the case may be, on the transferee
insurer and any other insurer concerned in the amalgamation and also on all
the shareholders, policy-holders and other creditors and employees of each of
those insurers and of transferee insurer, and on any other person having any
right or liability in relation to any of those insurers or the transferee
insurer.(8)On and from such date as may be specified by the Central Government
in this behalf, the properties and assets of the insurer shall, by virtue of
and to the extent provided in the scheme, stand transferred to, and vest in,
and the liabilities of the insurer shall, by virtue of and to the extent
provided in the scheme, stand transferred to and become the liabilities of the
transferee insurer.(9)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the
provisions of the scheme, the Central Government may by order do anything not
inconsistent with such provisions which appears to it necessary or expedient
for the purpose of removing the difficulty.(10)Copies of every scheme made
under this section and of every order made under sub-section (9) shall be laid
before each House of Parliament, as soon as may be, after the scheme has been
sanctioned by the Central Government, or as the case may be, the order has
been made.(11)Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the
amalgamation with an insurer by a single scheme of several insurers.(12)The
provisions of this section and of any scheme made under it shall have effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other provisions of
this Act or in any other law or any agreement, award or other instrument for
the time being in force.(13)The provisions of section 37 shall not apply to an
amalgamation given effect to under the provisions of this section.

### 38. Assignment and transfer of insurance policies

(1)A transfer or assignment of a policy of insurance, wholly or in part,
whether with or without consideration, may be made only by an endorsement upon
the policy itself or by a separate instrument, signed in either case by the
transferor or by the assignor or his duly authorised agent and attested by at
least one witness, specifically setting forth the fact of transfer or
assignment and the reasons thereof, the antecedents of the assignee and the
terms on which the assignment is made.(2)An insurer may, accept the transfer
or assignment, or decline to act upon any endorsement made under sub-section
(1), where it has sufficient reason to believe that such transfer or
assignment is not bona fide or is not in the interest of the policyholder or
in public interest or is for the purpose of trading of insurance policy.(3)The
insurer shall, before refusing to act upon the endorsement, record in writing
the reasons for such refusal and communicate the same to the policyholder not
later than thirty days from the date of the policyholder giving notice of such
transfer or assignment.(4)Any person aggrieved by the decision of an insurer
to decline to act upon such transfer or assignment may within a period of
thirty days from the date of receipt of the communication from the insurer
containing reasons for such refusal, prefer a claim to the
Authority.(5)Subject to the provisions in sub-section (2), the transfer or
assignment shall be complete and effectual upon the execution of such
endorsement or instrument duly attested but except, where the transfer or
assignment is in favour of the insurer, shall not be operative as against an
insurer, and shall not confer upon the transferee or assignee, or his legal
representative, any right to sue for the amount of such policy or the moneys
secured thereby until a notice in writing of the transfer or assignment and
either the said endorsement or instrument itself or a copy thereof certified
to be correct by both transferor and transferee or their duly authorised
agents have been delivered to the insurer:Provided that where the insurer
maintains one or more places of business in India, such notice shall be
delivered only at the place where the policy is being serviced.(6)The date on
which the notice referred to in sub-section (5) is delivered to the insurer
shall regulate the priority of all claims under a transfer or assignment as
between persons interested in the policy; and where there is more than one
instrument of transfer or assignment the priority of the claims under such
instruments shall be governed by the order in which the notices referred to in
sub-section (5) are delivered:Provided that if any dispute as to priority of
payment arises as between assignees, the dispute shall be referred to the
Authority.(7)Upon the receipt of the notice referred to in sub-section (5),
the insurer shall record the fact of such transfer or assignment together with
the date thereof and the name of the transferee or the assignee and shall, on
the request of the person by whom the notice was given, or of the transferee
or assignee, on payment of such fee as may be specified by the regulations,
grant a written acknowledgement of the receipt of such notice; and any such
acknowledgement shall be conclusive evidence against the insurer that he has
duly received the notice to which such acknowledgement relates.(8)Subject to
the terms and conditions of the transfer or assignment, the insurer shall,
from the date of the receipt of the notice referred to in sub-section (5),
recognise the transferee or assignee named in the notice as the absolute
transferee or assignee entitled to benefit under the policy, and such person
shall be subject to all liabilities and equities to which the transferor or
assignor was subject at the date of the transfer or assignment and may
institute any proceedings in relation to the policy, obtain a loan under the
policy or surrender the policy without obtaining the consent of the transferor
or assignor or making him a party to such proceedings.Explanation.--Except
where the endorsement referred to in sub-section (1) expressly indicates that
the assignment or transfer is conditional in terms of subsection (10)
hereunder, every assignment or transfer shall be deemed to be an absolute
assignment or transfer and the assignee or transferee, as the case may be,
shall be deemed to be the absolute assignee or transferee respectively.(9)Any
rights and remedies of an assignee or transferee of a policy of life insurance
under an assignment or transfer effected prior to the commencement of the
Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 shall not be affected by the provisions
of this section.(10)Notwithstanding any law or custom having the force of law
to the contrary, an assignment in favour of a person made upon the condition
that--(a)the proceeds under the policy shall become payable to the
policyholder or the nominee or nominees in the event of either the assignee or
transferee predeceasing the insured; or(b)the insured surviving the term of
the policy, shall be valid:Provided that a conditional assignee shall not be
entitled to obtain a loan on the policy or surrender a policy.(11)In the case
of the partial assignment or transfer of a policy of insurance under sub-
section (1), the liability of the insurer shall be limited to the amount
secured by partial assignment or transfer and such policyholder shall not be
entitled to further assign or transfer the residual amount payable under the
same policy.

### 39. Nomination by policy-holder.--

(1)The holder of a policy of life insuranceon hi s own life may, when
effecting the policy or at any time before the policy matures for payment,
nominate the person or persons to whom the money secured by the policy shall
be paid in the event of hi s death:Provided that, where any nominee is a
minor, it shall be lawful for the policy-holder to appoint in the prescribed
manner any person to receive the money secured by the policy in the event of
hi s death during the minority of the nominee.(2)Any such nomination in order
to be effectual shall, unless it is incorporated in the text of the policy
itself, be made by an endorsement on the policy communicated to the insurer
and registered by hi m in the records relating to the policy and any such
nomination may at any time before the policy matures for payment be cancelled
or changed by an endorsement or a further endorsement or a will, as the case
may be,but unless notice in writing of any such cancellation or change has
been delivered to the insurer, the insurer shall not be liable for any payment
under the policy made bona fide by hi m to a nominee mentioned in the text of
the policy or registered in records of the insurer.(3)The insurer shall
furnish to the policy-holder a written acknowledgement of having registered a
nomination or a cancellation or change thereof, and may charge a fee not
exceeding one rupee for registering such cancellation or change.(4)A transfer
or assignment of a policy made in accordance with section 38 shall
automatically cancel a nomination:Provided that the assignment, of a policy to
the insurer who bears the risk on the policy at the time of the assignment, in
consideration of a loan granted by that insurer on the security of the policy
within its surrender value, or its reassignment on repayment of the loan shall
not cancel a nomination, but shall affect the rights of the nominee only to
the extent of the insurer's interest in the policy.(5)Where the policy matures
for payment during thelifetime of the person whose life is insured or where
the nominee or, if there are more nominees than one, all the nominees die
before the policy matures for payment, the amount secured by the policy shall
be payable to the policy-holder or his heirs or legal representatives or the
holder of a succession certificate, as the case may be.(6)Where the nominee
or, if there are more nominees than one, a nominee or nominees survive the
person whose life is insured, the amount secured by the policy shall be
payable to such survivor or survivors.(7)The provisions of this section shall
not apply to any policy of life insurance to which section 6 of the Married
Women's Property Act, 1874 (3 of 1874 applies or has at any time
applied:Provided that where a nomination made whether before or after the
commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1946 , in favour of the wife of
the person who has insured hi s life or of hi s wife and children or any of
them is expressed, whether or not on the face of the policy, as being made
under this section, the said section 6 shall be deemed not to apply or not to
have applied to the policy.

### 40. Prohibition of payment by way of commission or otherwise for procuring
business.--

(1)No person shall, after the expiry of six months from the commencement of
this Act, pay or contract to pay any remuneration or reward whether by way of
commission or otherwise for soliciting or procuring insurance business in
India to any person except an insurance agent or an intermediary or insurance
intermediary.(1A)In this section and sections 40A, 41 and 43, reference to an
insurance agent shall be construed as including reference to an individual
soliciting or procuring insurance business exclusively in the territories
which, immediately before the 1st November, 1956, were comprised in a Part B
State notified in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official
Gazette and holding a valid licence as insurance agent under the law of that
Part B State.(2)No insurance agent shall be paid or contract to be paid by way
of Commission or as remuneration in any form an amount exceeding, in the case
of life insurance business, forty per cent, of the first year's premium
payable on any policy or policies effected through him and five per cent, of a
renewal premium, payable on such a policy, or, in the case of business of any
other class, fifteen percent, of the premium:Provided that insurers, in
respect of life insurance business only, may pay, during the first ten years
of their business to their insurance agents fifty-five per cent of the first
year's premium payable on any policy or policies effected through them and six
per cent, of the renewal premiums payable on such policies:Provided further
that nothing in this sub-section shall apply in respect of any policy of life
insurance issued after the 31st day of December, 1950, or in respect of any
policy of general insurance issued after the commencement of the Insurance
(Amendment) Act, 1950 (47 of 1950).(2A)Save as hereinafter provided, no
insurance agent or intermediary or insurance intermediary agent shall be paid
or contract to be paid by way of commission or as remuneration in any form any
amount in respect of any policy not effected through him:Provided that where a
policy of life insurance has lapsed, and it cannot under the terms and
conditions applicable to it be revived without further medical examination of
the person whose life was insured thereby, an insurer, after giving by notice
in writing to the insurance agent through whom the policy was effected if such
agent continues to be an agent of the insurer an opportunity to effect the
revival of the policy within a time specified in the notice, being not less
than one month from the date of the receipt by hi m of the notice, may pay to
another insurance agent who effects the revival of the policy an amount
calculated at a rate not exceeding half the rate of commission at which the
agent through whom the policy was effected would have been paid had the policy
not lapsed, on the sum payable on revival of the policy on account of arrear
premiums (excluding any interest on such arrear premiums) and also on the
subsequent renewal premiums payable on the policy.(3)Nothing in this section
shall prevent the payment under any contract existing prior to the 27 th day
of January, 1937 , of gratuities or renewal commission to any person, whether
an insurance agent within the meaning of this Act or not, or to hi s
representatives after hi s decease in respect of insurance business effected
through hi m before the said date.

### 40A. Limitation of expenditure on commission

Omitted

### 40B. Limitation of expenses of management in life insurance business

No insurer shall, in respect of insurance business transacted by him in India,
spend as expenses of management in any financial year any amount exceeding the
amount as may be specified by the regulations made under this Act;

### 40C. Limitation of expenses of management in general insurance business

Every insurer transacting insurance business in India shall furnish to the
Authority, the details of expenses of management in such manner and form as
may be specified by the regulations made under this Act.

### 41. Prohibition of rebates

(1)No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as
an inducement to any person totake out or renew or continue an insurance in
respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate
of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the premium
shown on the policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewingor continuing
a policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance
with the published prospectuses or tables of the insurer:Provided that
acceptance by an insurance agent of commission in connection with a policy of
life insurance taken out by himself on hi s own life shall not be deemed to be
acceptance of a rebate of premium within the meaning of this sub-section if at
the time of such acceptance the insurance agent satisfies the prescribed
conditions establishing that he is a bona fide insurance agent employed by the
insurer.(2)Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this
section shall be liable for a penalty which may extend to ten lakh rupees.

### 42. Appointment of insurance agents

(1)An insurer may appoint any person to act as insurance agent for the purpose
of soliciting and procuring insurance business:Provided that such person does
not suffer from any of the disqualifications mentioned in sub-section
(3).(2)No person shall act as an insurance agent for more than one life
insurer, one general insurer, one health insurer and one of each of the other
mono-line insurers:Provided that the Authority shall, while framing
regulations, ensure that no conflict of interest is allowed to arise for any
agent in representing two or more insurers for whom hemay be an agent.(3)The
disqualifications referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1) shall be the
following:--(a)that the person is a minor;(b)that he is found to be of unsound
mind by a court of competent jurisdiction;(c)that he has been found guilty of
criminal misappropriation or criminal breach of trust or cheating or forgery
or an abetment of or attempt to commit any such offence by a court of
competent jurisdiction:Provided that where at least five years have elapsed
since the completion of the sentence imposed on any person in respect of any
such offence, the Authority shall ordinarily declare in respect of such person
that his conviction shall cease to operate as a disqualification under this
clause;(d)that in the course of any judicial proceeding relating to any policy
of insurance or the winding up of an insurer or in the course of an
investigation of the affairs of an insurer it has been found that he has been
guilty of or has knowingly participated in or connived at any fraud,
dishonesty or misrepresentation against an insurer or insured;(e)that in the
case of an individual, who does not possess the requisite qualifications or
practical training or passed the examination, as may be specified by the
regulations;(f)that in the case of a company or firm making, a director or a
partner or one or more of its officers or other employees so designated by it
and in the case of any other person the chief executive, by whatever name
called, or one or more of his employees designated by him, do not possess the
requisite qualifications or practical training and have not passed such an
examination as required under clauses (e) and (g);(g)that he has not passed
such examination as may be specified by the regulations;(h)that he has
violated the code of conduct as may be specified by the regulations.(4)Any
person who acts as an insurance agent in contravention of the provision of
this Act, shall be liable to a penalty which may extend to ten thousand rupees
and any insurer or any person acting on behalf of an insurer, who appoints any
person as an insurance agent not permitted to act as such or transacts any
insurance business in India through any such person shall be liable to penalty
which may extend to one crore rupees.(5)The insurer shall be responsible for
all the acts and omissions of its agents including violation of code of
conduct specified under clause (h) of sub-section (3) and liable to a penalty
which may extend to one crore rupees.(1)The Authority or an officer authorised
by it in this behalf shall, in the manner determined by the regulations made
by it and on payment of the fee determined by the regulations, which shall not
be more than two hundred and fifty rupees, issue to any person making an
application in the manner determined by the regulations, a licence to act as
an insurance agent for the purpose of soliciting or procuring insurance
business:Provided that,--(i)in the case of an individual, he does not suffer
from any of the disqualifications mentioned in sub-section (4); and(ii)in the
case of a company or firm, any of its directors or partners does not suffer
from any of the said disqualifications:Provided further that any licence
issued immediately before the commencement of the Insurance Regulatory and
Development Authority Act, 1999 shall be deemed to have been issued in
accordance with the regulations which provide for such licence.(2)A licence
issued under this section shall entitle the holder to act as an insurance
agent for any insurer.(3)A licence issued under this section, after the date
of the commencement of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act,
1999, shall remain in force for a period of three years only from the date of
issue, but shall, if the applicant, being an individual does not, or being a
company or firm any of its directors or partners does not, suffer from any of
the disqualificationsmentioned in clauses (b), (c), (d), (e), (ea) and (f) of
sub-section (4) and the application for renewal of licence reaches the issuing
authority at least thirty days before the date on which the licence ceases to
remain in force, be renewed for a period of three years at any one time on
payment of the fee determined by the regulations made by the Authority which
shall not be more than rupees two hundred and fifty, and additional fee of an
amount determined by the regulations not exceeding rupees one hundred by way
of penalty, if the application for renewal of the licence does not reach the
issuing authority at least thirty days before the date on which the licence
ceases to remain in force.(3A)No application for the renewal of a licence
under this section shall be entertained if the application does not reach the
issuing authority before the licence ceases to remain in force:Provided that
the Authority may, if satisfied that undue hardship would be caused otherwise,
accept any application in contravention of this sub-section on payment by the
applicant of a penalty of seven hundred and fifty rupees.(4)The
disqualifications above referred to shall be the following:--(a)that the
person is a minor;(b)that he is found to be of unsound mind by a Court of
competent jurisdiction;(c)that he has been found guilty of criminal
misappropriation or criminal breach of trust or cheating or forgery or an
abetment of or attempt to commit any such offence by a Court of competent
jurisdiction:Provided that where at least five years have elapsed since the
completion of the sentence imposed on any person in respect of any such
offence, the Authority shall ordinarily declare in respect of such person that
his conviction shall cease to operate as a disqualification under this
clause;(d)that in the course of any judicial proceeding relating to any policy
of insurance or the winding up of an insurance company or in the course of an
investigation of the affairs of an insurer it has been found that he has been
guilty of or has knowingly participated in or connived at any fraud,
dishonesty or misrepresentation against an insurer or an insured.(e)that he
does not possess the requisite qualifications and practical training for a
period not exceeding, twelve months, as may be specified by the regulations
made by the Authority in this behalf;(ea)that in the case of a company or firm
making an application under sub-section (1) or sub-section (3), a director or
a partner or one or more of its officers or other employees so designated by
it and in the case of any other person, the chief executive, by whatever name
called, or one or more of his employees designated by him, do not possess the
requisite qualifications and practical training and have not passed such an
examination as required under clauses (e) and (f);(f)that he has not passed
such examination as may be specified by the regulations made by the Authority
in this behalf:Provided that a person who had been issued a licence under sub-
section (1) of this section or sub-section (1) of section 64UM shall not be
required to possess the requisite qualifications, practical training and pass
such examination as required by clauses (e) and (f);(g)that he violates the
code of conduct as may be specified by the regulations made by the
Authority.(5)If it be found that an insurance agent being an individual is, or
being a company or firm contains a director or partner who is suffering from
any of the disqualifications mentioned in sub-section (4), then, without
prejudice to any other penalty to which he may be liable, the Authority shall,
and if the insurance agent has knowingly contravened any of the provisions of
this Act may, cancel the licence issued to the agent under this section.(6)The
Authority may issue a duplicate licence to replace a licence lost, destroyed
or mutilated, on payment of such fee not exceeding fifty rupees as may be
determined by the regulations.(7)Any person who acts as an insurance agent
without holding a licence issued under this section to act as such shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, and any insurer
or any person acting on behalf of an insurer, who appoints as an insurance
agent any person not licensed to act as such or transacts any insurance
business in India through any such person, shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to one thousand rupees.(8)Where the person contravening sub-section
(7) is a company or a firm, then, without prejudice to any other proceedings
which may be taken against the company or firm, every director, manager,
secretary or other officer of the company, and every partner of the firm who
is knowingly a party to such contravention shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to five thousand rupees."

### 42A. Prohibition of insurance business through principal agent, special
agent and multilevel marketing

(1)No insurer shall, on or after the commencement of the Insurance Laws
(Amendment) Act, 2015, appoint any principal agent, chief agent, and special
agent and transact any insurance business in India through them.(2)No person
shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement
to any person to take out or renew or continue an insurance policy through
multilevel marketing scheme.(3)The Authority may, through an officer
authorised in this behalf, make a complaint to the appropriate police
authorities against the entity or persons involved in the multilevel marketing
scheme.Explanation.--For the purpose of this section "multilevel marketing
scheme" means any scheme or programme or arrangement or plan (by whatever name
called) for the purpose of soliciting and procuring insurance business through
persons not authorised for the said purpose with or without consideration of
whole or part of commission or remuneration earned through such solicitation
and procurement and includes enrolment of persons into a multilevel chain for
the said purpose either directly or indirectly.

### 42B. Regulation of employment or principal agents

(1)No insurer shall, after the expiration of seven years from the commencement
of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1950 (47 of 1950), appoint, or transact any
insurance business in India, through a principal agent.(2)Every contract
between an insurer and a principal agent shall be in writing and the terms
contained in Part A of the Sixth Schedule shall be deemed to be incorporated
in, and form part of, every such contract.(3)No insurer shall, after the
commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1950 (47 of 1950), appoint any
person as a principal agent except in a presidency town unless the appointment
is by way of renewal of any contract subsisting at such commencement.(4)Within
sixty days of the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1950 (47 of
1950), every principal agent shall file with the insurer concerned a full list
of insurance agents employed by him indicating the terms of the contract
between the principal agent and each of such insurance agents, and, if any
principal agent fails to file such a list within the period specified, any
commission payable to such principal agent on premiums received from the date
of expiry of the said period of sixty days until the date of the filing of the
said list shall, notwithstanding anything in any contract to the contrary,
cease to be so payable.(5)A certified copy of every contract as is referred to
in sub-section (2) shall be furnished by the insurer to theAuthority within
thirty days of his entering into such contract, and intimation of any change
in any such contract shall be furnished by the insurer with full particulars
thereof to theAuthority within thirty days of the making of any such
change.(6)If the commission due to any insurance agent in respect of any
general insurance business procured by such agent is not paid by the principal
agent for any reason, the insurer may pay the insurance agent the commission
so due and recover the amount so paid from the principal agent concerned
.(7)Every contract as is referred to in sub-section (2), subsisting at the
commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1950 ( 47 of 1950 ), shall,
with respect to terms regarding remuneration, be deemed to have been so
altered as to be in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (4) of
section 40A.(8)If any dispute arises as to whether a person is or was a
principal agent, the matter shall be referred to the Authority, whose decision
shall be final.(9)Every insurer shall maintain a register in which the name
and address of every principal agent appointed by hi m, the date of such
appointment and the date, if any, on which the appointment ceased shall be
entered.

### 42C. Regulation of employment of chief agents and special agents

(1)Every contract between an insurer carrying on life insurance business and a
chief agent shall be in writing, and shall specify the area (not being less in
extent than a district or the equivalent thereof) for which the chief agent is
appointed, and the terms contained in Part B of the Sixth Schedule shall be
deemed to be incorporated in, and form pan of every such contract.(2)No chief
agent shall, either directly or through insurance agents or special agents
employed by or through him procure life insurance business for the insurer in
any area outside the area for which he has been appointed or in any area for
which another chief agent has been appointed or in any area in which the head
office or any branch office of the insurer is operating, and neither the head
office nor any branch office of the insurer shall operate in any area for
which a chief agent has been appointed:Provided that nothing in this sub-
section shall be deemed to prohibit the head office of an insurer which had
been operating at the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1950 ( 47
of 1950 ), for a period of not less than ten years before such commencement
within the municipal limits of any town where the head office is situate, and
a chief agent who, in pursuance of an agreement in writing, had been operating
for a similar period within such limits, from continuing to operate within the
said limits:Provided further that nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed
to prohibit an insurance agent from procuring life insurance business in or
from any area and submitting the proposals direct to the principal office of
the insurer inIndia.(3)Within sixty days of the commencement of the Insurance
(Amendment) Act, 1950 ( 47 of 1950 ), every chief agent shall file with the
insurer concerned a full list of the insurance agents employed by hi m,
indicating the terms of the contract between the chief agent and each of such
insurance agents and the business secured by each of such agents, and if any
chief agent fails to file such a list within the period specified, any
commission payable to such chief agent on premiums received from the date of
the expiry of the said period of sixty days until the date of the filing of
the said list shall, notwithstanding anything in any contract to the contrary,
cease to be so payable.(4)Every contract between an insurer carrying on life
insurance business and a special agent, or between a chief agent of such
insurer and a special agent, shall be in writing and the terms contained in
Part C of the Sixth Schedule shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and form
part of, every such contract:Provided that the Authority may, in the case of a
contract between a co-operative life insurance society as defined in clause
(b) of sub-section (1) of section 95 and a co-operative society registered
under the Indian Co-operative Societies Act, 1912 ( 2 of 1912 ), or under any
other law for the time being in force and acting as a special agent, alter, to
such extent as he thinks fit, all or any of the said terms.(5)A certified copy
of every contract as is referred to in sub-section (1) or sub¬section (4)
shall be furnished by the insurer or the chief agent to the Authority within
thirty days of hi s entering into such contract, and intimation of any change
in any such contract shall be furnished by the insurer or the chief agent with
full particulars thereof to the Authority within thirty days of the making of
any such change.(6)No such contract as is referred to in sub-section (1) or
sub-section (4) shall be entered into or renewed for a period exceeding ten
years at any one time, and, notwithstanding the terms of any contract to the
contrary, no option to renew any such contract given to any of the parties
shall be enforceable without the consent of the other.(7)Every contract
between an insurer and a person acting on behalf of such insurer who before
the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1950 (47 of 1950), has been
employing insurance agents for the purpose of life insurance business, which
is subsisting on such commencement, shall terminate after the expiration often
years from such commencement, if it does not terminate earlier:Provided that
every such contract shall be modified by the parties before the 1st day of
January, 1951, to bring it into conformity with this Act, and any such
modification shall--(i)as respects remuneration, whether in respect of
business already procured or in respect of business to be procured thereafter,
be such as may be mutually agreed upon between the parties, subject, in the
case of remuneration payable on business procured before such commencement, to
a maximum of an over-riding commission of two and a half per cent, plus a
further commission not exceeding three and three-quarter per cent, on premiums
in respect of which no commission is payable to any insurance agent;(ii)be
deemed to include all the terms specified in Part B or Part C of the Sixth
Schedule, as the case may be:Provided further that, in the event of any
dispute as to the terms of any fresh contract, the matter shall be referred to
arbitration.(8)Any such contract as is referred to in sub-section (7) which
was subsisting on the 1 st day of January, 1949 , but has terminated or has
been terminated before the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1950
, shall be subject to the maximum limits specified in clause (i) of the
proviso to sub-section (7) as respects remuneration, if any, payable on
business procured before the termination of the contract.(9)Nothing in this
section shall be deemed to prevent any special agent from receiving any
renewal commission on policies effected through hi m as an insurance agent at
any time before hi s appointment as such special agent.(10)If any dispute
arises as to whether a person is or was a chief agent or a special agent for
the purposes of this Act, the matter shall be referred to theAuthority whose
decision shall be final.(11)Every insurer shall maintain a register in which
the name and address of every chief agent appointed by hi m, the date on which
the appointment was made and the date, if any, on which the appointment ceased
shall be entered, and a separate register in which similar particulars
relating to every special agent shall be entered, and every chief agent shall
maintain a register in which similar particulars relating to every special
agent appointed by hi m shall be entered.

### 42D. Issue of registration to intermediary or insurance intermediary

(1)The Authority or an officer authorised by it in this behalf shall, in the
manner determined by the regulations made by the Authority and on payment of
the fees determined by the regulations made by the Authority, issue to any
person making an application in the manner determined by the regulations, and
not suffering from any of the disqualifications herein mentioned, a
registration to act as an intermediary or an insurance intermediary under this
Act:Provided that--(a)in the case of an individual, he does not suffer from
any of the disqualifications mentioned in sub-section (3) of section 42,
or(b)in the case of a company, or firm, any of its directors of partners does
not suffer from any of the said disqualifications.(2)A registration made under
this section shall entitle the holder thereof to act as an intermediary or
insurance intermediary .(3)A registration made under this section shall remain
in force for a period of three years only from the date of issue, but shall,
if the applicant, being an individual does not, or being a company or firm any
of its directors or partners or one or more of its officers or other employees
so designated by it and in the case of any other person, the chief executive
by whatever name called, or one or more of his employees designated by him
does not suffer from any of the disqualifications mentioned in clauses (b),
(c), (d), (e) and (g) of sub-section (3) of section 42 and the application for
renewal of registration reaches the issuing authority at least thirty days
before the date on which the registration ceases to remain in force, be
renewed for a period of three years at any one time on payment of the fee,
determined by the regulations, made by the Authority and additional fee for an
amount determined by the regulations, not exceeding one hundred rupees by way
of penalty, if the application for renewal of the registration does not reach
the issuing authority at least thirty days before the date on which the
registration ceases to remain in force.(4)No application for the renewal of a
registration under this section shall be entertained if the application does
not reach the issuing authority before the registration ceases to remain in
force:Provided that the Authority may, if satisfied that undue hardship would
be caused otherwise, accept any application in contravention of this sub-
section on payment by the application of a penalty of seven hundred and fifty
rupees.(5)The disqualifications above referred to shall be the
following:--(a)that the person is a minor;(b)that he is found to be of unsound
mind by a Court of competent jurisdiction;(c)that he has been found guilty of
criminal misappropriation or criminal breach of trust or cheating or forgery
or an abetment of or attempt to commit any such offence by a Court of
competent jurisdiction:Provided that, Where at least five years have elapsed
since the completion of the sentence imposed on any person in respect of any
such offence, the Authority shall ordinarily declare in respect of such person
that hi s conviction shall cease to operate as a disqualification under this
clause;(d)that in the course of any judicial proceeding relating to any policy
of insurance of the winding up of an insurance company or in the course of an
investigation of the affairs of an insurer it has been found that he has been
guilty of or has knowingly participated in or connived at any fraud
dishonestly or misrepresentation against an insurer or an insured;(e)that he
does not possess the requisite qualifications and practical training for a
period not exceeding twelve months, as may be specified by the regulations
made by the Authority in this behalf;(f)that he has not passed such
examinations as may be specified by the regulations made by the Authority in
this behalf;(g)that he violates the code of conduct as may be specified by the
regulations made by the Authority.(6)If it be found that an intermediary or an
insurance intermediary suffers from any of the foregoing is qualifications ,
without prejudice to any other penalty to which he may be liable, the
Authority shall, and if the intermediary or an insurance intermediary has
knowingly contravened any provision of this Act may cancel theregistration
made to the intermediary or insurance intermediary under this section .(7)The
Authority may issue a duplicate registration to replace a registration lost,
destroyed or mutilated, on payment of such fee, as may be determined by the
regulations made by the Authority.(8)Any person who acts as an intermediary or
an insurance intermediary without being registered under this section to act
as such, shall be liable to a penalty which may extend to ten lakh rupees and
any person who appoints as an intermediary or an insurance intermediary or any
person not registered to act as such or transacts any insurance business in
India through any such person, shall be liable to a penalty which may extend
to one crore rupees.(9)Where the person contravening sub-section (8) is a
company or a firm, then, without prejudice to any other proceedings which may
be taken against the company or firm, every director, manager, secretary or
other officer of the company, and every partner of the firm who is knowingly a
party to such contravention shall be liable to a penalty which may extend to
ten lakh rupees.

### 42E. Commission, brokerage or fee payable to intermediary or insurance
intermediary

Without prejudice to the provisions contained in this Act, the Authority may,
by regulations made in this behalf, specify the requirements of capital, form
of business and other conditions, to act as an intermediary or an insurance
intermediary.

### 43. Record of insurance agents

(1)Every insurer and every person who, acting on behalf of an insurer employs
insurance agents shall maintain a record showing the name and address of every
insurance agent appointed by him and the date on which his appointment began
and the date, if any, on which his appointment ceased.(2)The record prepared
by the insurer under sub-section (1), shall be maintained as long as the
insurance agent is in service and for a period of five years after the
cessation of appointment.

### 44. Prohibition of cessation of payments of commission

(1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any contract between
any person and an insurance agent providing for the forfeiture or stoppage of
payment of renewal commission to such insurance agent, no such person shall,
in respect of life insurance business transacted in India, refuse payment to
an insurance agent of commission due to hi m on renewal premium under the
agreement by reason only of the termination of hi s agreement, except for
fraud:Provided that--(a)such agent ceases to act for the insurer concerned
after the Central Government has notified in the Official Gazette that it is
satisfied that the circumstances in which the said insurer is placed are such
as to justify the agent's ceasing to act for hi m; or(b)such agent has served
the insurer continually and exclusively in respect of life insurance business
for at least five years and policies assuring a total sum of not less than
fifty thousand rupees effected through hi m for the insurer were in force on a
date one year before hi s ceasing to act as such agent for the insurer, and
that the commission on renewal premiums due to hi m does not exceed four per
cent, in any case; or(c)such agent has served the insurer continually and
exclusively for at least ten years and after his ceasing to act as such agent
he does not directly or indirectly solicit or procure insurance business for
any other person.Explanation.--For the purposes of this sub-section, service
of an insurance agent under a chief agent of the insurer, whether before or
after the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1950, shall be deemed
to be service under the insurer.(2)Any commission payable to an insurance
agent under the provisions of clauses (b) and (c) of the proviso to sub-
section (1) shall, notwithstanding the death of the agent, continue to be
payable to hi s heirs for so long as such commission would have been payable
had such insurance agent been alive.

### 44A. Power to call for information

For the purposes of ensuring compliance with the provisions of sections 40,
40B and 40C, the Authority may, by notice--(a)require from an insurer such
information, certified if so required by an auditor or actuary, as it may
consider necessary;(b)require an insurer to submit for its examination at the
principal place of business of the insurer in India, any books of account,
register or other document, or to supply any statement which may be specified
in the notice;(c)examine any officer of an insurer on oath, in relation to any
such information, book, register, document or statement and the insurer, shall
comply with any such requirement within such time as may be specified in the
notice.

### 45. Policy not to be called in question on ground of mis-statement after
two years

(1)No policy of life insurance shall be called in question on any ground
whatsoever after the expiry of three years from the date of the policy, i.e.,
from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or
the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy,
whichever is later.(2)A policy of life insurance may be called in question at
any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the
date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date
of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground of
fraud:Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the
insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured
the grounds and materials on which such decision is based.Explanation I.--For
the purposes of this sub-section, the expression "fraud" means any of the
following acts committed by the insured or by his agent, with intent to
deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue a life insurance
policy:--(a)the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the
insured does not believe to be true;(b)the active concealment of a fact by the
insured having knowledge or belief of the fact;(c)any other act fitted to
deceive; and(d)any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be
fraudulent.Explanation II.--Mere silence as to facts likely to affect the
assessment of the risk by the insurer is not fraud, unless the circumstances
of the case are such that regard being had to them, it is the duty of the
insured or his agent keeping silence, to speak, or unless his silence is, in
itself, equivalent to speak.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (2), no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance policy on the ground
of fraud if the insured can prove that the misstatement of or suppression of a
material fact was true to the best of his knowledge and belief or that there
was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of
or suppression of a material fact are within the knowledge of the
insurer:Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving lies upon the
beneficiaries, in case the policyholder is not alive.Explanation.--A person
who solicits and negotiates a contract of insurance shall be deemed for the
purpose of the formation of the contract, to be the agent of the insurer.(4)A
policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three
years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of
risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the
policy, whichever is later, on the ground that any statement of or suppression
of a fact material to the expectancy of the life of the insured was
incorrectly made in the proposal or other document on the basis of which the
policy was issued or revived or rider issued:Provided that the insurer shall
have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or
nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such
decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based:Provided further
that in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of misstatement or
suppression of a material fact, and not on the ground of fraud, the premiums
collected on the policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the
insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured
within a period of ninety days from the date of such repudiation.Explanation.
--For the purposes of this sub-section, the misstatement of or suppression of
fact shall not be considered material unless it has a direct bearing on the
risk undertakenby the insurer, the onus is on the insurer to show that had the
insurer been aware of the said fact no life insurance policy would have been
issued to the insured.(5)Nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer
from calling for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so, and no
policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of
the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the life insured
was incorrectly stated in the proposal."No policy of life insurance effected
before the commencement of this Act shall after the expiry of two years from
the date of commencement of this Act and no policy of life insurance effected
after the coming into force of this Act shall after the expiry of two years
from the date on which it was effected, be called in question by an insurer on
the ground that a statement made in the proposal for insurance or in any
report of a medical officer, or referee, or friend of the insured, or in any
other document leading to the issue of the policy, was inaccurate or false,
unless the insurer shows that such statement was on a material matter or
suppressed facts which it was material to disclose and that it was
fraudulently made by the policy-holder and that the policy-holder knew at the
time of making it that the statement was false or that it suppressed facts
which it was material to disclose:Provided that nothing in this section shall
prevent the insurer from calling for proof of age at any time if he is
entitled to do so, and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question
merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that
the age of the life insured was incorrectly stated in the proposal."

### 46. Application of the law in force in India to policies issued in India

The holder of a policy of insurance issued by an insurer in respect of
insurance business transacted inIndia after the commencement of this Act shall
have the right, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
policy or in any agreement relating thereto, to receive payment inIndia, of
any sum secured thereby and to sue for any relief in respect of the policy in
any Court of competent jurisdiction inIndia; and if the suit is brought
inIndia any question of law arising in connection with any such policy shall
be determined according to the law in force inIndia:Provided that nothing in
this section shall apply to a policy of marine insurance.

### 47. Payment of money into court

(1)Where in respect of any policy of life insurance maturing for payment an
insurer is of opinion that by reason of conflicting claims to or insufficiency
of proof of title to the amount secured thereby or for any other adequate
reason it is impossible otherwise for the insurer to obtain a satisfactory
discharge for the payment of such amount,the insurer may, apply to pay the
amount into the Court within the jurisdiction of which is situated the place
at which such amount is payable under the terms of the policy or
otherwise.(2)A receipt granted by the Court for any such payment shall be a
satisfactory discharge to the insurer for the payment of such amount.(3)An
application for permission to make a payment into Court under this section
shall be made by a petition verified by an affidavit signed by a principal
officer of the insurer setting forth the following particulars,
namely:--(a)the name of the insured person and his address;(b)if the insured
person is deceased, the date and place of hi s death;(c)the nature of the
policy and the amount secured by it;(d)the name and address of each claimant
so far as is known to the insurer with details of every notice of claim
received;(e)the reasons why in the opinion of the insurer a satisfactory
discharged cannot be obtained for the payment of the amount; and(f)the address
at which the insurer may be served with notice of any proceeding relating to
disposal of the amount paid into Court.(4)An application under this section
shall not be entertained by the Court if the application is made before the
expiry of six monthsfrom the maturing of the policy by survival, or from the
date of receipt of notice by the insurer of the death of the insured, as the
case may be.(5)If it appears to the Court that a satisfactory discharge for
the payment of the amount cannot otherwise be obtained by the insurer it shall
allow the amount to be paid into Court and shall invest the amount in
Government securities pending its disposal.(6)The Insurer shall transmit to
the Court every notice of claim received after the making of the application
under sub-section ( 3), and any payment required by the Court as costs of the
proceedings or otherwise in connection with the disposal of the amount paid
into Court shall as to the cost of the application under sub-section ( 3) be
borne by the insurer and as to any other costs be in the discretion of the
Court.(7)The Court shall cause notice to be given to every ascertained
claimant of the fact that the amount has been paid into Court, and shall cause
notice at the cost of any claimant applying to withdraw the amount to be given
to every other ascertained claimant.(8)The Court shall decide all questions
relating to the disposal of claims to the amount paid into Court.

### 47A. Omitted

### 48. Omitted

### 48A. Insurance agent or intermediary or insurance intermediary not to be
director in insurance company

No insurance agent or intermediary or insurance intermediary shall be eligible
to be or remain a director in insurance company:Provided that any director
holding office at the commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015
shall not become ineligible to remain a director by reason of this section
until the expiry of six months from the date of commencement of the said
Act:Provided further that the Authority may permit an agent or intermediary or
insurance intermediary to be on the Board of an insurance company subject to
such conditions or restrictions as it may impose to protect the interest of
policyholders or to avoid conflict of interest.

### 48B. Further provision regrding direction

(1)An insurer specified in sub-clause (b) of clause (9) of section 2 and
carrying on life insurance business shall not have a common director with
another such insurer.(2)The Authority may, for such period, to such extent and
subject to such conditions as it may specify, exempt from the operation of the
section--(a)any insurer, who is a subsidiary company of another insurer,
or(b)two or more insurers, for the purpose of facilitating their amalgamation
or the transfer of business of one insurer to the other.

### 48C. Repealed

### 49. Restriction on dividends and bonus

(1)No insurer, , who carries on the business of life insurance or any other
class or sub-class of insurance business to which section 13 applies, shall,
for the purpose of declaring or paying any dividend to shareholders or any
bonus to policy-holders or of making any payment in service of any debentures,
utilize directly or indirectly any portion of the life insurance fund or of
the fund of such other class or sub-class of insurance business, as the case
may be, except a surplus shown in the valuation balance-sheet in such form as
may be specified by the regulations made by the Authority submitted to the
Authority as part of the abstract referred to in section 15 as a result of an
actuarial valuation of the assets and liabilities of the insurer; nor shall he
increase such surplus by contributions out of any reserve fund or otherwise
unless such contributions have been brought in as revenue account applicable
to that class or sub-class of insurance business on or before the date of the
valuation aforesaid, except when the reserve fund is made up solely of
transfers from similar surpluses disclosed by valuations in respect of which
returns have been submitted to the Authority under section 15 of this Act
:Provided that payments made out of any such surplus in service of any
debentures shall not exceed fifty percent, of such surplus including any
payment by way of interest on the debentures, and interest paid on the
debentures shall not exceed ten per cent, of any such surplus except when the
interest paid on the debentures is offset against the interest credited to the
fund or funds concerned in deciding the interest basis adopted in the
valuation disclosing the aforesaid surplus:Provided further that the share of
any such surplus allocated to or reserved for the shareholders, (including any
amount for the payment of dividends guaranteed to them, whether by way of
first charge or otherwise), shall not exceed such sums as may be specified by
the Authority and such share shall in no case exceed ten per cent of such
surplus in case of participating policies and in other cases the whole
thereof.(2)For the purposes of sub-section (1), the actual amount of income-
tax deducted at source during the period following the date as at which the
last preceding valuation was made and preceding the date as at which the
valuation in question is made may be added to such surplus after deducting an
estimated amount for income-tax on such surplus, such addition and deduction
being shown in an abstract of the report of the actuary referred to in sub-
section (1) of section 13.

### 50. Notice of options available to the assured on the lapsing of a policy

An insurer shall,before the expiry of three months from the date on which the
premiums in respect of a policy of life insurance were payable but not paid,
give notice to the policy-holder informing hi m of the options available to hi
munless these are set forth in the policy.

### 51. Supply of copies of proposals and medical reports

Every insurer shall, on application by a policy-holder and on payment of a fee
not exceeding one rupee, supply to the policy-holder certified copies of the
question put to him and his answers thereto contained in his proposal for
insurance and in the medical report supplied in connection therewith.

### 52. Prohibition of business on dividing principle

No insurer shall commence any business upon the dividing principle, that is to
say, on the principle that the benefit secured by a policy is not fixed but
depends either wholly or partly on the result of a distribution of certain
sums amongst policies becoming claims within certain time-limits, or on the
principle that the premiums payable by a policyholder depend wholly or partly
on the number of policies becoming claims within certain time-limits:Provided
that nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent an insurer from
allocating bonuses to holders of policies of life insurance as a result of a
periodical actuarial valuation either as reversionary additions to the sums
insured or as immediate cash bonuses or otherwise.

### 52A. When Administrator for management of insurance business may be
appointed

(1)If at any time the Authority has reason to believe that an insurer carrying
on life insurance business is acting in a manner likely to be prejudicial to
the interests of holders of life insurance policies, it may, after giving such
opportunity to the insurer to be heard appoint an Administrator to manage the
affairs of the insurer under the direction and control of the Authority.(2)The
Administrator shall receive such remuneration as the Authority may direct and
the Authority may at any time cancel the appointment and appoint some other
person as Administrator.

### 52B. Powers and duties of the Administrator

(1)The Administrator shall conduct the management of the business of the
insurer with the greatest economy compatible with efficiency and shall, as
soon as may be possible, file with the Authority a report stating which of the
following courses is in the circumstances most advantageous to the general
interests of the holders of life insurance policies, namely: -(a)the transfer
of the business of the insurer to some other insurer;(b)the carrying on of its
business by the insurer (whether with the policies of the business continued
for the original, sum insured with the addition of bonuses that attach to the
policies or for reduced amounts);(c)the winding up of the insurer; and(d)such
other course as he deems advisable.(2)On the filing of the report with the
Authority, the Authority may take such action as it thinks fit for promoting
the interests of the holders of life insurance policies in general.(3)Any
order passed by the Authority under sub-section (2) shall be binding on all
persons concerned, and shall have effect notwithstanding anything in the
memorandum or articles of association of the insurer, of a company.

### 52BB. Powers of Administrator respecting property liable to attachment
under section 106

(1)If the Administrator is satisfied that any person has rendered himself
liable to be proceeded against under section 106, he may, pending the
institution of proceedings against such person under that section, by order in
writing, prohibit him or any other person from transferring or otherwise
disposing of any property which, in the opinion of the Administrator, would be
liable to attachment in proceedings under that section.(2)Any person aggrieved
by an order made by the Administrator under sub-section (1) may, within
fourteen days from the date on which the order is served on him, appeal
against such order to the Securities Appellate Tribunal and the Securities
Appellate Tribunal may pass such order thereon as it thinks fit.(3)An order
made by the Administrator under sub-section (1) shall, subject to any other
order made by the Securities Appellate Tribunal on appeal, be in force for a
period of three months from the date of the order unless, before the expiry of
the said period, an application is made under sub-section (1) of section 106
to the Court competent to exercise jurisdiction under that sub-section, and
when such an application is made, the order shall, subject to any order made
by that Court, continue in force as if it were an order of attachment made by
that Court in proceedings under that section.(4)An order made by the
Administrator under this section shall,-(a)in the case of an order affecting a
corporation or firm, be served in the manner provided for the service of
summons in rule 2 of Order XXIX or rule 3 of Order XXX, as the case may be, in
the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), and(b)in
the case of an order affecting a person not being a corporation or firm, be
served on such person-(i)personally, by delivering or tendering to him the
order, or(ii)by post, or(iii)where the person cannot be found, by leaving a
copy of the order with some adult male member of his family or by affixing
such copy to some conspicuous part of the premises in which he is known to
have last resided or carried on business or personally worked for gain,and
every such order shall also be published in the Official Gazette.(5)If any
question arises whether a person was duly served with an order under sub-
section (4), the publication of the order in the Official Gazette shall be
conclusive proof that the order was so served, and a failure to comply with
the provisions of clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-section (4) shall not affect
the validity of the order.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in this
section, any property in respect of which an order has been made by the
Administrator may, with the previous permission of the Administrator and
subject to such terms and conditions as he may impose, be transferred or
otherwise disposed of.(7)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law
for the time being in force, the transfer or other disposition of any property
in contravention of any order made by the Administrator under this section or
of any terms and conditions imposed by him shall be void.(8)For the purpose of
enabling him to form an option as to whether any property would be liable to
attachment in proceedings under section 106 or for the purpose of enabling him
to institute proceedings under that section, the Administrator may require any
person to furnish information on such points or matters as, in the opinion of
the Administrator, may be relevant for the purpose, and any person so required
shall be deemed to be legally bound to furnish such information within the
meaning of section 176 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).(9)The
Administrator shall have all the powers of a Civil Court under the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit in respect of the
following matters, namely: -(a)summoning and enforcing attendance of witnesses
and examining them on oath;(b)requiring the production of documents;
and(c)receiving evidence on affidavits.and any proceeding before the
Administrator under this section shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding
within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 of Indian Penal Code (45 of
1860).(10)Save as provided in this section or in section 106, and
notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, -(a)no suit or other legal proceeding shall He in any Court to set
aside or modify any order of the Administrator made under this section,
and(b)no Court shall pass any decree, grant any injunction or make any other
order which shall have the effect of nullifying or affection in any way any
such order.

### 52C. Cancellation of contracts and agreements

The Administrator may, at any time during the continuance of his appointment
with respect to an insurer and after giving an opportunity to the persons
concerned to be heard, cancel or vary (either unconditionally or subject to
such conditions as he thinks fit to impose) any contract or agreement (other
than a policy) between the insurer and any other person which the
Administrator is satisfied is prejudicial to the interest of holders of life
insurance policies.

### 52D. Termination of appointment of Administrator

If at any time, it appears to the Authority that the purpose of the order
appointing the Administrator has been fulfilled or that, for any reason, it is
undesirable that the order of appointment should remain in force, the
Authority may cancel the order and thereupon the Administrator shall be
divested of the management of the insurance business which shall, unless
otherwise directed by the Authority, again vest in the person in whom it was
vested immediately prior to the appointment of the Administrator or any other
person appointed by the insurer in this behalf.

### 52E. Finality of decision appointing Administrator

Any order or decision of the Authority made in pursuance of section 52A or
section 52D shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court.

### 52F. Penalty for withholding documents of property from Administrator

If any director or officer of the insurer or any other person fails to deliver
to the Administrator any books of account, registers or any other documents,
in his custody relating to the business of the insurer the management of which
has vested in the Administrator, or retains any property of such insurer he
shall beliable to penalty of rupees ten thousand each day during which such
failure continues or rupees ten lakh, whichever is less.

### 52G. Protection of action taken under sections 52A to 52D

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against an
Administrator for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done
in pursuance of section 52A, section 52B, section 52BB or section 52C.(2)No
suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the the Authority for any
damage caused or likely to be caused by anything which is in good faith done
of intended to be done under section 52A, section 52B, or section 52D.

### 52H. Omitted

### 52I. Omitted

### 52I. Omitted

### 52J. Omitted

### 52K. Omitted

### 52K. Constitution of the Tribunal

### 52L. Omitted

### 52M. Omitted

### 52N. Omitted

### 52N. Special provisions for the dissolution of acquired insurers

Where any acquired insurer, being a company, has in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, collected, and distributed any monies paid to him by
the Central Government or the acquiring insurer, as the case may be, by way of
compensation or otherwise, and has also complied with any directions given to
him by the Central Government or the acquiring insurer, as the case may be,
for the purpose of securing that the ownership of any property or any right is
effectively transferred to the Central Government or the acquiring insurer, as
the case may be, the Central Government may, on application being made to it
in this behalf by such insurer, grant a certificate to the insurer that there
is no reason for the continued existence of the insurer, and upon the
publication of such certificate, the insurer shall be dissolved."

### 53. Winding up by the Court

(1)The Tribunal may order the winding up in accordance with the Companies Act,
1956 (1 of 1956) of any insurance company and the provisions of that Act
shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, apply accordingly.Explanation.--
For the purpose of sections 53 to 61A, "Tribunal" means the National Company
Law Tribunal constituted under sub-section (1) of section 408 of the Companies
Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).(2)In addition to the grounds on which such an order
may be based, the Tribunal may order the winding up of an insurance
company-(a)if with the sanction of the Tribunal previously obtained a petition
in this behalf is presented by shareholders not less in number than one tenth
of the whole body of shareholders and holding not less than one-tenth of the
whole share capital or by not less than fifty policy-holders holding policies
of life insurance that have been in force for not less than three years and
are of the total value of not less than fifty thousand rupees; or(b)if the
Authority, who is hereby authorised to do so, applies in this behalf of the
Tribunal on any of the following grounds, namely:-(ii)that the company having
failed to comply with any requirement of this Act has continued such failure
or having contravened any provision of this Act has continued such
contravention for a period of three months after notice of such failure or
contravention has been conveyed to the company by the Authority,(iii)that it
appears from any returns or statements furnished under the provisions of this
Act or from the results of any investigation made thereunder that the company
is, or is deemed to be insolvent, or(iv)that the continuance of the company is
prejudicial to the interest of the policy-holders or to the public interest
generally.

### 53A. Unpaid-up share capital

Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, in ascertaining for any
purpose of this Act the solvency or otherwise of an insurer no account shall
be taken of any assets of the insurer consisting of unpaid up share capital.

### 54. Voluntary winding up

Notwithstanding anything contained in theCompanies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), an
insurance company shall not be wound up voluntarily except for the purpose of
affecting an amalgamation or a re-construction of the company, or on the
ground that by reason of its liabilities it cannot continue its business.

### 55. Valuation of liabilities

(1)In the winding up of an insurance company or in the insolvency of any other
insurer the value of the assets and the liabilities of the insurer shall be
ascertained in such manner and upon such basis as the liquidator or receiver
in insolvency thinks fit, subject, so far as applicable, to the rule contained
in theSeventh Schedule and to any directions which may be given by the
Court.(2)For the purposes of any reduction by theTribunal of the amount of the
contracts of any insurance company the value of the assets and liabilities of
the company and all claims in respect of policies issued by it shall be
ascertained in such manner and upon such basis as theTribunal thinks proper
having regard to the aforesaid.(3)The rule in theSeventh Schedule shall be of
the same force and may be repealed, altered or amended as if it were a rule
made in pursuance ofsection 643 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), and
rules may be made under that section for the purpose of carrying into effect
the provisions of this Act with respect to the winding up of insurance
companies.

### 56. Application of surplus assets of life insurance fund in liquidation or
insolvency

(1)In the winding up of an insurance company and in the insolvency of any
other insurer the value of the assets and the liabilities of the insurer in
respect of life insurance business shall be ascertained separately from the
value of any other assets or any other liabilities of the insurer and no such
assets shall be applied to the discharge of any liabilities other than those
in respect of life insurance business except in so far as those assets exceed
the liabilities in respect of life insurance business.(2)In the winding up of
an insurance company carrying on the business of life insurance or in the
insolvency of any other insurer carrying on such business where any proportion
of the profits of the insurer was before the commencement of the winding up or
insolvency allocated to policy-holders if, when the assets and liabilities of
the insurer have been ascertained, there is found to be a surplus of assets
over liabilities (hereinafter referred to as a prima facie surplus) there
shall be added to the liabilities of the insurer in respect of the life
insurance business an amount equal to such proportion of the prima facie
surplus as is equivalent to such proportion of the profits allocated to
shareholders and policy-holders as was allocated to policy-holders during the
ten years immediately preceding the commencement of the winding up and the
assets of the insurer shall be deemed to exceed his liabilities only in so far
as those assets exceed those liabilities after such addition:Provided
that-(a)if in any case there has been no such allocation or if it appears to
theTribunal that by reason of special circumstances it would be inequitable
that the amount to be added to the liabilities of the insurer in respect of
the life insurance business should be an amount equal to such proportion as
aforesaid, the amount to be so added shall be such amount as theTribunal may
direct, and(b)for the purpose of the application of this sub-section to any
case where before the commencement of the winding up or insolvency a
proportion of such profits as aforesaid of a branch only of the life insurance
business in question has been allocated to policy-holders, the value of the
assets and liabilities of the insurer in respect of that branch shall be
separately ascertained in like manner as the value of his assets and
liabilities in respect of the life insurance business was ascertained, and the
surplus so found, if any, of assets over liabilities shall, for the purpose of
determining the amount to be added to the liabilities of the insurer in
respect of the life insurance business be deemed to be the prima facie
surplus.

### 57. Winding up of secondary companies

(1)Where the insurance business or any part of the insurance business of an
insurance company has been transferred to another insurance company under an
arrangement in pursuance of which the first mentioned company (in this section
referred to as the secondary company) or the creditors thereof has or have
claims against the company to which such transfer was made (in this section
referred to as the principal company) then, if the principal company is being
wound up by , the Tribunal shall (subject as hereinafter mentioned) order the
secondary company to be wound up in conjunction with the principal company and
may by the same or any subsequent order appoint the same person to be
liquidator for the two companies and make provision for such other matters as
may seem to the Tribunal necessary with a view to the companies being wound up
as if they were one company.(2)The commencement of the winding up of the
principal company shall, save as otherwise ordered by the Tribunal, be the
commencement of the winding up of the secondary company.(3)In adjusting the
rights and liabilities of the members of the several companies among
themselves the Tribunal shall have regard to the constitution of the companies
and to the arrangements entered into between the companies in the same manner
as the Tribunal has regard to the rights and liabilities of different classes
of contributories in the case of winding up of a single company or as near
thereto as circumstances admit.(4)Where any company alleged to be secondary is
not in process of being wound up at the same time as the principal company to
which it is alleged to be secondary, the Tribunal shall not direct the
secondary company to be wound up, unless, after hearing all objections (if
any) that may be urged by or on behalf of the company against its being wound
up, the Tribunal is of opinion that the company is secondary to the principal
company and that the winding up of the company in conjunction with the
principal company is just and equitable.(5)An application may be made in
relation to the winding up of any secondary company in conjunction with the
principal company by any creditor of, or person interested in, the principal
or secondary company.(6)Where a company stands in the relation of a principal
company to one insurance company and in the relation of a secondary company to
some other insurance company or where there are several insurance companies
standing in the relation of secondary companies to one principal company, the
Tribunal may deal with any number of such companies together or in separate
groups as it thinks most expedient upon the principles laid down in this
section.

### 58. Scheme for partial winding up of insurance companies

(1)If at any time it appears expedient that the affairs of an insurance
company in respect of any class of business comprised in the undertaking of
the company should be wound up but that any other class of business comprised
the undertaking should continue to be carried on by the company or be
transferred to another insurer, a scheme for such purposes may be prepared and
submitted for confirmation of theTribunal in accordance with the provisions of
this Act.(2)Any scheme prepared under this section shall provide for the
allocation and distribution of the assets and liabilities of the company
between any classes of business affected (including the allocation of any
surplus assets which may arise on the proposed winding up), for any future
rights of every class of policy-holders in respect of their policies and for
the manner of winding up any of the affairs of the company which are proposed
to be wound up and may contain provisions for altering the memorandum of the
company with respect to its objects and such further provisions as may be
expedient for giving effect to the scheme.(3)The provisions of this Act
relating to the valuation of liabilities of insurers in liquidation and
insolvency and to the application of surplus assets of the life insurance fund
in liquidation or insolvency shall apply to the winding up of any part of the
affairs of a company in accordance with the scheme under this section in like
manner as they apply in the winding up of an insurance company, and any scheme
under this section may apply with the necessary modifications any of the
provisions of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 191 3) relating to the
winding up of companies.(4)An order of the Tribunal confirming a scheme under
this section whereby the memorandum of a company is altered with respect to
its objects shall as respects the alteration have effect as if it were an
order confirmed under section 4 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), and
the provisions of sections 7 and 17 of that Act shall apply accordingly.

### 59. Omitted

### 60. Notice of policy values

In the winding up of an insurance company for the purposes of a cash
distribution of the assets and in the insolvency of any other insurer the
liquidator or assignee as the case may be in the case of all persons appearing
by the books of the company or other insurer to be entitled to or interested
in the policies granted by the company or other insurer shall ascertain the
value of the liability of the company or other insurer to each such person and
shall give notice of such value to those persons in such manner as theTribunal
may direct and any person to whom notice is so given shall be bound by the
value so ascertained unless he gives notice of his intention to dispute such
value in such manner and within such time as may be specified by a rule or
order of theTribunal.

### 61. Power of Tribunal to reduce contracts of insurance

(1)Where an insurance company is in liquidation or any other insurer is
insolvent the Tribunal may make an order reducing the amount of the insurance
contracts of the company or other insurer upon such terms and subject to such
conditions as the Tribunal thinks just.(2)Where a company carrying on the
business of life insurance has been proved to be insolvent, the Tribunal may
if it thinks fit in place of making a winding up order reduce the amount of
the insurance contracts of the company upon such terms and subject to such
conditions as the Tribunal thinks fit.(3)Application for an order under this
section may be made either by the liquidator or by or on behalf of the company
or by a policy-holder, or by the Authority and by any person whom the Tribunal
thinks likely to be affected shall be entitled to be heard on any such
application.

### 61A. Appeal to National Company Law Appellate Tribunal

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order or decision of the Tribunal may prefer an
appeal to the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal.(2)No appeal shall lie
to the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal from an order made by the
Tribunal with the consent of parties.(3)Every appeal under sub-section (1)
shall be filed within a period of forty-five days from the date on which a
copy of the order or decision made by the Tribunal is received by the
appellant and it shall be in such from and accompanied by such fee as may be
prescribed.Provided that the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal may
entertain an appeal after the expiry of said period of forty-five days if it
is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within that
period.(4)On receipt of an appeal under sub-section (1), the National Company
Law Appellate Tribunal shall, after giving parties to the appeal, an
opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit,
confirming, modifying or setting aside the order appealed against.(5)The
National Company Law Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every order made
by it to the Tribunal and parties to the appeal.(6)The appeal filed before the
National Company Law Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (1) shall be dealt
with by it as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made by it to
dispose of the appeal finally within six months from the date of the receipt
of the appeal.

### 62. Power of Central Government to impose reciprocal disabilities on non-
Indian companies

Where, by the law or practice of any country outside India in which an insurer
carrying on insurance business inIndia is constituted, incorporated or
domiciled, insurance companies incorporated inIndia are required as a
condition of carrying on insurance business in that country to comply with any
special requirement whether as to the keeping of deposits or assets in that
country or otherwise which is not imposed upon insurers of that country under
this Act, the Central Government shall, if satisfied of the existence of such
special requirement, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that the
same requirement, or requirements as similar thereto as may be, shall be
imposed upon insurers of that country as a condition of carrying on the
business of insurance inIndia.

### 63. Particulars to be filed by insurers established outside India

Every insurer, having his principal place of business or domicile outside
India, who establishes a place of business within India or appoints a
representative in India with the object of obtaining insurance business,
shall, within three months from the establishment of such place of business or
the appointment of such representative, file with the Authority-(a)a certified
copy of the charter, statutes, deed of settlement or memorandum and articles
or other instrument constituting or defining the constitution of the insurer,
and, if the instrument is not written in the English language, a certified
translation thereof,(b)a list of the directors, if the insurer is a
company,(c)the name and address of some or more persons resident in India
authorised to accept on behalf of the insurer service of process and any
notice required to be served on the insurer, together with a copy of the
power-of-attorney granted to him,(d)the full address of the principal office
of the insurer in India,(e)a statement of the classes of insurance business to
be carried on by the insurer, and(f)a statement verified by an affidavit
setting forth the special requirements, if any, of the nature specified in
section 62 imposed in the country of origin of the insurer on Indian
nationals,and, in the event of any alteration being made in the address of the
principal office or in the classes of business to be carried on, or in any
instrument here referred to, or in the name of any of the persons here
referred to, or in the matters specified in clause (f) above, the company
shall forthwith furnish to the Authority particulars of such alteration.

### 64. Books to be kept by insurers established outside India

Every insurer, having his principal place of business or domicile outside
India, Shall keep at his principal office in india such books of account,
registers and documents as will enable the accounts, statements and abstracts
which he is required under this Act to furnish to the Authority in respect of
the insurance business transacted by him, in India to be compiled and, if
necessary, checked by the Authority and shall furnish to the Authority on or
before the last day of January in every calendar year a certificate from an
auditor to the effect that the said books of account, register and documents
are being kept as required at the principal office of the insurer in India.

## Part IIA – Life Insurance Council and General Insurance Council and
Committees Thereof

### 64A. Omitted

### 64B. Omitted

### 64C. Councils of Life Insurance and General Insurance

On and from the date of commencement of this Act,--(a)the existing Life
Insurance Council, a representative body of the insurers, who carry on the
life insurance business in India; and(b)the existing General Insurance
Council, a representative body of insurers, who carry on general, health
insurance business and re-insurance in India,shall be deemed to have been
constituted as the respective Councils under this Act.

### 64D. Authorisation to represent in Councils

It shall be lawful for any member of the Life Insurance Council or the General
Insurance Council to authorise any of its officer to act as the representative
of such member at any meeting of the Council concerned.

### 64E. Authorities of the Life Insurance Council and the General Insurance
Council

The authorities of the Life Insurance Council and the General Insurance
Council shall be the Executive Committee constituted in the manner provided in
this Part.

### 64F. Executive Committees of the Life Insurance Council and the General
Insurance Council

(1)The Executive Committee of the Life Insurance Council shall consist of the
following persons, namely:--(a)four representatives of members of the Life
Insurance Council elected in their individual capacity by the members in such
manner as may be laid down in the bye-laws of the Council;(b)an eminent person
not connected with insurance business, nominated by the Authority;(c)three
persons to represent insurance agents, intermediaries and policyholders
respectively as may be nominated by the Authority;(d)one representative each
from self-help groups and Insurance Co-operative Societies:Provided that one
of the representatives as mentioned in clause (a) shall be elected as the
Chairperson of the Executive Committee of the Life Insurance Council.(2)The
Executive Committee of the General Insurance Council shall consist of the
following persons, namely:--(a)four representatives of members of the General
Insurance Council elected in their individual capacity by the members in such
manner as may be laid down in the bye-laws of the Council;(b)an eminent person
not connected with insurance business, nominated by the Authority; and(c)four
persons to represent insurance agents, third party administrators, surveyors
and loss assessors and policyholders respectively as may be nominated by the
Authority:Provided that one of the representatives as mentioned in clause (a)
shall be elected as the Chairperson of the Executive Committee of the General
Insurance Council.(3)If anybody of persons specified in sub-sections (1) and
(2) fails to elect any of the members of the Executive Committees of the Life
Insurance Council or the General Insurance Council, the Authority may nominate
any person to fill the vacancy, and any person so nominated shall be deemed to
be a member of the Executive Committee of the Life Insurance Council or the
General Insurance Council, as the case may be, as if he had been duly elected
thereto.(4)Each of the said Executive Committees may make bye-laws for the
transaction of any business at any meeting of the said Committee.(5)The Life
Insurance Council or the General Insurance Council may form such other
committees consisting of such persons as it may think fit to discharge such
functions as may be delegated thereto.(6)The Secretary of the Executive
Committee of the Life Insurance Council and of the Executive Committee of the
General Insurance Council shall in each case be appointed by the Executive
Committee concerned:Provided that each Secretary appointed by the Executive
Committee concerned shall exercise all such powers and do all such acts as may
be authorised in this behalf by the Executive Committee concerned.

### 64G. Resignation and filling up of casual vacancies

(1)Any member of the Executive Committee of the Life Insurance Council or of
the General Insurance Council may resign his membership of the Committee by
notice in writing addressed to the chairman of the Committee to that
effect.(2)Casual vacancies in the Executive Committee of the Life Insurance
Council or of the General Insurance Council, whether caused by resignation,
death or otherwise, shall be filled in such manner as may be laid down in the
bye-laws of the Council concerned, and any person so nominated to fill the
vacancy shall hold office until the dissolution of the Committee to which he
has been nominated.(3)No act of the Executive Committee of the Life Insurance
Council or of the General Insurance Council shall be called in question on the
ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in, or defect in the
constitution of the Committee concerned.

### 64H. Duration and dissolution of Executive Committees

(1)The duration of the Executive Committee of the Life Insurance Council or
the General Insurance Council shall be three years from the date of its first
meeting on the expiry of which it shall stand dissolved and a new Executive
Committee constituted.(2)Notwithstanding the dissolution of the Executive
Committee of the Life Insurance Council or the General Insurance Council, the
outgoing members thereof shall continue to hold office and discharge such
administrative and other duties as may be prescribed until such time as a new
Executive Committee of the Life Insurance Council or the General Council, as
the case may be, shall have been constituted.

### 64I. Omitted

### 64J. Functions of Executive Committee of Life Insurance Council

(1)The functions of the Executive Committee of the Life Insurance Council
shall be--(a)to aid, advise and assist insurers carrying on life insurance
business in the matter of setting up standards of conduct and sound practice
and in the matter of rendering efficient service to holders of life insurance
policies;(b)to render advice to theAuthority in the matter of controlling the
expenses of insurers in respect of their life insurance business in
India;(c)to bring to the notice of theAuthority the case of any insurer acting
in a manner prejudicial to the interests of holders of life insurance
policies;(d)to act in any matter incidental or ancillary to any of the matters
specified in clauses (a) to (c) as, with the approval of theAuthority, may be
notified by the Life Insurance Council in the Gazette of India.(2)For the
purpose of enabling it to effectively discharge its functions, the Executive
Committee of the Life Insurance Council may collect such fees as may be laid
down in the bye-laws made by the Council from the insurers carrying on life
insurance business.

### 64K. Executive Committee of Life Insurance Council may advise in
controlling expenses

(1)It shall be the duty of the Executive Committee of the Life Insurance
Council to me et at least once before the 31 st day of March every year to
advise theAuthority in fixing under the proviso to sub-section (2) of section
40B the limits by which the actual expenses incurred by an insurer carrying on
life insurance business in respect of such business in the preceding year may
exceed the limits prescribed under that sub-section, and in fixing any such
limits theAuthority shall have due regard to the conditions obtaining in life
insurance business generally during that year, and he may fix different groups
of insurers.(2)Where an insurer is guilty of contravening the provisions of
section 40B with respect to the expenses of management, theAuthority may,
after giving the insurer an opportunity of being heard, administer a warning
to the insurer.(3)Where within a period of seven years two warnings have been
given to an insurer under sub-section (2) and they have been disregarded by hi
m, theAuthority may cause an investigation and valuation, as at such date as
theAuthority may . specify, to be made at the expense of the insurer by an
actuary appointed by the insurer for this purpose and approved by
theAuthority, and the insurer shall place at the disposal of the said actuary
all the materials required by hi m for the purpose of such investigation and
valuation, within such period, not being less than three months, as
theAuthority may specify.(4)The provisions of sub-sections (1) and (4) of
section 13 and of sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 15 , or, as the case may
be, of sub-section (2) of section 16 shall apply in relation to an
investigation and valuation under this section:Provided that the abstract and
statement prepared as the result of such investigation and valuation shall be
furnished by such date as theAuthority may specify.(5)There shall be appended
to every such abstract a statement signed by the actuary giving such
information as may be prescribed.(6)On receipt of the abstract and statement
furnished in accordance with sub-section (4), theAuthority may take such
action as may be prescribed.

### 64L. Functions of the Executive Committee of General Insurance Council

(1)The functions of the Executive Committee of the General Insurance Council
shall be--(a)to aid and advise insurers, carrying on general insurance
business, in the matter of setting up standards of conduct and sound practice
and in the matter of rendering efficient service to holders of policies of
general insurance;(b)to render advice to theAuthority in the matter of
controlling the expenses of such insurers carrying on business in India in the
matter of commission and other expenses;(c)to bring to the notice of
theAuthority the case of any such insurer acting in a matter prejudicial to
the interests of holders of general insurance policies;(d)to act in any matter
incidental or ancillary to any of the matters specified in clauses (a) to (c)
as with the approval of theAuthority may be notified by the General Insurance
Council in the Gazette of India.(2)For the purpose of enabling it to
effectively discharge its functions, the Executive Committee of the General
Insurance Council may collect such fees as may be laid down in the bye-laws
made by the Council from the insurers carrying on general insurance
business.Provided that if the General Insurance Council thinks fit, it may by
a resolution passed by it, waive the collection of the prescribed fees for any
year and where any such resolution has been approved by theAuthority, the
Executive Committee of the General Insurance Council shall not collect any
fees in relation to that year.

### 64M. Executive Committee of General Insurance Council may advise in
controlling expenses

(1)It shall be the duty of the Executive Committee of the General Insurance
Council to me et at least once before the 31 st day of March every year to
advise theAuthority in fixing under the proviso to sub-section (1) of section
40 C the limits by which the actual expenses of management incurred by an
insurer carrying on general insurance business in respect of such business in
the preceding year may exceed the limits prescribed under that sub-section,
and in fixing any such limits theAuthority shall have due regard to the
conditions obtaining in general insurance business in the preceding year, and
it may fix different limits for different groups of insurers.(2)Where an
insurer is guilty of contravening the provisions of section 40 C with respect
to the expenses of management theAuthority may, after giving the insurer an
opportunity of being heard, administer a warning to the insurer.(3)Where in
any case two warnings given to an insurer under sub-section (2) have been
disregarded by hi m, theAuthority may take such action against the insurer as
may be prescribed.

### 64N. Powers of the Executive Committees to act together in certain cases

the Authority may specify the circumstances in which, the manner in which, and
the conditions subject to which, the Executive Committee of the Life Insurance
Council and the Executive Committee of the General Insurance Council may hold
joint meetings for the purpose of dealing with any matter of common interest
to both Committees, and it shall be lawful for the two Committees at any such
joint meeting to delegate any matter under consideration for the determination
of a sub-committee appointed for this purpose from amongst themembers of the
two Committees.

### 64O. Power of General Insurance Council to regulate rates of insurance,
etc.

Omitted

### 64P. Regional Councils

Omitted

### 64Q. Functions of the Regional Councils

Omitted

### 64R. General powers of Life Insurance Council and General Insurance
Council

(1)For the efficient performance of its duties, the Life Insurance Council or
the General Insurance Council as the case may be, may--(a)appoint such
officers and servants as may be necessary and fix the conditions of their
service;(b)determine the manner in which any prescribed fee may be
collected;(c)keep and maintain up-to-date, a copy of list of all insurers who
are members of the either Council;(d)make bye-laws for--(i)the holding of
elections other than the first elections;(ii)the summoning and holding of
meetings, the conduct of business thereat and the number of persons necessary
to form a quorum;(iii)the submission by insurers to the Executive Committee of
the Life Insurance Council, or the General Insurance Council, of such
statements or information as may be required of them and the submission of
copies thereof by the insurers to theAuthority;(iv)the levy and collection of
any fees;(v)the regulation of any other matter which may be necessary for the
purpose of enabling it to carry out its duties under this Act.(2)The Life
Insurance Council or the General Insurance Council may authorise the Executive
Committee concerned to exercise any of the powers conferred on the Life
Insurance Council or the General Insurance Council, as the case may be, under
clause (a), clause (b) , clause (c) of sub-section (1).

### 64S. Omitted

### 64T. Omitted

## Part IIB – Tariff advisory committee and control of tariff rates

### 64U. Establishment of Tariff Advisory Committee

Omitted

### 64UA. Composition of the Advisory Committee

Omitted

### 64UB. Power to make rules in respect of matters in this Part

Omitted

### 64UC. Power of the Advisory Committee to regulate rates, advantages, etc.

Omitted

### 64UD. Transitional provisions

Omitted

### 64UE. Power of the Advisory Committee to require information, etc.

Omitted

### 64UF. Assets and liabilities of the General Insurance Council to vest in
the Advisory Committee

Omitted

### 64UG. Contracts, etc., to be effective by or against the Advisory
Committee

Omitted

### 64UH. Employees, etc., to continue

Omitted

### 64UI. Duty of person having custody or control of property to deliver such
property to the Advisory Committee

Omitted

### 64UJ. Power of the Advisory Committee to constitute Regional Committees

Omitted

### 64UK. Levy of fees by the Advisory Committee

Omitted

### 64UL. Power to remove difficulties

Omitted

### 64ULA. Transitional provisions

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Part, until the rates, advantage
and terms and conditions laid down by the Advisory Committee under section
64UC are de-notified by the Authority with effect from such date as the
Authority may by notification in the Official Gazette determine, and the
rates, advantages and terms and conditions are decided by the insurer
concerned, the rates, advantages and terms and conditions notified by the
Advisory Committee shall continue to be in force and shall always be deemed to
have been in force and any such rates, advantages and terms and conditions
shall be binding on all the insurers.(2)The Authority shall, in consultation
with the Central Government, prepare a scheme for the existing employees of
the Tariff Advisory Committee on its dissolution, keeping in view the
interests of such employees on such terms and conditions as it may, by order,
determine.

### 64UM. Licensing of surveyors and loss assessors

(1)Save as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall act as a
surveyor or loss assessor in respect of general insurance business after the
expiry of a period of one year from the commencement of the Insurance Laws
(Amendment) Act, 2015, unless he--(a)possesses such academic qualifications as
may be specified by the regulations made under this Act; and(b)is a member of
a professional body of surveyors and loss assessors, namely, the Indian
Institute of Insurance Surveyors and Loss Assessors:Provided that in the case
of a firm or company, all the partners or directors or other persons, who may
be called upon to make a survey or assess a loss reported, as the case may be,
shall fulfill the requirements of clauses (a) and (b).(2)Every surveyor and
loss assessor shall comply with the code of conduct in respect of his duties,
responsibilities and other professional requirements, as may be specified by
the regulations made under the Act.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in
the foregoing provisions, a class or class of persons acting as a licensed
surveyor or loss assessor prior to the commencement of the Insurance Laws
(Amendment) Act, 2015 shall continue to act as such for such period as may be
specified by the regulations made under this Act:Provided that the surveyor or
loss assessor shall, within the period as may be notified by the Authority,
satisfy the requirements of clause (a) and clause (b) of subsection (1),
failing which, the surveyor or loss assessor shall be automatically
disqualified to act as a surveyor or loss assessor.(4)No claim in respect of a
loss which has occurred in India and requiring to be paid or settled in India
equal to or exceeding an amount specified in the regulations by the Authority
in value on any policy of insurance, arising or intimated to an insurer at any
time after the expiry of a period of one year from the commencement of the
Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, shall, unless otherwise directed by the
Authority, be admitted for payment or settled by the insurer unless he has
obtained a report, on the loss that has occurred, from a person who holds a
licence issued under this section to act as a surveyor or loss assessor
(hereafter referred to as "approved surveyor or loss assessor"):Provided that
nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to take away or abridge the right
of the insurer to pay or settle any claim at any amount different from the
amount assessed by the approved surveyor or loss assessor.(5)The Authority
may, at any time, in respect of any claim of the nature referred to in sub-
section (4), call for an independent report from any other approved surveyor
or loss assessor specified by him and such surveyor or loss assessor shall
furnish such report to the Authority within such time as may be specified by
the Authority or if no time limit has been specified by him within a
reasonable time and the cost of, or incidental to, such report shall be borne
by the insurer.(6)The Authority may, on receipt of a report referred to in
sub-section (5), issue such directions as it may consider necessary with
regard to the settlement of the claim including any direction to settle a
claim at a figure less than, or more than, that at which it is proposed to
settle it or it was settled and the insurer shall be bound to comply with such
directions:Provided that where the Authority issues a direction for settling a
claim at a figure lower than that at which it has already been settled, the
insurer shall be deemed to comply with such direction if he satisfies the
Authority that all reasonable steps, with due regard to the question whether
the expenditure involved is not disproportionate to the amount required to be
recovered, have been taken with due dispatch by him:Provided further that no
direction for the payment of a lesser sum shall be made where the amount of
the claim has already been paid and the Authority is of opinion that the
recovery of the amount paid in excess would cause undue hardship to the
insured:Provided also that nothing in this section shall relieve the insurer
from any liability, civil or criminal, to which he would have been subject but
for the provisions of this sub-section.(7)No insurer shall, after the expiry
of a period of one year from the commencement of the Insurance Laws
(Amendment) Act, 2015 pay to any person any fee or remuneration for surveying,
verifying or reporting on a claim of loss under a policy of insurance unless
the person making such survey, verification or report is an approved surveyor
or loss assessor.(8)Where, in the case of a claim of less than the amount
specified in sub-section (4) in value on any policy of insurance it is not
practicable for an insurer to employ an approved surveyor or loss assessor
without incurring expenses disproportionate to the amount of the claim, the
insurer may employ any other person (not being a person disqualified for the
time being for being employed as a surveyor or loss assessor) for surveying
such loss and may pay such reasonable fee or remuneration to the person so
employed as he may think fit.(9)The Authority may in respect of any claim of
value of less than the amount specified in sub-section (4) on an insurance
policy, if the claim has not been or is not proposed to be reported upon by a
surveyor or loss assessor, direct that such claim shall be reported upon by an
approved surveyor or loss assessor and where the Authority makes such
direction, the provisions of sub-sections (5) and (6) shall apply in respect
of such claim.(10)Where, in relation to any class of claims, the Authority is
satisfied that it is customary to entrust the work of survey or loss
assessment to any person other than a licensed surveyor or loss assessor, or
it is not practicable to make any survey or loss assessment, it may, by an
order, exempt such class of claims from the operation of this section.

## Part IIC – Solvency margin, advance payment of premium and restrictions on
the opening of a new place of business

### 64V. Assets and liabilities how to be valued

(1)For the purpose of ascertaining compliance with the provisions of section
64VA, assets shall be valued at value not exceeding their market or realisable
value and certain assets may be excluded by the Authority in the manner as may
be specified by the regulations made in this behalf.(2)A proper value shall be
placed on every item of liability of the insurer in the manner as may be
specified by the regulations made in this behalf.(3)Every insurer shall
furnish to the Authority along with the returns required to be filed under
this Act, a statement, certified by an Auditor, approved by the Authority, in
respect of general insurance business or an actuary approved by the Authority
in respect of life insurance business, as the case may be, of his assets and
liabilities assessed in the manner required by this section as on the 31st day
of March of each year within such time as may be specified by the regulations.

### 64VA. Sufficiency of assets

(1)Every insurer and re-insurer shall at all times maintain an excess of value
of assets over the amount of liabilities of, not less than fifty per cent. of
the amount of minimum capital as stated under section 6 and arrived at in the
manner specified by the regulations.(2)An insurer or re-insurer, as the case
may be, who does not comply with subsection (1), shall be deemed to be
insolvent and may be wound-up by the court on an application made by the
Authority.(3)The Authority shall by way of regulation made for the purpose,
specify a level of solvency margin known as control level of solvency on the
breach of which the Authority shall act in accordance with the provisions of
sub-section (4) without prejudice to taking of any other remedial measures as
deemed fit:Provided that if in respect of any insurer the Authority is
satisfied that either by reason of an unfavourable claim experience or because
of a sharp increase in the volume of new business, or for any other reason,
compliance with the provisions of this sub-section shall cause undue hardship
to the insurer, it may direct that for such period and subject to such
conditions as it may specify, the provisions of this sub-section shall apply
to that insurer with such modifications provided that such modifications shall
not result in the control level of solvency being less than what is stipulated
under sub-section (1).(4)If, at any time, an insurer or re-insurer does not
maintain the required control level of solvency margin, he shall, in
accordance with the directions issued by the Authority, submit a financial
plan to the Authority, indicating a plan of action to correct the deficiency
within a specified period not exceeding six months.(5)An insurer who has
submitted a plan, as required under sub-section (4), the Authority shall
propose modifications to the plan, if the Authority considers the same
inadequate, and in such an eventuality, the Authority shall give directions,
as may be deemed necessary, including direction in regard to transacting any
new business, or, appointment of an administrator or both.(6)An insurer or re-
insurer, as the case may be, who does not comply with the provisions of sub-
section (4) shall be deemed to have made default in complying with the
requirements of this section.(7)The Authority shall be entitled at any time to
take such steps as it may consider necessary for the inspection or
verification of the assets and liabilities of any insurer or re-insurer, or
for securing the particulars necessary to establish that the requirements of
this section have been complied with as on any date, and the insurer or re-
insurer, as the case may be, shall comply with any requisition made in this
behalf by the Authority, and in the event of any failure to do so within two
months from the receipt of the requisition, the insurer or re-insurer, as the
case may be, shall be deemed to have made default in complying with the
requirements of this section.(8)In applying the provisions of sub-section (1)
to any insurer or re-insurer, as the case may be, who is a member of a group,
the relevant amount for that insurer shall be an amount equal to that
proportion of the relevant amount which that group, if considered as a single
insurer, would have been required to maintain as the proportion of his share
of the risk on each policy issued by the group bears to the total risk on that
policy:Provided that when a group of insurers ceases to be a group, every
insurer in that group who continues to carry on any class of insurance
business in India shall comply with the requirements of sub-section (1) as if
he had not been an insurer in a group at any time:Provided further that it
shall be sufficient compliance of the provisions of the foregoing proviso if
the insurer brings up the excess of the value of his assets over the amount of
his liabilities to the required amount within a period of six months from the
date of cessation of the group:Provided also that the Authority may, on
sufficient cause being shown, extend the said period of six months by such
further periods as it may think fit, so, however that the total period may not
in any case exceed one year.(9)Every insurer shall furnish to the Authority
return giving details of solvency margin in such form, time, manner including
its authentication as may be specified by the regulations.

### 64VB. No risk to be assumed unless premium is received in advance

(1)No insurer shall assume any risk in India in respect of any insurance
business on which premium is not ordinarily payable outside India unless and
until the premium payable is received by him or is guaranteed to be paid by
such person in such manner and within such time as may be prescribed or unless
and until deposit of such amount as may be prescribed, is made in advance in
the prescribed manner.(2)For the purposes of this section, in the case of
risks for which premium can be ascertained in advance, the risk may be assumed
not earlier than the date on which the premium has been paid in cash or by
cheque to the insurer.Explanation.--Where the premium is tendered by postal
money order or cheque sent by post, the risk may be assumed on the date on
which the money order is booked or the cheque is posted, as the case may
be.(3)Any refund of premium which may become due to an insured on account of
the cancellation of a policy or alteration in its terms and conditions or
otherwise shall be paid by the insurer directly to the insured by a crossed or
order cheque or by postal money order and a proper receipt shall be obtained
by the insurer from the insured, and such refund shall in no case be credited
to the account of the agent.(4)Where an insurance agent collects a premium on
a policy of insurance on behalf of an insurer, he shall deposit with, or
dispatch by post to, the insurer, the premium so collected in full without
deduction of his commission within twenty-four hours of the collection
excluding bank and postal holidays.(5)The Central Government may, by rules,
relax the requirements of sub-section (1) in respect of particular categories
in insurance policies.(6)The Authority may, from time to time, specify, by the
regulations made by it, the manner of receipt of premium by the insurer.

### 64VC. Restrictions on the opening of a new place of business

No insurer shall, after the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act,
1968 (62 of 1968), open a new place of business or close a place in India or
outside India or change otherwise than within the same city, town or village,
the location of an existing place of business situated in India or outside
India, except in the manner as may be specified by the regulations.

## Part III – Omitted

## Part IIIA – Omitted

## Part IV – Omitted

## Part IVA – Re-insurance

### 101A. Re-insurance with Indian re-insurers

(1)Every insurer shall re-insure with Indian re-insurers such percentage of
the sum assured on each policy as may be specified by thethe Authority with
the previous approval of the Central Government under sub-section (2).(2)For
the purposes of sub-section (1),the Authority may, by notification in the
Official Gazette,--(a)specify the percentage of the sum assured on each policy
to be re-insured and different percentages may be specified for different
classes of insurance:Provided that no percentage so specified shall exceed
thirty per cent. of the sum assured on such policy; and(b)also specify the
proportions in which the said percentage shall be allocated among the Indian
re-insurers.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), an
insurer carrying on fire insurance business in India may, in lieu of re-
insuring the percentage specified under sub-section (2) of the sum assured on
each policy in respect of such business, re-insure with Indian re-insurers
such amount out of the first surplus in respect of that business as he thinks
fit, so however that, the aggregate amount of the premiums payable by hi m on
such re-insurance in any year is not less than the said percentage of the
premium income (without taking into account premiums on re-insurance ceded or
accepted) in respect of such business during that year.Explanation.-- For the
purposes of this sub-section, the year 1961 shall be deemed to me an the
period from 1 st April to-the 31 st December of that year.(4)A notification
under sub-section (2) may also specify the terms and conditions in respect of
any business of re-insurance required to be transacted under this section and
such terms and conditions shall be binding on Indian re-insurers and other
insurers.(5)No notification under sub-section (2) shall be issued except after
consultation with the Advisory Committee constituted under section 101B
.(6)Every notification issued under this section shall be laid before each
House of Parliament, as soon as may be, after it is made.(7)For the removal of
doubts, it is hereby declared that nothing in sub-section (1) shall be
construed as preventing an insurer from re-insuring with any Indian re-insurer
or other insurer the entire sum assured on any policy or any portion thereof
in excess of the percentage specified under sub-section (2).(8)In this
section,--(i)"policy" means a policy issued or renewed on or after the 1 st
day of April, 1961 , in respect of general insurance business transacted in
India and does not include a re-insurance policy; and(ii)"Indian re-insurer"
means an Indian insurance company which has been granted a certificate of
registration under sub-section (2A) of section 3 by the Authority to carry on
exclusively the re-insurance business in India.

### 101B. Advisory Committee

(1)The Authority with the previous approval of the Central Government shall ,
for the purposes of section 101 A, constitute an Advisory Committee consisting
of not more than five persons having special knowledge and experience of the
business of insurance.(2)The term of office of, and the allowances payable to,
members of the Advisory Committee, the procedure to be followed by, and the
quorum necessary for the transaction of business of, the Committee and the
manner of filling casual vacancies therein shall be such as may bedetermined
by the regulations made by the Authority.

### 101C. Examination of re-insurance treaties

The Authority may, at any time,--(a)call upon an insurer to submit for its
examination at the principal place of business of the insurer in India all re-
insurance treaties and other re-insurance contracts entered into by the
insurer;(b)examine any officer of the insurer on oath in relation to any such
document as is referred to in clause (a) above; or(c)by notice in writing,
require any insurer to supply it with copies of any of the documents referred
to in clause (a), certified by a principal officer of the insurer.

## Part V – Miscellaneous

### 102. Penalty for default in complying with, or act in contravention of,
this Act

If any person, who is required under this Act, or rules or regulations made
thereunder,--(a)to furnish any document, statement, account, return or report
to the Authority, fails to furnish the same; or(b)to comply with the
directions, fails to comply with such directions;(c)to maintain solvency
margin, fails to maintain such solvency margin;(d)to comply with the
directions on the insurance treaties, fails to comply with such directions on
the insurance treaties,he shall be liable to a penalty of one lakh rupees for
each day during which such failure continues or one crore rupees, whichever is
less.

### 103. Penalty for carrying on insurance business in contravention of
section 3

If a person carries on the business of insurance without obtaining a
certificate of registration under section 3, he shall be liable to a penalty
not exceeding rupees twenty-five crores and with imprisonment which may extend
to ten years.

### 104. Penalty for contravention of sections 27, 27A, 27B, 27D and 27E

If a person fails to comply with the provisions of section 27, section 27A,
section 27B, section 27D and section 27E, he shall be liable to a penalty not
exceeding twenty-five crore rupees.

### 105. Wrongfully obtaining or withholding property

If any director, managing director, manager or other officer or employee of an
insurer wrongfully obtains possession of any property or wrongfully applies to
any purpose of the Act, he shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding one
crore rupees.

### 105A. Offences by companies

(1)Where any offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation.--For the purposes of
this section,--(a)"company" means any body corporate, and includes--(i)a firm;
and(ii)an association of persons or a body of individuals whether incorporated
or not; and(b)"director", in relation to--(i)a firm, means a partner in the
firm;(ii)an association of persons or a body of individuals, means any member
controlling the affairs thereof.(6)Where a registration is cancelled under
clause (b) of sub-section (4), or clause (c) of the second proviso to that
sub-section, or because the society has failed to have its registration
renewed, the Authority may at its discretion revive the registration of the
provident society, within six months from the date on which the cancellation
took effect, makes the deposits required by section 73 or satisfies the
Authority that no claim upon it such as is referred to in the said clause (c)
remains unpaid or has had an application under sub-section (3) of section 70A
accepted, as the case may be, and complies with any directions which may be
given to it by the Authority.

### 105B. Penalty for failure to comply with sections 32B, 32C and 32D

If an insurer fails to comply with the provisions of section 32B, section 32C
and section 32D, he shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding twenty-five
crore rupees.

### 105C. Power to adjudicate

(1)For the purpose of adjudication under sub-section (2) of section 2CB, sub-
section (4) of section 34B, sub-section (3) of section 40, sub-section (2) of
section 41, sub-sections (4) and (5) of section 42, sub-sections (8) and (9)
of section 42D, section 52F and section 105B, the Authority, shall appoint any
officer not below the rank of a Joint Director or an equivalent officer to be
an adjudicating officer for holding an inquiry in the prescribed manner after
giving any person concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(2)Upon
receipt of the inquiry report from the officer so appointed, the Authority,
after giving an opportunity of being heard to the person concerned, may impose
any penalty provided in sections aforesaid.(3)While holding an inquiry, the
adjudicating officer shall have power to summon and enforce the attendance of
any person acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case to give
evidence or to produce any document which in the opinion of the adjudicating
officer, may be useful for or relevant to the subject matter of the inquiry
and if on such inquiry, is satisfied that the person has failed to comply with
the provisions of any of the sections specified in sub-section (1), he may
recommend such penalty as he thinks fit in accordance with the provisions of
any of those sections.

### 105D. Factors to be taken into account by the adjudicating officer

While recommending the quantum of penalty under section 105C, the adjudicating
officer and while imposing such penalty, the Authority shall have due regard
to the following factors, namely:--(a)the amount of disproportionate gain or
unfair advantage, wherever quantifiable, made as a result of the
default;(b)the amount of loss caused to the policyholders as a result of the
default; and(c)the repetitive nature of default.

### 106. Power of court to order restoration of property of insurer or
compensation in certain cases

(1)If, on the application of theAuthority or an Administrator appointed under
section 52 A or an insurer or any policy-holder or any member of an insurance
company or the liquidator of an insurance company (in the event of the
insurance company being in liquidation), the court is satisfied--(a)that any
insurer (including in any case where the insurer is an insurance company any
person who has taken part in the promotion or formation of the insurance
company or any past or present director, managing agent, manager, secretary or
liquidator) or any officer, employee or agent of the insurer,--(i)has
misapplied or retained or become liable or become accountable for any money or
property of the insurer; or(ii)has been guilty of any misfeasance or breach of
trust in relation to the insurer; or(b)that any person, whether he is or has
been in any way connected with the affairs of the insurer not, is in wrongful
possession of any money or property of the insurer or having any such money or
property in hi s possession wrongfully withholds it or has converted it to any
use other than that of the insurer; or(c)that by reason of any contravention
of the provisions of this Act, the amount of the life insurance fund has been
diminished,the court may examine any such insurer, director, managing agent,
manager, secretary or liquidator or any such officer, employee or agent of the
insurer or such other person, as the case may be, and may compel hi m to
contribute such sums to the assets of the insurer by way of compensation in
respect of the misapplication, retainer, misfeasance or breach of trust as the
court thinks fit, or to pay such sum as may be found due from hi m in respect
of any money or property of the insurer for which he is liable or accountable
or to restore any money or property of the insurer or any part thereof, as the
case may be; and where the amount of the life insurance fund has been
diminished by reason of any contravention of the provisions of this Act, the
court shall have power to assess the sum by which the amount of the fund has
been diminished and to order the person guilty of such contravention to
contribute to the fund the whole or any part of that sum by way of
compensation; and in any of the aforesaid cases the court shall have power to
order interest to be paid at such rate and from such time as the court may
deem fit.(2)Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-section (1)
or sub¬section (3), where it is proved that any money or property of an
insurer has disappeared or has been lost, the court shall presume that every
person in charge of, or having a disposing power over, such money or property
at the relevant time (whether a director, manager, principal officer or any
other officer) has become accountable for such money or property within the
meaning of sub-clause (1) of clause (a) of sub-section (1), and the provisions
of that sub-section shall apply accordingly, unless such person proves that
the money or property has been utilised or disposed of in the ordinary course
of the business of the insurer and for the purpose of that business or that he
took all reasonable steps to prevent the disappearance or loss of such money
or all property or otherwise satisfactorily accounts for such disappearance or
loss.(3)Where the insurer is an insurance company and any of the acts referred
to in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub-section (1) has been committed by any
person, every person who was at the relevant time a director, managing agent,
manager, liquidator, secretary or other officer of the insurance company
shall, for the purposes of that sub-section, be deemed to be liable for that
act in the same manner and to the same extent as the person who has committed
the act, unless he proves that the act was committed without hi s consent or
connivance and was not facilitated by any neglect or omission on hi s
part.(4)Where at any stage of the proceedings against any person under this
section (he rein after referred to as the delinquent), the Court is satisfied
by affidavit or otherwise--(a)that a prima facie case has been made out
against the delinquent; and(b)that it is just and proper so to do in the
interests of the policy-holders of an insurer or of the members of an
insurance company,the court may direct the attachment of--(i)any property of
the insurer in the possession of the delinquent;(ii)any property of the
delinquent which belongs to hi m or is deemed to belong to hi m within the
meaning of sub-section (5);(iii)any property transferred by the delinquent
within two years before the commencement of proceedings under sub-section (1)
or during the pendency of such proceedings, if the Court is satisfied by
affidavit or otherwise that the transfer was otherwise than in good faith and
for consideration.(5)For the purposes of sub-section (4), the following
classes of property shall be deemed to belong to a delinquent:--(a)any
property standing in the name of any person which is reason of the person
being connected with the delinquent, whether by way of relationship or
otherwise, or on account of any other relevant circumstances appears to belong
to the delinquent;(b)the property of a private company in respect of the
affairs of which the delinquent, by himself or through hi s nominees,
relatives, partners or persons interested in any shares of the company is able
to exercise or is entitled to acquire control, whether direct or
indirect.Explanation.-- For the purposes of this section a person shall be
deemed to be a nominee of a delinquent, if, whether directly or indirectly, he
possesses on behalf of the delinquent, or may be required to exercise on the
direction or on behalf of the delinquent, any right or power which is of such
a nature as to enable the delinquent to exercise or to entitle the delinquent
to acquire control over the company's affairs.(6)Any claim to any property
attached under this section or any objection to such attachment shall be made
by an application to the court, and it shall be for the claimant or objector
to adduce evidence to show that the property is not liable to attachment under
this section, and the court shall proceed to investigate the claim or
objection in a summary manner.(7)When disposing of an application under sub-
section (1), the court shall, after giving all persons who appear to it to be
interested in any property attached under this section an opportunity of being
heard, make such order as it thinks fit respecting the disposal of any such
property for the purpose of effectually enforcing any liability under this
section, and all such persons shall be deemed to be parties to the proceedings
under this section.(8)In any proceedings under this section the court shall
have full power and exclusive jurisdiction to decide all questions of any
nature whatsoever arising thereunder and, in particular, with respect to any
property attached Under this section, and no other court shall have
jurisdiction to decide any such question in any suit or other legal
proceeding.(9)In making any order with respect to the disposal of the property
of any private company referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (5), the court
shall have due regard to the interests of all persons interested in such
property other than the delinquent and persons referred to in that
clause.(10)This section shall apply notwithstanding that the act is one for
which the person concerned may be criminally liable.(11)In proceedings under
this section the court shall have all the powers which a Court has under
section 237 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913).(12)This section
shall apply in respect of a provident society as defined in Part III as it
applies in respect of an insurer.(13)On and from and commencement of the
Insurance (Second Amendment) Act, 1955 , the Court entitled to exercise
jurisdiction under this section shall be the High Court within whose
jurisdiction the registered office of the insurer is situate (he rein after
referred to as the High Court) and any proceedings under this section pending
at such commencement in any Court other than the High Court shall, on such
commencement, stand transferred to the High Court.(14)The High Court may make
rules providing for--(a)the manner in which enquiries and proceedings may be
held under this section;(b)any other matter for which provision has to be made
for enabling the High Court to effectively exercise its jurisdiction under
this section.

### 106A. Notice to and hearing of Authority

(1)When application is made to the court for the making of any order to which
this section applies, the court shall, unless the Authority has itself made
the application or has been made a party thereto, send a copy of the
application together with intimation of the date fixed for the hearing thereof
to the Authority, and shall give it an opportunity of being heard.(2)The
orders to which this section applies are the following, namely:--(c)an order
under section 36 sanctioning any arrangement for the transfer or amalgamation
of life insurance business or any order consequential thereon;(d)an order for
the winding up of an insurance company ;(e)an order under section 58
confirming a scheme for the partial winding up of an insurance company;

### 107. Omitted

### 107A. Omitted

### 108. Power of court to grant relief

If any proceedings, civil or criminal, it appears to the court hearing the
case that a person is or may be liable in respect of negligence, default,
breach of duty or breach of trust but that he has acted honestly and
reasonably and that having regard to all the circumstances of the case he
ought fairly to be excused for the negligence, default, breach of duty or
breach of trust, the court may relieve him either wholly or partly from his
liability on such terms as it may think fit.

### 109. Cognizance of offences

No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act or any
rules or any regulations made thereunder, save on a complaint made by an
officer of the Authority or by any person authorised by it.

### 110. Appeal to Securities Appellate Tribunal

(1)Any person aggrieved--(a)by an order of the Authority made on and after the
commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, or under this Act,
the rules or regulations made thereunder; or(b)by an order made by the
Authority by way of adjudication under this Act,may prefer an appeal to the
Securities Appellate Tribunal having jurisdiction in the matter.(2)Every
appeal made under sub-section (1) shall be filed within a period of forty-five
days from the date on which a copy of the order made by the Authority is
received by him and it shall be in such a form and be accompanied by such fees
as may be prescribed:Provided that the Securities Appellate Tribunal may
entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of forty-five days if
it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within that
period.(3)On receipt of an appeal under sub-section (1), the Securities
Appellate Tribunal may, after giving parties to the appeal an opportunity of
being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit, conforming, modifying
or setting aside the order appealed against.(4)The Securities Appellate
Tribunal shall make available copy of order made by it to the Authority and
parties.(5)The appeal filed before the Securities Appellate Tribunal under
sub-section (1) shall be dealt with by it as expeditiously as possible and
endeavour shall be made by it to dispose of the appeal finally within six
months from the date of receipt of appeal.(6)The procedure for filing and
disposing of an appeal shall be such as may be prescribed.(7)The provision
contained in section 15U, section 15V, section 15W, section 15Y and section
15Z of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 shall apply to the
appeals arising out of the provisions of this Act, as they apply to the
appeals under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of
1992).

### 110A. Delegation of powers and duties of Chairperson of the Authority

The Chairperson of the Authority may by general or special order delegate any
of his powers or duties under this Act to any person subordinate to him. The
exercise or discharge of any of the powers or duties so delegated shall be
subject to such restrictions, limitations and conditions, if any, as the
Chairperson of the Authority may impose, and shall be subject to his control
and revision.

### 110B. Signature of documents

Every document which is required by this Act or by any rule made thereunder to
be signed by the Chairperson of the Authority or by any person subordinate to
him or by any officer authorised by him under sub-section (1) of section 42
shall be deemed to be properly signed, if it bears a facsimile of the
signature of such Chairperson of the Authority, person or officer printed,
engraved, lithographed or impressed by any other mechanical process approved
by the Central Government.

### 110C. Power to call for information

(1)The Chairperson of the Authority may, by notice in writing, require any
insurer to supply him with any information relating tohis insurance business,
and the insurer shall comply with such requirement within such period after
receipt of the notice as may be specified therein.(2)Any information supplied
under this section shall be certified by a principal officer of the insurer
and if the notice so requires also by an auditor.

### 110D. Certain claims for compensation barred

No person shall have any right, whether in contract or otherwise, to any
compensation for any loss incurred by reason of the operation of any of the
provisions contained in section 34 or section 34 A or section 34 E or section
37 A or by reason of the compliance by an insurer with any order or direction
given to hi m under this Act.

### 110E. Omitted

### 110F. Provisions applicable to State Governments, etc.

The provisions of sections 3, 3A, 27B, 28B, 33, 34 clause (a) of sections 34E,
34F, 40C, 44A, 64U to 64UM (both inclusive), 64V, 64VA, 64VB, 64VC, and 101A,
101C, 110D, 110G and 110H shall notwithstanding any exemption granted under
section 118, also apply, so far as may be, to and in relation to the general
insurance business carried on by a State Government or a Government company as
defined in section 617 of the Companies Act,1956 (1 of 1956).

### 110G. Omitted

### 110H. Omitted

### 110HA. Penalty to be recoverable as arrear of land revenue

Any penalty imposed by the Authority under this Act shall be recoverable as an
arrear of land revenue.

### 111. Service of notices

(1)Any process or notice required to be served on an insurer shall be
sufficiently served if addressed to any person registered with the Authority
as a person authorised to accept notices on behalf of the insurer and left at,
or sent by registered post to the address of such person as registered with
the Authority.(2)Any notice or other document which is by this Act required to
be sent to any policy-holder may be addressed and sent to the person to whom
notices respecting such policy are usually sent and any notice so addressed
and sent shall be deemed to be notice to the holder of such policy:Provided,
that, where any person claiming to be interested in a policy as transferee,
assignee or nominee has given to an insurer notice in writing of his interest,
any notice which is by this Act required to be sent to policy-holders shall
also be sent to such person at the address specified by him in his notice.

### 112. Declaration of interim bonuses

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act, an insurer
carrying on the business of life insurance shall be at liberty to declare an
interim bonus or bonuses to policy-holders whose policies mature for payment
by reason of death or otherwise during the intervaluation period on the
recommendation of the investigating of actuary made at the last preceding
valuation.

### 113. Acquisition of surrender value by policy

(1)A policy of life insurance shall acquire surrender value as per the norms
specified by the regulations.(2)Every policy of life insurance shall contain
the formula as approved by the Authority for calculation of guaranteed
surrender value of the policy.(3)Notwithstanding any contract to the contrary,
a policy of life insurance under a non-linked plan which has acquired a
surrender value shall not lapse by reason of non-payment of further premiums
but shall be kept in force to the extent of paid-up sum insured, calculated by
means of a formula as approved by the Authority and contained in the policy
and the reversionary bonuses that have already been attached to the
policy:Provided that a policy of life insurance under a linked plan shall be
kept in force in the manner as may be specified by the regulations.(4)The
provisions of sub-section (3) shall not apply--(i)where the paid-up sum
insured by a policy, inclusive of attached bonuses, is less than the amount
specified by the Authority or takes the form of annuity of amount less than
the amount specified by the Authority; or(ii)when the parties, after the
default has occurred in payment of the premium, agree in writing to other
arrangement.(1)A policy of life insurance under which the whole of the
benefits become payable either on the occurrence, or at a fixed interval or
fixed intervals after the occurrence, of a contingency which is bound to
happen, shall, if all premiums have been paid for at least three consecutive
years in the case of a policy issued by an insurer, or five years in the case
of a policy issued by a provident society as defined in Part III, acquire a
guaranteed surrender value, to which shall be added the surrender value of any
subsisting bonus already attached to the policy, and every such policy issued
by an insurer shall show the guaranteed surrender value of the policy at the
close of each year after the second year of its currency or at the close of
each period of three years throughout the currency of the policy:Provided that
the requirements of this sub-section as to the addition of the surrender value
of the bonus attaching to a policy at surrender shall be deemed to have been
complied with where themethod of calculation of the guaranteed surrender value
of the policy makes provisions for the surrender value of the bonus attaching
to the policy:Provided further that the requirements of this sub-section as to
the showing of the guaranteed surrender value on a policy shall be deemed to
have been complied with where the insurer shows on the policy the guaranteed
surrender value of the policy by means of a formula accepted in this behalf by
the Authority as satisfying the said requirements:Provided further that the
provisions of this sub-section as to the showing of the guaranteed surrender
value on a policy shall not take effect until after the expiry of six months
from such date as the Authority may, by notification in the Official Gazette
appointed in this behalf.(2)Notwithstanding any contract to the contrary, a
policy which has acquired a surrender value shall not lapse by reason of the
non-payment of further premiums but shall be kept alive to the extent of paid-
up sum insured, and the paid-up sum insured shall for the purposes of this-
sub-section include in full all subsisting reversionary bonuses that have
already attached to the policy, and shall, where the policy is one on which
the maximum number of annual premiums payable is fixed and the premiums are of
uniform amount, be before the inclusion of such bonuses not less than the
amount bearing to the total sum insured by the policy exclusive of bonuses the
same proportion as the total period for which premiums have already been paid
bears to the maximum period for which premiums were originally payable.(3)A
policy kept alive to the extent of the paid-up sum insured under sub-section
(2) shall not be entitled by virtue of that sub-section to participate in any
profits declared distributable after the conversion of the policy into a paid-
up policy.(4)Sub-section (2) and sub-section (3) shall not apply--(a)where the
paid-up insured by a policy being a policy issued by an insurer, is less than
one hundred rupees inclusive of any attached bonus, or takes the form of an
annuity of less than twenty-five rupees, or where the paid-up sum insured by a
policy, being a policy issued by a provident society, as defined in Part III,
is less than fifty rupees inclusive of any attached bonus or takes the form of
an annuity of less than twenty-five rupees, or(b)where the parties after the
default has occurred in the payment of the premium agree in writing to some
other arrangement, or(c)to policies in which the surrender value is
automatically applied under the terms of the contract to maintaining the
policy in force after its lapse through non-payment of premium."

### 114. Power of Central Government to make rules

(1)The Central Government may, subject to the condition of previous
publication by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out
the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may prescribe--***(aaa)the
manner of ownership and control of Indian insurance company under sub-clause
(b) of clause (7A) of section 2;(b)the manner in which it shall be determined
which of the transactions of an insurer are to be deemed for the purposes of
this Act to be insurance business transacted in India ;***(d)the form referred
to in clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 16;(e)the manner in which the
prospectuses and tables referred to in sub-section (1) of section 41 shall be
published and the form in which they shall be drawn up;***(h)the contingencies
other than those specified in clauses (a) to (f) of sub¬-section (2) of
section 65on the happening of which money may be paid by provident
societies;(i)the matters other than those specified in clauses (a) to (o) of
sub-section (1) of section 74 on which a provident society shall make
rules;(j)the form of any account, return or registered required by the Part
III and the manner in which such account, return or register shall be
verified;(k)subject to the provisions of this Act, the fees payable thereunder
and the manner in which they are to be collected;(l)the conditions and the
matters which may be prescribed under sub-sections (5), (6), (10) and (12) of
section 92;(la)the manner of inquiry under sub-section (l) of section
105C;(lb)the form in which an appeal may be preferred under sub-section (2)
and the fee payable in respect of such appeal and the procedure for filing and
disposing of an appeal under sub-section (6) of section 110;***(m)any other
matter which is to be or may be prescribed.(3)Every rule made under this
section or under sub-section (10) of section 34H and every regulation made
under this Part shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each
House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions,
and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or
the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the rule or regulation or both Houses agree that the rule or
regulation should not be made, the rule or regulation shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule or regulation.(4)All
rules made by a Local Government under the provisions of section 24 of the
Provident Insurance Societies Act, 1912 (5 of 1912) and in force at the
commencement of this Act shall so far as not inconsistent with the provisions
of Part III continue in force and have effect as if duly made under this
section until they are replaced by rules made under this section.(aa)such
other percentage of paid-up equity capital in excess of twenty-six per cent.
of the paid-up equity capital and the period within which such excess paid-up
equity capital shall be divested under sub-section (1) of section 6AA;"

### 114A. Power of Authority to make regulations

(1)The Authority may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
regulations consistent with this Act and the rules made thereunder, to carry
out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such regulations may provide for all or any
of the following matters, namely:--(a)manner of making application for
registration and documents to be accompanied under sub-section (2) of section
3;(b)the manner of suspension or cancellation of registration under sub-
section (5E) of section 3;(c)such fee, not exceeding five thousand rupees, as
may be determined by the regulations for issue of a duplicate certificate of
registration under sub-section (7) of section 3;(d)such annual fee to the
Authority and manner of payment under sub-section (1) of section 3A;(da)such
minimum annuity and other benefits to be secured by the insurer under section
4;(daa)determination of preliminary expenses that may be excluded for
calculation of the stipulated paid-up equity capital for the insurers under
sub-section (1) of section 6;(db)such equity capital and such forms of capital
including hybrid capital required under sub-section (I) of section
6A;(ea)separation of account of all receipts and payments in respect of each
classes and sub-classes of insurance business as required under sub-section
(1) and sub-section (2AA) of section 10; and its waiver under the said
section;(f)the preparation of balance-sheet, profit and loss account and a
separate account of receipts and payments and revenue account under sub-
section (1) of section 11;(g)the manner in which an abstract of the report of
the actuary to be specified and the form and manner in which the statement
referred to in section 13 shall be appended;(ga)maintenance of records of
policies and claims under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section
14;(gb)manner and form of issuance of policies in electronic form under sub-
section (2) of section 14;(h)the fee for procuring a copy of return or any
part thereof under sub-section (I) of section 20;(i)investment of assets and
further provisions regarding investments by an insurer and investment by
insurers in certain cases under sections 27, 27A, 27B, 27C and time, manner
and other conditions of investment of assets under section 27D;(ia)the form in
which a return giving details of investments made, time and manner including
its authentication under section 28;(ib)the loans including the loans
sanctioned to the full-time employees of the insurer under clause (a) of sub-
section (3) of section 29;(ic)the sum to be paid by the insurer to any person
under section 31B;(id)the obligation of insurer in respect of rural or social
or unorganised sector and backward classes under sections 32B and 32C;(ie)the
minimum percentage of insurance business in third party risks of motor
vehicles under section 32D;(j)the minimum information to be maintained by
insurers or intermediary or insurance intermediary, as the case may be, in
their books, the manner in which such information shall be maintained, the
checks and other verifications in that connection and all other matters
incidental thereto under sub-section (7) of section 33;(ja)the form in which
balance-sheets in respect of the insurance business of each of the insurers
concerned and the manner in which actuarial reports and abstracts in respect
of the life insurance business are to be prepared under clauses (b) and (c) of
sub-section (3) of section 35;(jb)the manner of assessment of compensation
under the proviso to sub-section (4A) of section 37A;(jc)the fee to be charged
by the insurer under sub-section (3) of section 39;(jd)the manner and amount
of remuneration or reward to be paid or received by way of commission or
otherwise to an insurance agent or an intermediary or insurance intermediary
under section 40;(je)the manner and form of expenses of management under
sections 40B and 40C;***(m)the requisite qualifications or practical training
or examination to be passed for appointment as an insurance agent under clause
(e) of sub-section (3) of section 42;***(o)the code of conduct under clause
(h) of sub-section (3) of section 42;***(q)the manner and the fees for issue
of a licence to an intermediary or an insurance intermediary under sub-section
(1) of section 42D;(r)the fee and the additional fee to be determined for
renewal of licence of intermediaries or insurance intermediaries under sub-
section (3) of section 42D;(s)the requisite qualifications and practical
training of intermediaries or insurance intermediaries under clause (e) of
sub-section (5) of section 42D;(t)the examination to be passed to act as an
intermediary or insurance intermediary under clause (f) of sub-section (5) of
section 42D;(u)the code of conduct under clause (g) of sub-section (5) of
section 42D;(v)the fee for issue of duplicate licence under sub-section (7) of
section 42D;***(vb)the requirements of capital, form of business and other
conditions to act as an intermediary or insurance intermediary under section
42E;(vc)the form of balance-sheet, as may be specified by the Authority under
sub-section (1) of section 49;***(x)academic qualifications and code of
conduct for surveyors and loss assessors under sub-sections (1) and (2) of
section 64UM;(xa)the period for which a person may act as a surveyor or loss
assessor under sub-section (3) of section 64UM;(y)the manner of exclusion of
certain assets under sub-section (1), the manner of valuation of liabilities
under sub-section (2) and time for furnishing statement under sub-section (3)
of section 64V;(z)the valuation of assets and liabilities under sub-section
(3) of section 64V;(za)the matters specified under sub-section (1) of section
64VA relating to sufficiency of assets;(zaa)the manner of receipt of premium
to be specified under sub-section (6) of section 64VB;(zab)the form, time,
manner including authentication of the return giving details of solvency
margin under sub-section (9) of section 64VA;(zac)the manner of opening and
closing places of business under section 64VC;(zb)the matters relating to re-
insurance under sections 101A and 101B;(zba)the norms for surrender value of
life insurance policy under sub-section (1) of section 113;(zc)the matters
relating to redressal of grievances of policy-holders to protect their
interest and to regulate, promote and ensure orderly growth of insurance
industry; and(zd)any other matter which is to be, or may be, specified by the
regulations made by the Authority or in respect of which provision is to be
made or may be made by the regulations.(3)Every regulation made under this Act
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the regulation or both Houses agree that the regulation should not be made,
the regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be
of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that regulation.

### 115. Alteration of forms

The Authority may, on the application or with the consent of an insurer, not
being a company, alter the forms contained in the Schedules as respect that
insurer, for the purpose of adapting them to the circumstances of that
insurer:Provided that nothing done under this section shall exempt the insurer
from supplying all information required under this Act so far as it is
possible for the insurer to do so.

### 116. Power to exempt from certain requirements

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt
any insurer constituted, incorporated or domiciled inany country or State
outsideIndiafrom any of the provisions of this Act which may be specified in
the notification either absolutely or subject to such conditions or
modification as may be specified in the notification.(2)This section shall
apply in respect of provident societies as defined in Part III as it applies
in respect of insurers.

### 116A. Summary of returns to be published

The Central Government, before the date of commencement of the Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 shall every year cause to be
published, in such manner as it may direct, a summary of the accounts,
balance-sheet, statements, abstracts and other returns under this Act or
purporting to be under this Act which have been furnished in pursuance of the
provisions of this Act to the Authority during the year preceding the year of
publication, and may append to such summary any note of the Authority or of
the Central Government, before the date of commencement of the Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 and any correspondence:Provided
that nothing in this section shall require the publication of the statement
referred to in sub-section (2) of section 10 of the returns referred to in
sub-section (1) of section 28 or section28A or section 28B or the statements
referred to in sub-section (2) of section 31B or section 40B.

### 117. Saving of provisions of Indian Companies Act, 1913

Nothing in this Act shall affect the liability of an insurer being a companyor
a provident society as defined in Part III being a company to comply with the
provisions of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ( 7 of 1913 ), in matters not
otherwise specifically provided for by this Act.

### 118. Exemptions

Nothing in this Act shall apply--(a)to any trade union registered under the
Indian Trade Unions Act, 1926 (16 of 1926); or(b)to any provident fund to
which the provisions of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 (19 of 1925),apply;
or(c)if the Central Government so orders in any case, and to such extent or
subject to such conditions or modifications as may be specified in the order,
to any insurance business carried on by the Central Government or a State
Government or a Government company as defined in section 617 of the Companies
Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); or(d)if the Authority so orders in any case, and to
such extent or subject to such conditions or modifications as may be specified
in the order, to--(i)any approved superannuation fund as defined in clause (a)
of section 58N of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922); or(ii)any fund
in existence and officially recognised by the Central Government before the
27th day of January, 1937, maintained by or on behalf of Government Servants
or Government pensioners for the mutual benefit of contributors to the fund
and of their dependants; or(iii)any mutual or provident insurance society
composed wholly of Government servants or of railway servants which has been
exempted from any or all of the provisions of the Provident Insurance
Societies Act, 1912 (5 of 1912).

### 119. Inspection and supply of copies of published prospectus, etc.

Any person may on payment of a fee of five rupees inspect the documents filed
by an insurer with the Authority under clause (f) of sub-section (2)of section
3,and may obtain a copy of any such document or part thereof on payment in
advance at the prescribed rate for the making of the copy.

### 120. Determination of market value of securities deposited under this Act

The market value on the day of deposit of securities deposited in pursuance of
any of the provisions of this Act with the Reserve Bank of India shall be
determined by the Reserve Bank of India whose decision shall be final.

### 121. Omitted

### 122. Omitted

### 123. Omitted

## Omitted

## Omitted

## Omitted

## Omitted

## Omitted

## Omitted

## (See section 55)

RULE AS TO THE VALUATION OF THE LIABILITIES OF AN INSURER IN INSOLVENCY OR
LIQUIDATIONThe liabilities of an insurer in respect of current contracts
effected in the course of life insurance business including annuity business,
shall be calculated by the method and upon the basis to be determined by an
actuary approved by the Court, and the actuary so approved shall, in
determining as aforesaid, take into account--(a)the purpose for which such
valuation is to be made,(b)the rate of interest and the rates of mortality and
sickness to be used in valuation, and(C)any special directions which may be
given by the Court.The liabilities of an insurer in respect of current
policies other than life policies shall be such portion of the last premium
paid as is proportionate to the unexpired portion of the policy in respect of
which the premium was paid.

## Omitted

