## Union of India - Act

## The Interest On Delayed Payments To Small Scale And Ancillary Industrial
Undertakings Act, 1993

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Interest On Delayed Payments To Small Scale And Ancillary Industrial
Undertakings Act, 1993

## Act 32 of 1993

  * Published on 2 April 1993 
  * Commenced on 2 April 1993 
  * [This is the version of this document from 2 April 1993.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Interest On Delayed Payments To Small Scale And Ancillary Industrial
Undertakings Act, 1993(32 OF 1993)

### 14.

/691Statement of Objects and Reasons.-A policy statement on small scale
industries was made by the Government in Parliament. It was stated at that
time that suitable legislation would be brought to ensure prompt payment of
money by buyers to the small industrial units.2\. Inadequate working capital
in a small scale or an ancillary industrial undertaking causes serious and
endemic problems affecting the health of such undertaking. Industries in this
sector have also been demanding that adequate measures be taken in this
regard. The Small Scale Industries Board, which is an apex advisory body on
policies relating to small scale industrial units with representatives from
all the States, governmental bodies and the industrial sector, also expressed
this view. It was, therefore, felt that prompt payments of money by buyers
should be statutorily ensured and mandatory provisions for payment of interest
on the outstanding money, in case of default, should be made. The buyers, if
required under law to pay interest, would refrain from withholding payments to
small scale and ancillary industrial undertakings.3\. An Ordinance, namely,
the Interest on Delayed Payments to Small Scale and Ancillary Industrial
Undertakings Ordinance, 1992, was, therefore, promulgated by the President on
the 23rd September, 1992.4\. The Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance and
to achieve the aforesaid objects.Amendment Act 23 of 1998-Statement of Objects
and Reasons.-The Interest on Delayed Payments to Small Scale and Ancillary
Industrial Undertakings Act, 1993 regulates the procedure for payment of
interest on delayed payments to small scale and ancillary undertakings. Though
the Act has been in operation for a period of five years, the problem of
delays in payment of outstanding dues to the small scale industrial units
continues unabated. There have been widespread discussions on the provisions
of the Act among the various interest groups including the Departments of
State Governments dealing with industries, banks and Small Industry
Associations. The general consensus emerged from such discussions is that
certain amendments to the Act are necessary in order to make it more effective
so that the aims and objectives of the Act are achieved.2\. The existing Act
is not applicable to the Central or State public sector undertakings, such as,
the National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC) and the State Small.
Industries Development Corporations (SSIDC). Since both the aforesaid
Corporations have been playing an important role in marketing of SSI products,
it is proposed to amend the definition of "supplier" so as to bring within the
scope, the aforesaid Corporations.3\. Section 3 of the Act stipulates that a
buyer is required to make payment on or before the agreed date to small scale
supplier of goods or services. Where the credit period is not specified in the
agreement, the payment is to be made within 30 days from the date of the
acceptance of goods or services. It has been noticed that buyers tend to
prescribe a credit period of 240-360 days. This defeats the purpose of the
Act. It is, therefore, proposed to amend Section 3 of the Act by specifying a
period of 120 days as the maximum period of credit.4\. Section 4 of the Act
states that buyers shall be liable to pay interest to the suppliers on
outstanding dues beyond the appointed day at a rate which is five per cent.
points above the floor rate. The Reserve Bank of India, in its new credit
policy, has changed the system of prescribing floor rates for the purpose of
lending by banks for the loans exceeding Rs. 2 lakhs. The banks are now free
to fix the Prime Lending Rate for loans. This change in interest rate policy
has necessitated a change in determining the penal rate of interest in the
Act. It is proposed to fix the penal rate of interest at one and a half times
of the Prime Lending Rate of the State Bank of India.5\. Under section 6 of
the Act, the outstanding amount together with the interest is recoverable (in
case of dispute) by way of a civil suit. It is proposed to provide an
alternative mechanism of arbitration and conciliation apart from section 6 to
resolve the disputes under the Act. For this purpose, State Governments are
proposed to be authorised to set up one or more "Industry Facilitation
Councils" for the purpose of arbitration and conciliation. These Councils
shall act as arbitrators or conciliators for settling disputes between SSI
suppliers and buyers. This aims at facilitating resolution of disputes between
the two parties amicably.6\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.[2nd
April, 1993]Received the assent of the President on 2.4.1993 and published in
the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 1, dated 3.4.1993.An Act
to provide for and regulate the payment of interest on delayed payments to
small scale and ancillary industrial undertakings and for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Forty-
fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement

.-(1) This Act may be called The Interest on Delayed Payments to Small Scale
and Ancillary Industrial Undertakings Act, 1993.(2)It extends to the whole of
India, except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.(3)It shall be deemed to have
come into force on the 23rd day of September, 1992.

### 2. Definitions

.-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"ancillary industrial
undertaking" has the meaning assigned to it by clause (aa) of section 3 of the
Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951);(b)"appointed
day" means the day following immediately after the expiry of the period of
thirty days from the day of acceptance or the day of deemed acceptance of any
goods or any services by a buyer from a supplier;Explanation.-For the purposes
of this clause,-(i)"the day of acceptance" means,-(a)the day of the actual
delivery of goods or the rendering of services; or(b)where any objection is
made in writing by the buyer regarding, acceptance of goods or services within
thirty days from the day of the delivery, of goods or the rendering of
services, the day on which such objection is removed by the supplier;(ii)"the
day of deemed acceptance" means, where no objection is made in writing by the
buyer regarding acceptance of goods or services within thirty days from the
day of the delivery of goods or the rendering of services, the day of the
actual delivery of goods or the rendering of services;(c)"buyer" means whoever
buys any goods or receives any services from a supplier for
consideration;(d)"goods" means every kind of movable property other than
actionable claims and money;(e)"small scale industrial undertaking" has the
meaning assigned to it by clause (j) of section 3 of the Industries
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951);(f)"supplier" means an
ancillary industrial undertaking or a small scale industrial undertaking
holding a permanent registration certificate issued by the Directorate of
Industries of a State or [Union territory and includes,- [ Substituted by Act
23 of 1998, Section 2, for " Union territory" (w.e.f. 10.8.1998).](i)the
National Small Industries Corporation, being a company, registered under the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)];(ii)the Small Industries Development
Corporation of a State or a Union territory, by whatever name called, being a
company registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).

### 3. Liability of buyer to make payment

.-Where any supplier supplies any goods or renders any services to any buyer,
the buyer shall make payment therefor on or before the date agreed upon
between him and the supplier in writing or, where there is no agreement in
this behalf, before the appointed day:[Provided that in no case the period
agreed upon between the supplier and the buyer in writing shall exceed one
hundred and twenty days from the day of acceptance or the day of deemed
acceptance.] [ Inserted by Act 23 of 1998, Section 3 (w.e.f. 10.8.1998).]

### 4. [ Date from which and rate at which interest is payable [ Substituted
by Act 23 of 1998, Section 4, for Section 4 (w.e.f. 10.8.1998).]

.-Where any buyer fails to make payment of the amount to the supplier, as
required under section 3, the buyer shall, notwithstanding anything contained
in any agreement between the buyer and the supplier or in any law for the time
being in force, be liable to pay interest to the supplier on that amount from
the appointed day or, as the case may be, from the date immediately following
the date agreed upon, at one and a half time of Prime Lending Rate charged by
the State Bank of India.Explanation .-For the purposes of this section, "Prime
Lending Rate" means the Prime Lending Rate of the State Bank of India which is
available to the best borrowers of the bank.]

### 5. Liability of buyer to pay compound interest

.-Notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement between a supplier and a
buyer or in any law for the time being in force, the buyer shall be liable to
pay compound interest (with monthly interests) at the rate mentioned in
section 4 on the amount due to the supplier.

### 6. Recovery of amount due

.- [(1)] [ Section 6 renumbered as sub-Section (1) thereof and sub-Section (2)
inserted by Act 23 of 1998, Section 5 (w.e.f. 10.8.1998).] The amount due from
a buyer, together with the amount of interest calculated in accordance with
the provisions of sections 4 and 5, shall be recoverable by the supplier from
the buyer by way of a suit or other proceeding under any law for the time
being in force.(2)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), any
party to a dispute may make a reference to the Industry Facilitation Council
for acting as an arbitrator or conciliator in respect of the matters referred
to in that sub-section and the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation
Act, 1996 (26 of 1996) shall apply to such dispute as if the arbitration or
conciliation were pursuant to an arbitration agreement referred to in sub-
section (1) of section 7 of that Act.] [ Section 6 renumbered as sub-Section
(1) thereof and sub-Section (2) inserted by Act 23 of 1998, Section 5 (w.e.f.
10.8.1998).]

### 7. Appeal

.-No appeal against any decree, award or other order shall be entertained by
any Court or other authority unless the appellant (not being a supplier) has
deposited with it seventy-five per cent. of the amount in terms of the decree,
award or, as the case may be, other order in the manner directed by such Court
or, as the case may be, such authority.[7-A. Establishment of Industry
Facilitation Council [ Inserted by Act 23 of 1998, Section 6 (w.e.f.
10.8.1998).].-The State Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, establish one or more Industry Facilitation Councils at such places
exercising such jurisdiction and for such areas, as may be specified in the
notification.

### 7\.

-B. Composition of Industry Facilitation Council.-(1) The Industry Facilitation Council shall consist of one or more members to be appointed from amongst the following categories:-(i)Director of Industries by whatever name called or any other officer not below the rank of such Director, of the State Government;(ii)representatives of banks and financial institutions;(iii)office bearers or representatives of State Industry Associations; and(iv)persons having special knowledge in the field of Industry, Finance, Law, Trade and Commerce.(2)The person appointed under clause (i) of sub-section (1) shall be the Chairperson of the Industry Facilitation Council.(3)The composition of the Industry Facilitation Council, the manner of filing vacancies among, and the procedure to be followed in the discharge of their functions by, the members shall be such as may be prescribed by rules by the State Government.

### 7\.

-C. Laying of rules before State Legislature.-Every notification issued and every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is issued or made, before the State Legislature.]

### 8. Requirement to specify unpaid amount with interest in the annual
statement of accounts

.-Where any buyer is required to get his annual accounts audited under any law
for the time being in force, such buyer shall specify the amount together with
the interest in his annual statement of accounts as remains unpaid to any
supplier at the end of each accounting year.

### 9. Interest not to be allowed as deduction from income

.-Notwithstanding anything contained in the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961),
the amount of interest payable or paid by any buyer, under or in accordance
with the provisions of this Act, shall not, for the purposes of computation of
income under the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), be allowed as deduction.

### 10. Overriding effect

.-The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force.

### 11. Repeal and saving

.-(1) The Interest on Delayed Payments to Small Scale and Ancillary Industrial
Undertakings Ordinance, 1993 (Ord. 4 of 1993) is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken
under the Ordinance so repealed shall be deemed to have been done or taken
under the corresponding provisions of this Act.

