## Union of India - Act

## The Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, 1986

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, 1986

## Act 60 of 1986

  * Published on 23 December 1986 
  * Commenced on 23 December 1986 
  * [This is the version of this document from 23 December 1986.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, 1986(60 of 1986)Last
Updated 30th December, 2019An Act to prohibit indecent representation of women
through advertisements or in publications, writings, paintings, figures or in
any other manner and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto .Be
it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-seventh Year of the Republic of India
as follows:{||-|Published in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt.II, Section 1, No.
74, dated 23.12.1986.Enforced on 2.10.1987.|}

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement

(1)This Act may be called The Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition)
Act , 1986.(2)It extends to the whole of India, [***] [The words 'except the
State of Jammu and Kashmir' omitted by Act No. 34 of 2019, s. 95 and the Fifth
Schedule (w.e.f. 31-10-2019)].(3)It shall come into force on such date as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions

.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)advertisement includes
any notice, circular, label, wrapper or other document and also includes any
visible representation made by means of any light, sound, smoke or
gas;(b)distribution includes distribution by way of samples whether free or
otherwise;(c)indecent representation of women means the depiction in any
manner of the figure of a woman, her form or body or any part thereof in such
a way as to have the effect of being indecent, or derogatory to, or
denigrating, women, or is likely to deprave, corrupt or injure the public
morality or morals;(d)label means any written, marked, stamped, printed or
graphic matter, affixed to, or appearing upon, any package;(e)package includes
a box, carton, tin or other container;(f)prescribed means prescribed by rules
made under this Act.

### 3. Prohibition of advertisements containing indecent representation of
woman

.No person shall publish, or cause to be published, or arrange or take part in
the publication or exhibition of, any advertisement which contains indecent
representation of women in any form.

### 4. Prohibition of publication or sending by post of books, pamphlets,
etc., containing indecent representation of women

.No person shall produce or cause to be produced, sell, let to hire,
distribute, circulate or send by post any book, pamphlet, paper, slide, film,
writing, drawing, painting, photograph, representation or figure which
contains indecent representation of women in any form:Provided that nothing in
this section shall apply to(a)any book, pamphlet, paper, slide, film, writing,
drawing, painting, photograph, representation or figure(i)the publication of
which is proved to be justified as being for the public good on the ground
that such book, pamphlet, paper, slide, film, writing, drawing, painting,
photograph, representation or figure is in the interest of science,
literature, art, or learning or other object of general concern; or(ii)which
is kept or used bona fide for religious purposes;(b)any representation
sculptured, engraved, painted or otherwise represented on or in,(i)any ancient
monument within the meaning of the Ancient Monument and Archaeological Sites
and Remains Act, 1958 (24 of 1958), or(ii)any temple, or on any car used for
the conveyance of idols, or kept or used for any religious purposes;(c)any
film in respect of which the provisions of Part II of the Cinematograph Act,
1952 (37 of 1952), will be applicable.

### 5. Powers to enter and search

(1)Subject to such rules as may be prescribed, any Gazetted Officer authorised
by the State Government may, within the local limits of the area for which he
is so authorised,(a)enter and search at all reasonable times, with such
assistance, if any, as he considers necessary, any place in which he has
reason to believe that an offence under this Act has been or is being
committed;(b)seize any advertisement or any book, pamphlet, paper, slide,
film, writing, drawing, painting, photograph, representation or figure which
he has reason to believe contravenes any of the provisions of this
Act;(c)examine any record, register, document or any other material object
found in any place mentioned in clause (a) and seize the same if he has reason
to believe that it may furnish evidence of the commission of an offence
punishable under this Act:Provided that no entry under this sub-section shall
be made into a private dwelling-house without a warrant:Provided further that
the power of seizure under this sub-section may be exercised in respect of any
document, article or thing which contains any such advertisement, including
the contents, if any, of such documents, article or thing if the advertisement
cannot be separated by reason of its being embossed or otherwise from such
document, article or thing without affecting the integrity, utility or
saleable value thereof.(2)The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 (2 of 1974), shall, so far as may be, apply to any search or seizure
under this Act as they apply to any search or seizure made under the authority
of a warrant issued under section 94 of the said Code.(3)Where any person
seizes anything under clause (b) or clause (c) of sub-section (1), he shall,
as soon as may be, inform the nearest Magistrate and take his orders as to the
custody thereof.

### 6. Penalty

.Any person who contravenes the provisions of section 3 or section 4 shall be
punishable on first conviction with imprisonment of either description for a
term which may extend to two years, and with fine which may extend to two
thousand rupees, and in the event of a second or subsequent conviction with
imprisonment for a term of not less than six months but which may extend to
five years and also with a fine not less than ten thousand rupees but which
may extend to one lakh rupees.

### 7. Offences by companies

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person, who, at the time the offence was committed, was incharge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of , any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation. For
the purposes of this section,(a)company means any body corporate and includes
a firm or other association of individuals; and(b)director, in relation to a
firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 8. Offences to be cognizable and bailable

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974), an offence punishable under this Act shall be bailable.(2)An
offence punishable under this Act shall be cognizable.

### 9. Protection of action taken in good faith

.No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government or any State Government or any other officer of the Central
Government or any State Government for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done under this Act.

### 10. Power to make rules

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely(a)the manner in which the seizure
of advertisements or other articles shall be made, and the manner in which the
seizure list shall be prepared and delivered to the person from whose custody
any advertisement or other article has been seized;(b)any other matter which
is required to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Every rule made under this Act
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session for a total period of thirty days, which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

