## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Indian Christian Marriage (Extension to Transferred Territory) Act,
1995

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Indian Christian Marriage (Extension to Transferred Territory) Act, 1995

## Act 27 of 1995

  * Published on 1 November 1956 
  * Commenced on 1 November 1956 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 November 1956.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Indian Christian Marriage (Extension to Transferred Territory) Act,
1995Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1995Statement of Objects and Reasons. - The Indian
Christian Marriage Act 1872 (Central Act XV of 1872) was enacted to
consolidate and amend the law relating to the solemnization, in India, of the
marriages of persons professing the Christian religion and to enable the
people to protect themselves and their posterity by a lawful and binding
marriage if they wish to be married as Christians. This Act extends to the
whole of India except the territories, which immediately before 1st November
1956 were inter alia comprised in the State of Travancore-Cochin.2\.
Consequent on the re-organisation of States in 1956, the Kanyakumari district
and the Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli-Kattabomman district were
transferred to the State of Tamil Nadu from the Travancore-Cochin State. The
Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872 was not in force in the above transferred
territories. It has, therefore, been decided to extend the above Act to the
areas in the said transferred territory.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to
the above decision.An Act to extend the Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872 to
the transferred territory in the State of Tamil Nadu.Be it enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-sixth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Indian Christian Marriage (Extension to
Transferred Territory) Act, 1995.(2)It shall come into force on such date as
the State Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise require;(1)existing law means any
Law, Ordinance, Proclamation, Regulation or Order, By-law or Rule passed or
made before the date of commencement of this Act by Parliament, or by any
Legislature, authority or person having power to make such a Law, Ordinance,
Proclamation, Regulation, Order, By-law or Rule;(2)"transferred territory"
means the Kanyakumari district and the Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli,
Kattabomman district.

### 3. Extension of Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872 to the transferred
territory.

\- The Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872 (Central Act XV of 1872), as in
force immediately before the date of commencement of this Act, in the State of
Tamil Nadu except in the transferred territory is hereby extended to and shall
be in force in, the transferred territory.

### 4. Repeal of corresponding laws.

\- If, immediately before the date of commencement of this Act, there is in
force in the transferred territory any Act, Ordinance, Proclamation,
Regulation, Order, By-Law, Rule or other law corresponding to the enactment
now extended to the transferred territory, whether such Act, Ordinance,
Proclamation, Regulation, Order, By-law, Rule or other law, is in force by
virtue of section 119 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 (Central Act 37
of 1956) or by virtue of any other legislative power, such corresponding law
shall, on the date of commencement of this Act, stand repealed to the extent
to which the corresponding law relates to matters with respect to which the
State Legislature has power to make laws for the State.

### 5. Savings.

(1)The repeal, by section 4, of any corresponding existing law shall not
affect-(a)the previous operation of any such law or anything duly done or
suffered thereunder, or(b)any right, privilege, obligation or liability
acquired, accrued or incurred under any such law, or(c)any fine, penalty,
forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against
any such law, or(d)any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of
any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, fine, penalty, forfeiture or
punishment as aforesaid; and any such investigation, legal proceeding or
remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced and any such fine, penalty,
forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been
passed.(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), anything done or any
action taken including any appointment or delegation made, notification,
order, instruction or direction issued, rule, regulation, form, by-law or
scheme framed, certificate, permit or licence granted or registration
effected, under such corresponding existing law shall be deemed to have been
done or taken under the corresponding provisions of the enactment as now
extended to, and in force in, the transferred territory and shall continue in
force accordingly, unless and until superseded by anything done or any action
taken under the said enactment.(3)Nothing contained in this section shall
render any person liable, to any punishment whatsoever by reason of anything
done or omitted to be done by him before the date of commencement of this Act,
contrary to the provisions of the enactment as now extended to the transferred
territory.

### 6. Construction of references to authorities where new authorities have
been constituted.

(1)Any reference in the enactment now extended to the transferred territory to
a law which is not in force in the transferred territory shall, in relation to
the transferred territory, be construed as a reference to the corresponding
law, if any, in force in the transferred territory.(2)Any reference in any
existing law which continues to be in force in the transferred territory after
the date of commencement of this Act, to any law repealed by section 4, shall,
in relation to the transferred territory, be construed as a reference to the
enactment now extended to the transferred territory corresponding to the law
so repealed.

### 7. Construction of references to authorities where new authorities have
been constituted.

\- Any reference, by whatever form of words, in any existing law to any
authority competent at the date of the passing of that law to exercise any
powers or discharge any functions in the transferred territory shall, where a
corresponding new authority has been constituted by or under the enactment now
extended to the transferred territory, have effect as if it were a reference
to that new authority.

### 8. Powers of Court and other authority for purpose of facilitating
application of laws.

\- For the purpose of facilitating the application in the transferred
territory of the enactment now extended to the transferred territory, any
Court or other authority may construe such enactment with such alterations not
affecting the substance as may be necessary or proper to adapt it to the
matter before the Court or other authority.

