## Union of India - Act

## The Indira Gandhi National Open University Act, 1985

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Indira Gandhi National Open University Act, 1985

## Act 50 of 1985

  * Published on 2 September 1985 
  * Commenced on 2 September 1985 
  * [This is the version of this document from 2 September 1985.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Indira Gandhi National Open University Act, 1985(Act No. 50 of 1985)

### 1869.

[2nd September, 1985]An Act to establish and incorporate an Open University at
the national level for the introduction and promotion of open university and
distance education systems in the educational pattern of the country and for
the co-ordination and determination of standards in such systems.Be it enacted
by Parliament in the Thirty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows :-

### 1.

(1)This Act may be called the Indira Gandhi National Open University Act,
1985.(2)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may be
notification in the Official Gazette [*] [Vide notification No. SO. 678(E)
dated 19.9.1985 Gazette of India; Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(ii)]
appoint.

### 2.

In this Act, and the Statutes made hereunder, unless the context otherwise
requires.(a)"Academic Council" means the Academic Council of the
University;(b)"Board of Management" means the Board of Management of the
University;(c)"Board of Management" means the Board of Recognition of the
University;(d)"College" means a College or other academic institution
established or maintained by, or admitted to the privileges of the
University;(e)"Distance education systems" means the system of imparting
education through any means of communication, such as broadcasting,
telecasting, correspondence course, seminars, contact programmes or the
combination of any two or more of such means;(f)"Employee" means any person
appointed by the University, and includes teachers and other academic staff of
the University;(g)"Finance Committee" means the Finance Committee of the
University;(h)"Governing Body", in relation to a College, means any body (by
whatever name called-charged with the management of the affairs of the College
and recognized as such by the University;(i)"Planning Board" means the
Planning Board of the University;(j)"Regional Centre" means a centre
established or maintained by the University for the purpose of co-ordinating
and supervising the work of Study Centres and recognized and for performing
such other functions as may be co0nferred on such centre by the Board of
Management;(k)"Regulations" means the Regulations made by any authority of the
University under this Act for the time being in force;(l)"School" means a
School of Studies of the University(m)"Statutes" and "Ordinances" mean,
respectively, the Statutes and Ordinances of the University for the time being
in force;(n)"Student' means a student of the University, and includes any
person who has enrolled himself for pursuing any course of study of the
University;(o)"Study Centre" means a centre established, maintained or
recognized by the University for the purpose of advising, counseling or for
rendering any other assistance required by the students;(p)"Teachers" means
Professors, Readers, Lecturers and such other persons as may be designated at
such by the Ordinance for imparting instruction in the University or for
giving guidance or rendering assistance to students for pursuing any course of
study of the University;(q)"University" means the Indira Gandhi National Open
University established under this Act;(r)"Vice-Chancellor" and "Pro-Vice-
Chancellor" mean, respectively, the Vice-Chancellor and a Pro-Vice-Chancellor
of the University;

### 3.

(1)There shall be established a University by the name of "the Indira Gandhi
National Open University";(2)[ The headquarters of the University shall be at
Delhi and it may establish or maintain Colleges, Regional Centres and Study
Centres at such other places in India as it may deem fit. Provided that the
University may, with the prior approval of the Visitor, also establish Study
Centres outside India.] [Provisio to Sub-Section (2) of Section 3 of the
Indira Gandhi National Open University Act, 1985, enacted by the Parliament in
August, 1997. The amended Act shall come into force from 16th December,
1997.](3)The first Vice-Chancellor, the first Pro-Vice-Chancellors and the
first members of the Board of Management, the Academic Council and the
Planning Board and all persons who may hereafter become such officers or
members, so long as they continue to hold such office or membership, are
hereby constituted a body corporate by the name of "the Indira Gandhi National
Open University".(4)The University shall have perpetual succession and a
common seal and shall sue and be sued by the said name.

### 4.

The objects of the University shall be to advance and disseminate learning and
knowledge by a diversity of means, including the use of any communication
technology, to provide opportunities for higher education to a larger segment
of the population and to promote the educational well being of the community
generally, to encourage the Open University and distance education systems in
the educational pattern of the country and to coordinate and determine the
standards in such systems, and the University shall, in organizing its
activities, have due regard to the objects specified in the first Schedule.

### 5.

(1)The University shall have the following powers, namely :-(i)to provide for
instruction in such branches of knowledge, technology, Vocations and
professions as the University may determine from time to time and to make
provision for research;(ii)to plan and prescribe courses of study for degrees,
diplomas, certificates or for any other purpose;(iii)to hold examinations and
confer degrees, diplomas, certificates or other academic distinctions or
recognitions on persons who have pursued a course of study or conducted
research in the manner laid down by the Statutes and Ordinances;(iv)to confer
honorary degrees or other distinctions in the manner laid down by the
Statutes;(v)to determine the manner in which distance education in relation to
the academic programmes of the University may be organized;(vi)to institute
professorships, readerships, lectureships and other academic positions
necessary for imparting instruction or for preparing educational material or
for conducting other academic activities, including guidance, designing and
delivery of course and evaluation of the work done by the students, and to
appoint persons to such professorships, readerships, lectureship and other
academic positions;(vii)to co-operate with, and seek the co-operation of,
other universities and institutions of higher learning, professional bodies
and organizations for such purposes as the University considers
necessary;(viii)to institute and award fellowships, scholarships, prizes and
such other awards for recognition of merit as the University may deem
fit;(ix)to establish and maintain such Regional Centres as may be determined
by the University from time to time;(x)to establish, maintain or recognize
Study Centres in the manner laid down by the Statutes;(xi)to provide for the
preparation of instructional materials, including films, cassettes, tapes,
video cassettes and other software;(xii)to organize and conduct refresher
courses, workshops, seminars and other programmes for teachers, lesson
writers, evaluators and other academic staff;(xiii)to recognize examinations
of, or periods of study (whether in full or part) at, other universities,
institutions or other places of higher learning as equivalent to examinations
or periods of study in the University, and to withdraw such recognition at any
time;(xiv)to make provision for research and development in educational
technology and related matters;(xv)to create administrative, ministerial and
other necessary posts and to make appointments thereto;(xvi)to receive
benefactions, donations and gifts and to acquire, hold, maintain and dispose
of any property movable or immovable, including trust and Government property,
for the purposes of the University;(xvii)to borrow, with the approval of the
Central Government whether on the security of the property of the University
or otherwise, money for the purposes of the University;(xviii)to enter into,
carry out, vary or cancel contracts;(xix)to demand and receive such fees and
other charges as may be laid down by the Ordinances;(xx)to provide, control
and maintain discipline among the students and all categories of employees and
to lay down the conditions of service of such employees, including their codes
of conduct;(xxi)to recognize any institution of higher learning or studies for
such purposes as the University may determine and to withdraw such
recognition;(xxii)to appoint, either on contract or otherwise, visiting
Professors, Emeritus Professors, Consultants, fellows, scholars, artists,
course writer and such other persons who may contribute to the advancement of
the objects of the University;(xxiii)to recoginse persons working in other
universities, institutions or organizations as teachers of the University on
such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Ordinances;(xxiv)to
determine standards and to specify conditions for the admission of students to
courses of study of the University which may include examination, evaluation
and any other method of testing;(xxv)to make arrangements for the promotion of
the general health and welfare of the employees;(xxvi)to confer autonomous
status on a College or a Regional Centre in the manner laid down by the
Statutes;(xxvii)to admit to its privileges any College in or outside India
subject to such conditions as may be laid down by the Statutes;Provided that
no College shall be so admitted except with the prior approval of the
Visitor;(xviii)to do all such acts as may be necessary or incidental to the
exercise of all or any of the powers of the University as are necessary and
conducive to the promotion of all or any of the objects of the
University.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time
being in force, but without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), it
shall be the duty of the University to take all such steps as it may deem fit
for the promotion of the open university and distance education systems and
for the determination of standards of teaching, evaluation and research in
such systems, and for the purpose of performing this function, the University
shall have such powers, including the power to allocate and disburse grants to
Colleges, whether admitted to its privileges or not, or to any other
university or institution of higher learning, as may be specified by the
Statutes.[6. The University shall in the exercise of its powers have
jurisdiction over the whole of India and to the Study Centres outside India.]
[Amendment of Section 6 of the Indira Gandhi National Open University Act,
1985 enacted by the Parliament in August, 1997. The amended Act shall come
into force from 16th December, 1997.]

### 7.

(1)The University shall be open to persons of either sex and of whatever race,
creed, caste or class, and it shall not be lawful for the University to adopt
or impose on any Person any test whatsoever of religious belief or profession
in order to entitle him to be appointed as a teacher of the University or to
hold any other office therein or admitted as a student in the University, or
to graduate there at, or to enjoy or exercise any privilege thereof.(2)Nothing
in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to prevent the University from making any
special provision for the appointment or admission of women or of persons
belonging to the weaker sections of the society, and in particular, of persons
belonging to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes.

### 8.

(1)The President of India shall be the Visitor of the University.(2)Subject to
the provisions of sub-sections (3) and (4), the Visitor shall have the right
to cause an inspection to be made, by such person or persons as he may direct,
of the University, its buildings, laboratories and equipment, and of any
College, Regional Centre, a Study Centre and also of the examination,
instruction and other work conducted or done by the University, and to cause
an inquiry to be made in like manner in respect of any matter connected with
the administration and finances of the University.(3)The Visitor shall, in
every case, give notice to the University of his intention to cause an
inspection or inquire to be made and the University shall, on receipt of such
notice, have the right to make, within thirty days from the date of receipt of
the notice or such other period as the Visitor may determine, such
representations to him as it may consider necessary.(4)After considering the
representations, if any, made by the University, the Visitor may cause to be
made such inspection or inquiry as is referred to in sub-section (2).(5)Where
an inspection or inquiry has been caused to be made by the Visitor, the
University shall be entitled to appoint a representative who shall have the
right to appear in person and to be heard on such inspection or inquiry.(6)The
Visitor may address the Vice-Chancellor with reference to the results of such
inspection or inquiry together with such views and advice with regard to the
action to be taken thereon as the Visitor may be pleased to officer and on
receipt of the address made by the Visitor, the Vice-Chancellor shall
communicate forthwith to the Board of Management the results of the inspection
or inquiry and the views of the Visitor and the advice tendered by him upon
the action to be taken thereon.(7)The Board of Management shall communicate
through the Vice-Chancellor to the Visitor such action, if any, as it proposes
to take or has been taken by it upon the results of such inspection or
inquiry.(8)Where the Board of Management does not within a reasonable time,
take action to the satisfaction of the Visitor, the Visitor may, after
considering any explanation furnished or representation made by the Board of
Management, issue such directions as he may think fit and the Board of
Management shall be bound to comply with such directions.(9)Without prejudice
to the foregoing provisions of this section, the Visitor may, by an order in
writing, annual any proceedings of the University which is not in conformity
with this Act, the Statutes or the Ordinances.Provided that before making nay
such order, he shall call upon the University to show cause why such an order
should not be made and, if any cause is shown within a reasonable time, he
shall consider the same.(10)The Visitor shall have such other powers as may be
specified by the Statutes.

### 9.

The following shall be the officers of the University--(1)The Vice-
Chancellor;(2)The Pro-Vice-Chancellors;(3)The Directors;(4)The
Registrars;(5)The Finance Officer; and(6)Such other officers as may be
declared by the Statutes to be the officers of the University.

### 10.

(1)The Vice-Chancellor Shall be appointed by the Visitor in such manner, for
such term and on such emoluments and other conditions of service as may be
prescribed by the Statutes.(2)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the principal
academic and executive officer of the University, and shall exercise
supervision and control over the affairs of the University and give effect to
the decisions of all the authorities of the University.(3)The Vice-Chancellors
may, if he is of the opinion that immediate action is necessary on any matter,
exercise any power conferred on any authority of the University by or under
this Act and shall report to such authority the action taken by him on such
matter:Provided that if the authority concerned is of the opinion that such
action ought not to have been taken, it may refer the matter to the Visitor
whose decision thereon shall be final:Provided further that any person in the
service of the University who is aggrieved by the action taken by the Vice-
Chancellor under this sub-section shall have the right to appeal against such
action on the Board of Management within ninety days from the date on which
such action is communicated to him and thereupon the Board of management may
confirm, modify or reverse the action taken by the Vice-Chancellor.(4)The
Vice-Chancellor, if he is of the opinion that any decision of any authority is
beyond the powers of the authority conferred by the provisions of this Act,
Statutes or Ordinances or that any decision taken is not in the interests of
the University, may ask the authority concerned to review its decision within
sixty days of such decision and if the authority refuses to review its
decision either in whole or in part or no decision is taken by it with in the
said period of sixty days, the matter shall be referred to the Visitor whose
decision thereon shall be final: Provided that the decision of the authority
concerned shall remain suspended during the period of review of such decision
by the authority or the Visitor, as the case may be, under this sub-
section.(5)The Vice-Chancellor shall exercise such other powers and perform
such other functions as may be prescribed by the Statutes and the Ordinances.

### 11.

Every Pro-Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed in such manner, on such
emoluments and other conditions of service, and shall exercise such powers and
perform such functions, as may be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 12.

Every Director shall be appointed in such manner, on such emoluments and other
conditions of service, and shall exercise such powers and perform such
functions, as may be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 13.

(1)Every Registrar shall be appointed in such manner, on such emoluments and
other conditions of service as may be prescribed by the Statutes.(2)A
Registrar empowered by the Board of Management shall have the power to enter
into, and sign, agreements and authenticate records on behalf of the
University.(3)Every Registrar shall exercise such powers ands perform such
functions as may be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 14.

The Finance Officer shall be appointed in such manner, on such emoluments and
other conditions of service and shall exercise such powers and perform such
functions as may be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 15.

The manner of appointment, emoluments, powers and duties of the other officers
of the University shall be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 16.

The following shall be the authorities of the University :(1)The Board of
Management;(2)The Academic Council(3)The Planning Board;(4)The Board of
Recognition;(5)The Schools of Studies;(6)The Finance Committee; and(7)Such
other authorities as may be declared by the Statues to be the authorities of
the University.

### 17.

(1)The Board of Management shall be the principal executive body of the
University.(2)The constitution of the Board of Management, the term of office
of its members and its powers and functions shall be prescribed by the
Statutes.

### 18.

(1)The Academic Council shall be the principal academic body of the University
and shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, the Statutes and Ordinances,
have the control and general regulation, of and be responsible for, the
maintenance of standards of learning, education, instruction, evaluation and
examination within the University and shall exercise such other powers and
perform such other functions as may be conferred or imposed upon it by the
Statutes.(2)The constitution of the Academic Council and the term of office of
its members shall be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 19.

(1)There shall be constituted a Planning Board of the University which shall
be the principal planning body of the University and shall also be responsible
for the monitoring of the developments of the University on the lines
indicated in the objects of the University.(2)The constitution of the Planning
Board, the term of office of its members and its powers and functions shall be
prescribed by the Statutes.

### 20.

(1)The Board of Management shall be responsible for admitting Colleges to the
privileges of the University.(2)The constitution and the other powers and
functions of the Board of Recognition shall be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 21.

(1)There shall be such number of Schools of Studies as the University may
determine from time to time.(2)The constitution, power and functions of the
School of Studies shall be prescribed by the Statutes.

### 22.

The constitution, powers and functions of the Finance Committee shall be
prescribed by the Statutes.

### 23.

The constitution, powers and functions of the other authorities which may be
declared by the Statutes to be authorities of the University shall be
prescribed by the Statutes.

### 24.

Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Statues may provide for all or any
of the following matters, namely :-(a)the manner of appointment of the Vice-
Chancellor, the term of his appointment, the emoluments and other conditions
of his serviced and the powers and functions that may be exercised and
performed by him;(b)the manner of appointment of Pro-Vice-Chancellor,
Directors, Registrars, the Finances Officer and other officers, the emoluments
and other conditions of their service and the powers and functions that may be
exercised and performed by each of the officers.(c)The constitution of the
Board of Management and other authorities of the University, the terms of
office of the members of such authorities and the powers and functions that
may be exercised and performed by such authorities;(d)The appointment of
teachers and other employees of the University, their emoluments and other
conditions of service;(e)The constitution of a pension or provident fund and
the establishment of an insurance scheme for the benefit of the employees of
the University;(f)The principles governing the seniority of service of the
employees of the University;(g)The procedure in relation to any appeal or
application for review by any employee or student of the University against
the action of any officer or authority of the University, including the time
within which such appeal or application for review shall be preferred or
made;(h)The procedure for the settlement of disputes between the employees
students of the University, and the University;(i)The conferment of autonomous
status on Colleges and Study Centres;(j)The co-ordination and determination of
standards in the open University and distance education systems and the
allocation and disbursement of grants to Colleges and other universities and
institutions;(k)The conditions that are required to be fulfilled for admission
of the Colleges to the privileges of the University;(l)All other matters which
by the Act are to be, or may be, provided by the Statutes.

### 25.

(1)The first Statutes are those set out in the Second Schedule.(2)The Board of
Management may, from time to time, make new or additional Statutes or may
amend or repeal the Statutes referred to in sub-section (1): Provided that the
Board of Management shall not make, amend or repeal any Statute affecting the
status, powers or constitution of any authority of the University until such
authority has been given a reasonable opportunity to express its opinion in
writing on the proposed changes and any opinion so expressed has been
considered by the Board of Management.(3)Every new Statute or addition to the
Statutes or any amendment or repeal thereof shall require the approval of the
Visitor, who may assent thereto or withhold assent or remit to the Board of
Management for re-consideration in the light of the observations, if any, made
by him.(4)A new Statute or a Statue amending or repealing an existing Statute
shall not be valid unless it has been assented to by the
Visitor.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing sub-section,
the Visitor may make new or additional Statues or amend or repeal the Statutes
referred to in sub-section (1), during the period of three years immediately
after the commencement of this Act.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in
the foregoing sub-section, the Visitor may direct the University to make
provisions in the Statutes in respect of any matter specified by him and if
the Board of Management is unable to implement such a direction within sixty
days of its receipt, the Visitor may, after considering the reasons, if any,
communicated by the Board of Management for its inability to comply with such
directions, make or amend the Statutes suitably.

### 26.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Statutes, the Ordinances may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely :-(a)the admission of
students, the courses of study and fees therefore, the qualifications
pertaining to degrees, diplomas, certificates and other courses, the
conditions for the grant of fellowships awards and the like;(b)the conduct of
examinations, including the terms and conditions and appointment of
examiners;(c)the management of Colleges admitted to the privileges of the
University; and(d)any other matter which by this Act or the Statutes is to be
or may be, provided for by the Ordinances.(2)The first Ordinances shall be
made by the Vice-Chancellor with the previous approval of the Central
Government and the Ordinances so made may be amended, repealed or added to at
any time by the Board of Management in the manner prescribed by the Statutes.

### 28.

(1)The annual report of the University shall be prepared under the directions
of the Board of Management which shall include, among other matters, the steps
taken by7 the University towards the fulfillment of its objects.(2)The annual
report so prepared shall be submitted to the Visitor on or before such date as
may be prescribed by the Statutes.(3)A copy of the annual report, as prepared
under sub-section (1) shall also be submitted to the Central Government which
shall, as soon as may be, cause the same to be laid before both the Houses of
Parliament.

### 29.

(1)The annual accounts and the balance sheet of the University shall be
prepared under the directions of the Board of Management and shall, once at
least every year, and at intervals of not more than fifteen months, be audited
by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India or such person or persons as
he may authorize in this behalf.(2)A copy of the accounts together with the
audit report shall be submitted to the Visitor along with the observations, if
any, of the Board of Management.(3)Any observations made by the Visitor on the
annual accounts shall be brought to notice of the Board of Management and the
views of the Board of Management, if any, on such observations shall be
submitted to the Visitor.(4)A copy of the accounts together with the audit
report, as submitted to the Visitor, shall also be submitted to the Central
Government, which shall, as soon as may be, cause the same to be laid before
both the Houses of Parliament.(5)The audited annual accounts, after having
been laid before both the Houses of Parliament, shall be published in the
Gazette of India.

### 30.

(1)Every employee of the University shall be appointed under a written
contract and such contract shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances.(2)The contract referred to in-sub-
section (1) shall be lodged with the University and a copy of which shall be
furnished to the employee concerned.

### 31.

(1)Any dispute arising out of a contract of employment referred to in section
30 between the University and an employee shall, at the request of either
party, be referred to a Tribunal of Arbitration which shall consist of one
member nominated by the Board of Management, one member nominated by the
employee concerned and an umpire to be nominated by the Visitor.(2)Every such
reference shall be deemed to be a submission to arbitration upon the terms of
this section within the meaning of the Arbitration Act, 1940, and all the
provisions of that Act, with the exception of section 2 thereof, shall apply
accordingly.(3)The procedure for regulating the work of the Tribunal of
Arbitration shall be prescribed by the Statutes.(4)The decision of the
Tribunal of Arbitration shall be final and binding on the parties, and no suit
shall lie in any court in respect of the matters decided by the Tribunal.

### 32.

(1)The University shall constitute for the benefit of the employees such
provident or pension funds or provide such insurance schemes as it may deem
fit in such manner and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the
Statutes.(2)Where such provident or pension fund has been so constituted, the
Central Government may declare that the provisions of the Provident Funds Act,
1925 shall apply to such funds, as if it were a Government Provident Fund.

### 33.

If any question arises as to whether any person has been duly elected or
appointed as, or is entitled to be a member of any authority or other body of
the University, the matter shall be referred to the Visitor whose decision
thereon shall be final.

### 34.

All the casual vacancies among the members (other than ex officio members) of
any authority or other body of the University shall be filled, as soon as may
be convenient, by the person or body who appoints, elects or co-opts the
members whose place has become vacant and any person appointed, elected or co-
opted to a casual vacancy shall be a member of such authority or body for the
residue of the term for which the person whose place he fills would have been
a member.

### 35.

No act or proceedings of any authority or any other body shall be invalidated
merely by reason of the existence of any vacancy or vacancies among its
members.

### 36.

No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against any officer or employee
of the University for any thing which is in good faith done or intended to be
done in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act or the Statutes or the
Ordinances.

### 37.

A copy of any receipt, application, notice, order, proceedings, resolution of
any authority or committee of the University, or other documents in the
possession of the University, or any entry in any register duly maintained by
the University, if certified by the Registrar so designated shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, or in any
other law for the time being in force, be admitted as evidence of the matters
and transactions specified therein, where the original thereof would, if
produced, have been admissible in evidence.

### 38.

If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the
Central Government may, by order, published in the Gazette of India, make such
provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appears to it
to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty:Provided that no such
order shall be made under this section after the expiry of three years from
the commencement of this Act.

### 39.

Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act and the Statutes:(a)The first
Vice-Chancellor, the first Registrars and the first Finance Officer shall be
appointed by the Visitor and they shall be governed by the terms and
conditions of service specified by the Statutes:Provided that the first Vice-
Chancellor shall be eligible for appointment in the manner specified in the
Statutes for another term;(b)The first Board of Management shall consist of
not more than fifteen members who shall be nominated by the Visitor and they
shall hold office for a term of three year; and(c)(i)The first Planning Board
shall consist of not more than ten members who shall be nominated by the
Visitor and they shall hold for a term of three years;(ii)The planning Board
shall, in addition to the powers and functions conferred on it by this Act,
exercise the powers of the Academic Council, until the Academic Council is
constituted under the provisions of this Act and the Statutes, and in the
exercise of such powers, the Planning Board may co-opt such members as it may
decide.

### 40.

(1)Every Statute, Ordinance or Regulation made under this Act shall be
published in the Official Gazette.(2)Every Statute, Ordinance or Regulation
made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before
each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty
days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive
session, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the
session or successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the Statute, Ordinance or Regulation or both Houses agree that
the Statute, Ordinance or Regulation should not be made, the Statute,
Ordinance or Regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such modified
form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that Statute, Ordinance or Regulation.THE FIRST
SCHEDULE(See Section 4)The Objects Of The University

### 1\. The University shall endeavour through education, research, training
and extension to play a positive role in the development of the country, and,
based on the rich heritage of the country, to promote and advance the culture
of the people of India and its human resources. Towards this end, it shall :

(a)strengthen and diversify the degree, certificate and diploma courses
related to the needs of employment and necessary for building the economy of
the country on the basis of its natural and human resources;(b)provide access
to higher education for large segments of the population, and in particular,
the disadvantaged groups such as those living in remote and rural areas
including working people, housewives and other adults who wish to upgrade or
acquire knowledge through studies in various fields;(c)promote acquisition of
knowledge in a rapidly developing and changing society and to continually
offer opportunities for upgrading knowledge, training and skills in the
context of innovations, research and discovery in all fields of human
endeavours;(d)provide an innovative system of university level education,
flexible and open, in regard to methods and pace of learning, combination of
courses, eligibility for enrolment, age of entry, conduct of examination and
operation of the programmes with a view to promote learning and encourage
excellence in new fields of knowledge;(e)contribute to the improvement of the
educational system in India by providing a nonformal channel complementary to
the formal system and encouraging transfer of credits and exchange of teaching
staff by making wide use of texts and other software developed by the
University;(f)provide education and training in the various arts, crafts and
skills of the country, raising their quality and improving their availability
to the people;(g)provide or arrange training of teachers required for such
activities or institutions;(h)provide suitable post-graduate courses of study
and promote research;(i)provide the counseling and guidance to its students;
and(j)promote national integration and the integrated development of the human
personality through its policies and programmes.

### 2\. The University shall strive to fulfil the above objects by a diversity
of means of distance and continuing education, and shall function in
cooperation with the existing Universities and Institutions of higher learning
and make full use of the latest scientific knowledge and new educational
technology to offer a high quality of education which matches contemporary
needs.

THE SECOND SCHEDULE(See Section 24)Statutes Of The University(as amended upto
31.3.1998)

### 1\. The Vice-Chancellor

(1)The Vice-Chancellor shall be a whole-time salaried officer of the
University.(2)The Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the Visitor from out
of a panel of not less than three persons recommended (the names being
arranged in the alphabetical order) by a committee constituted under clause
(3):(3)Provided that if the Visitor doe not approve of any of the persons so
recommended the may call for fresh recommendations.(4)The committee referred
to in clause (2) shall consist of three members of whom two shall be nominated
by the Board of Management and one by the Visitor, and the person nominated by
the Visitor shall be the Convener of the committee:(5)Provided that no person
who is an employee of the University of any affiliated College or a member of
any authority of the University shall be nominated to bean member of the
Committee.(6)The Vice-Chancellor shall hold office for a term of five years
from the date on which he enters upon his office, or until he attains the age
of sixty-five years, whichever is earlier, and he shall not be eligible for
reappointment:(7)Provided than the Visitor may require any Vice-Chancellor
after his term has expired, to continue in office for such period, not
exceeding a total period of one year as may be specified by him.(8)The
emolument and other conditions of service of the Vice-Chancellor shall be as
follows :-(i)There shall be paid to the Vice-Chancellor a salary of Rs.7600/-
(fixed) (prerevised) per month and he would be entitled to the free use of the
University car and without payment of rent, to the use of furnished residence
throughout his term of the office and no charge shall fall on the Vice-
Chancellor personally in respect of the maintenance of such residence.Note :
The above will be effective from 1.1.1986.(ii)In addition to the salary
specified in sub-clause (i), the Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to such
other allowances as are admissible to University employees from time to
time.Amendment regarding salary of Vice-Chancellor in Sub-clause (i) of Clause
(5) of Statute 1 is approved by the Board of Management at its Meeting held on
December 31, 1987 and modified in its Meeting held on August 30, 1988
(Resolution No.6.11.1 and 11.17.1 respectively) received the approval of the
Visitor vide MHRD letter No. F.5-16/88-U.I.(Desk) dated November
10,1989).(iii)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to such terminal benefits
and allowances as may be fixed by the Board of Management with the approval of
the Visitor from time to time:Provided that where an employee of the
University or a College or of any other university or any institution
maintained by or affiliated to such other university is appointed as the Vice-
Chancellor, he may be allowed to continue to contribute to any provident fund
of which he is a member and the University shall contribute to the account of
such person in that provident fund at the same rate at which such person had
been contributing immediately before his appointment as Vice-
Chancellor.Provided further that where such employee had been a member of any
pension scheme, the University shall make the necessary contribution to such
scheme.(iv)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to Leave Travel Concession,
Medical Facilities and Traveling Allowance at such rates as may be fixed by
the Board of Management.(v)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to leave on
full pay for one-eleventh of the period spent by him to active service.(vi)In
addition to the leave referred to in sub-clause(v), the Vice-Chancellor shall
be entitled to half pay leave at the rate of twenty days per year of every
completed year of service and the half pay leave may be availed of as commuted
leave on full pay on medical certificate.(6)[ If the Office of the Vice-
Chancellor becomes vacant due to death, resignation or otherwise, or if he is
unable to perform his duties due to ill health or any other cause, the senior-
most Pro Vice-Chancellor, shall perform the duties of the Vice-Chancellor, and
if there is no Pro Vice-Chancellor, the Senior-most Professor from amongst
Directors of the Schools shall perform the functions of the Vice-Chancellor
until the new Vice-Chancellor assumes his office or until the existing Vice-
Chancellor attends to the duties of his office, as the case may be.]
[Amendment to Clause (6) of Statute 1, regarding Vice-Chancellor in made by
the BOM at its 74th meeting held on 28-2-03, received the approval of the
Visitor vide MHRD letter No. F-5-24/2003-Desk (U)(A) dt. 22-11-04.]

### 2\. Powers and functions of the Vice-Chancellor--

(1)The Vice-Chancellor shall be ex officio Chairman of the Board of
Management, the Academic Council, the Planning Board and the Finance
Committee.(2)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to be present at, and
address, any meeting of any other authority or other body of the University,
but shall not be entitled to vote there at unless he is a member of such
authority or body.(3)It shall be the duty of the Vice-Chancellor to see that
this Act, the Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations are duly observed and he
shall have all the powers necessary to ensure such observance.(4)The Vice-
Chancellor shall exercise control over the affairs of the University and shall
give effect to the decisions of all the authorities of the University.(5)The
Vice-Chancellor shall have all the powers necessary for the proper maintenance
of discipline in the University and he may delegate any such powers to such
person or persons as he may deem fit.(6)[ The Vice-Chancellor shall be
empowered :-(i)to grant leave to any officer of the University and make
necessary arrangements for the discharge of the functions of such officer
during his absence;(ii)to make necessary arrangements for discharging the
functions of an officer whose position falls vacant due to resignation,
retirement, death or any other reason till regular appointment to such
positions is made.Provided that arrangement made under sub-clause(ii) of
Clause (6) may be for a period not exceeding 6 months at a time. Further
extension exceeding 6 months is to be reported to the Board.] [Amendment to
Clause 6 of the Statute 2 adding sub clauses (i) and (ii), made by the Board
of Management at its meeting held on 6.8.01, approved by the Visitor vide MHRD
letter No. F.5-73/2001-Desk (U)(A) dated 26.2.2002.](7)The Vice-Chancellor
shall grant leave of absence to any employee of the University in accordance
with the rules and if he so desires, delegate such powers to another officer
of the University.(8)The Vice-Chancellor shall have the power to convene or
cause to be convened the meetings of the Board of Management, the Academic
Council, the Planning Board and the Finance Committee.(9)The Vice-Chancellor
shall have the following further powers, namely :-(i)to appoint such
Professors, Readers, Lecturers and other teachers as may be necessary with the
prior approval of the Board of Management;(ii)to appoint course writers,
script writers, counsellors, programmers, artists and such other persons as
may be considered necessary for the efficient functioning of the
University;(iii)to make short-term appointments for a period not exceeding six
months at a time, of such persons as may be considered necessary for the
functioning of the University;(iv)to arrange for the establishment and
maintenance of Regional and Study Centres at different places as may be
required from time to time and delegate to any employee such powers as are
necessary for their efficient functioning.

### 3\. The Pro-Vice-Chancellors

(1)[ Every Pro-Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the Board of Management
on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor :Provided that if any
recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor is not accepted by the Board of
Management, the matter shall be referred to the Visitor who may either appoint
the person recommended by the Vice-Chancellor or request the Vice-Chancellor
to recommend another person for consideration by the Board of Management
:Provided further that the Board of Management may, on the recommendation of
the Vice-Chancellor, appoint a Professor or a Director of a School/Division to
perform the functions of a Pro-Vice-Chancellor in addition to his own
functions as a Professor or a Director of a School/Division.] [Amendment to
second proviso to Clause (1) of Statute 3 regarding the Pro-Vice-Chancellors
is made by the Board of Management at its meeting held on 18.02.1992 is
approved by the Visitor vide MHRD letter No.F.5-72/91-U.1(Desk) dated
16.7.1992.](2)The term of office of a Pro-Vice-Chancellor shall be such as may
be decided by the Board of Management, but it shall not in any case exceed
three years or until the expiration of the term of office of the Vice-
Chancellor, whichever, is earlier and he shall be eligible for re-appointment
:Provided that a Pro-Vice-Chancellor shall retire on attaining the age of
sixty-five years :Provided further that a Pro-Vice-Chancellor shall, while
performing the functions of the Vice-Chancellor under clause (6) of Statute 1,
continue in office notwithstanding the expiration of his term of office as
Pro-Vice-Chancellor until a new Vice-Chancellor assumes his office or until
the existing Vice-Chancellor attends to the duties of his office, as the case
may be.(3)(a)The Salary of a Pro-Vice-Chancellor shall be fixed in the scale
of pay of Rs. 5900-200-7300 (pre-revised) subject to a minimum of Rs.6500 per
month. Where a Professor/Director of School/Division is appointed to perform
the functions of a Pro-Vice-Chancellor in addition to his own function as such
Professor/Director of School/Division he shall draw his pay in his substantive
post plus a special pay of Rs.500 per month, or Rs.7300 (pre-revised)
whichever is less.(b)Every Pro-Vice Chancellor during his tenure shall be
entitled, without payment of rent, to the use of a furnished residence
throughout his term of office and no charge shall fall on the Pro-Vice-
Chancellor personally in respect of maintenance of such residence.(c)In
addition to the salary specified in sub-clause (a), a Pro-Vice-Chancellor
shall be in titled to such other allowances as are admissible to the employees
of the University from time to time.(d)The Pro-Vice-Chancellor during his
tenure shall be entitled to leave, as admissible to the employee of the
University from time to time. Provided further that where an employee of the
University or a College affiliated to it or of any other University or
institution maintained by or affiliated to such other University, is appointed
as a Pro-Vice-Chancellor he shall continue to be governed by the same Leave
Rules to which he was entitled prior to his appointment as Pro-Vice-Chancellor
till he continues to hold his lian on that post.(e)The Pro-Vice-Chancellor
shall been titled to Travelling Allowance, Leave Travel Concession and Medical
Concession as are admissible to the employees of the University from time to
time.(h)Every Pro-Vice-Chancellor shall assist the Vice-Chancellor in respect
of such matters as may be specified by the Vice-Chancellor in this behalf from
time to time and shall also exercise such powers and perform such functions as
may be delegated to him by the Vice-Chancellor.

### 4\. The Directors

(1)Every Director shall be appointed by the Board of Management on the
recommendation of--(i)the Vice-Chancellor, in case the candidate to be
appointed is already a teacher of the University; and(ii)[ a Selection
Committee constituted for the purpose as per the qualifications prescribed by
the Board of Management in each case.] [Addition to Clause (1)(ii) of Statute
4 was approved by the Board of Management at its meeting held on 27.12.95 and
assent of the Visitor was conveyed vide Ministry of HRD's letter
No.F.5-16/96-U.1(Desk) dated 23.04.96.]"Provided that--(a)A Director of a
School shall be appointed from among the Professors of the School by the Board
of management on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor;(b)The rotation of
directorship among the disciplines of a School be kept in view while making
the recommendation;(c)[ The Director of STRIDE and the Director, Regional
Services Division shall be appointed by the Board of Management on the
recommendations of the Vice Chancellor from amongst the Professors in STRIDE
and the Regional Directors in Professors scale, respectively; and [Amendment
to Clause (1)(ii) (c) and addition of Sub Clause (ii) (d) and Clause (3) of
Statute 4 approved by the Board of Management at its meeting held on 28.2.03
and assent of the Visitor conveyed vide MHRD letter No. F.5-2/2003-Desk (U)(A)
dt. 6.10.04.](d)A Director shall hold office for a period of the years and
that he shall be eligible for re-appointment."(2)Every Director shall be a
whole-time salaried officer of the University :Provided that one of the
Directors shall be in charge of the administrative affairs of the
teachers.(3)The emoluments and other conditions of service of the Director
shall be prescribed by the Ordinances;Provided that a Director shall retire on
attaining the age of sixty two years.(4)A Director shall exercise such powers
and perform such functions as may be prescribed by the Ordinances.]

### 5\. The Registrar

(1)Every Registrar shall be appointed by the Board of Management on the
recommendation of a Selection Committee constituted for the purpose and he
shall be a whole-time salaried officer of the University.(2)The emoluments and
other conditions of service of a Registrar shall be prescribed by the
Ordinances:Provided that a Registrar shall retire on attaining the age of
sixty years.(3)A Registrar designated by the Board of Management shall have
power to take disciplinary action against such of the employees, excluding
teachers and other members as may be specified by the Board of Management by
order.(4)An appeal shall lie to an officer so designated by the Board of
Management against any order made by the Registrar in pursuance of clause
(3).(5)In cases where an inquiry discloses that a punishment beyond the powers
of a Registrar is called for, the Registrar shall, consequent to the enquiry,
make a report to the Vice-Chancellor along with his recommendations for such
action as the Vice-Chancellor may deem fit:Provided that an appeal shall lie
to the Board of Management against an order of the Vice-Chancellor imposing
any penalty.(6)[ Such of the Registrar as is designated by the Board of
Management shall be:(i)The Secretary to the Board of Management;(ii)Member of
the Academic Council;(iii)Member of the Planning Board.]trust and immovable
properties for fulfilling any of the objects of the University;(b)ensure that
the limits fixed by the Finance Committee for recurring and non recurring
expenditure for a year are not exceeded and the money is expended or spent for
the purposes for which it was granted or allotted;(c)be responsible for the
preparation of the annual accounts and the budget of the University and for
their presentation to the Board of Management after they have been considered
by the Finance Committee;(d)keep a constant watch on the cash and bank
balances and investments;(e)watch the progress of collection of revenue and
advise on the methods of collection employed;(f)ensure that the registers of
properties of the University are maintained properly and that stock checking
is conducted of equipments and other materials in the offices of the
University including Regional Centres, Study Centres and other institutions
maintained by the University;(g)bring to the notice of the Vice-chancellor any
unauthorized expenditure or other financial irregularities and suggest
appropriate action against persons at fault;(h)call from any office of the
University, including Regional Centre, Study Centres and other institutions
maintained by the University, any information or reports that he may consider
necessary for the performance of his functions.(6)Any receipt given by the
Finance Officer or by the person or persons duly authorized in this behalf by
the Board of Management shall be a sufficient discharge for payment of moneys
to the University.[6.1 Librarian and Information Officer---(1)The Librarian
and Information Officer shall be appointed by the Board of Management on the
recommendation of a Selection Committee constituted for the purpose under
Statute 12(2)(i) and he shall be a whole-time salaried officer of the
University.(2)The emoluments and other conditions of service of the Librarian
and Information Officer shall be prescribed by the Ordinances.Provided that
the Librarian and Information Officer shall retire on attaining the age of
sixty years.] [Statute 6.1 on Librarian and Information Officer, made by the
Board of Management at its meeting held on 28.3.97 received the approval of
the Visitor vide MHRD letter No. F.5-33/97-Desk(U)(A and dated 20.3.97.][6A.
The Board of Management(1)The Board on Management shall consist of the
following members, namely;(i)Vice-Chancellor;(ii)Senior-most Pro-Vice-
Chancellor;(iii)Three employees of the University who shall be nominated by
`the Vice-Chancellor, of which one shall be from the Directors of School of
Studies; and the other two from the teachers and other academic staff other
than the Directors of School;(iv)Five persons, who are not employees of the
University, to be nominated by the Visitor, representing the following areas
of specialisation:(a)Two eminent educationists;(b)One person from the non-
formal/voluntary sector;(c)One person representing Commerce/Industry;
and(d)One person representing learned Profession.(v)Two representatives of the
Government of India; Secretary, Department of Education and Secretary,
Information and Broadcasting, to be nominated by the Visitor; and(vi)Tree
persons to be co-opted by the Board of Management from among the
following;--(a)A Vice-Chancellor of a State Open University;(b)One expert on
Distance Education; and(c)One person who has knowledge of, or experience in,
media/communication field.(2)Members of the Board of Management, other than
ex-officio members, shall hold office for a term of three years. Provided,
however, that persons nominated/appointed from the University shall hold
office for a term of two years.(3)The term of office of members of the Board
of Management shall commence from the date of appointment, or nomination, as
the case may be.(4)Six members of the Board of Management shall form the
quorum for a meeting of the Board.] [Statute 6A on Board of Management, made
by the Board of Management at its meeting held on October 7, 1988 and October,
5, 1989 received the approval of the Visitor vide MHRD letter No.
F.5-81/88-U.I.(Desk) dated April 20, 1990.]

### 7\. Powers and functions of the Board of Management

(1)The Board of Management shall have the power of management and
administration of the revenue and property of the University and the conduct
of all administrative affairs of the University not otherwise provided
for:(2)Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances,
the Board of Management shall, in addition to the other powers vested in it
under the Statutes have the following powers, namely:(a)to create teaching and
other academic posts and to define the functions and conditions of service of
Professors, Readers, Lecturers and other teachers and other academic staff
employed by the University;(b)to prescribe qualifications for teachers and
other academic staff;(c)to approve the appointment of such Professors,
Readers, Lecturers and other teachers and academic staff as may be necessary
on the recommendations of the Selection Committees constituted for the
purpose;(d)to approve appointments to temporary vacancies of any academic
staff;(e)to specify the manner of appointment to temporary vacancies of
academic staff;(f)to provide for the appointment of visiting Professors,
Emeritus Professors, Fellows, artists and writers and determine the terms and
conditions of such appointments;(g)to manage and regulate the finances,
accounts, investments, property of the University and all other affairs of the
University and to appoint such agents as may be considered fit;(h)to invest
any money belonging to the University, including any unapplied income, in such
stocks, funds, shares or securities as it thinks fit or in the purchase of
immovable property in India with like power of varying such investment from
time to time, provided that no action under this clause shall be taken without
consulting the Finance Committee;(i)to create administrative, ministerial and
other necessary posts after taking into account the recommendations of the
Finance Committee and to specify the manner of appointment thereto;(j)to
regulate and enforce discipline amongst the employees in accordance with the
Statutes and Ordinances;(k)to transfer or accept transfers of any immovable or
movable property on behalf of the University;(l)to entertain, adjudicate upon,
or redress the grievances of the employees and the students of the University
who may, for any reason, feel aggrieved;(m)to fix the remuneration payable to
course writers, counsellors, examiners and invigilators, and traveling and
other allowances payable, after consulting the Finance Committee;(n)to select
the common seal for the University and to provide for the use of such
seal;(o)to delegate any of its powers to the Vice-Chancellor, Pro-Vice-
Chancellor, Registrar, the Finance Officer or any other officer, employee or
authority of the University, or to a committee appointed by it.(p)to institute
fellowships, scholarships, studentship; and(q)to exercise such other powers
and perform such other functions as may be conferred or imposed on it by the
Act or the Statutes.(3)`The Board of Management shall exercise all the powers
of the University not otherwise provided for by the Act, Statutes, Ordinances
and the Regulations for the fulfillment of the University.

### 8\. [***] [Statute 8 Omitted by the Board of Management at its meetings
held on October 7, 1988 and October 5, 1989, received the approval of the
Visitor vide MHRD letter No. F.5-81/88-U.I.(Desk) dated April 20, 1990.]

### 9\. [The Academic Council] [Statute 9 on the Academic Council made by the
Board of Management at its meeting held on October 7, 1988 (Resolution No.
12.1.2) received the approval of the Visitor vide MHRD letter No.
F.5-46/88-U.I (Desk) dated 25.1.1989 and 16.3.1989. The existing statute 9
`Powers of the Academic Council', stands renumbered as 9A.]

(1)The [Academic Council] [Amendment to clause (1) of Statute 9 was approved
by the Board of Management at its meeting held on 17-5-1996 and the assent of
the visitor is conveyed `vide MHRD letter No. F.5-50/96-U.I. (Desk)/Desk(U)(A)
dated 4.11.1996.] shall consist of the following members, namely;(i)Vice-
Chancellor - Ex-Officio Chairman;(ii)Pro-Vice-Chancellor (s) - Ex-officio
Member(s);(iii)Directors of Schools of studies - Ex-officio members;(iv)Three
Professors, three Readers and three Lecturers, other than Director of Schools
of Studies, to be nominated by the Board of Management on the recommendations
of the Vice-Chancellor on a rotation basis according to seniority;Provided
that while making these nominations, the principle of rotation among schools
and also among disciplines within the Schools shall be taken into
account;(v)Librarian - Ex-officio member;(vi)Three Directors, other than the
Director of Schools of studies, to be nominated by the Board of Management on
the recommendations of the Vice-Chancellor;(vii)[ Director Academic Co-
ordination Division shall be the Member Secretary of the Academic Council;]
[Amendment to Clause (1) Sub Clause (vii) adding under the Statute 9 was
approved by the Board of Management held on 28.2.03 and approved by the
Visitor vide MHRD letter No. F.5-25/2003/Desk(U)(A) dated 15.3.04.](viii)Not
less than ten persons who are not employees of the University, co-opted by the
Academic Council for their special knowledge including representatives of
employers' organizations, industries, trade and commerce, academic and
professional organization, communication field etc.;(ix)Two members from among
the academics other than teachers, to be nominated by the Board of Management
on the recommendations of the Vice-Chancellor, and(x)[ Such of the Registrar
as is designated by the Board of Management shall be a Member - (Ex-officio)]
[Amendment to Clause (1) adding sub Clause (x) adding under the Statute 9 was
approved by the Board of Management held on 28.2.03 and approved by the
Visitor vide MHRD letter No. F.5-25/2003/Desk(U)(A) dated 15.3.04.](2)The
members of the Academic Council, other than ex-officio members, shall hold
office for a term of two years from the date of their appointment or co-
option, as the case may be.(3)Ten members of the Academic Council shall form
the quorum for a meeting.

### 9A. Powers of the Academic Council

Subject to the Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances, the Academic Council
shall, in addition to all other powers vested in it under the Statutes, shall
have the following powers, namely:(a)[ to exercise general supervision over
the academic policies of the University and to give directions regarding
methods of instruction, evaluation or research or improvement in academic
standards; [Addition of Proviso to Clause (a) to Statute 9A was approved by
the Board of Management at its 48th meeting held on 30.7.96 and assent of the
Visitor was conveyed vide MHRD's letter No. F.5-65/96-U. 1 (Desk)/Desk (U)(A)
dated 21-11-96.]Provided that all matters relating to research shall under the
overall guidance and supervision of the Academic Council, be the
responsibility of a Research Council whose functions and composition shall be
provided in the Ordinances.] [Amendment to Clause (6) (i)(ii) and (iii) of
Statute 5 regarding the Registrar approved by the Board of Management at its
meeting held on 28.2.03 and assent of Visitor conveyed vide MHRD letter
No.F-5-25/2003-Desk(U)(A) dated 15.3.04.](b)to consider matters of general
academic interest either on its own initiative or on a reference from the
Planning Board of a School of Studies or the Board of Management and to take
appropriate action thereon; and(c)to frame such regulations and rules
consistent with the Statutes and the Ordinances regarding the academic
functioning of the University, including discipline, admissions, award of
fellowships and studentships, fees and other academic requirements.

### 10\. The Planning Board

(1)The [Planning Board] [Substitution of Clause (1) Statute 10 on the Planning
Board, made by the Board of Management at its meeting held on October 7, 1988
(Resolution No. 12.9.1) received approval of the Visitor vide MHRD letter No.
P.5-80/88-U.I. (Desk) dated 30.1..89.] shall consist of the following
:-(i)Vice-Chancellor;(ii)Four persons to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor
from amongst the academic staff of the University;(iii)Five persons, who are
not employees of the University, to be nominated by the Visitor, one each
representing the following sectors:(a)Vocational/Technical
Education;(b)Media/Communication;(c)Manpower Planning;(d)Agriculture/Rural
Development and allied activities; and(e)Women's Studies.(iv)Five persons, who
are not employees of the University, to be [nominated] [Amendment to Sub-
Clause (iv) of Clause (1) of Statute 10 (the word "co-opted" in the first line
of the Clause substituted with the word "nominated") was made by the Board of
Management at its meetings held on Aug. 17, 1990 and Dec. 14, 1990
respectively and received the approval of the Visitor vide MHRD letter No.
F.5-55/90-U.I. (Desk) dated April 18, 1991.] by the Board of management, for
their expertise, one each of the following areas of
specialization:(a)Management;(b)Learned Professions;(c)Education(d)Distance
Education; and(e)Commerce and Industry(v)[ Such of the Registrar as is
designated by the Board of Management shall be a Member - (Ex-officio)
[Addition to Clause (1) Sub Clauses (v) and (vi) of the Statute 10 regarding
the Planning Board approved by the Board of Management at its meeting held on
28.2.03 and as sent of the visitor was conveyed vide MHRD letter No.
F.5-25/2003-Desk (U)(A) dated 5.3.04.](vi)Director, Planning & Development
Division shall be the Member Secretary of the Planning Board.](2)All the
members of the Planning Board, other than the Vice-Chancellor, shall hold
office for a term of three years.(3)It shall be the responsibility of the
Planning Board to design and formulate appropriate programmes and activities
of the University, and it shall, in addition, have the right to advise the
Board of Management and the Academic Council on any matter which it may deem
necessary for the fulfillment of the objects of the University:Provided that
in case there is any difference of opinion between the Planning Board and the
Academic Council on any matter, it shall be referred to the Board of
Management whose decision shall be final.(4)The Planning Board may constitute
such committees as may be necessary for planning and monitoring the programmes
of the University.(5)The Planning Board shall meet at such intervals as it
shall deem expedient, but it shall meet at least twice in a year.(6)Six
members of the [Planning Board] [Substitution of Clause (6) Statute 10 on the
Planning Board, made by the Board of Management at its meeting held on October
7, 1988 (Resolution No. 12.9.1) received approval of the Visitor vide MHRD
letter No. P.5-80/88-U.I. (Desk) dated 30.1..89.] shall form the quorum for a
meeting of the Board.

### 10A. The [Schools of Studies] [Statute 10A on Schools of Studies, made by
the Board of Management at its meetings held on May 20, 1988 and August 30,
1988 (Resolution No. 11.29.1) received the approval of the Visitor vide MHRD
letter No F.5-42/.88-U.I(Desk) dated November 1, 1988.]

(1)[ The University shall have the following Schools of Studies, namely :-

### 1\. School of Humanities;

### 2\. School of Social Sciences;

### 3\. School of Sciences;

### 4\. School of Education;

### 5\. School of Continuing Education;

### 6\. School of Engineering and Technology;

### 7\. School of Management Studies;

### 8\. School of Health Sciences;

### 9\. School of Computer and Information Sciences; and

### 10\. Such other Schools as may be set-up by the Statutes.]

(2)Every School of Studies, hereinafter called "School", shall have a Board,
which shall comprise of the following;--(a)Director of the School -
Chairman(b)All Professors of the disciplines assigned to the School of
Studies, as may be determined by the Academic Council, from time to time;(c)At
least four Reader/Lecturers assigned to the School, nominated by the Vice-
Chancellor;(d)Not more than four Professors/Readers/Lecturers from disciplines
not assigned to the School, nominated by the Vice-Chancellor; and(e)Not more
than five person, who are not the employees of the University, co-opted by the
Board for their specialized knowledge in any discipline assigned to the School
or in any allied branch of knowledge.(3)All members of the Board, other than
the ex-officio members, shall hold office for a term of two years. The term of
members will commence from such date as may be notified.(4)Board of a School
shall have the powers to perform the following functions:(i)To organise
developmental and research work in the School;(ii)To approve the course
structure of the academic programmes of the School, in accordance with the
directions of the Academic Council, in pursuance of Statute 9A, on the
recommendation of the Expert Committee(s) constituted by it;(iii)To approve
the syllabus in accordance with the course structure on the advice of Expert
Committee(s) nominated by the Director;(iv)To recommend to the Vice-Chancellor
names of course writers, examiners and moderators for different courses on the
proposal of the Director of the School prepared in consultation with the
Professors of the disciplines assigned to the School;(v)To formulate proposals
for orientation programmes for course writers in collaboration with other
Schools;(vi)To formulate proposals for orientation programmes/summer Schools
for tutors and counsellors;(vii)To prepare general instructions for counseling
to students for different programmes;(viii)To review methodologies adopted for
preparation of educational materials for the courses in the disciplines
assigned to the School, to evaluate the educational material, and to make
suitable recommendations to Academic Council;(ix)To review, from time to time
the courses already in use with the assistance of outside experts, if
necessary, and to make such changes in the courses, as may be required;(x)To
review the facilities of the Study Centres and arrangements for
Laboratory/field work periodically, as may be determined by the School;(xi)To
perform all other functions, which may be prescribed by the Act, the Statutes,
the Ordinances and to consider all such matters, as may be referred to it by
the Board of Management, the Academic Council, the Planning Board or the Vice-
Chancellor; and(xii)To delegate to the Director or to any other members of the
Board or to a Committee such general or specific powers, as may be decided
upon by the School, from time to time.(5)[ The Board shall meet, as and when
necessary, but shall meet at least twice a year. One third of the total
membership of the Board shall form a quorum for a meeting of the School.]
[Amendment to Clause(5) of Statute 10(A) made by the Board of Management with
the approval of the Visitor conveyed vide Letter No. F.5-9/94-U.I. Desk dt.
22.3.95.]

### 11\. The Finance Committee

(1)[ The Finance Committee shall consist of the following members, namely
:-(i)Vice-Chancellor;(ii)a Pro-Vice-Chancellor of the University, by rotation
according to seniority;(iii)a Director of School of the University by rotation
according to seniority;(iv)one person to be appointed by the Board of
Management, from among its members other than an employee of the
University;(v)one person, who is not an employee of the University nominated
by the Board of Management,(vi)two persons to be nominated by the
Visitor,](1)[(a) The Finance Officer shall be ex-officio Secretary of the
Finance Committee, but he shall not be deemed to be a member of that
Committee.] [Addition of Clauses (1)(a) to Statute 11 approved by the Board of
Management at its second meeting held on March 19, 1987 and approved by the
Visitor, vide MHRD letter No. F.5-22/87.U.I. (Desk) dated June 8,1987.](2)All
the members of the Finance Committee, other than the Vice-Chancellor, shall
hold office for a term of three years from the dates on which they become
members of the Committee.(3)Four members of the Finance Committee shall form a
quorum for a meeting of the Committee.(4)The Finance Committee shall meet at
least thrice a year to examine the accounts and scrutinize the
expenditure.(5)All proposals relating to revision of grade, upgradation of the
scales and those items which are not included in the budget, shall be examined
by the Finance Committee before they are considered by the Board of
Management.(6)The annual accounts and the financial estimates of the
University prepared by the Finance Officer shall be laid before the Finance
Committee for consideration and comments, and thereafter submitted to the
Board of Management within the overall ceiling fixed by the Committee.(7)The
Finance Committee shall fix the limits for the total recurring and non-
recurring expenditure for the year, based on income and resources of the
University, and no expenditure shall be incurred by the University in excess
of the limits so fixed.

### 12\. Selection Committee

(1)[ There shall be Selection Committees for making recommendations to the
Board of Management for appointments to the post of Professors, Readers,
Lecturers and other academic staff and heads of institutions maintained by the
University.] [Clauses (1) of Statute 12 amended by the Board of Management at
its meetings held on October 7, 1988 and March 8, 1989 respectively and
received the approval of the Visitor vide MHRD letter no. F.5-7/88-U.(Desk)
dated March 8, 1989.](2)[ (i) Each of the Selection Committees for appointment
to the post of Professors, Readers, Lecturers and the academic staff shall
consist of the following members, namely :-(a)the Vice-Chancellor;(b)[ Pro-
Vice Chancellor associated with the School/Division/Centre nominated by the
Vice-Chancellor;](c)a person nominated by the Visitor;(d)[ three experts not
in the service of the University to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor in
such manner as may be specified in the Ordinances; and] [Amendment to Sub-
Clause, 2(i)(d) of Statute 12 regarding Selection Committees is approved by
the Visitor vide Ministry of HRD's letter No. F-5-26/93. U-1 (Desk) dated 20th
October 1994.](e)[ Director of the School/Division/Centre concerned/Professor
of the Discipline nominated by the Vice-Chancellor;] [Amendment to Clause 2
addition of Sub Clause (i)(e) of the Statute 12 was approved by the Board of
Management at its meeting held on 28.2.03 and assent of the Visitor conveyed
vide MHRD letter No.F-2/2003-Desk(U)(A).](ii)The Selection Committees for the
appointment of Registrars and Finance officer referred to in Statutes 5(1) and
6(1) respectively, shall consist of the following members, namely :-(a)the
Vice-Chancellor:(b)a Pro-Vice-Chancellor to be nominated by the Vice-
Chancellor;(c)a person nominated by the Visitor(d)two members of the Board of
Management nominated by it; and](e)[ one person not in the service of the
University nominated by the Board of Management.] [Amendment to sub-clause
(2)(ii)(e) of Statute 12 regarding Selection Committees is approved by the
Visitor vide Ministry of HRD's letter No.F.5-26/93-U.I (Desk) dated 20th
October, 1994.](3)The quorum for a meeting of a Selection Committee shall be
four, which will include at least two experts in the case of the Selecting
Committee mentioned in Sub-clause (2)(i) of this Statute.(4)The procedure to
be followed by a Selection Committee in making recommendations shall be laid
down in the Ordinances.(5)If the Board of Management is unable to accept the
recommendations made by a Selection Committee, it shall record its reasons for
such non-acceptance and submit the case to the Visitor for final orders.

### 13\. Special mode of appointment

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in Statute 12, the Board of Management
may invite a person of high academic distinction and professional attainments
to accept the post of a Professor or a Reader or equivalent academic post in
the University on such terms and conditions as it may deem fit, and appoint
the person to such post.(2)The Board of Management may appoint a teacher or
any other academic staff working in any other university or organisation for
teaching or for undertaking a project or any work on such terms and conditions
as may be determined by the Board in accordance with the manner specified by
the [Ordinances] [Substituted the word "statutes" by the Board of Management
at its meeting held on August 17, 1990 (Resolution No.19.17.1) and approved by
the Visitor vide MHRD letter No. F.6-62/90-U.I. (Desk) dated 14.12.90.].

### 14\. Appointment for a fixed tenure

The Board of Management may appoint a person selected in accordance with the
procedure laid down in the Statutes for a fixed tenure on such terms and
conditions as it may deem fit.

### 15\. Recognised Teachers

(1)The qualifications for recognition of persons working in other
universities, institutions or organisations as teachers shall be prescribed by
the Ordinances.(2)The manner of recognizing teachers, the period of
recognition and withdrawal of recognition shall be prescribed by the
Ordinances.

### 16\. Committees

(1)Any authority of the University may appoint as many standing or special
Committees as it may deem fit, and may appoint to such committees, persons who
are not members of such authority.(2)Any committee appointed under clause (1)
may deal with any subject delegated to it subject to the subsequent
confirmation by the authority appointing it.

### 17\. Terms and conditions of service and code of conduct of the teachers
and other academic staff of the University

(1)All the teachers and other academic staff of the University shall in the
absence of any contract to the contrary, be governed by the terms and
conditions of service and code of conduct as are specified in the Statutes and
the Ordinance.(2)Every teachers and other academic staff of the University
shall be appointed on a written contract, the form of which shall be specified
in the Statutes.(3)A copy of every contract referred to in clause (2) shall be
deposited with the Registrar.(4)Teacher to be a whole time employee-No whole
time salaried teacher of the University shall, without the permission of the
Board of Management, engage directly or indirectly in any trade or business
whatever or any private tuition or other work to which any emolument or
honorarium is attached.Provided that nothing contained in the Statute shall
apply to the work undertaken in connection with the examination of
Universities or learned bodies & Public Service Commissions or to any literary
work or publication or radio/television talk or extension lectures or with the
permission of the Vice-Chancellor to any other academic work.(5)Nature of
duties - Every teacher shall take part in the activities of the University and
perform such duties as may be required by, and in accordance with the Act,
Statutes and Ordinances framed thereunder and in particular his duties shall
be:(a)Preparation of the course material, content editing and scrutiny,
linguistic editing etc. from the point of view of requirements of distance
education and liaison of the work of outside experts associated;(b)His
academic duties shall be to give guidance, and instruction to students in the
form of counseling, conducting of tutorials, seminars, practical and
assessment/examination/evaluation and such other work assigned to him relevant
to the academic activities of the University by its competent authority. He
shall not ordinarily remain absent from work without prior permission or grant
of leave;(c)A teacher in the University shall fully and enthusiastically
participate in the corporate life of the University;(d)Every teacher shall be
required to submit a personal appraisal report at the end of each year in the
manner prescribed in the Ordinances.(6)Probation - Teachers shall be appointed
on probation ordinarily for a period of 12 months, but in no case shall the
total period of probation exceed 24 months.Provided that the Board of
Management may, for reasons to be recorded, waive the Condition of probation
:Provided further that the condition of probation shall not apply in the case
of teachers appointed by the Board of Management under the provision of
Statute 13(1).Provided also that a Lecturer appointed on probation would be
confirmed only after he has satisfactorily completed a proper short-term
orientation of programme as may be determined by the University and that his
performance appraisal reports and satisfactory.(7)[ Confirmation - (a) It
shall be the duty of the Registrar to place before the Board of Management the
case of confirmation of a teacher on probation not later than forty days
before the end of period of probation.(b)The Board of Management may then
either confirm the teacher or decide not to confirm or extend the period of
probation so as not to exceed twenty four months in all. In case the Board of
Management decides not to confirm the teacher whether before the end of twelve
months period of his probation or before the end of the extended period of
probation, as the case may be, he shall be informed in writing to the effect
not later than thirty days before the expiration of that period.(c)A teacher
appointed by the Board of Management under Statute 13(1) shall be deemed to be
confirmed with effect from the date he joins duty.](8)Increment - Every
teacher shall draw increment in the scale of pay unless it is withheld or
postponed by a resolution of the Board of Management on reference by the Vice-
Chancellor and after the teacher has been given sufficient opportunity to make
his written representation.(9)Age of retirement - [(a) Save as otherwise
provided in the Act, Statutes and Ordinances all teachers of the University
shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last date of the month in
which he/she attains the age of 60 years.] [Amendment to Sub-clause (a) of
Clause (9) of Statute 17 regarding Terms and Conditions of service and Code of
Conduct of the teachers and other academic staff of the University made by the
Board of Management at its meeting held on 19.8.1992 is approved by the
Visitor vide letter No.F.5-85/92-U.I. Desk dated 28.1.1993](b)The Board of
Management it it is satisfied, on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor,
may, in the interest of the University, re-employ a teacher who has retired
after the expiry of his contract.Provided that no teacher shall be eligible to
be re-employ under this clause or on such re-employment to continue as a
teacher after he has attained the age of 65 years. Provided further that a
teacher so re-employed shall not be eligible to hold an office which involves
administrative work; provided also that the salary of such teachers shall be
fixed after taking into consideration the pension or other retirement benefits
drawn or to be drawn by him in accordance with the rules prescribed by the
Central Government.(10)Variation in terms and conditions of service - Every
teacher of the University shall be bound by the Statutes, Ordinances for the
time being in force in the University.Provided that no change in terms and
conditions of service of a teacher shall be made after his appointment in
regard to designation, scale of pay, increment, provident fund, retirement
benefits, age of retirement, probation, confirmation, leave salary and removal
from service so as to adversely affect him.(11)Resignation - A teacher may, at
any time, terminate his engagement by giving the Board of Management three
months notice in writing :Provided that the Board of Management may waive the
requirement of notice at its discretion.(12)Members of the teaching staff -
The members of the teaching staff shall be designated
as:(1)Professor(2)Reader(3)Lecturer (selection grade)(4)Lecturer (senior
scale)(5)Lecturer(13)Scale of pay - The scale of pay for these posts specified
in column (i) of the teachers below shall be those specified against each in
column (ii).

Post |  Scaleof Pay (pre-revised)  
---|---  
(i) | (ii)  
Professor | 4500-150-5700-200-7300  
Reader | 3700-125-4950-150-5700  
Lecturer(selection grade) | 3700-125-4950-150-5700  
Lecturer(senior scale) | 3000-100-3500-125-5000  
Lecturer | 2200-75-2800-100-4000  
  
The teachers shall be entitled to such allowances as the University may decide
from time to time.(14)Career Advancement - The manner and the terms under
which a Lecturer may be placed in the lecturer (senior scale) and Lecturer
(selection grade) and as Reader will be prescribed through Ordinances.

### 18\. Terms and conditions of service and code of conduct of other
employees of the University.

All the employees of the University, other than the teachers and other
academic staff of the University, shall, in the absence of any contract to the
contrary, be governed by the terms and conditions of service and code of
conduct as are specified in the Statutes and the Ordinances.

### 19\. Removal of employees of the University

(1)Where there is an allegation of misconduct against a teacher, a member of
the academic staff or other employee of the University, the Vice-Chancellor,
in the case of the teacher or member of the academic staff, and the authority
competent to appoint (hereinafter referred to as appointing authority) in the
case of other employee, may, by order in writing, place such teacher, member
of the academic staff or other employee, under suspension and shall forthwith
report to the Board of Management the circumstances in which the order was
made.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in the terms of the contract of
appointment or of any other terms and conditions of service of the employees,
the Board of Management in respect of teachers and other academic staff, and
the appointing authority, in respect of other employees, shall have the power
to remove a teacher or a member of the academic staff, as the case may be,
other employee on grounds of misconduct.(3)Save as aforesaid, the Board of
Management, or as the case may be, the appointing authority, shall not be
entitled to remove any teacher, member of the academic staff or other employee
except for a good cause and after giving three months' notice or on payment of
three months' salary in lieu thereof.(4)No teacher, member of the academic
staff or other employee shall be removed under clause (2) or clause (3) unless
he has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action
proposed to be taken in regard to him.(5)The removal of a teacher, member of
the academic staff or other employee shall take effect from the date on which
the order of removal is made:Provided that where the teachers, member of the
academic staff or other employee is under suspension at the time of his
removal, such removal shall take effect from the date on which he was placed
under suspension.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing
provisions of this Statute, a teacher, member of the academic staff or other
employee may resign:(a)if he is a permanent employee, only after giving three
months notice in writing to the Board of Management or the appointing
authority, as the case may be, or by paying three months salary in lieu
thereof;(b)if he is not a permanent employee, only after giving one month's
notice in writing to the Board of Management or, as the case may be, the
appointing authority or by paying one month's salary in lieu thereof;Provided
that such resignation shall take effect only on the date on which the
resignation is accepted by the Board of Management, or the appointing
authority, as the case may be.(c)[ the appointing authority may, however,
waive the notice period in respect of a nonacademic permanent or temporary
employee on technical resignation to take up an appointment in the same or
other organisation, if he/she has applied through proper channel.] [Addition
of sub-clause (c) to Clause (6) of the Statute 19 was approved by the Board of
Management at its 46th meeting held on 19.3.96 and assent of the visitor was
conveyed vide MHRD's letter No.F.5-39/960 U.I. (Desk) dated 25.7.96.]

### 20\. Maintenance of discipline amongst students of the University

(1)The powers regarding discipline and disciplinary action in regard to the
students of the University shall vest with the Vice-Chancellor. The Vice
Chancellor may delegate all or any of his powers, as he may deem
fit.(2)Without prejudice to the generality of his powers relating to the
maintenance of discipline and taking such action as he may deem appropriate
for the maintenance of discipline, the Vice-Chancellor may, in the exercise of
his power, by order, direct that any student or students be expelled or
rusticated for a specified period and not admitted to a Course or courses of
study in the University or a recognized institution for a stated period, or be
punished with a fine for an amount to be specified in the order, or, debar him
from taking an examination or examinations conducted by the University or a
recognized institution for one or more years or that the result of the student
or students concerned in the examination or examinations in which he or she
has appeared to be cancelled.(3)The heads of recognised institutions shall
have the authority to exercise all such disciplinary powers over the students
in their respective institutions a may be necessary for proper conduct of such
institution.

### 21\. [ Convocation

Convocations of the University for the conferring of degrees or diplomas or
for other purposes may be held in such manner as many be prescribed by the
Ordinances.] [Statute 21 on Convocation, made by the Board of Management at
its meeting held on June 24, 1988 (Resolution No.9.2.1) received the approval
of the Visitor vide MHRD letter No.F.5-48/88-U.I.(Desk) dated 26.8.88.]

### 22\. [ Honorary Degrees.

All proposals for the conferment of honorary degrees shall be initiated by the
Vice-Chancellor who, after consultation with the Academic Council and the
Board of Management, shall submit the same to the Visitor for confirmation.]
[Statute 22 on Honorary Degrees, made by the Board of Management at its
meeting held on June 24, 1988 (Resolution No.9.3.1) and December 10, 1988
received the approval of the Visitor vide MHRD Letter No.F.5-47/88-U.I.(Desk)
dated 29.12.1988.]

### 23\. [ General Provident Fund-cum-Pension-cum-Gratuity and Contributory
Provident Fund-cum-Gratuity.

(1)The management of the following schemes :-(b)General Provident Fund-cum-
Pension-cum-Gratuity Scheme (Appendix A);(c)Contributory Provident Fund-cum-
Gratuity Scheme (Appendix B) shall be vested in the Board of Management.(2)The
provisions of this Statute shall be deemed to have come into effect from 20th
September, 1985. The provisions relating to pension including extraordinary
pension and gratuity made in the Schemes shall, however, come into effect with
effect from 1.1.1986.Definitions(3)In these schemes, unless there is anything
repugnant in the subject or context.(a)"employee" means any person appointed
by the University as a member of its staff and includes teachers and other
academic staff of the University.(b)"emoluments" means the pay as defined in
clause 3(h), dearness pay which the employee was receiving immediately before
his retirement or on the date of his death. It also includes interim relief
and ad hoc dearness allowance for the purpose of retirement pension and
gratuity.]Note(1)In respect of persons who have come over to the revised
scales of pay introduced w.e.f. 1.1.86, emoluments mean basic pay only from
that date.(2)If an employee immediately before his retirement or
relinquishment of service, has been absent from duty on leave with allowances,
his emoluments for purposes of calculating service gratuity/or death or
retirement gratuity shall be taken as what he would have drawn had he not been
absent from duty:Provided that the amount of gratuity is not increased on
account of increase in pay not actually drawn and that the benefit of higher
officiating or temporary pay is given only if it is certified that he would
have continued to hold the higher officiating or temporary appointment but for
his proceeding on leave.(3)Pay drawn by an employee while on foreign service
shall not be treated as emoluments but the pay which he would have drawn under
the University had he not been on foreign service shall alone be treated as
emoluments.(4)Pay includes the pay drawn on tenure appointment(s).(c)"Average
Emoluments" means the average of the emoluments as defined above calculated in
respect of the last ten months of serves: Provided that if, during the last 10
months of service, a person has been absent from duty on leave without
allowances or suspended under such circumstances that the period of suspension
does not count as service, the period so passed shall be disregarded in the
calculation of average emoluments and an equivalent period prior to 10 months
being included.(d)"family" for the purpose of General Provident Fund and
Contributory Provident Fund means:(i)in the case of male subscriber, the wife
or wives and children of a subscriber and the widow or widow and children of a
deceased son of the subscriber; provided that if a subscriber proves that his
wife has been judicially separated from him or has ceased under the customary
law of the community to which she belongs to be entitled to maintenance, she
shall henceforth be deemed to be no longer a member of the subscriber's family
in matters to which these rules relate, unless the subscriber subsequently
intimates in writing to the Finance Officer that she shall continue to be
regarded;(ii)in the case of female subscriber, the husband and children of a
subscriber and the window or windows and children of a deceased son of a
subscriber provided that if a subscriber by notice in writing to the Finance
Officer expresses her desire to exclude her husband from her family, the
husband shall henceforth be deemed to be no longer a member of the
subscriber's family in matters to which these rules relate, unless the
subscriber subsequently cancels such notice in writing.NoteChild means
legitimate child and includes an adopted child where adoption is recognized by
the personal law governing the subscriber.(e)"Finance Officer" means Finance
Officer of the University.(f)"fund" means the General Provident Fund or the
Contributory Provident Fund of the University as per context.(g)"leave' means
any variety of leave recognized by the University.(h)"pay" means the amount
drawn monthly by a person as pay which has been sanctioned for the post held
by him substantively or in an officiating capacity and includes special pay,
personal pay and deputation duty allowance, if any.NoteIn respect of persons
who have come over to the revised scale of pay introduced with effect from
1.1.86 pay means "basic pay" only.(i)"personal pay" means additional pay
granted to a person--(i)to save him from a loss of substantive pay in respect
of a permanent post owing to revision of pay or to any reduction of such
substantive pay other wise than as disciplinary measure; or(ii)in exceptional
circumstances on other personal considerations.(j)"qualifying service" means
service rendered by an employee in a substantive capacity including periods
spent on probation. All service rendered in the University on a full time
basis in a temporary or officiating capacity without interruption followed by
confirmation in the same or another post shall count as qualifying service
except in respect of periods of service paid from contingencies.Explanation I
Counting of period of leave as qualifying service:(i)All periods of leave with
pay and allowances shall count as qualifying service.(ii)The period spent on
deputation or training or deputation for any special purpose including periods
of travel to and from the country of deputation, shall count as qualifying
service; provided that if the employee has availed himself of any
extraordinary leave without allowances during the period of deputation, the
period of such extraordinary leave shall be excluded except as provided under
Note below sub-clause (ii) of Explanation II.Explanation II Periods not
counting as qualifying service :(i)Time passed under suspension by a member of
the staff pending inquiry into his conduct where on conclusion of the inquiry
he has not been fully exonerated or the suspension is not held to have been
wholly unjustified; unless the Board of management expressly declares at the
time that it shall count, and then it shall count only to such extent as the
Board of management may declare.(ii)Extraordinary leave without
allowances.NoteExtraordinary leave may be allowed to count at the discretion
of the appointing authority in the following circumstances:(1)if it is taken
on appointment in another University institution or any other Authority and
that University Institution/Authority or `the person concerned makes necessary
contribution towards his pension;(2)it is taken on medical certificates;(3)if
it is taken due to the inability of the person concerned to join or rejoin
duty due to civil commotion or a natural calamity or any other cause beyond
his control provided that he has no other type of leave to his credit;
and(4)if it is taken for academic pursuits directly connected with the
teaching/research job of the employees in the University.(iii)Unauthorised
absence in continuation of authorized leave of absence.(iv)Service below the
age of 18 years.Explanation III Addition to qualifying service:An employee may
add to his service qualifying for superannuation pension but not for any other
class of pension the actual period not exceeding one-fourth of full length of
his service or the actual period by which his age at the time of recruitment
exceeds twenty-five years or a period of five years, whichever is least, if
the post is one:(a)for which Post-Graduate Research or specialist
qualifications or experience in scientific, technological or professional
field is essential; and(b)to which candidates of more than twenty-five years
of age are normally recruited. Provided that this concession shall not be
admissible to any such employee unless his actual decision to grant this
concession shall be taken by the Board of Management at the time of
recruitment of the employee.Explanation IV(a)The Board of Management may, by
order condone interruption in service up to a period of one year under the
following circumstances:(i)The interruption should have been caused by reasons
beyond the control of the employees;(ii)The total service excluding one or
more interruptions, if any, should not be less than five years
duration;(iii)The interruption, including two or more interruptions, if any
should not exceed one year.(k)"special pay" means an addition in the nature of
pay to the emoluments of a post or of a person granted in consideration of the
specially arduous nature of his duties or of a specific addition to his work
or responsibility.(l)"tenure post" means a permanent post which an individual
may not hold for more than a limited period.(m)"year" means the financial year
of the University.(n)"university" means the Indira Gandhi National Open
University.(o)"Registrar" shall mean the Registrar of the Indira Gandhi
National Open University dealing with Administration.(p)"Vice-Chancellor"
means the Vice-Chancellor of the Indira Gandhi National Open
University.(4)(a)Application of StatutesA person who joins the University
service on or after the 20th September, 1985 shall opt for one of the two
alternative schemes set out in Appendices A and B to this Statute. The option
provided for in this sub-clause shall be exercised and communicated to the
Registrar in writing within 3months of the date of notification of the General
Provident Fund-cum-Pension-cum-Gratuity Scheme and Contributory Provident
Fund-cum-Gratuity Scheme or within 3 months of joining the University service
in the case of a new entrant and, option when once exercised, shall be final.A
person who does not exercise his option within the aforesaid period of three
months, shall be deemed to have opted for the General Provident Fund-cum-
Pension-cum-Gratuity Scheme set out in Appendix `A'.(b)A person who holds a
temporary appointment in the service of the University shall, after continuous
service of one year, be entitled to the benefits of the General Provident
Fund-cum-Pension-cum-Gratuity Scheme set out in Appendix `A' to this Statute,
or according to his option of the Contributory Provident Fund-cum-Gratuity
Scheme set out in Appendix `B' to this Statute, from the date of commencement
of service.(5)The provisions of this Statute shall not apply to purely
temporary and daily wage staff, persons appointed on consolidated salary or on
special terms and deputationists. The pensioners re-employed after
superannuation are eligible only for Contributory Provident Fund. The persons
appointed on contract, for a fixed term, shall be governed by the provisions
of Appendix `B' to this Statute. No person who is permitted to subscribe to
the Contributory Provident Fund shall be eligible to subscribe to the General
Provident Fund.Provided that a person who is initially appointed on contract
and is subsequently continued permanently shall have on cancellation of his
contract terms, the option to choose either of the two Schemes set out in
Appendices A and B and he shall have for the purpose of these schemes the
benefit of the service rendered under contract, if the retirement benefits
under the contract terms are paid back by him to the University.

### 6\.

(i)Transfer of employees from Central Government, Central University or
autonomous bodies of Central GovernmentWhere an employee of Central
Government/Central University/autonomous body of Central Government including
a statutory body is permanently absorbed in the University, such of the past
services rendered by him as would have counted for retirement benefits in that
Government/organisation shall count for retirement benefits palpable by the
University subject to the following :(a)The transfer is with the consent of
the parent Government/organisation and is in public interest.(b)The employee
has not opted to receive pro-rata retirement benefits from the parent
Government/organisation.(c)The Central Government/autonomous bodies of Central
Government including a statutory body, discharges its pension liability,
paying in lumpsum, by a one time payment, the pro-rata pension/service
gratuity/terminal gratuity and retirement gratuity for the service up to the
date of absorption in the University.(d)In case the employee is on CPF Scheme
the accumulations in the CPF account and the capitalized value of gratuity, if
any, is transferred by the parent government/organisation to the University at
the time of permanent absorption. I, however, the employee has opted, within
one year of permanent absorption, for counting past service rendered in the
parent body as qualifying for pension by foregoing employers share of CPF
Contribution with interest, such accumulations, along with capitalized value
of gratuity, if any, he transferred by the parent organisaion to the
University at the time of permanent absorption.(ii)When an employee of State
Government/State University is permanently absorbed in the University.On his
permanent absorption in the University such of the past services of an
employee of State Government/State University as would have counted for
retirement benefit in State Government/State University should count for
retirement benefits payable by the University provided that the transfer is
certified to be in public interest of which the Board of Management of the
University shall be the sole judge, subject to the following:(a)The Transfer
is with the consent of the State Govt./State Universities;(b)The State
Government/State University concerned pays to the University at the time of
his permanent absorption in the University, the capitalized value of the
retirement benefits in respect of the past service of the employee in that
organisation:(c)In case the employee in question on Contributory Provident
Fund Scheme the accumulations in his Contributory Provident Fund account shall
be transferred by State Govt./State University to the University at the time
of permanent absorption.(iii)When an employee of the University is transferred
to Central Government, Central Government autonomous bodies, Public sector
undertaking and autonomous bodies under the State Government.The orders issued
by the Government of India and as may be amended from time to time, regarding
grant of pro-rata retirement benefits or benefits of combined service under
autonomous bodies to the employees of Central Government in the event of their
transfer/permanent absorption in the autonomous bodies, public sector
undertakings etc. will apply mutatis mutandis in cases of transfer of
employees of the University to Central Govt./autonomous bodies etc.(iv)In all
cases of absorption where the liability of retirement benefits is to be borne
by a body other than the University, prior approval of that body to the
arrangement proposed should be obtained.(7)As and when the Central Government
mends its rules relating to the General Provident Fund, Contributory Provident
Fund, Pension, Gratuity etc., such amendments shall be deemed to have been
incorporated in the Statutes with effect from the date such amendments are
brought into force by the Central Government with respect to its employees.
General (Miscellaneous)(8)(i)The sanction and payment of retirement benefits
admissible under this Statute shall be regulated by such procedural
instructions as would be issued by the Board of Management.(ii)Interpretation:
If any question arises relating to the interpretation of this Statute it shall
be referred to the Visitor whose decision thereon shall be final.[24.
Seniority Lists(1)Whenever, accordance with these Statutes, any person is to
hold an officer or be a member of an authority of the University by seniority,
such seniority shall be determined according to length of continuous service
of such person in his grade, and in accordance with such other principles as
the Board of Management may, from time to time, determine.(2)It shall be the
duty of the Registrar, designated by the Board of Management to prepare and
maintain in respect of each class of persons to whom the provisions of these
Statutes apply a complete and up to-date seniority list in accordance with the
provisions of the foregoing clause.(3)If two or more persons have equal length
of continuous service in a particular grade or the relative seniority of any
person or persons is otherwise in doubt, the Registrar, designated by the
Board of Management, may, on his own motion and shall, at the request of any
such person, submit the matter to the Board of Management whose decision
thereon shall be final.] [Statute 24 on Seniority Lists, made by the Board of
Management at its meeting held on 7th October, 1988 (Res. No.12.9.1) received
the approval of the Visitor vide MHRD letter No.F.5-77/88-U.I.(Desk) dated
21.12.88][25. Date of Submission of Annual ReportThe Annual Report of the
University for a financial year prepared in accordance with the section 28 of
the Act shall be submitted to the Visitor before December 31, following.]
[Statute 25 on Date of submission of Annual Report, made by the Board of
Management at its meeting held on October 7, 1988 (Res. No.12.9.1) received
the approval of the Visitor vide MHRD letter No. No.F.5-77/88-U.I.(Desk) dated
August, 1, 1989.][26. Ordinances how made(1)All ordinances, from the date of
commencement of this Statute, shall be made by the Board of Management.(2)The
first Ordinances made under sub-section (2) of Section 26 may be amended or
repealed at any time by the Board of management provided that no Ordinances
shall be made or amended or repealed, on any matter affecting the academic
functioning of the University, except after consultation with the Academic
Council, or unless the draft of such Ordinances has been proposed by the
Academic Council.Provided further that if the Board of management considers
any amendment necessary to a draft Ordinance proposed by the Academic Council,
it may return the draft ordinance with the suggested amendment to the Academic
Council for reconsideration. If the Academic Council does not accept the
suggestions for amendment, the Board may finalise the ordinance after taking
the views of the Academic Council into consideration.(3)Every Ordinance made
by the Board of Management shall come into effect immediately.(4)All
Ordinances made by the Board of Management shall be submitted to the Visitor
within three weeks from the date of its adoption. The Visitor may, within four
weeks of the receipt of any Ordinance, inform the University about his
objection, if any, to that Ordinance, and direct that its operation shall
remain suspended until he has had an opportunity of exercising his power of
disallowance. The Visitor may, after receiving the Ordinance, and his decision
shall be final.] [Statue 26 was made by the Board of Management at its meeting
held on December 14, 1990 and received the approval of the Visitor vide MHRD
letter No. No.F.5/16/91-U.I.(Desk) dated April 18, 1991.][27. Regulation how
made(1)The authorities of the University may make Regulations consistent with
this Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances--(a)laying down the procedure to be
observed at their meetings and the number of members required to form a
quorum;(b)providing for all matters which are required by this Act, the
Statutes or the Ordinances to be prescribed by Regulation;(c)Providing for all
such matters as are necessary to be provided by Regulations for the
functioning of such authorities or committees appointed by them.(2)Every
authority of the University may make Regulations providing for notice for the
meetings to be given to its members; the manner in which the business at any
meeting shall be conducted; and the manner in which the record of any
proceedings of the meeting are kept.(3)The Board of Management shall have the
power to amend or annul, any regulation which is not consistent with the
provisions of this Act, the Statutes & the Ordinances.] [Statute 27 was made
by the Board of Management at its meeting held on December 14, 1990 and
received the approval of the Visitor vide MHRD letter No.F.5-15/91-U.I.(Desk)
April 18, 1991.][28. Distance Education Council] [Statute 28 was made by the
Board of Management at its meeting held on July 19, 1991 and received the
approval of the Visitor vide MHRD letter No.F.5-29/91-U.I.(Desk) dated
16.9.91.](1)Consistent with the duty of the University to take all such steps
as it may deem fit for the promotion of the Open University and distance
education systems in the educational pattern of the country and for the
coordination and determination of standards of teaching, evaluation & research
in such systems; and in pursuance of the objects of the University to
encourage greater flexibility, diversity, accessibility, mobility and
innovation in education at the University level by making full use of the
latest scientific knowledge and new educational technology, and to further
cooperation between the existing Universities; it is considered necessary and
expedient to establish a Distance Education Council as an authority of the
University under Section 16 of the Act.(2)(a)There shall be a Distance
Education Council (DEC) which shall, within the frame work of the policies and
guidelines laid down by the Board of Management, be responsible for the
promotion and coordination of the open university and distance education
system, and for the determination of its standards.(b)The Distance Education
Council is declared by this Statute as an authority of the IGNOU under Section
16 of the IGNOU Act.[***] [Amendment/addition to the Clause (3a) of Statute 28
was made by the Board of Management at its meeting held on 28.3.97 and
received the approval of the Visitor vide MHRD letter No.F.5-54/97-Desk(U)(A)
dated 11.11.97.](4)(a)The Distance Education Council shall consist of the
following members;i) The Vice-Chancellor, IGNOU, who shall be its Chairman;ii)
The Secretary, Incharge of Education in the Dept. of Education, Ministry of
Human Resource Development or his nominee;iii) A member of the University
Grants Commission to be nominated by the Chairman, UGC;iv) Secretary, UGC;iv)
(a) Director, NAACv) Two members of the Board of Management, who are not
employees of the IGNOU, to be nominated by the Board of Management;vi) Two
Vice-Chancellors of Statute Open Universities which have been declared fit to
receive assistance under Section 12B of the UGC Act, to be nominated by the
Chairman, DEC, by rotation.vii) Two Heads of institutions of
Correspondence/distance education from universities other than open
universities which have been declared fit to receive assistance under Section
12B of the UGC Act, to be nominated by the Board of Management;viii) Three
persons to be nominated by the Visitor or whom one may be a Vice-Chancellor of
a University other than an open university, one, an expert in
vocational/technical education, and one, an expert in mass
media/communication.ix) One teacher from the open university/distance
education system to be nominated by the Board of Management on the
recommendation of the Chairman, DEC.(b)A Registrar/Director, of the IGNOU
designated by the Board of Management shall be the Secretary of the Distance
Education Council.(c)(i)The members of the Distance Education Council
nominated under sub-clauses (3)(a)(iii), (viii) and (ix) shall hold office for
a term of three years from the date on which they are nominated;(ii)The
members nominated under sub-clause (3)(a)(v), (vi) and (vii) shall hold office
for a period of two years from the date on which they are nominated; provided
that one-half of the members nominated under these sub-clauses at the time of
the initial constitution of the DEC, shall retire on completion on one year
from the date of their nomination according to the alphabetical order of their
names;(d)Six members of the Distance Education Council shall form the quorum
for the meeting of the Council.(4)Powers & Functions of the Distance Education
Council(a)It shall be the general duty of the Distance Education Council to
take all such steps as are consistent with the provisions of this Act, the
Statutes and the Ordinances for the promotion of the open university/distance
education system, its coordinated development, and the determination of its
standards, and in particular.i) to develop a network of open
universities/distance education institutions in the country in consultation
with the State Governments, Universities, and other concerned agencies.ii) to
identify priority areas in which distance education programmes should be
organized and to provide such support as may be considered necessary for
organizing such programmes;iii) to identify the specific client groups and the
types of programmes to be organized for them, and to promote and encourage the
organisation of such programmes through the network of open
universities/distance, education institutions;iv) to promote an innovative
system of University level education, flexible and open, in regard to methods
and pace of learning, combination of courses, eligibility for enrolment, age
of entry, conduct of examination and organize various courses and
programmes.v) to promote the organisation of programmes of human resource
development for the open university/distance education system;vi) to initiate
and organize measures for joint development of courses and programmes and
research in distance education technology and practices;vii) to recommend to
the Board of management the pattern and nature of financial assistance that
may be sanctioned to open universities/distance education institutions and the
conditions that may have to be fulfilled by them to receive such
assistance;viii) to take such steps as are necessary to ensure the coordinated
development of the open university/distance education system in the
country;ix) to establish and develop arrangements for coordinating and sharing
the instructional materials prepared by different open universities/distance
education institutions, and the student support systems with a view to
avoiding duplication of efforts;x) to evolve procedures for sharing of courses
and programmes and for the payment of royalty or other charges to the members
of the network whose courses and programmes are used by other members;xi) to
prescribe broad norms for charging fees from students who join various
programmes offered by the network of open universities/distance education
institutions;xii) to collect, compile and disseminate information relating to
the courses and programmes offered by various open universities/distance
education institutions;xiii) to advise State Government, universities and
other concerned agencies on their proposals to set up open universities, or to
introduce programmes of distance education;xiv) to appoint Review Committees
from time to time to study and assess the performance-of the open
universities/distance education institutions participating in the network on
any aspect relevant to the functioning of the network;xv) to prescribe a broad
framework for courses and programmes including their pattern and
structure;xvi) to evelove norms, procedures and practices in respect of
admission, evaluation, completion of course requirements, transfer of credits,
etc. of students admitted to the programmes of the open university/distance
education network and for the award of certificates, diplomas and degrees to
them;xvii) to evolve guidelines for the organisation of student support
services for the open university/distance education programmes;xviii) to take
such measures as are necessary, consistent with the objects of the University
to provide an innovative, flexible and open system of University education,
for the promotion, including introduction and continuation, of courses and
programmes which conform to the standards prescribed by the DEC, to maintain
such standards in the institutions offering distance education programmes and
to prevent, through such measures as are considered appropriate, institutions
from offering courses and programmes which do not confirm to the standards
laid down by the Council;xix) to appoint Committee for advising and assisting
the DEC in the performance of any of its functions or exercise of any of its
powers.(b)The Distance Education Council shall:i) appoint Committees which
shall assess, in consultation with the concerned open universities/distance
education institutions, the development grants required by them for a five-
year period and make recommendations to the Board of Management for
sanctioning such grant;ii) sanction grants to open universities/distance
education institutions for specific projects on the basis of reports by duly
appointed committees and in accordance with guidelines prescribed for the
purpose and report such approvals to the Board of Management.(c)Financial
assistance under clause (4) (b) may be sanctioned only to the following
categories of institutions:i) An Open University established by or under an
Act of, a State Legislature, and declared fit to receive assistance from
central sources under Section 12-B of the UGC Act;ii) Any other university as
defined in Section 2(f) of the UGC Act provided that such a university is also
declared fit, wherever applicable, under Section 12-B of that Act;iii) An
institution deemed to be a university under Section 3 of the UGC Act.[30.
Procedure for regulating the work of Tribunal of Arbitration] [Statute 30 was
made by the Board of Management as its 51st meeting held on 19.6.97 and
received the approval of the Visitor vide MHRD letter No.F.5-7/97-Desk(4)(A)
dt.30.10.98.](1)Definition :In this Statute, unless the context otherwise
requires,--i) "Tribunal" means the Tribunal of Arbitration referred to in
Section 31 of the IGNOU Act, 1985, andii) "Party" means either the employee or
the Indira Gandhi National Open University, as the case may be, whose dispute
is referred to the Tribunal of Arbitration.(2)Equal treatment of parties:The
parties shall be treated with equality and each party shall be given a full
opportunity to present his case.Provided that if a Party so desires, he can
present his case through a representative nominated by him with the approval
of the Tribunal.(3)Determination of rules of procedure:(i)The parties are free
to agree on the procedure to be followed by the Tribunal in conducting its
proceedings.(ii)Failing any agreement referred to in sub-clause (i) above, the
Tribunal may conduct the proceedings in the manner it considers appropriate
and such procedure shall be binding on the Parties.(iii)The power of the
Tribunal under sub-clause (ii) includes the power to determine the
admissibility, relevance, materiality and weight of any evidence.(4)Place of
arbitration:The place of arbitration shall ordinarily be the office of the
University at its Headquarters.Provided that the Tribunal can meet at any
other place where the University offices are located for purpose of
consultation among its members, for hearing witnesses, expewrts or the
parties, or for inspection of documents etc.(5)Commencement of arbitral
proceedings:Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral proceedings
in respect of a particular dispute commence on the date on which a request for
that dispute to be referred to arbitration is received by the
respondent.(6)Language:(i)The parties may agree upon the language or languages
to be used in the proceedings of the Tribunal.(ii)In the absence of such an
agreement, the proceedings shall be conducted either in English or in
Hindi.(iii)The Tribunal may direct that any documentary evidence shall be
accompanied by a translation into the language or languages agreed upon the
parties of determined by the Tribunal.(7)Statements of claim and
defence:(i)Within the period of time agreed upon by the parties or determined
by the Tribunal the claimant shall state the facts supporting hi claim. The
points at issue and the relief or remedy sought, and the respondent shall
state his defence in respect of these particulars, unless the parties have
otherwise agreed as to the required elements of those statements.(ii)The
parties may submit with their statements all documents they consider to be
relevant or may add a reference to the documents of other evidence they will
submit.(iii)Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, either party may amend or
supplement his claim or defence during the course of the proceedings unless
the Tribunal considers it inappropriate to allow the amendment or supplement
having regard to the delay in making it.(8)Hearing and written
proceedings:(i)Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the Tribunal shall
decide whether to hold oral hearings for the presentation of evidence or for
oral argument, or whether the proceedings shall be conducted on the basis of
documents and other materials:Provided that the Tribunal shall hold hearings,
at an appropriate stage of the proceedings, on a request by a party, unless
the parties have agreed that no oral hearing shall be held.(ii)The parties
shall be given sufficient advance notice of any hearings and of any meeting of
the Tribunal for the purpose of inspection of documents and other relevant
material.(iii)All statements, documents or other information supplied to, or
applications made to the Tribunal by one party shall be communicated to the
other party, and any expert report or documents on which the Tribunal may rely
in making its decision shall be communicated to the parties.(9)Default of a
party:Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, where, without showing
sufficient cause.(a)the Claimant fails to communicate his statement of claim
in accordance with Sub-Clause (i) of Clause (6), the Tribunal shall terminate
the proceedings;(b)the respondent fails to communicate his statement of
defense in accordance with Sub-Clause (i) of Clause (6), the Tribunal shall
continue the proceedings without treating the failure in itself as an
admission of the allegations by the claimant;(c)a party fails to appear at an
oral hearing or to produce documentary(10)Expert appointment by the
Tribunal:(i)Unless otherwise agreed by the parties. The Tribunal
may--(a)appoint one or more experts to report to it on specific issues to be
determined by the Tribunal, and(b)require a party to give the expert any
relevant information or to produce, or to provide access to any relevant
documents and materials for his inspection.(ii)Unless otherwise, agreed by the
parties, if a party so requests or if the Tribunal considers it necessary, the
expert shall, after delivery of his written or oral report, participate in an
oral hearing where the parties have the opportunity to put questions to him
and to present expert witnesses in order to testify on the points at
issue.(iii)Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the expert shall, on the
request of a party, make available to that party for examination all
documents, relevant material in the possession of the expert with which he was
provided in order to prepare his report.(11)The meetings of the Tribunal shall
be conducted by the Umpire nominated by the Visitor on a Tribunal.APPENDIX
`A'[to statute 23-Refer to 23 (i) (a)]General Provident Fund-Cum-Pension-Cum-
Gratuity SchemeSECTION 1GENERAL PROVIDENT FUND

### 1\. Nominations

1.1A subscriber shall, at the time of joining the Fund, send to the Finance
Officer, a nomination in the prescribed form conferring on one or more persons
the right to receive the amount that may stand to his credit in the Fund, in
the event of his death, before that amount has become payable or having become
payable has not been paid:1.1.1. Provided, that if, at the time of making
nomination, the subscriber has a family the nomination shall not be infavour
of any person or persons other than the members of his family.1.1.2. Provided
further that the nomination made by the subscriber in respect of any other
fund to which he was subscribing before joining the Provident Fund shall, if
the amount to this credit, in such other fund, has been transferred to his
credit in the Fund, be deemed to be a nomination duly made under this rule
until he makes a nomination in accordance with this rule.1.2If a subscriber
nominates more than one person under Rule 1.1 he shall specify in the
nomination the amount or share payable to each of the nominees in such manner
as to cover the whole of the amount that may stand to his credit in the Fund
at any time.1.3Every nomination shall be in the Form I appended.1.4A
subscriber may at any time cancel a nomination by sending a notice in writing
to the Finance Officer. The subscriber shall, along with such notice or
separately, send a fresh nomination made in accordance with the provisions of
this rule.1.5A subscriber may provide in a nomination:-(a)in respect of any
specified nominee, that in the event of his predeceasing the subscriber, the
right conferred upon that nominee shall pass to such other person or persons
as may be specified in the nomination, provided that such other person or
persons shall if the subscriber has other member of his family, be such other
member of members. Where the subscriber confers such a right on more than one
person under this clause, he shall specify the amount or share payable to each
of such persons in such a manner as to cover the whole of the amount payable
to the nominees.(b)that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of
the happening of a contingency specified therein;Provided that if at the time
of making the nomination the subscriber has no Family, he shall provide in the
nomination that is shall become invalid in the event of his subsequently
acquiring a family;Provided further that if at the time of making the
nomination the subscriber has only one member of the family he shall provide
in the nomination that the right conferred upon the alternate nominee under
clause (a) shall become invalid in the event of is subsequently acquiring
other member or members of his family.1.6Immediately on the death of a nominee
in respect of whom no special provision has been made in the nomination under
clause (a) of Rule 1.5 or on the occurrence of any event by reason of which
the nomination becomes invalid in pursuance of clause (b) of Rule 1.5 or the
proviso thereto, the subscriber shall send t the Finance Officer a notice in
writing canceling the nomination, together with a fresh nomination made in
accordance with the provisions of this rule.1.7Every nomination made an every
notice of cancellation given by the subscriber shall, to the extent that it is
valid, take effect on the date on which it is received by the Finance Officer.

### 2\. The University will not be bound by, nor shall it recognize, any
assignment or encumbrance executed or attempted to be created which affects
the disposal of the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber who dies
before the amount becomes payable.

### 3\. Subscriber's Account

3.1An account shall be opened in the name of each subscriber in which will be
shown:(i)his subscriptions;(ii)interest as provided in Rule 6 on
subscriptions; and(ii)advances and withdrawals from the fund.3.2If an employee
admitted to the benefit of the fund was previously a subscriber to any
contributory/non-contributory provident fund of the Central Government/State
Government or of a body corporate, owned or controlled by Government or
Universities/Institutions, of University Status or an autonomous organisation
registered under the Societies Registration Act 1860, the amount of his
accumulation in such contributory or non-contributory provident fund shall be
transferred to his credit in the fund.

### 4\. Condition of Subscription

4.1Every subscriber shall subscribe monthly to the Fund except during the
period when he is under suspension.4.1.1Provided that a subscriber may at his
option not subscribe during leave which either does not carry any leave salary
or carries leave salary equal to or less than half pay.4.1.2Provided further
that a subscriber on reinstatement after a period passed under suspension
shall be allowed the option of paying in one sum or in instalments any sum not
exceeding the maximum amount of arrear of subscription payable for that
period.4.2The subscriber shall intimate his election not to subscribe during
leave by a written communication addressed to the Finance Officer before he
proceeds on leave. Failure to make due and timely intimation shall be deemed
to constitute an election to subscribe. The option of a subscriber intimated
under this sub-rule shall be final.

### 5\. Rates of Subscription

5.1The amount of subscription shall be fixed by subscription shall be fixed by
subscriber himself subject to the following conditions:5.1.1The rate of
subscription may not be less than 6 percent of his emoluments and not more
than his total emoluments, the amount so calculated being rounded off to the
nearest rupee, provided that in the case of subscriptions at the minimum or
maximum rates, the rounding off will be to the next higher or the next lower
rupee respectively.5.1.2It shall be expressed in whole rupees.5.2For the
purpose of this rule, the emoluments of a subscriber shall be:5.2.1In the case
of a subscriber who was in service on 31st March of the preceding year, the
emoluments to which he was entitled on that date, provided as follows:(i)if
the subscriber was on leave on the said date and elected not to subscribe
during such leave or was under suspension of the said date, his emoluments
shall be the emoluments to which he was entitled on the first day after his
return to duty;(ii)if the subscriber was on deputation out of India on the
said date or was on leave on the said date and continues to be on leave and
has elected to subscribe during such leave, his emoluments shall be the
emoluments to which he would have been entitled had he been on duty in
India;(iii)if the subscriber joined the Fund for the first time on a day
subsequent to the said date, his emoluments shall be the emoluments to which
he was entitled on such subsequent date.5.2.2In the case of a subscriber who
was not in service on the 31st of March of the preceding year, the emoluments
to which he was entitled on the first day of his service or, if he joined the
Fund for the first time on a date subsequent to the first date of his service,
the emoluments to which he was entitled on such subsequent date.5.3The amount
of subscription so fixed may be (a) enhanced twice during the course of the
year (b) or reduced one at any time during the course of a year (c) reduced
and enhanced as aforesaid provided that when the amount of subscription is so
reduced it shall not be less than the minimum prescribed under Rule
5.1.1.5.4Provided further that if a subscriber is on leave without pay or
leave on half pay for a part of a celender month and he had elected not to
subscribe during such leave, the amount of subscription payable shall be
proportionate to the number of days spent on duty inclusive of leave, if any.

### 5\.

A. Realisation of Subscription

### 5A.

### 1\. When emoluments are drawn from the University, recovery of
subscription on account of these emoluments and of the principal and interest
of advances shall be made from the emoluments themselves.

### 5A.

### 2\. When emoluments are drawn from any other source the subscriber shall
forward his dues monthly to the Finance Officer.

Provided that the case of a subscriber on deputation to a body corporate owned
or controlled by Government, the subscriptions shall be recovered and
forwarded to the Finance Officer by such body.

### 6\. Interest

6.1The University shall pay to the credit of the account of each subscriber,
interest for each year at the same rate as may be determined by the Government
of India for each year for paying to the credit of the subscribers under
General Provident Fund (Central Civil Service) Rules, 1960.6.2Interest shall
be credited with effect from the last day in each year in the following
manner:6.2.1On the amount at the credit of a subscriber on the 31st of March
of the preceding year less any sums withdrawn during the current year-Interest
for twelve months;6.2.2On sums withdrawn during the current year-Interest from
the 1st of April of the current year up to the last day of the month preceding
the month of withdrawal;6.2.3On all sums credited to the subscriber's account
after the 31st March of the preceding year-Interest from the date of credit up
to the 31st of March of the current year;6.2.4The total amount of interest
shall be rounded to the nearest rupee (50 p. and above counting as the next
higher rupee).[Statute 23, made by the Board of Management at its meeting held
on June 24, 1988 and received approval of the Visitor vide letter
No.F.5-68/88-U.I.(Desk) dated August 26, 1988.][Additions to Statute 7 of the
said statute were made by the Board of Management at its meetings held on
September 2, 1987 and July 22, 1988 respectively and received he approval of
te Visitor vide letter No.F.5-54/87.UI(Desk) dated August 1, 1989 and April 4,
1990.][Clauses (2) of Statute 12 amended by the Board of Management at its
meetings held on October 7, 1988 and March 8, 1989 respectively and received
the approval of the Visitor vide MHRD letter no. F.5-7/88-U.(Desk) dated March
8, 1989.][Addition of Clauses (1) to Statute 11 approved by the Board of
Management at its second meeting held on March 19, 1987 and approved by the
Visitor, vide MHRD letter No. F.5-22/87.U.I. (Desk) dated June
8,1987.][Amendment to Clause (1) of Statute 10A made by the Board of
Management at its meeting held on February 18, 1991 is approved by the Visitor
vide letter No. F.5-26/91-U.I. Desk dated 6.5. 1991.]

