## Union of India - Act

## The International Finance Corporation (Status, Immunities and Privileges)
Act, 1958

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The International Finance Corporation (Status, Immunities and Privileges)
Act, 1958

## Act 42 of 1958

  * Published on 17 October 1958 
  * Commenced on 17 October 1958 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 October 1958.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The International Finance Corporation (Status, Immunities and Privileges) Act,
1958ACT NO. 42 OF 1958

### 1354.

The International Finance Corporation has been established by an International
Agreement to which India is a signatory. Article V of that Argeement provides
for the granting to the Corporation and its officials and employees certain
status, immunities and privileges in the territories of each member country.
Section 10 of this Article requires each member country to take such action as
is necessary in its own territories for the purpose of making effective in
terms of its own law, the principal set forth in the Article. In pursuance
thereto several member countries have already enacted necessary legislation in
this behalf. By this Bill, it is proposed to enact similar legislation to give
effect to the provisions, of the said Article VI of the International
Agreement. - Gazette of India, 1958, Ext., Pt. II, Section 2, page 986.[17th
October, 1958.]An Act to implement the international agreement for the
establishment and operation of the International Finance Corporation in so far
as it relates to the status, immunities and privileges of that Corporation,
and for matters connected therewith.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Ninth
Year of the Republic of India as follows:--

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the International Finance Corporation (Status,
Immunities and Privileges) Act, 1958.(2)It [extends] [Extended to the Union
territory of Pondicherry by Act 26 of 1968, Section 3 and Schedule.]to the
whole of India.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--(a)"Agreement" means
the Agreement for the establishment and operation of the international body
known as the International Finance Corporation;(b)"Corporation" means the
International Finance Corporation established under the Agreement.

### 3. Conferment of status and certain immunities and privileges on the
Corporation and conferment of certain immunities and privileges on its
officers and employees.

(1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law, the
provisions of the Agreement set out in the Schedule shall have the force of
law in India:Provided that nothing in Section 9 of Article VI of the Agreement
shall be construed as--(a)entitling the Corporation to import into India goods
free of any duty of customs without any restriction on their subsequent sale
therein; or(b)conferring on the Corporation any exemption from duties or taxes
which form part of the price of goods sold; or(c)conferring on the Corporation
any exemption from duties or taxes which are in fact no more than charges for
services rendered.(2)The Central Government may, from time to time, by
notification in the Official Gazette, amend the Schedule in conformity with
any amendments duly made and adopted, of the provisions of the Agreement set
out therein:Provided that any notification issued under this sub-section shall
be laid for not less than thirty days before each House of Parliament as soon
as may be after it is issued and shall be subject to such modifications as
Parliament may make during the session in which it is so laid or the session
immediately following.

### 4. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.(2)All rules made under this
Act shall be laid for not less than thirty days before each House of
Parliament as soon as may be after they are made and shall be subject to such
modifications as Parliament may make during the session in which they are so
laid or the session immediately following.

## Schedule 1

PROVISIONS OF THE AGREEMENT WHICH SHALL HAVE FORCE OF LAW:ARTICLE IIISection
1. Financing Operations.The Corporation may make investments of its funds in
productive private enterprises in the territories of its members. The
existence of a Government or other public interest in such an enterprise shall
not necessarily preclude the Corporation from making an investment
therein.Section 2. Applicabilities of certain Foreign Exchange
Restrictions.Funds, received by or payable to the Corporation in respect of an
investment of the Corporation made in any member's territories pursuant to
section 1-of this Article shall not be free, solely by reason of any provision
of this Agreement, from generally applicable foreign exchange restrictions,
regulations and controls in force in the territories of that member.ARTICLE
VISTATUS, IMMUNITIES AND PRIVILEGESSection 1. Purposes of Article.To enable
the Corporation to fulfil the functions with which it is entrusted, the
status, immunities and privileges set forth in this Article shall be accorded
to the Corporation in the territories of each member.Section 2. Status of the
Corporation.The Corporation shall possess full juridical personality and, in
particular, the capacity:(i)to contract:(ii)to require and dispose of
immovable and movable property;(iii)to institute legal proceedings.Section 3.
Position of the Corporation with regard to Judicial Process.Actions may be
brought against the Corporation only in a Court of competent jurisdiction in
the territories of a member in which the Corporation has an office, has
appointed an agent for the purpose of accepting service or notice of process,
or has issued or guaranteed securities. No actions shall, however, be brought
by members or persons acting for or deriving claims from members. The property
and assets of the Corporation shall, where so ever located and by whomsoever
held be immune from all forms of seizure, attachment or execution before the
delivery of final judgment against the Corporation.Section 4. Immunity of
Assets from Seizure.Property and assets of the Corporation, wherever located
and whomsoever held, shall be immune from search, requisition, confiscation,
expropriation or any other form of seizure by executive or legislative
action.Section 5. Immunity of Archives.The Archives of the Corporation shall
be inviolable.Section 6. Freedom of Assets from Restrictions.To the extent
necessary to carry out the operations provided for in this Agreement and
subject to the provisions of Article III, section 5, and the other provisions
of this Agreement, all property and assets of the Corporation shall be free
from restrictions regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature.Section 7.
Privilege for Communications.The official communications of the Corporation
shall be accorded by each members the same treatment that it accords to the
official communications of other members.Section 8. Immunities and Privileges
of Officers and Employees.All Governors, Directors, Alternates, Officers and
Employees of the Corporation-(i)shall be immune from legal process with
respect to acts performed by them in their official capacity;(ii)not being
local nationals, shall be accorded the same immunities from immigration
restrictions, alien registration requirements and national service obligations
and the same facilities as regards exchange restrictions as are accorded by
members to the representatives, officials and employees of comparable rank of
other members;(iii)shall be granted the same treatment in respect of
travelling facilities as is accorded by members to representatives; officials
and employees of comparable rank of other members.Section 9. Immunities from
Taxation.(a) The Corporation, its assets, property, income and its operations
and transactions authorised by this Agreement, shall be immune from all
taxation and from all customs duties. The Corporation shall also be immune
from liability for the collection or payment of any tax or duty.(b)No tax
shall be levied on or in respect of salaries and emoluments paid by the
Corporation to Directors, Alternates, officials or employees of the
Corporation who are not local citizens, local subjects, or other local
nationals.(c)No taxation of any kind shall be levied on any obligation or
security issued by the Corporation (including any dividend or interest
thereon) by whomsoever held-(i)which discriminates against such obligation or
security solely because it is issued by the Corporation; or(ii)if the sole
jurisdictional basis for such taxation is the place or currency in which it is
issued, made payable or paid, or the location of any office or place of
business maintained by the Corporation.(d)No taxation of any kind shall be
levied on any obligation or security guaranteed by the Corporation (including
any dividend or interest thereon) by whomsoever held-(i)which discriminates
against such obligation or security solely because it is guaranteed by the
Corporation: or(ii)if the sole jurisdictional basis for such taxation is the
location of any office or place of business maintained by the
Corporation.Section 10. Waiver.The Corporation in its discretion may waive any
of the privileges and immunities conferred under this Article to such extent
and upon such conditions as it may determine.

