## Union of India - Act

## The Infant Milk Substitutes, Feeding Bottles and Infant Foods (Regulation
of Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 1992

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Infant Milk Substitutes, Feeding Bottles and Infant Foods (Regulation of
Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 1992

## Act 41 of 1992

  * Published in Gazette 41 on 29 December 1992 
  * Assented to on 29 December 1992 
  * Commenced on 29 December 1992 
  * [This is the version of this document as it was from 31 July 1993 to None.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Infant Milk Substitutes, Feeding Bottles And Infant Foods (Regulation Of
Production, Supply And Distribution) Act, 1992(41 OF 1992)

### 13.

/630Statement of Object and Reasons - Every child has a right to be adequately
nourished as a means of attaining and maintaining health. Infant malnutrition
is a major contributory cause of high incidence of infant mortality and
physical and mental handicaps. The health of infants and young children cannot
be isolated from the health and nutrition of women. The mother and her infant
form a biological unit. Breast-feeding is an integral part of the reproductive
process. It is the natural and ideal way of feeding the infant and provides a
unique biological and emotional basis for healthy child development. The anti-
infective properties of mother's milk protect infants against diseases. The
effect of breast-feeding on child spacing, on the health and well being of the
mother, on family health and on national economy is well recognised. Breast-
feeding is, therefore, a key aspect of self reliance and primary health care.
It is, therefore, essential to protect and promote breast feeding and to
protect pregnant women and nursing mothers from any influence that could
disrupt it.2\. Inappropriate feeding practices lead to infant malnutrition,
morbidity and mortality in our children. Promotion of infant milk substitutes
and related products like feeding bottles and teats do constitute a health
hazard. Promotion of infant milk substitutes and related products has been
more extensive and pervasive than the dissemination of information concerning
the advantages of mother's milk and breast feeding and contributes to decline
in breast-feeding. In the absence of strong interventions designed to protect,
promole and support breast-feeding this decline can assume dangerous
proportions subjecting millions of infants to greater risks of
infections.malnutrition and death.3\. In the light of the foregoing
considerations and in view of the vulnerability of infants in the early months
of life to the aforesaid risks and the risks involved in inappropriate feeding
practices including the unnecessary and improper use of infant milk
substitutes, feeding accessories and infant foods, it has become necessary to
regulate the marketing of such products. For the proper nutrition and health
of the world's children, the World Health Assembly adopted in May, 1981 on
International Code for Marketing of Breast Milk Substitutes. The Government of
India recognised this Code and adopted the "Indian National Code for
Protection and Promotion of Breast-Feeding" (hereinafter referred to as the
Code) in December, 1983.4\. The Codeen visages that there shall be no
advertising or other form of sales promotion of infant milk substitutes,
feeding bottles and teats. The Code, in accordance with this general principle
enjoins the health authorities to encourage and protect breast-feeding and
also prescribes several measures to control the marketing and promotion of
infant milk substitutes, feeding bottles, teats and infant foods.5\. The Bill
proposes to give effect to the principles and aims of the Code. Accordingly,
it prohibits advertisements of infant milk substitutes and feeding bottles and
also prescribes measures to ensure that in marketing of infant milk
substitutes no impression is given that feeding of these products is
equivalent to, or better than, breast-feeding. The provisions relating to
labelling and quality control of infant milk substitutes, feeding bottles and
infant foods are proposed to be implemented through the concerned Departments
in the State Government and Union territory administrations under the overall
control of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Contravention of the
provisions of the Bill will be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to three years, or with fine which may extend to five thousand
rupees, or with both. However, the contravention of certain provisions of the
Bill relating to labelling or quality control of such substitutes or foods
will be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than
six months but which may extend to three years and with fine which shall not
be less than two thousand rupees.6.The Bill seeks to achieve the above
objects. -Gazette of India., 8-5-1992, Pt. II, Section. 2, Ext., p.10 (No.
34). -Amendment Act 38 of 2003-Statement of Objects and Reasons-The Infant
Milk Substitutes, Feeding Bottles and Infant Foods (Regulation of Production,
Supply and Distribution) Act, 1992 was enacted with a view to protecting and
promoting breast-feeding and ensuring proper use of infant foods. During the
course of implementation of the provisions of the enactment over the years, it
has been found that some aspects have led to difficulties, which need to be
clearly spelt out. The recent developments and findings of international
agencies as well as researchers have revealed that ideally, the infant thrives
best on exclusive breast-feeding for the first six months of life, as well as
continued breast-feeding together with complementary foods for the first two
years. The World Health Organisation by World Health Assembly Resolution No.
47.5, dated the 9th May, 1994 called upon all Member Nations to aim at
achieving this goal. The said resolution, inter alia, required Member Nations
to foster appropriate complementary feeding practices for the infants from the
age of about six months and encourage continued breast-feeding as well as
proper feeding with safe and adequate amounts of local foods until the infant
attains the age of two years.2\. In order to review and suggest appropriate
amendments in the said Act, the Department of Women and Child Development
constituted a Task Force comprising of representatives from various Ministries
and Departments of the Central Government and Voluntary Agencies authorised
under section 21 of the Act. The National Commission for Women has also
considered the provisions of the Act and suggested certain modifications
therein.3\. Taking into consideration the recommendations of the said Task
Force and of the National Commission for Women and the difficulties being
experienced in the implementation of the provisions of the Act, it has become
necessary to amend the existing provisions so as to encourage continued
breast-feeding and to prohibit all forms of advertising and promotion-light,
sound, smoke or gas or by means of electronic transmission or by audio or
visual transmission in relation to infant milk substitutes, feeding bottles
and infant foods.[29th December, 1992]An Act to provide for the regulation of
production, supply and distribution of infant milk substitutes, feeding
bottles and infant foods with a view to the protection and promotion of
breast-feeding and ensuring the proper use of infant foods and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by Parliament in the
Forty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

Brought into force on 1.8.1993 vide G.S.R. 527(E), dated 31.7.1993, published
in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt. II, Section 3(i), dated 31.7.1993.  
---  
  
### 1. Short title, extent and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The
Infant Milk Substitutes, Feeding Bottles and Infant Foods (Regulation of
Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 1992.

(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date
as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint.

### 2. Definitions .-(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)[ "advertisement "includes any notice, circular, label, wrapper or any
other document or visible representation or announcement made by means of any
light, sound, smoke or gas or by means of electronic transmission or by audio
or visual transmission;](b)"container "means a box, bottle, casket, tin, can,
barrel, case, tube, receptacle, sack, wrapper or other thing in which any
infant milk substitute, feeding bottle or infant food is placed or packed for
sale or distribution;(c)"feeding bottle "means any bottle or receptacle used
for the purpose of feeding infant milk substitutes, and includes a teat and a
valve attached or capable of being attached to such bottle or
receptacle;(d)"health care system "means an institution or organisation
engaged, either directly or indirectly, in health care for mothers, infants or
pregnant women, and includes a health worker in private practice, [a pharmacy,
drug store and any association of health workers] [ Substituted by Act 38 of
2003, Section 2, for " but does not include a pharmacy or drug store" (w.e.f.
1.1.2004).];(e)"health worker "means a person engaged in health care for
mothers, infants or pregnant women;(f)"infant food "means any food (by
whatever name called) being marketed or otherwise represented as a complement
to mother 's milk to meet the growing nutritional needs of the infant [after
the age of six months and up to the age of two years] [ Substituted by Act 38
of 2003, Section 2, for " after the age of four months" (w.e.f.
1.1.2004).];(g)"infant milk substitute "means any food being marketed or
otherwise represented as a partial or total replacement for mother 's milk,
[for infant up to the age of two years] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 2003,
Section 2, " whether or not it is suitable for such replacement" (w.e.f.
1.1.2004).];(h)"label "means a display of written, marked, stamped, printed or
graphic, matter affixed to, or appearing upon, any container;(i)"prescribed
"means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(j)[ "promotion "means to
employ directly or indirectly any method of encouraging any person to purchase
or use infant milk substitute, feeding bottle or infant food.] [ Inserted by
Act 38 of 2003, Section 2 (w.e.f. 1.1.2004).](2)Any reference in this Act to
any other enactment or any provision thereof, shall, in relation to an area in
which such enactment or such provision is not in force, be construed as a
reference to the corresponding law or the relevant provision of the
corresponding law, if any, in force in that area.

### 3. Certain prohibitions in relation to infant milk substitutes [, feeding
bottles and infant foods]

.-No person shall-(a)advertise, or take part in the publication of any
advertisement, for the distribution, sale or supply of infant milk
substitutes, feeding bottles or infant foods; or(b)give an impression or
create a belief in any manner that feeding of [infant milk substitutes and
infant foods are] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 2003, Section 3, for " infant
milk substitutes is" (w.e.f. 1.1.2004).] equivalent to, or better than, mother
's milk; or(c)[ take part in the promotion of infant milk substitutes, feeding
bottles or infant foods.] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 2003, Section 3, for Cl.
(c) (w.e.f. 1.1.2004).]

### 4. Prohibition of incentives for the use or sale of infant milk
substitutes or feeding bottles or infant foods .-No person shall-

(a)supply or distribute samples of infant milk substitutes or [feeding bottles
or infant foods] or gifts of utensils or other articles; or(b)contact any
pregnant woman or the mother of an infant; or(c)offer inducement of any other
kind, for the purpose of promoting the use or sale of infant milk substitutes
or [feeding bottles or infant foods] [[ Substituted by Act 38 of 2003, Section
4, for " feeding bottles" (w.e.f.1.1.2004).]].

### 5. Donations of infant milk substitutes or [feeding bottles or infant
foods] or equipment or materials relating thereto

.-Subject to the provisions of sub-section (4) of section 8, no person shall
donate or distribute-(a)infant milk substitutes or [feeding bottles or infant
foods] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 2003, Section 5, for " feeding bottles"
(w.e.f. 1.1.2004).] to any other person except to an orphanage;(b)any
informational or educational equipment or material relating to infant milk
substitutes or [feeding bottles or infant foods] [ Substituted by Act 38 of
2003, Section 5, for " feeding bottles" (w.e.f. 1.1.2004).]:Provided that
nothing in this clause shall apply to the donation or distribution, subject to
such conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed, of such equipment or
material through the health care system.

### 6. Information on containers and labels of infant milk substitutes or
infant foods .-(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of [the Food Safety and
Standards Act, 2006 (34 of 2006)] and the rules made thereunder, no person
shall produce, supply or distribute any infant milk substitute or infant food
unless every container thereof or any label affixed thereto indicates in a
clear, conspicuous and in an easily readable and understandable manner, the
words "important notice "in capital letters in such language as may be
prescribed and indicating thereunder the following particulars in the same
language, namely:-

(a)a statement "mother 's milk is best for your baby "in capital letters;(b)a
statement that infant milk substitute or infant food should be used only on
the advice of a health worker as to the need for its use and the proper method
of its use;(c)a warning that infant milk substitute or infant food is not the
sole source of nourishment of an infant;(d)the instructions for its
appropriate preparation and a warning against the health hazards of its
inappropriate preparation;(e)the ingredients used;(f)the composition or
analysis;(g)the storage conditions required;(h)the batch number, date of its
manufacture and the date before which it is to be consumed, taking into
account the climatic and storage conditions of the country;(i)such other
particulars as may be prescribed.(2)No container or label referred to in sub-
section (1) relating to [infant milk substitute or infant food] [ Substituted
by Act 38 of 2003, Section 3, for " infant milk substitutes" (w.e.f.
1.1.2004).] shall-(a)have pictures of an infant or a woman or both; or(b)have
pictures or other graphic material or phrases designed to increase the
saleability of [infant milk substitute or infant food] [ Substituted by Act 38
of 2003, Section 3, for " infant milk substitutes" (w.e.f. 1.1.2004).] ;
or(c)use on it the word "humanised "or "maternalised "or any other similar
word; or(d)bear on it such other particulars as may be prescribed.

### 7. Educational and other materials relating to feeding of infants to
contain certain particulars .-(1) [Every educational or other material
including advertisements or material relating to promotion of infant milk
substitutes, feeding bottles and infant foods], whether audio or visual,
dealing with pre-natal or post-natal care or with the feeding of an infant and
intended to reach pregnant women or mothers of infants shall include clear
information relating to-

(a)the benefits and superiority of breast-feeding;(b)the preparation for, and
the continuance of, breast-feeding;(c)the harmful effects on breast-feeding
due to the partial adoption of bottle feeding;(d)the difficulties in reverting
to breast-feeding of infants after a period of feeding by infant milk
substitute;(e)the financial and social implications in making use of infant
milk substitutes and feeding bottles;(f)the health hazards of improper use of
infant milk substitutes and feeding bottles;[( fa) the date of printing and
publication of such material and the name of the printer and publisher;] [
Inserted by Act 38 of 2003, Section 7 (w.e.f. 1.1.2004).](g)such other matters
as may be prescribed.(2)No material referred to in sub-section (1) shall be
utilised to promote the use or sale of infant milk substitutes for [feeding
bottles or infant foods] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 2003, Section 7, for "
feeding bottles" (w.e.f. 1.1.2004).].

### 8. Health care system .-(1) No person shall use any health care system for
the display of placards or posters relating to, or for the distribution of,
materials for the purpose of promoting the use or sale of infant milk
substitutes or feeding bottles, or infant foods:

Provided that the provisions of this sub-section shall not apply to-(a)the
donation or distribution of informational or educational equipment or material
made in accordance with the proviso to clause (b) of section 5; and(b)the
dissemination of information to a health worker about the scientific and
factual matters relating to the use of infant milk substitutes or feeding
bottles or infant foods alongwith the information specified in sub-section (1)
of section 7.(2)No person who produces, supplies, distributes or sells infant
milk substitutes or feeding bottles or infant foods shall make any payment to
any person who works in the health care system for the purpose of promoting
the use or sale of such substitutes or bottles or foods.(3)No person, other
than a health worker, shall demonstrate feeding with infant milk substitutes
or infant foods to a mother of an infant or to any member of her family and
such health worker shall also clearly explain to such mother or such other
member, the hazards of improper use of infant milk substitutes or feeding
bottles or infant foods.(4)No person, other than an institution or
organisation, engaged in health care for mothers, infants or pregnant women,
shall distribute infant milk substitutes or feeding bottles to a mother who
cannot resort to breast-feeding and who cannot afford to purchase infant milk
substitutes or feeding bottles.(5)An orphanage may purchase infant milk
substitutes or feeding bottles at a price lower than their sale price for the
purpose of utilising them in the said orphanage.Explanation .-For the purposes
of this sub-section, such purchases shall not amount to an inducement for
promoting the use or sale of infant milk substitutes or feeding bottles.

### 9. Inducement to health worker for promoting use of infant milk
substitutes, etc

.-(1) No person who produces, supplies, distributes or sells infant milk
substitutes or feeding bottles or infant foods shall offer or give, directly
or indirectly, any financial inducements or gifts to a health worker or to any
member of his family for the purpose of promoting the use of such substitutes
or bottles or foods.(2)[ No producer, supplier or distributor referred to in
sub-section (1), shall offer or give any contribution or pecuniary benefit to
a health worker or any association of health workers, including funding of
seminar, meeting, conference, educational course, contest, fellowship,
research work or sponsorship.]

### 10. Special provision relating to employees of person who produces,
supplies, distributes or sells infant milk substitutes, etc .-(1) No person
who produces, supplies, distributes or sells infant milk substitutes or
feeding bottles or infant foods shall fix the remuneration of any of his
employees or give any commission to such employees on the basis of the volume
of sale of such substitutes or bottles or foods made by such employees.

(2)The employees of such person shall not perform any function which relates
to educating a pregnant woman or mother of an infant on pre-natal or post-
natal care of the infant.

### 11. Standards of infant milk substitutes, feeding bottles or infant foods

.-(1) No person shall sell or otherwise distribute any infant milk substitute
or infant food unless it conforms to the standards, specified for such
substitute or food under [the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 (34 of
2006)], and the rules made thereunder and the container thereof has the
relevant Standard Mark specified by the Bureau of Indian Standards established
under section 3 of the Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 1986 (63 of 1986) to
indicate that the infant milk substitute or infant food conforms to such
standards:Provided that where no standards have been specified for any infant
milk substitute or infant food under [the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006
(34 of 2006)] [Substituted by Act 34 of 2006, Section 100, for " the
Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954 (37 of 1954)" (yet to be enforced).
], no person shall sell or otherwise distribute such substitute or food unless
he has obtained the approval of the Central Government in relation to such
substitute or food and the label affixed to the container thereof under the
rules made under that Act.(2)No person shall sell or otherwise distribute any
feeding bottle unless it conforms to the Standard Mark specified by the Bureau
of Indian Standards referred to in sub-section (1) for feeding bottles and
such mark is affixed on its container.

### 12. Powers of entry and search .-(1) [Any Food Safety Officer appointed
under section 9 of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 (34 of 2006)]
(hereinafter referred to as [the Food Safety Officer] [ Substituted by Act 34
of 2006, Section 100, for " Food Inspector" (yet to be enforced).]) or any
officer not below the rank of a Class I officer authorised in this behalf by
the State Government (hereinafter referred to as the authorised officer) may,
if he has any reason to believe that any provision of section 6 or section 11
has been or is being contravened, enter and search at any reasonable time any
factory, building, business premises or any other place where any trade or
commerce in infant milk substitutes or feeding bottles or infant foods is
carried on or such substitutes or bottles or foods are produced, supplied or
distributed.

(2)The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974),
relating to searches and seizures shall, so far as may be, apply to every
search or seizure made under this Act.

### 13\. Power to seize infant milk substitutes, etc., or containers thereof
.-(1) If any [Food Safety Officer] or authorised officer has reason to believe
that in respect of any infant milk substitute or feeding bottle or infant food
or container thereof, the provisions of this Act have been or are being
contravened, he may seize such substitute or bottle or food or container.

(2)No such substitute or food or bottle or container shall be retained by any
[Food Safety Officer] [ Substituted by Act 34 of 2006, Section 100, for " Food
Inspector" (yet to be enforced).] or authorised officer for a period exceeding
ninety days from the date of its seizure unless the approval of the District
Judge, within the local limits of whose jurisdiction such seizure has been
made, has been obtained for such retention.

### 14. Confiscation .-Any infant milk substitute or feeding bottle or infant
food or container thereof, in respect of which any provision of this Act has
been or is being contravened, shall be liable to confiscation:

Provided that where it is established to the satisfaction of the Court
adjudging the confiscation that the person in whose possession, power or
control any such substitute or bottle or food or container is found is not
responsible for the contravention of the provisions of this Act, the Court
may, instead of making an order for the confiscation of such substitute or
bottle or food or container, make such other order authorised by this Act
against the person guilty of the breach of the provisions of this Act as it
may think fit.

### 15. Power to give option to pay cost in lieu of confiscation

.-(1) Whenever any confiscation is authorised by this Act, the Court adjudging
it may, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the order adjudging
the confiscation, give to the owner thereof an option to pay in lieu of
confiscation such cost not exceeding the value of the infant milk substitute
or feeding bottle or infant food or container thereof in respect of which the
confiscation is authorised as the Court thinks fit.(2)On payment of the cost
ordered by the Court the seized infant milk substitute or feeding bottle or
infant food or container shall be returned to the person from whom it was
seized on the condition that such person shall, before making any
distribution, sale or supply of such substitute or bottle or food or
container, give effect to the provisions of this Act.

### 16. Confiscation not to interfere with other punishments

.-No confiscation made or cost ordered to be paid under this Act shall prevent
the infliction of any punishment to which the person affected thereby is
liable under the provisions of this Act or under any other law.

### 17. Adjudication

.-Any confiscation may be adjudged or costs may be ordered to be
paid,-(a)without any limit, by the principal Civil Court of original
jurisdiction within the local limits of whose jurisdiction such confiscation
has been made or costs have been ordered to be paid, as the case may
be;(b)subject to such limits as may be specified by the Central Government in
this behalf, by such other Court, not below a Civil Court having pecuniary
jurisdiction exceeding five thousand rupees, as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, authorise in this behalf.

### 18. Giving of opportunity to the owner of the seized infant milk
substitute or feeding bottle or infant food or container thereof .-(1)

No order adjudicating confiscation or directing payment of costs shall be made
unless the owner of the infant milk substitute or feeding bottle or infant
food or container thereof has been given a notice in writing informing him of
the grounds on which it is proposed to confiscate such substitute or bottle or
food or container and giving him a reasonable opportunity of making a
representation in writing, within such reasonable time as may be specified in
the notice, against the confiscation and if he so desires, of being heard in
the matter:Provided that where no such notice is given within a period of
ninety days from the date of the seizure of the infant milk substitute or
feeding bottle or infant food or container thereof, such substitute or bottle
or food or container shall be returned after the expiry of that period to the
person from whose possession it was seized.(2)Save as otherwise provided in
sub-section (1), the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908), shall, so far as may be, apply to every proceeding referred to in sub-
section (1).

### 19. Appeal .-(1) Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Court
adjudicating a confiscation or ordering the payment of costs may prefer an
appeal to the Court to which an appeal lies from the decision of such Court.

(2)The appellate Court may, after giving the appellant an opportunity of being
heard, pass such order as it thinks fit confirming, modifying or revising the
decision or order appealed against or may send back the case with such
directions as it may think fit for a fresh decision or adjudication, as the
case may be, after taking additional evidence if necessary:Provided that an
order enhancing any fine in lieu of confiscation or for confiscating goods of
greater value shall not be made under this section unless the appellant has
had an opportunity of making a representation and if he so desires, of being
heard in his defence.(3)No further appeal shall lie against the order of the
Court made under sub-section (2).

### 20. Penalty .-(1) Any person who contravenes the provisions of sections 3,
4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10 or sub-section (2) of ` [section 11 and the rules made under
section 26 of the Act shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to three years, or with fine which may extend to five thousand
rupees, or with both.

(2)Any person who contravenes the provisions of section 6 or sub-section (1)
of [section 11 and the rules made under section 26 of the Act] shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six
months but which may extend to three years and with fine which shall not be
less than two thousand rupees:Provided that the Court may, for any adequate
and special reasons to be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three months but which
may extend to two years and with fine which shall not be less than one
thousand rupees.

### 21. Cognizance of offences .-(1) Save as otherwise provided in section 173
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), no Court shall take
cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act except upon a complaint in
writing made by-

(a)[ the Designated Officer or the Food Safety Officer directed under sub-
section (5) of section 42 of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 (34 of
2006); or](b)an officer not below the rank of a Class I officer authorised in
this behalf, by general or special order, by the Government; or(c)a
representative of such voluntary organisation engaged in the field of child
welfare and development and child nutrition as the Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, authorise in this behalf.(2)Where a
complaint has been made by a representative of the voluntary organisation
authorised under clause (c) of sub-section (1) and the Court has issued a
summons or, as the case may be, a warrant under sub-section (1) of section 204
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), the Assistant Public
Prosecutor for that Court shall take charge of the case and conduct the
prosecution.

### 22. Offences by companies .-(1) Where an offence under this Act has been
committed by a company, every person who, at the time the offence was
committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the
conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be
deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly:

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such
person liable to any punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent
the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), where any offence under this Act has been committed by a company
and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or
connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director,
manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation .-For the purposes of this section,-(a)"company "means
any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals;
and(b)"director ", in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 23. Offences to be cognizable and bailable

.-Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974), an offence punishable under this Act shall
be-(a)bailable;(b)cognizable.

### 24. Protection of action taken in good faith

.-No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government or any State Government or any officer of the Central Government or
of any State Government [or a representative of such voluntary organisation
which is notified under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 21] for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.

### 25. Application of Act 37 of 1954 not barred .-The provisions of this Act
or the rules made thereunder shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of, [the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 (34 of 2006)], or the rules made
thereunder.

### 26. Power to make rules .-(1) The Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the conditions and restrictions subject to which educational
equipment and other material may be donated or distributed under the proviso
to clause (b) of section 5;(b)the language in which the notice and other
particulars shall be indicated under sub-section (1) of section 6;(c)the
particulars which are to be indicated under clause (i) of sub-section (1) of
section 6;(d)the particulars which a container or label shall not bear under
clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 6;(e)the matters to be included in
the information which reaches pregnant women or mothers of infants under
clause (g) of sub-section (1) of section 7;(f)any other matter which is
required to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall
be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament,
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be
comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before
the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive
sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule
or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

