## Union of India - Act

## The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000

## Act 56 of 2000

  * Published on 20 November 1989 
  * Commenced on 20 November 1989 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 August 2006.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE JUVENILE JUSTICE (CARE AND PROTECTION OF CHILDREN) AMENDMENT ACT, 2006 (Act 33 of 2006) on 22 August 2006] 
  2. [Repealed by The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (Act 2 of 2016) on 31 December 2015] 

The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000(56 of 2000)

### 045.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-A review of the working of the juvenile Act,
1986 (53 of 1986) would indicate that much greater attention is required to be
given to children in conflict with law or those in need of care and
protection. The justice system as available for adults is not considered
suitable for being applied to a juvenile or the child or any one on their
behalf including the police, voluntary organisations, social workers, or
parents and guardians, throughout the country. There is also an urgent need
for creating adequate infrastructure necessary for the implementation of the
proposed legislation with a larger involvement of informal systems specially
the family, the voluntary organisations and the community.2\. In this context,
the following further proposals have been made-(i) to lay down the basic
principles for administering justice to a juvenile or the child in the
Bill;(ii) to make the juvenile system meant for a juvenile or the child more
appreciative of the developmental needs in comparison to criminal justice
system as applicable to adults;(iii) to bring the juvenile law in conformity
with the United Convention on the Rights of the Child;(iv) to prescribe a
uniform age of eighteen years for both boys and girls;(v) to ensure speedy
disposal of cases by the authorities envisaged under this Bill regarding
juvenile or the child within a time limit of four months;(vi) to spell out the
role of the State as a facilitator rather than doer by involving voluntary
organisations and local bodies in the implementation of the proposed
legislation;(vii) to create special juvenile police units with a humane
approach through sensitisation and training of police personnel;(viii) to
enable increased accessibility to a juvenile or the child by establishing
Juvenile Justice Boards and Child Welfare Committees and Homes in each
district or group of districts;(ix) to minimise the stigma and in keeping with
the developmental needs of the juvenile or the child, to separate the Bill
into two parts--one for juveniles in conflict with law and the other for the
juvenile or the child in need of care and protection;(x) to provide for
effective provisions and various alternatives for rehabilitation and social
reintegration such as adoption, foster care, sponsorship and aftercare of
abandoned, destitute, neglected and delinquent juvenile and child.3\. The Bill
seeks to repeal and re-enact the juvenile justice Act, 1986 with a view to
achieving the above objects.Amendment Act 33 of 2006-Statement of Objects and
Reasons.-The juvenile justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000 (the
juvenile justice Act) was brought into force on 1st April, 2001. The juvenile
justice Act was aimed at providing a juvenile justice system for juveniles in
conflict with law and children in need of care and protection by adopting a
child friendly approach in the adjudication and disposition of matters in the
best interests of children and for their rehabilitation keeping in view the
developmental needs of the children.2\. In a public interest litigation (Civil
Writ Petition No. 3447 of 2001) certain provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act
were challenged before the High Court of Delhi. During the course of hearings,
the High Court observed that some of the provisions of the juvenile justice
Act merited reconsideration. Keeping in view these observations, it was
proposed to carry out amendments in sections 32, 33, 56, 57 and 59 of the
Juvenile Justice Act. Accordingly, an amendment Bill was introduced in the Lok
Sabha on 24-7-2003. Meanwhile, taking cognizance of the said Bill, the High
Court of Delhi disposed of the above said Civil Writ Petition on 28-7-2003.
The Lok Sabha referred the said Bill to the Parliamentary Standing Committee
on Labour and Welfare for examination and report. Before the Standing
Committee submitted its report to the Lok Sabha, the Lok Sabha was dissolved
and the said Bill lapsed.3\. Thereafter, before re-introducing a fresh
amendment Bill the Government considered it necessary to revisit the amendment
proposals again along with other suggestions received by the Standing
Committee from various experts. In the process, further consultations were
held and suggestions/views of all concerned were obtained. Based upon these
consultations, it is proposed to make amendments in other provisions of the
juvenile justice Act in addition to those contained in the earlier Bill.
Modifications proposed in the Bill, inter alia, intend(i)to modify the long
title of the juvenile justice Act so as to convey a wider scope of
rehabilitation of child in need of care and protection or a juvenile in
conflict with law under the Act through not only institutional but also non-
institutional approach;(ii) to clarify that the Juvenile Justice Act shall
apply to all cases involving detention or criminal prosecution of juveniles
under any other law;(iii) to remove doubts regarding the relevant date in
determining the juvenility of a person and applicability of the juvenile
justice Act;(iv) exclusion of the local authority from the provisions
authorising them to discharge or transfer a child in need of care and
protection or a juvenile from the children's home or special home or for
sending a juvenile in conflict with law undergoing imprisonment, to a special
home or a fit institution;(v) to have a procedure laid down where claim of
juvenility is raised before any Court;(vi)to have a minimum period of twenty-
four hours, excluding the time necessary for the journey from the place where
the juvenile in conflict with law was apprehended, within which he should be
produced before the Board and a similar provision with regard to production of
a child before the Child Welfare Committee;(vii) to provide for alternatives
to detention in the observation home to achieve the intention of the Juvenile
Justice Act;(viii) to do away with the association of any police officer from
the inquiry process, for the child in need of care and protection as the work
is assigned to the Child Welfare Committee and to cover other cases where the
child can remain in children/ shelter home after completion of enquiry;(ix) to
extend the scope of adoption of a child to childless parents and to limit the
same under the Juvenile Justice Act to citizens of India only;(x) to provide
for a flexible period of leave that may be given to child on special occasions
like examination, marriage of relatives, death of kith and kin or accident or
serious illness of parent or any emergency of the like nature;(xi) to ensure
the applicability of model rules framed by the Central Government in the
States/Union territories who have not made their own rules, till the rules are
framed in this regard by the respective States/Union territories.4\. This Bill
seeks to achieve the above objectives.[30th December, 2000]An Act to
consolidate and amend the law relating to juveniles in conflict with law and
children in need of care and protection, by providing for proper care,
protection and treatment by catering to their development needs, and by
adopting a child-friendly approach in the adjudication and disposition of
matters in the best interest of children and for their ultimate rehabilitation
[and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto] [Substituted by
Act 33 of 2006, Section 2, for " through various institutions established
under this enactment" (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).].Whereas the Constitution has, in
several provisions, including clause (3) of article 15, clauses (e)and (f) of
article 39, articles 45and 47, impose on the State a primary responsibility of
ensuring that all the needs of children are met and that their basic human
rights are fully protected;And whereas , the General Assembly of the United
Nations has adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the 20th
November, 1989;And whereas , the Convention on the Rights of the Child has
prescribed a set of standards to be adhered to by all State parties in
securing the best interests of the child;And whereas , the Convention on the
Rights of the Child emphasises social reintegration of child victims, to the
extent possible, without resorting to judicial proceedings;And whereas , the
Government of India has ratified the Convention on the 11th December, 1992;And
whereas , it is expedient to re-enact the existing law relating to juveniles
bearing in mind the standards prescribed in the Convention on the Rights of
the Child, the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Administration of
Juvenile Justice, 1985 (the Beijing Rules), the United Nations Rules for the
Protection of Juvenile Deprived of their Liberty (1990), and all other
relevant international instruments;Be it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-
first Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

Received the assent of the President on 30.12.2000 and published in Gazette of
India, Extraordinary, Part II, S.1 dated 30.12.2000.Enforced with effect from
1.4.2001 vide Notification No. S.O.177(E), dated 28.2.2001.  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent , [commencement and application] [Substituted by
Act 33 of 2006, Section 3, for " and commencement" (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).]

(1)This Act may be called The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of
Children) Act , 2000.(2)It extends to the whole of India except the State of
Jammu and Kashmir.(3)It shall come into force on such [date] [1st April, 2001,
vide notification No. S.O. 177(E), dated 28th February, 2001.] as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.(4)[
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, the provisions of this Act shall apply to all cases involving
detention, prosecution, penalty or sentence of imprisonment of juveniles in
conflict with law under such other law.] [Inserted by Act 33 of 2006, Section
3 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).]

### 2. Definitions

.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)advisory board means a
Central or a State advisory board or a district and city level advisory board
as the case may be, constituted under section 62;(aa)[ adoption means the
process through which the adopted child is permanently separated from his
biological parents and become the legitimate child of his adoptive parents
with all the rights, privileges and responsibilities that are attached to the
relationship;] [Inserted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 4 (w.e.f.
22.8.2006).](b)begging means(i)soliciting or receiving alms in a public place
or entering into any private premises for the purpose of soliciting or
receiving alms, whether under any pretence;(ii)exposing or exhibiting with the
object of obtaining or extorting alms, any sore, wound, injury, deformity or
disease, whether of himself or of any other person or of an animal;(c)Board
means a Juvenile Justice Board constituted under section 4;(d)child in need of
care and protection means a child,(i)who is found without any home or settled
place or abode and without any ostensible means of subsistence,(ia)who is
found begging, or who is either a street child or a working child,(ii)who
resides with a person (whether a guardian of the child or not) and such
person(a)has threatened to kill or injure the child and there is a reasonable
likelihood of the threat being carried out, or(b)has killed, abused or
neglected some other child or children and there is a reasonable likelihood of
the child in question being killed, abused or neglected by that
person,(iii)who is mentally or physically challenged or ill children or
children suffering from terminal diseases or incurable diseases having no one
to support or look after,(iv)who has a parent or guardian and such parent or
guardian is unfit or incapacitated to exercise control over the child,(v)who
does not have parent and no one is willing to take care of or whose parents
have abandoned or surrendered him or who is missing and run away child and
whose parents cannot be found after reasonable injury,(vi)who is being or is
likely to be grossly abused, tortured or exploited for the purpose of sexual
abuse or illegal acts,(vii)who is found vulnerable and is likely to be
inducted into drug abuse or trafficking,(viii)who is being or is likely to be
abused for unconscionable gains,(ix)who is victim of any armed conflict, civil
commotion or natural calamity;(e)children's home means an institution
established by a State Government or by voluntary organisation and certified
by that Government under section 34;(f)Committee means a Child Welfare
Committee constituted under section 29;(g)competent authority means in
relation to children in need of care and protection a Committee and in
relation to juveniles in conflict with law a Board;(h)fit institution means a
governmental or a registered non-governmental organisation or a voluntary
organisation prepared to own the responsibility of a child and such
organisation is found fit by the [State Government on the recommendation of
the competent authority] [Substituted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 4, for "
competent authority" (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).];(i)fit person means a person, being
a social worker or any other person, who is prepared to own the responsibility
of a child and is found fit by the competent authority to receive and take
care of the child;(j)guardian, in relation to a child, means his natural
guardian or any other person having the actual charge or control over the
child and recognised by the competent authority as a guardian in course of
proceedings before that authority;(k)juvenile or child means a person who has
not completed eighteenth year of age;(l)[ juvenile in conflict with law means
a juvenile who is alleged to have committed an offence and has not completed
eighteenth year of age as on the date of commission of such offence;]
[Substituted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 4, forb Clause (l)(w.e.f.
22.8.2006).][* * *] [ Clause (m) omitted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 4 (w.e.f.
22-8-2006). ](n)narcotic drug and psychotropic substance shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
Substances Act, 1985 (61 of 1985);(o)observation home means a home established
by a State Government or by a voluntary organisation and certified by that
State Government under section 8 as an observation home for the juvenile in
conflict with law;(p)offence means an offence punishable under any law for the
time being in force;(q)place of safety means any place or institution (not
being a police lock-up or jail), the person in charge of which is willing
temporarily to receive and take care of the juvenile and which, in the opinion
of the competent authority, may be a place of safety for the
juvenile;(r)prescribed means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(s)probation officer means an officer appointed by the State Government as
a probation officer under the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 (20 of
1958);(t)public place shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Immoral
Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 (104 of 1956);(u)shelter home means a home or a
drop-in-centre set up under section 37;(v)special home means an institution
established by a State Government or by a voluntary organisation and certified
by that Government under section 9;(w)special juvenile police unit means a
unit of the police force of a State designated for handling of juveniles or
children under section 63;(x)State Government, in relation to a Union
territory, means the Administrator of that Union territory appointed by the
President under article 239 of the Constitution;(y)all words and expressions
used but not defined in this Act and defined in the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), shall have the meanings respectively assigned to
them in that Code.

Prior to its omission, Clause (m) read as under:-"(m) "local authority" means
Panchayat at the village and Zila Parishad at the district level and shall
also include a Municipal Committee of Corporation or a Cantonment Board or
such other body legally entitled to function as local authority by the
Government;".  
---  
  
### 3. Continuation of inquiry in respect of juvenile who has ceased to be a
juvenile

.Where an inquiry has been initiated against a juvenile in conflict with law
or a child in need of care and protection and during the course of such
inquiry the juvenile or the child ceases to be such, then, notwithstanding
anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the time being in
force, the inquiry may be continued and orders may be made in respect of such
person as if such person had continued to be a juvenile or a child.

## Chapter II  
Juvenile In Conflict With Law

### 4. Juvenile Justice Board

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974), the State Government may, [within a period of one year from the
date of commencement of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children)
Amendment Act, 2006, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute for
every district] [Substituted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 6, for " by
notification in the Official Gazette, constitute for a district or a group of
districts specified in the notification" (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).], one or more
Juvenile Justice Boards for exercising the powers and discharging the duties
conferred or imposed on such Boards in relation to juveniles in conflict with
law under this Act.(2)A Board shall consist of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a
Judicial Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, and two social
workers of whom at least one shall be a woman, forming a Bench and every such
Bench shall have the powers conferred by the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974), on a Metropolitan Magistrate or, as the case may be, a Judicial
Magistrate of the first class and the Magistrate on the Board shall be
designated as the principal Magistrate.(3)No Magistrate shall be appointed as
a member of the Board unless he has special knowledge or training in child
psychology or child welfare and no social worker shall be appointed as a
member of the Board unless he has been actively involved in health, education,
or welfare activities pertaining to children for atleast seven years.(4)The
term of office of the members of the Board and the manner in which such member
may resign shall be such as may be prescribed.(5)The appointment of any member
of the Board may be terminated after holding inquiry, by the State Government,
if(i)he has been found guilty of misuse of power vested under this Act,(ii)he
has been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude, and such
conviction has not been reversed or he has not been granted full pardon in
respect of such offence,(iii)he fails to attend the proceedings of the Board
for consecutive three months without any valid reason or he fails to attend
less than three-fourth of the sittings in a year.

### 5. Procedure, etc., in relation to Board

(1)The Board shall meet at such times and shall observe such rules of
procedure in regard to the transaction of business at its meetings, as may be
prescribed.(2)A child in conflict with law may be produced before an
individual member of the Board, when the Board is not sitting.(3)A Board may
act notwithstanding the absence of any member of the Board, and no order made
by the Board shall be invalid by reason only of the absence of any member
during any stage of proceedings:Provided that there shall be at least two
members including the principal Magistrate present at the time of final
disposal of the case.(4)In the event of any difference of opinion among the
members of the Board in the interim or final disposition, the opinion of the
majority shall prevail, but where there is no such majority, the opinion of
the principal Magistrate shall prevail.

### 6. Powers of Juvenile Justice Board

(1)Where a Board has been constituted for any district [* * *] [words " The
words " or a group of districts" omitted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 7 (w.e.f.
22.8.2006).], such Board shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any
other law for the time being in force but save as otherwise expressly provided
in this Act, have power to deal exclusively with all proceedings under this
Act relating to juvenile in conflict with law.(2)The powers conferred on the
Board by or under this Act may also be exercised by the High Court and the
Court of Session, when the proceeding comes before them in appeal, revision or
otherwise.

### 7. Procedure to be followed by a Magistrate not empowered under the Act

(1)When any Magistrate not empowered to exercise the powers of a Board under
this Act is of the opinion that a person brought before him under any of the
provisions of this Act (other than for the purpose of giving evidence), is a
juvenile or the child, he shall without any delay record such opinion and
forward the juvenile or the child and the record of the proceeding to the
competent authority having jurisdiction over the proceeding.(2)The competent
authority to which the proceeding is forwarded under sub-section (1) shall
hold the inquiry as if the juvenile or the child had originally been brought
before it.

### 7A. [ Procedure to be followed when claim of juvenility is raised before
any Court. [Inserted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 8 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).]

(1)Whenever a claim of juvenility is raised before any Court or a Court is of
the opinion that an accused person was a juvenile on the date of commission of
the offence, the Court shall make an inquiry, take such evidence as may be
necessary (but not an affidavit) so as to determine the age of such person,
and shall record a finding whether the person is a juvenile or a child or not,
stating his age as nearly as may be:Provided that a claim of juvenility may be
raised before any Court and it shall be recognised at any stage, even after
final disposal of the case, and such claim shall be determined in terms of the
provisions contained in this Act and the rules made thereunder, even if the
juvenile has ceased to be so on or before the date of commencement of this
Act.(2)If the Court finds a person to be a juvenile on the date of commission
of the offence under sub-section (1), it shall forward the juvenile to the
Board for passing appropriate order, and the sentence, if any, passed by a
Court shall be deemed to have no effect.]

### 8. Observation homes

(1)Any State Government may establish and maintain either by itself or under
an agreement with voluntary organisations, observation homes in every district
or a group of districts, as may be required for the temporary reception of any
juvenile in conflict with law during the pendency of any inquiry regarding
them under this Act.(2)Where the State Government is of opinion that any
institution other than a home established or maintained under sub-section (1),
is fit for the temporary reception of juvenile in conflict with law during the
pendency of any inquiry regarding them under this Act, it may certify such
institution as an observation home for the purposes of this Act.(3)The State
Government may, by rules made under this Act, provide for the management of
observation homes, including the standards and various types of services to be
provided by them for rehabilitation and social integration of a juvenile, and
the circumstances under which, and the manner in which, the certification of
an observation home may be granted or withdrawn.(4)Every juvenile who is not
placed under the charge of parent or guardian and is sent to an observation
home shall be initially kept in a reception unit of the observation home for
preliminary inquiries, care and classification for juveniles according to his
age group, such as seven to twelve years, twelve to sixteen years and sixteen
to eighteen years, giving due considerations to physical and mental status and
degree of the offence committed, for further induction into observation home.

### 9. Special homes

(1)Any State Government may establish and maintain either by itself or under
an agreement with voluntary organisations, special homes in every district or
a group of districts, as may be required for reception and rehabilitation of
juvenile in conflict with law under this Act.(2)Where the State Government is
of opinion that any institution other than a home established or maintained
under sub-section (1), is fit for the reception of juvenile in conflict with
law to be sent there under this Act, it may certify such institution as a
special home for the purposes of this Act.(3)The State Government may, by
rules made under this Act, provide for the management of special homes,
including the standards and various types of services to be provided by them
which are necessary for re-socialisation of a juvenile, and the circumstances
under which, and the manner in which, the certification of a special home may
be granted or withdrawn.(4)The rules made under sub-section (3) may also
provide for the classification and separation of juvenile in conflict with law
on the basis of age and the nature of offences committed by them and his
mental and physical status.

### 10. Apprehension of juvenile in conflict with law

.[(1) As soon as a juvenile in conflict with law is apprehended by police, he
shall be placed under the charge of the special juvenile police unit or the
designated police officer, who shall produce the juvenile before the Board
without any loss of time but within a period of twenty-four hours of his
apprehension excluding the time necessary for the journey, from the place
where the juvenile was apprehended, to the Board:Provided that in no case, a
juvenile in conflict with law shall be placed in a police lockup or lodged in
a jail. ] [ Sub-Section (1) substituted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 9, (w.e.f.
22-8-2006). ](2)The State Government may make rules consistent with this
Act,(i)to provide for persons through whom (including registered voluntary
organisations)any juvenile in conflict with law may be produced before the
Board;(ii)to provide the manner in which such juvenile may be sent to an
observation home.

Prior to its substitution, sub-Section (1) read as under:-"(1) As soon as a
juvenile in conflict with law is apprehended by police, he shall be placed
under the charge of the special juvenile police unit or the designated police
officer who shall immediately report the matter to a member of the Board.".  
---  
  
### 11. Control of custodian over juvenile

.Any person in whose charge a juvenile is placed in pursuance of this Act
shall, while the order is in force have the control over the juvenile as he
would have if he were his parents, and shall be responsible for his
maintenance, and the juvenile shall continue in his charge for the period
stated by competent authority, notwithstanding that he is claimed by his
parents or any other person.

### 12. Bail of juvenile

(1)When any person accused of a bailable or non-bailable offence, and
apparently a juvenile, is arrested or detained or appears or is brought before
a Board, such person shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) or in any other law for the time being in
force, be released on bail with or without surety [or placed under the
supervision of a Probation Officer or under the care of any fit institution or
fit person] [ Inserted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 10 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).] but
he shall not be so released if there appear reasonable grounds for believing
that the release is likely to bring him into association with any known
criminal or expose him to moral, physical or psychological danger or that his
release would defeat the ends of justice.(2)When such person having been
arrested is not released on bail under sub-section (1) by the officer incharge
of the police station, such officer shall cause him to be kept only in an
observation home in the prescribed manner until he can be brought before a
Board.(3)When such person is not released on bail under sub-section (1) by the
Board it shall, instead of committing him to prison, make an order sending him
to an observation home or a place of safety for such period during the
pendency of the inquiry regarding him as may be specified in the order.

### 13. Information to parent, guardian or probation officer

.Where a juvenile is arrested, the officer incharge of the police station or
the special juvenile police unit to which the juvenile is brought shall, as
soon as may be after the arrest, inform(a)the parent or guardian of the
juvenile, if he can be found of such arrest and direct him to be present at
the Board before which the juvenile will appear;and(b)the probation officer of
such arrest to enable him to obtain information regarding the antecedents and
family background of the juvenile and other material circumstances likely to
be of assistance to the Board for making the inquiry.

### 14. Inquiry by Board regarding juvenile

.[(1)] [ Section 14 renumbered as sub-Section (2) inserted by Act 33 of 2006,
Section 11 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).] Where a juvenile having been charged with the
offence is produced before a Board, the Board shall hold the inquiry in
accordance with the provisions of this Act and may make such order in relation
to the juvenile as it deems fit:Provided that an inquiry under this section
shall be completed within a period of four months from the date of its
commencement, unless the period is extended by the Board having regard to the
circumstances of the case and in special cases after recording the reasons in
writing for such extension.(2)[ The Chief Judicial Magistrate or the Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate shall review the pendency of cases of the Board at
every six months, and shall direct the Board to increase the frequency of its
sittings or may cause the constitution of additional Boards.] [ Section 14
renumbered as sub-Section (2) inserted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 11 (w.e.f.
22.8.2006).]

### 15. Order that may be passed regarding juvenile

(1)Where a Board is satisfied on inquiry that a juvenile has committed an
offence, then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other
law for the time being in force, the Board may, if it so thinks fit,(a)allow
the juvenile to go home after advice or admonition following appropriate
inquiry against and counselling to the parent or the guardian and the
juvenile;(b)direct the juvenile to participate in group counselling and
similar activities;(c)order the juvenile to perform community service;(d)order
the parent of the juvenile or the juvenile himself to pay a fine, if he is
over fourteen years of age and earns money;(e)direct the juvenile to be
released on probation of good conduct and placed under the care of any parent,
guardian or other fit person, on such parent, guardian or other fit person
executing a bond, with or without surety, as the Board may require, for the
good behaviour and well-being of the juvenile for any period not exceeding
three years;(f)direct the juvenile to be released on probation of good conduct
and placed under the care of any fit institution for the good behaviour and
well-being of the juvenile for any period not exceeding three years;(g)[ make
an order directing the juvenile to be sent to a special home for a period of
three years: [ Substituted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 12, for Clause (g)
(w.e.f. 22-8-2006).</p>]Provided that the Board may, if it is satisfied that
having regard to the nature of the offence and the circumstances of the case,
it is expedient so to do, for reasons to be recorded, reduce the period of
stay to such period as it thinks fit. ](2)The Board shall obtain the social
investigation report on juvenile either through a probation officer or a
recognised voluntary organisation or otherwise, and shall take into
consideration the findings of such report before passing an order.(3)Where an
order under clause (d), clause (e) or clause (f) of sub-section (1) is made,
the Board may, if it is of opinion that in the interests of the juvenile and
of the public, it is expedient so to do, in addition make an order that the
juvenile in conflict with law shall remain under the supervision of a
probation officer named in the order during such period, not exceeding three
years as may be specified therein, and may in such supervision order impose
such conditions as it deems necessary for the due supervision of the juvenile
in conflict with law:Provided that if at any time afterwards it appears to the
Board on receiving a report from the probation officer or otherwise, that the
juvenile in conflict with law has not been of good behaviour during the period
of supervision or that the fit institution under whose care the juvenile was
placed is no longer able or willing to ensure the good behaviour and well-
being of the juvenile it may, after making such inquiry as it deems fit, order
the juvenile in conflict with law to be sent to a special home.(4)The Board
shall while making a supervision order under sub-section (3), explain to the
juvenile and the parent, guardian or other fit person or fit institution, as
the case may be under whose care the juvenile has been placed, the terms and
conditions of the order and shall forthwith furnish one copy of the
supervision order to the juvenile, the parent, guardian or other fit person or
fit institution, as the case may be, the sureties, if any, and the probation
officer.

Prior to its substitution, Clause (g) read as under:-(g) make an order
directing the juvenile to be sent to a special home,-(i) in the case of
juvenile, over seventeen years but less than eighteen years of age for a
period of not less than two years;(ii) in case of any other juvenile for the
period until he ceases to be a juvenile:Provided that the Board may, if it is
satisfied that having regard to the nature of the offence and the
circumstances of the case it is expedient so to do, for reasons to be
recorded, reduce the period of stay to such period as it thinks fit.".  
---  
  
### 16. Order that may not be passed against juvenile

(1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the
time being in force, no juvenile in conflict with law shall be sentenced to
death [or imprisonment for any term which may extend to imprisonment for life]
[ Substituted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 13, for " or life imprisonment"
(w.e.f. 22.8.2006).], or committed to prison in default of payment of fine or
in default of furnishing security:Provided that where a juvenile who has
attained the age of sixteen years has committed an offence and the Board is
satisfied that the offence committed is so serious in nature or that his
conduct and behaviour have been such that it would not be in his interest or
in the interest of other juvenile in a special home to send him to such
special home and that none of the other measures provided under this Act is
suitable or sufficient, the Board may order the juvenile in conflict with law
to be kept in such place of safety and in such manner as it thinks fit and
shall report the case for the order of the State Government.(2)On receipt of a
report from a Board under sub-section (1), the State Government may make such
arrangement in respect of the juvenile as it deems proper and may order such
juvenile to be kept under protective custody at such place and on such
conditions as it thinks fit:[Provided that the period of detention so ordered
shall not exceed in any case the maximum period provided under section 15 of
this Act.] [Substituted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 13, for the proviso (w.e.f.
22.8.2006).]

Prior to its substitution, the proviso read as under:-Provided that the period
of detention so ordered shall not exceed the maximum period of imprisonment to
which the juvenile could have been sentenced for the offence committed.  
---  
  
### 17. Proceeding under Chapter VIII of the Code of Criminal Procedure not
competent against juvenile

.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) no proceeding shall be instituted and no order
shall be passed against the juvenile under Chapter VIII of the said Code.

### 18. No joint proceeding of juvenile and person not a juvenile

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 223of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) or in any other law for the time being in force,
no juvenile shall be charged with or tried for any offence together with a
person who is not a juvenile.(2)If a juvenile is accused of an offence for
which under section 223 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2of 1974) or
any other law for the time being in force, such juvenile and any person who is
not a juvenile would, but for the prohibition contained in sub-section (1),
have been charged and tried together, the Board taking cognizance of that
offence shall direct separate trials of the juvenile and the other person.

### 19. Removal of disqualification attaching to conviction

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, a juvenile who has
committed an offence and has been dealt with under the provisions of this Act
shall not suffer disqualification, if any, attaching to a conviction of an
offence under such law.(2)The Board shall make an order directing that the
relevant records of such conviction shall be removed after the expiry of the
period of appeal or a reasonable period as prescribed under the rules, as the
case may be.

### 20. Special provision in respect of pending cases

.Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, all proceedings in respect of
a juvenile pending in any Court in any area on the date on which this Act
comes into force in that area, shall be continued in that Court as if this Act
had not been passed and if the Court finds that the juvenile has committed an
offence, it shall record such finding and instead of passing any sentence in
respect of the juvenile, forward the juvenile to the Board which shall pass
orders in respect of that juvenile in accordance with the provisions of this
Act as if it had been satisfied on inquiry under this Act that a juvenile has
committed the offence:[Provided that the Board may, for any adequate and
special reason to be mentioned in the order, review the case and pass
appropriate order in the interest of such juvenile.Explanation. In all pending
cases including trial, revision, appeal or any other criminal proceedings in
respect of a juvenile in conflict with law, in any Court, the determination of
juvenility of such a juvenile shall be in terms of clause (l) of section 2,
even if the juvenile ceases to be so on or before the date of commencement of
this Act and the provisions of this Act shall apply as if the said provisions
had been in force, for all purposes and at all material times when the alleged
offence was committed.] [Inserted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 14 (w.e.f.
22.8.2006).]

### 21. [ Prohibition of publication of name, etc., of juvenile in conflict
with law or child in need of care and protection involved in any proceeding
under the Act [ Substituted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 15, for Section 21
(w.e.f. 22-8-2006).]

(1)No report in any newspaper, magazine, news-sheet or visual media of any
inquiry regarding a juvenile in conflict with law or a child in need of care
and protection under this Act shall disclose the name, address or school or
any other particulars calculated to lead to the identification of the juvenile
or child nor shall any picture of any such juvenile or child be
published:Provided that for reasons to be recorded in writing, the authority
holding the inquiry may permit such disclosure, if in its opinion such
disclosure is in the interest of the juvenile or the child.(2)Any person who
contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1), shall be liable to a penalty
which may extend to twenty-five thousand rupees. ]

Prior to its substitution, Section 21 read as under:-"21. Prohibition of
publication of name,etc. of juvenile involved in any proceeding under the
Act.-(1) No report in any newspaper, magazine, news-sheet or visual media of
any inquiry regarding a juvenile in conflict with law under this Act shall
disclose the name, address or school or any other particulars calculated to
lead to the identification of the juvenile nor shall any picture of any such
juvenile be published:Provided that for reasons to be recorded in writing the
authority holding the inquiry may permit such disclosure, if in its opinion
such disclosure is in the interest of the juvenile.(2) Any person contravening
the provisions of sub section (1) shall be punishable with fine, which may
extend to one thousand rupees.  
---  
  
### 22. Provision in respect of escaped juvenile

.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the
time being in force, any police officer may take charge without warrant of a
juvenile in conflict with law who has escaped from a special home or an
observation home or from the care of a person under whom he was placed under
this Act, and shall be sent back to the special home or the observation home
or that person, as the case may be; and no proceeding shall be instituted in
respect of the juvenile by reason of such escape, but the special home, or the
observation home or the person may, after giving the information to the Board
which passed the order in respect of the juvenile, take such steps in respect
of the juvenile as may be deemed necessary under the provisions of this Act.

### 23. Punishment for cruelty to juvenile or child

.Whoever, having the actual charge of or control over, a juvenile or the
child, assaults, abandons, exposes or wilfully neglects the juvenile or causes
or procures him to be assaulted, abandoned, exposed or neglected in a manner
likely to cause such juvenile or the child unnecessary mental or physical
suffering shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
six months, or fine, or with both.

### 24. Employment of juvenile or child for begging

(1)Whoever, employs or uses any juvenile or the child for the purpose or
causes any juvenile to beg shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine.(2)Whoever,
having the actual charge of, or control over, a juvenile or the child abets
the commission of the offence punishable under sub-section (1), shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and shall
also be liable to fine.

### 25. Penalty for giving intoxicating liquor or narcotic drug or
psychotropic substance to juvenile or child

.Whoever gives, or causes to be given, to any juvenile or the child any
intoxicating liquor in a public place or any narcotic drug or psychotropic
substance except upon the order of duly qualified medical practitioner or in
case of sickness shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine.

### 26. Exploitation of juvenile or child employee

.Whoever ostensibly procures a juvenile or the child for the purpose of any
hazardous employment keeps him in bondage and withholds his earnings or uses
such earning for his own purposes shall be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine.

### 27. Special offences

.The offences punishable under sections 23, 24, 25 and 26 shall be cognisable.

### 28. Alternative punishment

.Where an act or omission constitute an offence punishable under this Act and
also under any other Central or State Act, then, notwithstanding anything
contained in any law for the time being in force, the offender found guilty of
such offences shall be liable to punishment only under such Act as provides
for punishment which is greater in degree.

## Chapter III  
Child In Need Of Care And Protection

### 29. Child Welfare Committee

(1)The State Government may, [within a period of one year from the date of
commencement of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children)
Amendment Act, 2006, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute for
every district] [Substituted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 16, for " by
notification in Official Gazette, constitute for every district or group of
districts, specified in the notification" (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).], one or more
Child Welfare Committees for exercising the powers and discharge the duties
conferred on such Committees in relation to child in need of care and
protection under this Act.(2)The Committee shall consist of a Chairperson and
four other members as the State Government may think fit to appoint, of whom
at least one shall be a woman and another, an expert on matters concerning
children.(3)The qualifications of the Chairperson and the members, and the
tenure for which they may be appointed shall be such as may be
prescribed.(4)The appointment of any member of the Committee may be
terminated, after holding inquiry, by the State Government, if(i)he has been
found guilty of misuse of power vested under this Act;(ii)he has been
convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude, and such conviction has not
been reversed or he has not been granted full pardon in respect of such
offence;(iii)he fails to attend the proceedings of the Committee for
consecutive three months without any valid reason or he fails to attend less
than three-fourth of the sittings in a year.(5)The Committee shall function as
a Bench of Magistrates and shall have the powers conferred by the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) on a Metropolitan Magistrate or, as the
case may be, a Judicial Magistrate of the first class.

### 30. Procedure, etc., in relation to Committee

(1)The Committee shall meet at such times and shall observe such rules of
procedure in regard to the transaction of business at its meetings, as may be
prescribed.(2)A child in need of care and protection may be produced before an
individual member for being placed in safe custody or otherwise when the
Committee is not in section.(3)In the event of any difference of opinion among
the members of the Committee at the time of any interim decision, the opinion
of the majority shall prevail but where there is no such majority the opinion
of the Chairperson shall prevail.(4)Subject to the provisions of sub-section
(1), the Committee may act, notwithstanding the absence of any member of the
Committee, and no order made by the Committee shall be invalid by reason only
of the absence of any member during any stage of the proceeding.

### 31. Powers of Committee

(1)The Committee shall have the final authority to dispose of cases for the
care, protection, treatment, development and rehabilitation of the children as
well as to provide for their basic needs and protection of human
rights.(2)Where a Committee has been constituted for any area, such Committee
shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being
in force but save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, have the power
to deal exclusively with all proceedings under this Act relating to children
in need of care and protection.

### 32. Production before Committee

(1)Any child in need of care and protection may be produced before the
Committee by one of the following persons(i)any police officer or special
juvenile police unit or a designated police officer;(ii)any public
servant;(iii)child line, a registered voluntary organisation or by such other
voluntary organisation or an agency as may be recognised by the State
Government;(iv)any social worker or a public spirited citizen [* * *] [The
words " authorised by the State Government" omitted by Act 33 of 2006, Section
17 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).]; or(v)by the child himself:[Provided that the child
shall be produced before the Committee without any loss of time but within a
period of twenty-four hours excluding the time necessary for the journey.]
[Inserted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 17 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).](2)The State
Government may make rules consistent with this Act to provide for the manner
of making the report [* * *] [The words " to the police and" omitted by Act 33
of 2006, Section 17 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).]to the Committee and the manner of
sending and entrusting the child to children's home pending the inquiry.

### 33. Inquiry

(1)On receipt of a report under section 32, the Committee [* * *] [The words "
or any police officer or special juvenile police unit or the designated police
officer" omitted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 18 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).] shall hold
an inquiry in the prescribed manner and the Committee, on its own or on the
report from any person or agency as mentioned in sub-section (1) of section
32, may pass an order to send the child to the children's home for speedy
inquiry by a social worker or child welfare officer.(2)The inquiry under this
section shall be completed within four months of the receipt of the order or
within such shorter period as may be fixed by the Committee:Provided that the
time for the submission of the inquiry report may be extended by such period
as the Committee may, having regard to the circumstances and for the reasons
recorded in writing, determine.(3)[ The State Government shall review the
pendency of cases of the Committee at every six months, and shall direct the
Committee to increase the frequency of its sittings or may cause the
constitution of additional Committees.(4)After the completion of the inquiry,
if, the Committee is of the opinion that the said child has no family or
ostensible support or is in continued need of care and protection, it may
allow the child to remain in the children's home or shelter home till suitable
rehabilitation is found for him or till he attains the age of eighteen years.
] [ Substituted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 18, for sub-Section (3) (w.e.f.
22-8-2006).]

Prior to its substitution, sub-Section (3) read as under:-"(3) After the
completion of the inquiry if the Committee is of the opinion that the said
child has no family or ostensible support, it may allow the child to remain in
the children's home or shelter home till suitable rehabilitation is found for
him or till he attains the age of eighteen years."  
---  
  
### 34. Children's homes

(1)The State Government may establish and maintain either by itself or in
association with the voluntary organisations, children's homes, in every
district or group or districts, as the case may be, for the reception of child
in need of care and protection during the pendency of any inquiry and
subsequently for their care, treatment, education, training, development and
rehabilitation.(2)The State Government may, by rules made under this Act,
provide for the management of children's homes including the standards and the
nature of services to be provided by them, and the circumstances under which,
and the manner in which, the certification of a children's home or recognition
to a voluntary organisation may be granted or withdrawn.(3)[ Without prejudice
to anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, all
institutions, whether State Government run or those run by voluntary
organisations for children in need of care and protection shall, within a
period of six months from the date of commencement of the Juvenile Justice
(Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Act, 2006, be registered under
this Act in such manner as may be prescribed.] [Inserted by Act 33 of 2006,
Section 19 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).]

### 35. Inspection

(1)The State Government may appoint inspection committees for the children's
homes (hereinafter referred to as the inspection committees) for the State, a
district and city, as the case may be, for such period and for such purposes
as may be prescribed.(2)The inspection committee of a State, district or of a
city shall consist of such number of representatives from the State
Government, [* * *] [The words " local authority" omitted by Act 33 of 2006,
Section 5 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).], Committee, voluntary organisations and such
other medical experts and social workers as may be prescribed.

### 36. Social auditing

.The Central Government or State Government may monitor and evaluate the
functioning of the Children's homes at such period and through such persons
and institutions as may be specified by that Government.

### 37. Shelter homes

(1)The State Government may recognise, reputed and capable voluntary
organisations and provide them assistance to set up and administer as many
shelter homes for juveniles or children as may be required.(2)The shelter
homes referred in sub-section (1) shall function as drop-in-centres for the
children in the need of urgent support who have been brought to such homes
through such persons as are referred to in sub-section (1) of section 32.(3)As
far as possible, the shelter homes shall have such facilities as may be
prescribed by the rules.

### 38. Transfer

(1)If during the inquiry it is found that the child hails from the place
outside the jurisdiction of the Committee, the Committee shall order the
transfer of the child to the competent authority having jurisdiction over the
place of residence of the child.(2)Such juvenile or the child shall be
escorted by the staff of the home in which he is lodged originally.(3)The
State Government may make rules to provide for the travelling allowance to be
paid to the child.

### 39. Restoration

(1)Restoration of and protection to a child shall be the prime objective of
any children's home or the shelter home.(2)The children's home or a shelter
home, as the case may be, shall take such steps as are considered necessary
for the restoration of and protection to a child deprived of this family
environment temporarily or permanently where such child is under the care and
protection of a children's home or a shelter home, as the case may be.(3)The
Committee shall have the powers to restore any child in need of care and
protection to his parent, guardian, fit person or fit institution, as the case
may be, and give them suitable directions.[Explanation. For the purposes of
this section restoration of and protection of a child means restoration
to(a)parents;(b)adopted parents;(c)foster parents;(d)guardian;(e)fit
person;(f)fit institution.]

## Chapter IV  
Rehabilitation And Social Reintegration

[Explanation substituted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 20, (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).]

Prior to its substitution, the Explanation read as under:-Explanation.- For
the purpose of this section restoration of child, means restoration to-(a)
parents;(b) adopted parents;(c) foster parents.  
---  
  
### 40. Process of rehabilitation and social reintegration

.The rehabilitation and social reintegration of a child shall begin during the
stay of the child in a children's home or special home and the rehabilitation
and social reintegration of children shall be carried out alternatively by (i)
adoption, (ii) foster care, (iii) sponsorship, and (iv)sending the child to an
after-care organisation.

### 41. Adoption

(1)The primary responsibility for providing care and protection to children
shall be that of his family.(2)[ Adoption shall be resorted to for the
rehabilitation of the children who are orphan, abandoned or surrendered
through such mechanism as may be prescribed.(3)In keeping with the provisions
of the various guidelines for adoption issued from time to time, by the State
Government, or the Central Adoption Resource Agency and notified by the
Central Government, children may be given in adoption by a Court after
satisfying itself regarding the investigations having been carried out, as are
required for giving such children in adoption.(4)The State Government shall
recognise one or more of its institutions or voluntary organisations in each
district as specialised adoption agencies in such manner as may be prescribed
for the placement of orphan, abandoned or surrendered children for adoption in
accordance with the guidelines notified under sub-section (3):Provided that
the children's homes and the institutions run by the State Government or a
voluntary organisation for children in need of care and protection, who are
orphan, abandoned or surrendered, shall ensure that these children are
declared free for adoption by the Committee and all such cases shall be
referred to the adoption agency in that district for placement of such
children in adoption in accordance with the guidelines notified under sub-
section (3). ] [ Sub-Sections (2), (3) and (4) substituted by Act 33 of 2006,
Section 21, (w.e.f. 22-8-2006).](5)No child shall be offered for
adoption(a)until two members of the Committee declare the child legally free
for placement in the case of abandoned children,(b)till the two months period
for reconsideration by the parent is over in the case of surrendered children,
and(c)without his consent in the case of a child who can understand and
express his consent.(6)[ The Court may allow a child to be given in
adoption(a)to a person irrespective of marital status; or(b)to parents to
adopt a child of same sex irrespective of the number of living biological sons
or daughters; or(c)to childless couples. ][Substituted by Act 33 of 2006,
Section 21 (ii) (w.e.f 22-8-2006). ]

Prior to their substitution,Sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) read as under:-"(2)
Adoption shall be resorted to for the rehabilitation of such children as are
orphaned, abandoned, neglected and abused through institutional and non-
institutional methods.(3) In Keeping with the provisions of the various
guidelines for adoption issued from time to time by the State Government, the
Board shall be empowered to give children in adoption and carry out such
investigations as are required for giving children in adoption in accordance
with the guidelines issued by the State Government from time to time in this
regard.(4) The children's homes or the State Government run institutions for
orphans shall be recognized as an adopting agencies both for scrutiny and
placement of such children fro adoption in accordance with the guidelines
issued under sub-section (3)."Prior to its substitution, sub-section (6) read
as under:-"(6) The Board may allow a child to be given in adoption-(a) to a
single parent, and(b) to parents to adopt a child of same sex irrespective of
the number of living biological sons or daughters.".  
---  
  
### 42. Foster care

(1)The foster care may be used for temporary placement of those infants who
are ultimately to be given for adoption.(2)In foster care, the child may be
placed in another family for a short or extended period of time, depending
upon the circumstances where the child's own parent usually visit regularly
and eventually after the rehabilitation, where the children may return to
their own homes.(3)The State Government may make rules for the purposes of
carrying out the scheme of foster care programme of children.

### 43. Sponsorship

(1)The sponsorship programme may provide supplementary support to families, to
children's homes and to special homes to meet medical, nutritional,
educational and other needs of the children with a view to improving their
quality of life.(2)The State Government may make rules for the purposes of
carrying out various schemes of sponsorship of children, such as individual to
individual sponsorship, group sponsorship or community sponsorship.

### 44. After-care organisation

.The State Government may, by rules made under this Act, provide(a)for the
establishment or recognition of after-care organisations and the functions
that may be performed by them under this Act;(b)for a scheme of after-care
programme to be followed by such after-care organisations for the purpose of
taking care of juveniles or the children after they leave special homes,
children homes and for the purpose of enabling them to lead an honest,
industrious and useful life;(c)for the preparation or submission of a report
by the probation officer or any other officer appointed by that Government in
respect of each juvenile or the child prior to his discharge from a special
home, children's home, regarding the necessity and nature of after-care of
such juvenile or of a child, the period of such after-care, supervision
thereof and for the submission of report by the probation officer or any other
officer appointed for the purpose, on the progress of each juvenile or the
child;(d)for the standards and the nature of services to be maintained by such
after-care organisations;(e)for such other matters as may be necessary for the
purpose of carrying out the scheme of after-care programme for the juvenile or
the child:Provided that any rule made under this section shall not provide for
such juvenile or child to stay in the after-care organisation for more than
three years:Provided further that a juvenile or child over seventeen years of
age but less than eighteen years of age would stay in the after-care
organisation till he attains the age of twenty years.

### 45. Linkages and co-ordination

.The State Government may make rules to ensure effective linkages between
various governmental, non-governmental, corporate and other community agencies
for facilitating the rehabilitation and social reintegration of the child.

## Chapter V  
Miscellaneous

### 46. Attendance of parent or guardian of juvenile or child

.Any competent authority before which a juvenile or the child is brought under
any of the provisions of this Act, may, whenever it so thinks fit, require any
parent or guardian having the actual charge of or control over the juvenile or
the child to be present at any proceeding in respect of the juvenile or the
child.

### 47. Dispensing with attendance of juvenile or child

.If, at any stage during the course of an inquiry, a competent authority is
satisfied that the attendance of the juvenile or the child is not essential
for the purpose of inquiry, the competent authority may dispense with his
attendance and proceed with the inquiry in the absence of the juvenile or the
child.

### 48. Committal to approved place of juvenile or child suffering from
dangerous diseases and his future disposal

(1)When a juvenile or the child who has been brought before a competent
authority under this Act, is found to be suffering from a disease requiring
prolonged medical treatment or physical or mental complaint that will respond
to treatment, the competent authority may send the juvenile or the child to
any place recognised to be an approved place in accordance with the rules made
under this Act for such period as it may think necessary for the required
treatment.(2)[] [ Sub-Section (2) Omitted by Act 12 of 2011, Section 2.]

Omitted Sub section (2) read as:(2) Where a juvenile or the child is found to
be suffering from leprosy, sexually transmitted disease, Hepatitis-B, open
cases of Tuberculosis and such other diseases or is of unsound mind, he shall
be dealt with separately through various specialised referral services or
under the relevant laws as such.  
---  
  
### 49. Presumption and determination of age

(1)Where it appears to a competent authority that person brought before it
under any of the provisions of this Act (otherwise than for the purpose of
giving evidence)is a juvenile or the child, the competent authority shall make
due inquiry so as to the age of that person and for that purpose shall take
such evidence as may be necessary (but not an affidavit) and shall record a
finding whether the person is a juvenile or the child or not, stating his age
as nearly as may be.(2)No order of a competent authority shall be deemed to
have become invalid merely by any subsequent proof that the person in respect
of whom the order has been made is not a juvenile or the child, and the age
recorded by the competent authority to be the age of person so brought before
it, shall for the purpose of this Act, be deemed to be the true age of that
person.

### 50. Sending a juvenile or child outside jurisdiction

.In the case of a juvenile or the child, whose ordinary place of residence
lies outside the jurisdiction of the competent authority before which he is
brought, the competent authority may, if satisfied after due inquiry that it
is expedient so to do, send the juvenile or the child back to a relative or
other person who is fit and willing to receive him at his ordinary place of
residence and exercise proper care and control over him, notwithstanding that
such place of residence is outside the jurisdiction of the competent
authority; and the competent authority exercising jurisdiction over the place
to which the juvenile or the child is sent shall in respect of any matter
arising subsequently have the same powers in relation to the juvenile or the
child as if the original order had been passed by itself.

### 51. Reports to be treated as confidential

.The report of the probation officer or social worker considered by the
competent authority shall be treated as confidential:Provided that the
competent authority may, if it so thinks fit, communicate the substance
thereof to the juvenile or the child or his parent or guardian and may give
such juvenile or the child, parent or guardian an opportunity of producing
such evidence as may be relevant to the matter stated in the report.

### 52. Appeals

(1)Subject to the provisions of this section, any person aggrieved by an order
made by a competent authority under this Act may, within thirty days from the
date of such order, prefer an appeal to the Court of Session:Provided that the
Court of Session may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said period
of thirty days if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by
sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.(2)No appeal shall lie
from(a)any order of acquittal made by the Board in respect of a juvenile
alleged to have committed an offence; or(b)any order made by a Committee in
respect of a finding that a person is not a neglected juvenile.(3)No second
appeal shall lie from any order of the Court of Session passed in appeal under
this section.

### 53. Revision

.The High Court may, at any time, either of its own motion or on an
application received in this behalf, call for the record of any proceeding in
which any competent authority or Court of Session has passed an order for the
purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality or propriety of any such order
and may pass such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit:Provided that the
High Court shall not pass an order under this section prejudicial to any
person without giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 54. Procedure in inquiries, appeals and revision proceedings

(1)Save as otherwise expressly provided by this Act, a competent authority
while holding any inquiry under any of the provisions of this Act, shall
follow such procedure as may be prescribed and subject thereto, shall follow,
as far as may be, the procedure laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 (2 of 1974) for trails in summons cases.(2)Save as otherwise expressly
provided by or under this Act, the procedure to be followed in hearing appeals
or revision proceedings under this Act shall be, as far as practicable, in
accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974).

### 55. Power to amend orders

(1)Without prejudice to the provisions for appeal and revision under this Act,
any competent authority may, on an application received in this behalf, amend
any order as to the institution to which a juvenile or the child is to be sent
or as to the person under whose care or supervision a juvenile or the child is
to be placed under this Act:Provided that there shall be at least two members
and the parties or its defence present during the course of hearing for
passing an amendment in relation to any of its order.(2)Clerical mistakes in
orders passed by a competent authority or errors arising therein from any
accidental slip or omission may, at any time, be corrected by the competent
authority either on its own motion or on an application received in this
behalf.

### 56. Power of competent authority to discharge and transfer juvenile or
child

.The competent authority [* * *] [The words " or the local authority" omitted
by Act 33 of 2006, Section 5 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).]may, notwithstanding anything
contained in this Act, at any time, order a child in need of care and
protection or a juvenile in conflict with law to be discharged or transferred
from one children's home or special home to another, as the case may be,
keeping in view the best interest of the child or the juvenile, and his
natural place of stay, either absolutely or on such conditions as it may think
fit to impose:Provided that the total period of stay of the juvenile or the
child in a children's home or a special home or a fit institution or under a
fit person shall not be increased by such transfer.

### 57. [ Transfer between children's homes under the Act, and juvenile homes
of like nature in different parts of India [Substituted by Act 33 of 2006,
Section 22, for Section 57 (w.e.f. 22-8-2006). ]

.The State Government may direct any child or the juvenile to be transferred
from any children's home or special home within the State to any other
children's home, special home or institution of a like nature or to such
institutions outside the State in consultation with the concerned State
Government and with the prior intimation to the Committee or the Board, as the
case may be, and such order shall be deemed to be operative for the competent
authority of the area to which the child or the juvenile is sent. ]

Prior to its substitution, Section 57 read as under:-57\. Transfer between
children's homes, under the Act, and juvenile homes, of like nature in
different parts of India.-The State Government or the local authority may
direct any child or the juvenile to be transferred from any children's home or
special home outside the State to any other children's home, special home or
institution of like nature with the prior intimation to the local Committee or
the Board, as the case may be, and such order shall be deemed to be operative
for the competent authority of the area to which the child or the juvenile is
sent.".  
---  
  
### 58. [ Transfer of juvenile or child as are mentally ill or addicted to
alcohol or other drugs. [Substituted by Act No. 12 of 2011.]

(1)Where it appears to the competent authority that any juvenile or child kept
in a special home or an observation home or a children's home or a shelter
home or in an institution in pursuance of this Act, is a mentally ill person
or addicted to alcohol or other drugs which lead to behavioural changes in a
person, the competent authority may order his removal to a psychiatric
hospital or psychiatric nursing home in accordance with the provisions of the
Mental Health Act, 1987 or the rules made thereunder.(2)In case the juvenile
or child had been removed to a psychiatric hospital or psychiatric nursing
home under sub-section (1), the competent authority may, on the basis of the
advice given in the certificate of discharge of the psychiatric hospital or
psychiatric nursing home, order to remove such juvenile or child to an
Integrated Rehabilitation Centre for Addicts or similar centres maintained by
the State Government for mentally ill persons (including the persons addicted
to any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance) and such removal shall be only
for the period required for the in-patient treatment of such juvenile or
child.Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section,-(a)"Integrated
Rehabilitation Centre for Addicts" shall have the meaning assigned to it under
the scheme called "Central Sector Scheme of Assistance for Prevention of
Alcoholism and Substance (Dmgs) Abuse and for Social Defence Services" made by
the Government of India in the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment or
any other corresponding scheme for the time being in force;(b)"mentally ill
person" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (I) of section 2 of
the Mental Health Act, 1987; 14 of 1987.(c)"psychiatric hospital" or
"psychiatric nursing home" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (q)
of section 2 of the Mental Health Act, 1987.]

58\. Transfer of juvenile or child of unsound mind or suffering from leprosy
or addicted to drugs.Where it appears to the competent authority that any
juvenile or the child kept in a special home or a children's home or shelter
home or in an institution in pursuance of this Act, is suffering from leprosy
or is of unsound mind or is addicted to any narcotic drug or psychotropic
substance, the competent authority may order his removal to a leper asylum or
mental hospital or treatment centre for drug addicts or to a place of safety
for being kept there for such period not exceeding the period for which he is
required to be kept under the order of the competent authority or for such
further periods as may be certified by the medical officer necessary for the
proper treatment of the juvenile or the child.  
---  
  
### 59. Release and absence of juvenile or child on placement

(1)When a juvenile or the child is kept in a children's home or special home
and on a report of a probation officer or social worker or of Government or a
voluntary organisation, as the case may be, the competent authority may
consider, the release of such juvenile or the child permitting him to live
with his parent or guardian or under the supervision of any authorised person
named in the order, willing to receive and take charge of the juvenile or the
child to educate and train him for some useful trade or calling or to look
after him for rehabilitation.(2)The competent authority may also permit leave
of absence to any juvenile or the child, to allow him, on special occasions
like examination, marriage of relatives, death of kith and kin or the accident
or serious illness of parent or any emergency of like nature, to go on leave
under supervision, [for a period generally not exceeding seven days]
[Substituted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 23, for " for maximum seven days "
(w.e.f. 22.8.2006).], excluding the time taken in journey.(3)Where a
permission has been revoked or forfeited and the juvenile or the child refuses
or fails to return to the home concerned or juvenile to which he was directed
so to return, the Board may, if necessary, cause him to be taken charge of and
to be taken back to the concerned home.(4)The time during which a juvenile or
the child is absent from a concerned home in pursuance of such permission
granted under this section shall be deemed to be part of the time for which he
is liable to be kept in the special home:Provided that when a juvenile has
failed to return to the special home on the permission being revoked or
forfeited, the time which elapses after his failure so to return shall be
excluded in computing the time during which he is liable to be kept in the
institution.

### 60. Contribution by parents

(1)The competent authority which makes an order for sending a juvenile or the
child to a children's home or to a special home or placing the juvenile under
the care of a fit person or fit institution may make an order requiring the
parent or other person liable to maintain the juvenile or the child to
contribute to his maintenance, if able to do so, in the prescribed manner
according to the income.(2)The competent authority may direct, if necessary,
the payment to be made to poor parent or guardian by the Superintendent or the
Project Manager of the home to pay such expenses for the journey of the inmate
or parent or guardian or both, from the home to his ordinary place of
residence at the time of sending the juvenile as may be prescribed.

### 61. Fund

(1)The State Government [** *] [The words " or local authority" omitted by Act
33 of 2006, Section 5 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).] may create a Fund under such name
as it thinks fit for the welfare and rehabilitation of the juvenile or the
child dealt with under this Act.(2)There shall be credited to the Fund such
voluntary donations, contributions or subscriptions as may be made by any
individual or organisation.(3)The Fund created under sub-section (1) shall be
administered by the State advisory board in such manner and for such purposes
as may be prescribed.

### 62. Central, State, district and city advisory boards.

(1)The Central Government or a State Government may constitute a Central or a
State advisory board, as the case may be, to advise that Government on matter
relating to the establishment and maintenance of the homes, mobilisation of
resources, provision of facilities for education, training and rehabilitation
of child in need of care and protection and juvenile in conflict with law and
co-ordination among the various official and non-official agencies
concerned.(2)The Central or State advisory board shall consist of such persons
as the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, may
think fit and shall include eminent social workers, representatives of
voluntary organisation in the field of child welfare corporate sector,
academicians, medical professional and the concerned Department of the State
Government.(3)The district or city level inspection committee constituted
under section 35 of this Act shall also functions as the district or city
advisory boards.

### 62A. [ Constitution of Child Protection Unit responsible for
implementation of the Act [Inserted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 24 (w.e.f.
22.8.2006).]

.Every State Government shall constitute a Child Protection Units for the
State and, such Units for every District, consisting of such officers and
other employees as may be appointed by that Government, to take up matters
relating to children in need of care and protection and juveniles in conflict
with law with a view to ensure the implementation of this Act including the
establishment and maintenance of homes, notification of competent authorities
in relation to these children and their rehabilitation and co-ordination with
various official and non-official agencies concerned.]

### 63. Special juvenile police unit

(1)In order to enable the police officers who frequently or exclusively deal
with juveniles or are primarily engaged in the prevention of juvenile crime or
handling of the juveniles or children under this Act to perform their
functions more effectively, they shall be specially instructed and
trained.(2)In every police station at least one officer with aptitude and
appropriate training and orientation may be designated as the juvenile or the
child welfare officer who will handle the juvenile or the child in co-
ordination with the police.(3)Special juvenile police unit, of which all
police officers designated as above, to handle juveniles or children will be
members, may be created in every district and city to co-ordinate and to
upgrade the police treatment of the juveniles and the children.

### 64. Juvenile in conflict with law undergoing sentence at commencement of
this Act

.In any area in which this Act is brought into force, the State Government [*
* *] [The words " or the local authority" omitted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 5
(w.e.f. 22.8.2006).] [shall direct] [Substituted by Act 33 of 2006, Section
25, for " may direct" (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).] that a juvenile in conflict with
law who is undergoing any sentence of imprisonment at the commencement of this
Act, shall, in lieu of undergoing such sentence, be sent to a special home or
be kept in fit institution in such manner as the State Government [* * *] [The
words " or the local authority" omitted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 5 (w.e.f.
22.8.2006).] thinks fit for the remainder of the period of the sentence;and
the provisions of this Act shall apply to the juvenile as if he had been
ordered by the Board to be sent to such special home or institution or, as the
case may be, ordered to be kept under protective care under sub-section (2) of
section 16 of this Act.[Provided that the State Government, or as the case may
be the Board, may, for any adequate and special reason to be recorded in
writing, review the case of a juvenile in conflict with law undergoing a
sentence of imprisonment, who has ceased to be so on or before the
commencement of this Act, and pass appropriate order in the interest of such
juvenile.Explanation. In all cases where a juvenile in conflict with law is
undergoing a sentence of imprisonment at any stage on the date of commencement
of this Act, his case including the issue of juvenility, shall be deemed to be
decided in terms of clause (l) of section 2 and other provisions contained in
this Act and the rules made thereunder, irrespective of the fact that he
ceases to be a juvenile on or before such date and accordingly he shall be
sent to the special home or a fit institution, as the case may be, for the
remainder of the period of the sentence but such sentence shall not in any
case exceed the maximum period provided in section 15 of this Act.] [Inserted
by Act 33 of 2006, Section 25 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).]

### 65. Procedure in respect of bonds

.Provisions of Chapter 33 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)
shall, as far as may be, apply to bonds taken under this Act.

### 66. Delegation of powers

.The State Government may, by the general order, direct that any power
exercisable by it under this Act shall, in such circumstances and under such
conditions, if any, as may be prescribed in the order, be exercisable also by
an officer subordinate to that Government [* * *] [The words " or the local
authority" omitted by Act 55 of 2006, Section 5 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).].

### 67. Protection of action taken in good faith

.No suit or legal proceedings shall lie against the State Government or
voluntary organisation running the home or any officer and the staff appointed
in pursuance of this Act in respect of anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or of any rules or order made
thereunder.

### 68. Power to make rules

(1)The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act:[Provided that the Central
Government may, frame model rules in respect of all or any of the matters with
respect to which the State Government may make rules under this section, and
where any such model rules have been framed in respect of any such matter,
they shall apply to the State until the rules in respect of that matter is
made by the State Government and while making any such rules, so far as is
practicable, they conform to such model rules.] [Inserted by Act 33 of 2006,
Section 26 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).](2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing powers, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:(i)the term of office of the members of the
Board and the manner in which such member may resign under sub-section (4) of
section 4;(ii)the time of the meetings of the Board and the rules of procedure
in regard to the transaction of business at its meeting under sub-section (1)
of section 5;(iii)the management of observation homes including the standards
and various types of services to be provided by them and the circumstances in
which and the manner in which, the certification of the observation home may
be granted or withdrawn and such other matters as are referred to in section
8;(iv)the management of special homes including the standards and various
types of services to be provided by them and the circumstances in which and
the manner in which, the certification of the special home may be granted or
withdrawn and such other matters as are referred to in section 9;(v)persons by
whom any juvenile in conflict with law may be produced before the Board and
the manner of sending such juvenile, to an observation home under sub-section
(2) of section 10;(vi)matters relating to removal of disqualification
attaching to conviction of a juvenile under section 19;(vii)the qualifications
of the Chairperson and members, and the tenure for which they may be appointed
under sub-section (3) of section 29;(viii)the time of the meetings of the
Committee and the rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business
at its meeting under sub-section (1) of section 30;(ix)the manner of making
the report to the police and to the Committee and the manner of sending and
entrusting the child to children's home pending the inquiry under sub-section
(2) of section 32;(x)the management of children's homes including the
standards and nature of services to be provided by them, and the manner in
which certification of a children's home or recognition to a voluntary
organisation may be granted or withdrawn under sub-section (2) [and the manner
of registration of institutions under sub-section (3)] [Inserted by Act 33 of
2006, Section 26 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).] of section 34;(xi)appointment of
inspection committees for children's homes, their tenure and purposes for
which inspection committees may be appointed and such other matters as are
referred to in section 35;(xii)facilities to be provided by the shelter homes
under sub-section (3) of section 37;[(xii-a) rehabilitation mechanism to be
resorted to in adoption under sub-section (2), notification of guidelines
under sub-section (3) and the manner of recognition of specialised adoption
agencies under sub-section (4) of section 41;] [Inserted by Act 33 of 2006,
Section 26 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).](xiii)for carrying out the scheme of foster
care programme of children under sub-section (3) of section 42;(xiv)for
carrying out various schemes of sponsorship of children under sub-section
(2)of section 43;(xv)matters relating to after-care organisation under section
44;(xvi)for ensuring effective linkages between various agencies for
facilitating rehabilitation and social integration of the child under section
45;(xvii)the purposes and the manner in which the Fund shall be administered
under sub-section (3) of section 61;(xviii)any other matter which is required
to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)[ Every rule made by the Central Government
under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each
House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions,
and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or
the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be
made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be
of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule.] [Inserted by Act 33 of 2006, Section 26 (w.e.f.
22.8.2006).](4)[] [Sub-Section (3) renumbered as sub-Section (4) by Act 33 of
2006, Section 26 (w.e.f. 22.8.2006).] Every rule made by a State Government
under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before the
Legislature of that State.

### 69. Repeal and savings

(1)The Juvenile Justice Act, 1986 (53 of 1986) is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken
under the said Act shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the
corresponding provisions of this Act.

### 70. Power to remove difficulties

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order, not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, remove the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made
after the expiry of the period of two years from the commencement of this
Act.(2)However, order made under the section shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament.

