## Union of India - Act

## The Juvenile Justice Act, 1986

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Juvenile Justice Act, 1986

## Act 53 of 1986

  * Published on 1 December 1986 
  * Commenced on 1 December 1986 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 December 1986.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Repealed by The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000 (Act 56 of 2000) on 20 November 1989] 

The Juvenile Justice Act, 1986No. 53 of 1986Statement of Objects and Reasons.
- 1. A review of the working of the existing Children Acts would indicate that
much greater attention is required to be given to children who may be found in
situations of social maladjustment, delinquency or neglect. The justice system
as available for adults is not considered suitable for being applied to
juveniles. It is also necessary that a uniform juvenile justice system should
be available throughout the country which should make adequate provision for
dealing with all aspects in the changing social, cultural and economic
situation in the country. There is also need for larger involvement of
informal systems and community based welfare agencies in the care, protection,
treatment, development and rehabilitation of such juveniles.2\. In this
context, the proposed legislation aims at achieving the following
objectives:-(i) to lay down a uniform legal framework for juvenile justice in
the country so as to ensure that no child under any circumstances is lodged in
jail or police lock-up. This is being ensured by establishing Juvenile Welfare
Boards and Juvenile Courts;(ii) to provide for a specialised approach towards
the prevention and treatment of juvenile delinquency in its full range in
keeping with the developmental needs of the child found in any situation of
social maladjustment;(iii) to spell out the machinery and infrastructure
required for the care, protection, treatment, development and rehabilitation
of various categories of children coming within the purview of the juvenile
justice system. This is proposed to be achieved by establishing observation
homes, juvenile homes for neglected juveniles and special homes for delinquent
juveniles;(iv) to establish norms and standards for the administration of
juvenile justice in terms of investigation and prosecution, adjudication and
disposition, and care, treatment and rehabilitation;(v) to develop appropriate
linkages and co-ordination between the formal system of juvenile justice
voluntary agencies engaged in the welfare of neglected or socially maladjusted
children and to specifically define the areas of their responsibilities and
roles;(vi) to constitute special offences in relation to juveniles and provide
for punishments therefor;(vii) to bring the operation of the juvenile justice
system in the country in conformity with the United Nations Standard Minimum
Rule for the Administration of Juvenile Justice.3\. As its various provisions
come into force in different parts of the country they would replace the
corresponding laws on the subject such as the Children Act, 1960 and other
State enactments on the subject.The Bill seeks to achieve the above
objects.(Received the assent of the President on 1st December, 1986; Assent
first published in Gazette of India (Extraordinary), Part II-Section 1, dated
3.12.1986, pages 1-23).An Act to provide for the care, protection, treatment,
development and rehabilitation of neglected or delinquent juveniles and for
the adjudication of certain matters relating to, and disposition of,
delinquent juveniles.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-seventh Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title extent, and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Juvenile Justice Act, 1986.(2)It extends to the
whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.(3)It shall come into
force on such [date] [The Act has been brought into force from 2.10.1987. See
Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3(i) Extraordinary, page 2, dated 13.8.1987
(No.420).] as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint, and different dates may be appointed for different
provisions of this Act and for different States.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"begging"
means-(i)soliciting or receiving alms in a public place or entering into any
private premises for the purpose of soliciting or receiving alms, whether
under the pretence of singing, dancing, fortunetelling, performing tricks or
selling articles or otherwise;(ii)exposing or exhibiting, with the object of
obtaining or extorting alms, any sore, wound, injury, deformity or disease,
whether of himself or of any other person or of an animal;(iii)allowing
oneself to be used as an exhibit for the purpose of soliciting or receiving
alms;(b)"Board" means a Juvenile Welfare Board constituted under Section
4;(c)"brothel", "prostitute", "prostitution" and "public place" shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in the Suppression of Immoral Traffic
in Women and Girls Act, 1956 (104 of 1956);(d)"competent authority" means, in
relation to neglected juveniles, a Board and, in relation to delinquent
juveniles, a Juvenile Court and where no such Board or Juvenile Court has been
constituted, includes any court empowered under sub-section (2) of section 7
to exercise the powers conferred on a Board or Juvenile Court;(e)"delinquent
juvenile" means a juvenile who has been found to have committed an
offence;(f)"fit person" or "fit Institution" means any person or institution
(not being a police station or jail) found fit by the competent authority to
receive and take care of a juvenile entrusted to his or its care and
protection on the terms and conditions specified by the competent
authority;(g)"guardian" in relation to a juvenile, includes any person who, in
the opinion of the competent authority, having cognizance of any proceeding in
relation to a juvenile, has, for the time being, the actual charge of, or
control over, that juvenile;(h)"juvenile" means a boy who has not attained the
age of sixteen years or a girl who has not attained the age of eighteen
years;(i)"Juvenile Court" means a Court constituted under section
5;(j)"juvenile home" means an institution established or certified by the
State Government under section 9 as a juvenile home;(k)"narcotic drug" and
"psychotropic substance" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them
in the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (61 of
1985);(l)"neglected juvenile" means a juvenile who-(i)is found begging;
or(ii)is found without having any home or settled place of abode and without
'any ostensible means of subsistence and is destitute;(iii)has a parent or
guardian who is unfit or incapacitated to exercise control over the juvenile;
or(iv)lives in a brothel or with a prostitute or frequently goes to any place
used for the purpose of prostitution, or is found to associate with any
prostitute or any other person who leads an immoral, drunken or depraved
life;(v)who is being or is likely to be abused or exploited for immoral or
illegal purposes or unconscionable gain;(m)"observation home" means any
institution or place established or recognised by the State Government under
section 11 as an observation home;(n)"offence" means an offence punishable
under any law for the time being in force;(o)"place of safety" means any place
or institution (not being a police station or jail), the person in charge of
which is willing temporarily to receive and take care of a juvenile and which,
in the opinion of the competent authority may be a place of safety for the
juvenile;(p)"prescribed" means prescribed by rule made under the
Act;(q)"probation officer" means an officer appointed as a probation officer
under this Act or under the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 (20 of
1958);(r)"special home" means an institution established or certified by the
State Government under section 10;(s)"supervision", in relation to a juvenile
placed under the care of any parent, guardian or other fit person or fit
institution under this Act, means the supervision of that juvenile by a
probation officer for the purpose of ensuring that the juvenile is properly
looked after and that the conditions imposed by the competent authority are
complied with;(t)all words and expressions used but not defined in this Act
and defined in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), shall have
the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Code.

### 3. Continuation of inquiry in respect of juvenile who has ceased to be a
juvenile.

\- Where an inquiiy has been initiated against a juvenile and during the
course of such inquiry the juvenile ceases to be such, then, notwithstanding
anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the time being in
force, the inquiry may be continued and orders may be made in respect of such
person as if such person had continued to be a juvenile.

## Chapter II  
Competent authorities and institutions for juveniles.

### 4. Juvenile Welfare Boards.

(1)The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute for any area specified in the notification, one or more Juvenile
Welfare Boards for exercising the powers and discharging the duties conferred
or imposed on such Board in relation to neglected juveniles under this
Act.(2)A Board shall consist of a Chairman and such other members as the State
Government thinks fit to appoint, of whom not less than one shall be a women;
any every such member shall be vested with the powers of a Magistrate under
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.(3)The Board shall function as a Bench of
Magistrates and shall have the powers conferred by the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973, on a Metropolitan Magistrate or, as the case may be, a
Judicial Magistrate of the first class.

### 5. Juvenile Courts.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973,
the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute
for any area specified in the notification, one or more Juvenile Courts for
exercising the powers and discharging the duties conferred or imposed on such
Court in relation to delinquent juveniles under this Act.(2)A Juvenile Court
shall consist of such number of Metropolitan Magistrates or Judicial
Magistrates of the first class, as the case may be, forming a Bench as the
State Government thinks fit to appoint, of whom one shall be designated as the
Principal Magistrate; and every such Bench shall have the powers conferred by
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, on a Metropolitan Magistrate or, as the
case may be, a Judicial Magistrate of the first class.(3)Every Juvenile Court
shall be assisted by a panel of two honorary social workers possessing such
qualifications as may be prescribed, of whom at least one shall be a woman,
and such panel shall be appointed by the State Government.

### 6. Procedure etc. in relation to Boards and Juvenile Courts.

(1)In the even of any difference of opinion among the members of a Board or
among the Magistrates of a Juvenile Court, the opinion of the majority shall
prevail, but where there is no such majority, the opinion of the Chairman or
of the Principal Magistrate, as the case may be, shall prevail.(2)A Board or
Juvenile Court may act notwithstanding the absence of any member of the Board
or. as the case may be, any Magistrate of the Juvenile Court, and no order
made by the Board or Juvenile Court shall be invalid by reason only of the
absence of any member or Magistrate, as the case may be, during any stage of
the proceeding.(3)No person shall be appointed as a member of the Board or as
a Magistrate in the Juvenile Court unless he has, in the opinion of the State
Government, special knowledge of child psychology and child welfare.

### 7. Powers of Board and Juvenile Court.

(1)Where a Board or a Juvenile Court has been constituted for any area such
Board or Court, shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for
the time being in force but save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act
have power to deal exclusively with all proceedings under this Act relating to
neglected Juveniles or delinquent juveniles, as the case may be:Provided that
a Board or a Juvenile Court may if it is of opinion that it is necessary so to
do having regard to the circumstances of the case transfer any proceedings to
any Juvenile Court or Board, as the case may be;Provided further that where
there is any difference of opinion between a Board and a Juvenile Court
regarding the transfer of any proceedings under the first proviso, it shall be
referred to the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or as the case may be, the Chief
Judicial Magistrate for decision, and in a case where the District Magistrate
is functioning as a Board or a Juvenile Court, such difference of opinion
shall lie referred to the Court of Session, and the decision of the Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate or Chief Judicial Magistrate or, as the case may be,
the Court of Session on such reference shall be final.(2)Where no Board or
Juvenile Court has been constituted for any area, the powers conferred on the
Board or the Juvenile Court by or under this Act shall be exercised in that
area, only by the following namely:-(a)the District Magistrate, or(b)the Sub-
Divisional Magistrate; or(c)any Metropolitan Magistrate or Judicial Magistrate
of the first class, as the case may be.(3)The powers conferred on the Board or
Juvenile Court by or under this Act may also be exercised by the High Court
and the Court of Session, when the proceeding comes before them in appeal,
revision or otherwise.

### 8. Procedure to be followed by a Magistrate not empowered under the Act.

(1)When any Magistrate not empowered to exercise the powers of a Board or a
Juvenile Court under this Act is of opinion that a person brought before him
under any of the provisions of this Act (otherwise than for the purpose of
giving evidence) is a juvenile, he shall record such opinion and forward the
juvenile and the record of the proceeding to the competent authority having
jurisdiction over the proceeding.(2)The competent authority to which the
proceeding is forwarded under sub-section (1) shall hold the inquiry as if the
juvenile had originally been brought before it.

### 9. Juvenile homes.

(1)The State Government may establish and maintain as many juvenile home, as
may be necessary for the reception of neglected juveniles under this
Act.(2)Where the State Government is of opinion that any institution other
than a home established or maintained under sub-section (1) is fit for the
reception of the neglected juveniles to be sent there under this Act, it may
certify such institution as juvenile home for the purposes of this
Act.(3)Every juvenile home to which a neglected juvenile is sent under this
Act shall not only provide juvenile with accommodation maintenance and
facilities for education vocational training and rehabilitation, but also
provide him with facilities for the development of his character and abilities
and give him necessary training for protecting himself against moral danger or
exploitation and shall also perform such other functions as may be prescribed
to ensure all round growth and development of his personality.(4)The State
Government, by rules made under this Act, provide for the management of
juvenile homes, including the standards and the nature of services to be
maintained by them and the circumstances under which, and the manner in which,
the certification of a juvenile home may be granted or withdrawn.

### 10. Special homes.

(1)The State Government may establish and maintain as many special homes as
may be necessary for the reception of delinquent juveniles under this
Act.(2)Where the State Government is of opinion that any institution other
than a home established or maintained under sub-section (1), is fit for the
reception of the delinquent juveniles to be sent there under this Act, it may
certify such institution as a special home for the purposes of this
Act.(3)Every special home to which a delinquent juvenile is sent under this
Art shall not only provide the juvenile with accommodation maintenance and
facilities, for education, vocational training and rehabilitation, but also
provide him with facilities for the development of his character and abilities
and give him necessary training for his reformation and shall also perform
such other functions as may be prescribed to ensure all round growth and
development of his personality.(4)The State Government may, by rules made
under this Act, provide for the management of special homes, including the
standards and the nature of services to be maintained by them, and the
circumstances under which, and the manner in which, the certification of a
special home may be granted or withdrawn.(5)The rules made under sub-section
(4) may also provide for the classification and separation of delinquent
juveniles on the basis of age and nature of offences committed by them.

### 11. Observation homes.

(1)The State Government may establish and maintain as many observation homes
as may be necessary for the temporary reception of juveniles during the
tendency of any inquiry regarding them under this Act.(2)Where the State
Government is of opinion that any institution other than a home established or
maintained under sub-section (1), is fit for the temporary reception of
juveniles during the tendency of any inquiry regarding them under this Act, it
may recognise such institution as an observation home for the purposes of this
Act.(3)Every observation home to which a juvenile is sent under this Act shall
not only provide the juvenile with accommodation, maintenance and facilities
for medical examination and treatment, but also provide him with facilities
for useful occupation.(4)The State Government may by rules made under this
Act, provide for the management of observation homes, including the standards
and the nature of services to be maintained by them, and the circumstances
under which, and the manner in which, an institution may be recognised as an
observation home or the recognition may be withdrawn.

### 12. After-care organisations.

\- The State Government may, by rules made under this Act, provide-(a)for the
establishment or recognition of after-care organisations and the powers that
may be exercised by them for effectively carrying out their functions under
this Act;(b)for a scheme of after-care programme to be followed by such
aftercare organisations for the purpose of taking care of juveniles after they
leave juvenile homes or special homes and for the purpose of enabling them to
lead an honest, industrious and useful life;(c)for the preparation of
submission of a report by the probation officer in respect of each juvenile
prior to his discharge from a juvenile home or special home, as the case may
be, regarding the necessity and nature of after-care of such juvenile, the
period of such after-care, supervision thereof and for the submission of a
report by the probation officer on the progress of each such juvenile;(d)for
the standards and the nature of services to be maintained by such after-care
organisations;(e)for such other matters as may be necessary for the purpose of
effectively carrying out the scheme of after care programme of juveniles.

## Chapter III  
Neglected juveniles

### 13. Production of neglected juveniles before Boards.

(1)If any police officer or any other person or organisation authorised by the
State Government in this behalf, by general or special order is of opinion
that a person is apparently a neglected juvenile, such police officer or other
person or organisation may take charge of that person for bringing him before
a Board.(2)When information is given to an office-in-charge of a police
station about any neglected juvenile found within the limits of such station,
he shall enter in a book to be kept for the purpose the substance of such
information and take such action thereon as he deems fit and if such officer
does not propose to take charge of the juvenile, he shall forward a copy of
the entry made to the Board(3)Every juvenile taken charge of under sub-section
(1) shall be brought before the Board without any loss of time but within a
period of twenty-four hours of such charge taken excluding the time necessary
for the journey from the place where the juvenile had been taken charge of to
the Board.(4)Every juvenile taken charge of under section (1) shall, unless he
is kept with his parent or guardian be sent to an observation home (but not to
a police station or jail) until he can be brought before a Board.

### 14. Special procedure to be followed when neglected juvenile has parents.

(1)If a person, who in the opinion of the police officer or the authorised
person or organisation is a neglected juvenile, has a parent or guardian who
has the actual charge of, or control over, the juvenile, the police officer or
the authorised person or the organisation may, instead of taking charge of the
juvenile, make a report to the Board for initiating an inquiry regarding that
juvenile.(2)On receipt of a report under sub-section (1), the Board may call
upon the parent or guardian to produce the juvenile before it and to show
cause why the juvenile should not be dealt with as a neglected juvenile under
the provisions of this Act and if it appears to the Board that the juvenile is
likely to be removed from its jurisdiction or to be concealed, it may
immediately order his removal (if necessary by issuing a search warrant for
the immediate production of the juvenile) to an observation home or a place of
safety.

### 15. Inquiry by Board regarding neglected juveniles.

(1)When a person alleged to be a neglected juvenile is produced before a
Board, it shall examine the police officer or the authorised person or the
organisation who brought the juvenile or made the report and record the
substance of such examination and hold the inquiry in the prescribed manner
and may make such orders in relation to the juvenile as it may deem
fit.(2)Where a Board is satisfied on inquiry that juvenile is a neglected
juvenile and that it is expedient so to deal with him, the Board may make an
order directing the juvenile to be sent to a juvenile home for the period
until he ceases to be a juvenile.Provided that the Board may, for reasons to
be recorded, extend the period of such stay, but in no case the period of stay
shall extend beyond the time when the juvenile attains the age of eighteen
years, in the case of a boy, or twenty years, in the case of a girl.Provided
further that the Board may, if it is satisfied that having regard to the
circumstances of the case it is expedient so to do, for reasons to be recorded
reduce the period of stay to such period as it thinks fit.(3)During the
tendency of any inquiry regarding a juvenile, the juvenile shall, unless he is
kept with his parent or guardian, be sent to an observation home or a place of
safety for such period as may be specified in the order of the Board:Provided
that no juvenile shall be kept with his parent or guardian if, in the opinion
of the Board, such parent or guardian is unfit or unable to exercise or does
not exercise proper care and control over the juvenile.

### 16. Power to commit neglected juvenile to suitable custody.

(1)If the Board so thinks fir, it may instead of making an order under sub-
section (2) of section 15, for sending the juvenile to a juvenile home, make
an order placing the juvenile under the care of a parent, guardian or other
fit person,on such parent, guardian or fit person executing a bond with or
without surety to be responsible for the good behaviour and well being of the
juvenile and for the observance of such conditions as the Board may think fit
to impose.(2)At the time of making an order under sub-section (1) or at any
time subsequently, the Board may, in addition, make an order that the juvenile
be placed under supervision for any period not exceeding three years in the
first instance.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or
subsection (2), If at any time it appears to the Board, on receiving a report
from the probation officer or otherwise, that there has been a breach of any
of the conditions imposed by it in respect of the juvenile, it may, after
making such inquiry as it deems fit, order the juvenile to be sent to a
juvenile home.

### 17. Uncontrollable Juveniles.

\- Where a parent or guardian of a juvenile complains to the Board that he is
not able to exercise proper care and control over the juvenile and the Board
is satisfied on inquiiy that proceedings under this Act should be initiated
regarding the juvenile, it may send the juvenile to an observation home or a
place of safety and make such further inquiry ,as it may deem fit and the
provisions of section 15 and 16 shall, as far as may be apply to such
proceedings.

## Chapter IV  
Delinquent juveniles

### 18. Bail and custody of juveniles.

(1)When any person accused of a bailable or non-bailable offence and
apparently a juvenile is arrested or detained or appears or is brought before
a Juvenile Court, such person shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, or in any other law for the time being in
force, be released on bail with or without surety but he shall not be so
released if there appear reasonable grounds for believing that the release is
likely to bring him into association with any known criminal or expose him to
moral danger or that his release would defeat the ends of justice.(2)When such
person having been arrested is not released on bail under sub-section (1) by
the officer-in-charge of the police station, such officer shall cause him to
be kept in an observation home or a place of safety in the prescribed manner
(but not in a police station or jail) until he can be brought before a
Juvenile Court.(3)When such person is not released on bail under sub-section
(1) by the Juvenile Court it shall, instead of committing him to prison, make
an order sending him to an observation home or a place of safety for such
period during the tendency of the inquiiy regarding him as may be specified in
the order.

### 19. Information to parent or guardian or probation officer.

\- Where a juvenile is arrested, the officer-in-charge of the police station
to which the juvenile is brought shall, as soon as may be after the arrest,
inform-(a)the parent or guardian of the juvenile, if he can be found, of such
arrest and direct him to be present at the Juvenile Court before which the
juvenile will appear; and(b)the probation officer of such arrest in order to
enable him to obtain information regarding the antecedents and family history
of the juvenile and other material circumstances likely to be of assistance to
the Juvenile Court for making the inquiry.

### 20. Inquiry by Juvenile Court regarding delinquent juveniles.

\- Where a juvenile having been charged with an offeree appears or is produced
before a Juvenile Court, the Juvenile Court shall hold the inquiry in
accordance with the provisions of section 39 and may, subject to the
provisions of this Act, make such order in relation to the juvenile as it
deems fit.

### 21. Orders that may be passed regarding delinquent juveniles.

(1)Where a Juvenile Court is satisfied on inquiry that a juvenile has
committed an offence, them, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in any other law for the time being in force, the Juvenile Court may, if it so
thinks fit,-(a)allow the juvenile to go home after advice or
admonition;(b)direct the juvenile to be released on probation of good conduct
and placed under the care of any parent, guardian or other fit person, on such
parent, guardian or other fit person executing a bond, with or without surety
as that Court may require, for the good behaviour and well-being of the
juvenile for any period not exceeding three years;(c)direct the juvenile to be
released on probation of good conduct and placed under the care of any fit
institution for the good behaviour and well-being of the juvenile for any
period not exceeding three years;(d)make an order directing the juvenile to be
sent to a special home,-(i)in the case of a boy over fourteen years of age or
of a girl or sixteen years of age, for a period of not less than three
years;(ii)in the case of any other Juvenile, for the period until he ceases to
be a juvenile:Provided that the Juvenile Court may, if it is satisfied that
having regard to the nature of the offence and the circumstances of the case
it is expedient so to do, for reasons to be recorded, reduce the period of
stay to such period as it thinks fit:Provided further that the Juvenile Court
may, for reasons to be recorded, extend the period of such stay, but in no
case the period of stay shall extend beyond the time when the juvenile attains
the age of eighteen years, in the case of a boy, or twenty years, in the case
of a girl:(e)order the juvenile to pay a fine if he is over fourteen years of
age and earns money.(2)Where an order under clause (b), clause (c), or clause
(e) of sub-section (1) is made, the Juvenile Court may, if it is of opinion
that in the interests of the juvenile and of the public it is expedient so to
do, in addition make an order that the delinquent juvenile shall remain under
the supervision of a probation officer named in the order during such period,
not exceeding three years, as may be specified therein, and may in such
supervision order impose such conditions as it deems necessary for the due
supervision of the delinquent juvenile:Provided that if at any time afterwards
it appears to the Juvenile Court on receiving a report from the probation
officer or otherwise, that 'the delinquent juvenile has not been of good
behaviour during the period of supervision or that the fit institution under
whose care the juvenile was placed is no longer able or willing to ensure the
good behaviour and well-being of the juvenile it may, after making such
inquiry as it deems fit, order the delinquent juvenile to be sent to a special
home;(3)The Juvenile Court making a supervision order under sub-section (2),
shall explain to the juvenile and the parent guardian oi other fit person or
fit institution, as the case may be, under whose care the juvenile has been
placed,the terms and conditions of the order and shall forthwith furnish one
copy of the supervision order to the juvenile, the parent, guardian or other
fit person or fit institution, as the case may be, the sureties, if any, and
the probation officer.(4)In determining the special home, or any person or
institution to whose custody a juvenile is to be committed or entrusted under
this Act. the Court shall pay due regard to the religious denomination of the
juvenile to ensure that religious instruction contrary to the religious
persuasion of the juvenile is not imparted to him.

### 22. Orders that may not be passed against delinquent juveniles.

(1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the
time being in force, no delinquent juvenile shall be sentenced to death or
imprisonment, or committed to prison in default of payment of fine or in
default or furnishing security:Provided that where a juvenile who has attained
the age of fourteen years has committed an offence and the Juvenile Court is
satisfied that the offence committed is of so serious a nature or that his
conduct and behaviour have been such that it would not be in his interest or
in the interest of other juvenile in a special home to send him to such
special home and that none of the other measures provided under this Act is
suitable or sufficient, the Juvenile Court, may order the delinquent juvenile
to be kept in safe custody in such place and manner as it thinks fit and shall
report the case for the orders of the State Government.(2)On receipt of a
report from a Juvenile Court under sub-section (1), the State Government may
make such arrangement in respect of the juvenile as it deems proper and may
order such delinquent juvenile to be detained at such place and on which
conditions at is thinks fit:Provided that the period of detention so ordered
shall not exceed the maximum period of imprisonment to which the juvenile
could have been sentenced for the offence committed.

### 23. Proceeding under Chapter VIII of the Code of Criminal Procedure not
competent against juvenile.

\- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973, no proceeding shall be instituted and no order shall be
passed against a juvenile under chapter VIII of the said Code.

### 24. No joint trial of juvenile and person not a juvenile.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 223 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 or in any other law for the time being in force, no juvenile
shall be charged with or tried for, any offence together with a person who is
not a juvenile.(2)If a juvenile is accused of an offence for which under
section 223 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, or any other law for the
time being in force, such juvenile and any person who is not a juvenile would,
but for the prohibition contained in sub-section (1), have been charged and
tried together the court taking cognizance of that offence shall direct
separate trials of the juvenile and the other person.

### 25. Removal of disqualification attaching to conviction.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, a juvenile who has
committed an offence and has been dealt with under the provisions of this Act
shall not suffer disqualification, if any, attaching to a conviction of an
offence under such law.

### 26. Special provision in respect of pending cases.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, all proceedings in respect
of a juvenile pending in any court in any area on the date on which this Act
comes into force in that area, shall be continued in that court as if this Act
had not been passed and if the court finds that the juvenile has committed an
offence, it shall record such finding and instead of passing any sentence in
respect of the juvenile, forward the juvenile in the Juvenile Court which
shall pass orders in respect of that juvenile in accordance with the
provisions of this Act as if it had been satisfied on inquiry under this Act
that the juvenile has committed the offence.

## Chapter V  
Procedure of competent authorities generally and appeals and revision from
orders of such authorities

### 27. Sittings, etc., of Boards and Juvenile Courts.

(1)A Board or a Juvenile Court shall hold its sittings at such place, on such
day and in such manner, as may be prescribed.(2)A Magistrate empowered to
exercise the powers of a Board or, as the case may be, a Juvenile Court under
sub-section (2) of section 7 shall, while holding any inquiry regarding a
juvenile under this Act, as far as practicable, sit in a building or room
different from that in which the ordinary sittings of Civil and Criminal
Courts are held, or on different days or at times different from those at
which the ordinary sittings of such Courts are held.(3)An inquiry regarding a
juvenile under this Act shall be held expeditiously and shall ordinarily be
completed within a period of three months from the date of its commencement,
unless, for special reasons to be recorded in writing, the competent authority
otherwise directs.

### 28. Persons who may be present before competent authority.

(1)Save as provided in this Act, no person shall be present at any sitting of
a competent authority, except-(a)any officer of the competent authority,
or(b)the parties to the inquiry before the competent authority, the parent or
guardian of the juvenile and other persons directly concerned in the inquiry
including police officers and legal practitioners, and(c)such other persons as
the competent authority may permit to be present(2)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1), if at any stage during an inquiry, a competent
authority considers it to be expedient in the interest of the juvenile or on
grounds of decency or morality that any person including the police officers,
legal practitioners, the parent, guardian or the juvenile himself should
withdraw, the competent authority may give such direction, and if any person
refuses to comply with such direction, the competent authority may have him
removed and may, for this purpose, cause to be used such force as may be
necessary.(3)No legal practitioner shall be entitled to appear before a Board
in any case or proceeding before it, except with the special permission of
that Board.

### 29. Attendance of parent or guardian of juvenile.

\- Any competent authority before which a juvenile is brought under any of the
provisions of this Act may whenever it so thinks fit require any parent or
guardian having the actual charge of or control over, the juvenile to be
present at any proceeding in respect of the juvenile.

### 30. Dispensing with attendance of juvenile.

\- If, at any stage during the course of an inquiry, a competent authority is
satisfied that the attendance of the juvenile is not essential for the purpose
of the inquiry, the competent authority may dispense with his attendance and
proceed with the inquiry in the absence of the juvenile.

### 31. Committal to approved place of juvenile suffering from dangerous
disease and his further disposal.

(1)When a juvenile who has been brought before a competent authority under
this Act is found to be suffering from a disease requiring prolonged medical
treatment or physical or mental complaint that will respond to treatment, the
competent authority may send the juvenile to any place recognised to be an
approved place in accordance with the rules made under this Act for such
period as it may think necessary for the required treatment.(2)Where a
juvenile is found to be suffering from leprosy or is of unsound mind, he shall
be dealt with under the provisions of the Lepers Act, 1898(3 of 1898) or the
Indian Lunacy Act, 1912 (4 of 1912) as the case may be.(3)Where a competent
authority has taken action under subsection (1) in the case of juvenile
suffering from an infectious or contagious disease, the competent authority
before restoring the said juvenile to his partner in marriage, if there has
been such, or to the guardian, as the case may be shall, where it is satisfied
that such action will be in the interest of the said Juvenile call upon his
partner in marriage or the guardian, as the case may be, to satisfy the
competent authority by submitting to medical examination that such partner or
guardian will not reinfect the juvenile in respect of whom the order has been
passed.

### 32. Presumption and determination of age.

(1)Where it appears to a competent authority that a person brought before it
under any of the provisions of this Act (otherwise than for the purpose of
giving evidence) is a juvenile, the competent authority shall make due inquiry
as to the age of that person and for that purpose shall take such evidence as
may be necessary and shall record a finding whether the person is a juvenile
or not, stating his age as nearly as may be.(2)No order of a competent
authority shall be deemed to have become invalid merely by any subsequent
proof that the person in respect of whom the order has been made is not a
juvenile, and the age recorded by the competent authority to be the age of the
person so brought before it shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to
be the true age of that person.

### 33. Circumstances to be taken into consideration in making orders under
the Act.

\- In making any order in respect of a juvenile under this Act, a competent
authority shall take into consideration the following circumstances,
namely:-(a)the age of the juvenile;(b)the state of physical and mental health
of the juvenile;(c)the circumstances in which the juvenile was and is
living;(d)the reports made by the probation officer;(e)the religious
persuasion of the juvenile;(f)such other circumstances as may, in the opinion
of the competent authority, require to be taken into consideration in the
interest of the welfare of the juvenile:Provided that in the case of a
delinquent juvenile, the above circumstances shall be taken into consideration
after the Juvenile Court has recorded a finding against the juvenile that he
has committed the offence:Provided further that if no report of the probation
officer is received within ten weeks of his being informed under section 19,
it shall be open to the Juvenile Court to proceed without it.

### 34. Sending juvenile outside jurisdiction.

\- In the case of a neglected or delinquent juveniles whose ordinary place of
residence lies outside the jurisdiction of the competent authority before
which he is brought, the competent authority may, if satisfied after due
inquiry that it is expedient so to do, send the juvenile back to a relative or
other person who is fit and willing to receive him at his ordinary place of
residence and exercise proper care and control over him, notwithstanding that
such place of residence is outside the jurisdiction of the competent
authority: and the competent authority exercising jurisdiction over the place
to which the juvenile is sent shall in respect of any matter arising
subsequently have the same powers in relation to the juvenile as if the
original order had been passed by itself.

### 35. Reports to be treated as confidential.

\- The report of the probation officer or any circumstance considered by the
competent authority under section 33 shall be treated as confidential:Provided
that the competent authority may, if it so thinks fit, communicate the
substance thereof to the juvenile or his parent or guardian and may give such
juvenile, parent or guardian an opportunity of producing such evidence as may
be relevant to the matter stated in the report.

### 36. Prohibition of publication of names, etc., of juvenile involved in any
proceeding under the Act.

(1)No report in any newspaper, magazine or news-sheet of any inquiry regarding
a juvenile under this Act shall disclose the name, address or school or any
other particulars calculated to lead to the identification of the juvenile nor
shall any picture of any such juvenile be published:Provided that for reasons
to be recorded in writing, the authority holding the inquiry may permit such
disclosure, if in its opinion such disclosure is in the interest of the
juvenile.(2)Any person contravening the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.

### 37. Appeals.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this section, any person aggreived by an order
made by a competent authority under this Act may, within thirty days from the
date of such order, prefer an appeal to the Court of session:Provided that the
Court of Session may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said period
of thirty days if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by
sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.(2)No appeal shall lie
from-(a)any order of acquittal made by the Juvenile Court in respect of a
juvenile alleged to have committed an offence; or(b)any order made by a Board
in respect of a finding that a person is not a neglected juvenile.(3)No second
appeal shall lie from any order of the Court of Session passed in appeal under
this section.

### 38. Revision.

\- The High Court may, at any time, either of its own motion or on an
application received in this behalf, call for the record of any proceeding in
which any competent authority of court of Session has passed an order for the
purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality or propriety of any such order
and may pass such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit:Provided that the
High Court shall not pass an order under this section prejudicial to any
person without giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 39. Procedure in inquiries, appeals and revision proceedings.

\- Save as otherwise expressly provided by this Act, a competent authority
while holding any inquiry under any of the provisions of this Act, shall
follow such procedure as may be prescribed and subject thereto, shall follow,
as far as may be, the procedure laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973, for trials in summons cases.(2)Save as otherwise expressly provided by
or under this Act, the procedure to be followed in hearing appeals or revision
proceedings under this Act shall be, as far as practicable, in accordance with
the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.

### 40. Power to amend orders.

(1)Without prejudice to the provisions for appeal and revision under this Act,
any competent authority may, either on its own motion or on an application
received in this behalf, amend any order as to the institution to which a
juvenile is to be sent or as to the person under whose care or supervision a
juvenile is to be placed under this Act.(2)Clerical mistakes in orders passed
by a competent authority or errors arising therein from any accidental slip or
omission may, at any time, be corrected by the competent authority either on
its own motion or on an application received in this behalf.

## Chapter VI  
Special offences in respect of juveniles

### 41. Punishment for cruelty to juvenile.

(1)Whoever, having the actual charge' of, or control over, a juvenile,
assaults, abandons, exposes or wilfully neglects the juvenile or causes or
procures him to be assaulted, abandoned, exposed or neglected in a manner
likely to cause such juvenile unnecessary mental or physical suffering shall
be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or
with fine, or with both.(2)No court shall take cognizance of an offence
punishable under sub-section (1) unless the complaint is filed with the
previous sanction of the State Government or an officer authorised by it in
this behalf.

### 42. Employment of juveniles for begging.

(1)Whoever employs or uses any juvenile for the purposes of begging or causes
any juvenile to beg shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine.(2)Whoever, having the
actual charge of, or control over, a juvenile abets the commission of the
offence punishable under sub-section (1), shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and shall also be liable
to fine.(3)The offence punishable under this section shall be cognizable.

### 43. Penalty for giving intoxicating liquor or narcotic drug or
psychotropic substance to a juvenile.

\- Whoever gives, or causes to be given, to any juvenile any intoxicating
liquor in a public place or any norcotic drug or psychotropic substance except
upon the order of duly qualified medical practitioner or in case of sickness
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
years and shall also be liable to fine.

### 44. Exploitation of juvenile employees.

\- Whoever ostensibly procures a juvenile for the purpose of any employment
and withholds the earnings of the juvenile or uses such earnings for his own
purposes shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
three years and shall also be liable to fine.

### 45. Alternative punishment.

\- Where an act or omission constitutes an offence punishable under this Act
and also under any other Central or State Act, then, notwithstanding anything
contained in any law for the time being in force, the offender found guilty of
such offence shall be liable to punishment only under such Act as provides for
punishment which is greater in degree.

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 46. Power of State Government to discharge and transfer juveniles.

(1)The State Government may, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act,
at any time, order a neglected or delinquent juvenile to be discharged from
the juvenile home or special home, either absolutely or on such conditions as
it may think fit to impose.(2)The State Government may, notwithstanding
anything contained in this Act, Order-(a)a neglected juvenile to be
transferred from one juvenile home to another;(b)a delinquent juvenile to be
transferred from one special home to another or from a special home to a
borstal school where such school exists or from a special home to a juvenile
home ;(c)a neglected juvenile or a delinquent juvenile to be transferred from
a juvenile home or a special home to a fit person or a fit institution;(d)a
juvenile who has been released on licence which has been revoked or forfeited,
to be sent to the special home or juvenile home form which he was released or
to any other juvenile home or special home or borstal school:Provided that the
total period of the stay of the juvenile in a juvenile home or a special home
or a fit institution or under a fit person shall not be increased by such
transfer.(3)The State Government may, notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act at any time, discharge a juvenile from the care of any person under
whom he was placed under this Act either absolutely or on such conditions as
may think fit to impose.

### 47. Transfers between juvenile homes, etc., under the Act and juvenile
homes, etc., of like nature in different parts of India.

(1)The Government of a state may direct any neglected juvenile or delinquent
juvenile to be transferred from any juvenile home or special home within the
State to any other juvenile home, special home or institution of a like nature
in any other State with the consent of the Government of that State.(2)The
Government of a State may, by general or special order, provide for the
reception in a juvenile home or special home within the State of a neglected
juvenile or delinquent juvenile detained in a juvenile home or special home or
institution of a like nature in any other State where the Government of that
State makes an order for such transfer, and upon such transfer the provisions
of this Act shall apply to such juvenile as if he had been originally ordered
to be sent to such juvenile home or special home under this Act.

### 48. Transfer of juveniles of unsound mind or suffering from leprosy or
addicted to drugs.

(1)Where it appears to the State Government that any juvenile kept in a
special home or juvenile home or institution in pursuance of this Act is
suffering from leprosy or is of unsound mind, or is addicated to any narcotic
drug or psychotropic substance, the State Government may order his removal to
a leper asylum or mental hospital or treatment centre for drug addicts or
other place of safe custody for being kept there for such period not exceeding
the period for which he is required to be kept in custody under the orders of
the competent authority or for such further period as may be certified by the
medical officer to be necessary for the proper treatment of the
juvenile.(2)Where it appears to the State Government that the juvenile is
cured of leprosy or of unsoundness of mind or drug addiction it may, if the
juvenile is still liable to be kept in custody, order the person having charge
of the juvenile to send him to the special home or juvenile home or
institution from which he was removed or if the juvenile is no longer liable
to be kept in custody, order him to be discharged.

### 49. Placing out on licence.

(1)When a juvenile is kept in a juvenile home or special home, the State
Government may, if it so thinks fit. release the juvenile from the juvenile
home or special home and grant him a written licence for such period and on
such condition as may be specified in the licence permitting him to live with,
or under the supervision of, any responsible person named in the licence
willing to receive and take charge of him with a view to educate him and train
him for some useful trade or calling.(2)Any licence so granted under sub-
section (1) shall be in force for the period specified in the licence or until
revoked or forfeited by the breach of any of the conditions on which it was
granted.(3)The State Government may, at any time, by order in writing, revoke
any such licence and order the juvenile to return to the juvenile home or
special home from which he was released or to any other juvenile home or
special home, and shall do so at the desire of the person with whom or under
whose supervision the juvenile has been permitted to live in accordance with a
licence granted under sub-section (1).(4)When a licence has been revoked or
forfeited and the juvenile refuses or fails to return to the special home or
juvenile home to which he was directed so to return, the State Government may,
if necessary, cause him to be taken charge of and to be taken back to the
special home or juvenile home.(5)The time during which a juvenile is absent
from a special home or juvenile home in pursuance of a licence granted under
this section shall be deemed to be part of the time for which he is liable to
be kept in custody in the special home or juvenile home:Provided that when a
juvenile has failed to return to the special home or juvenile home on the
licence being revoked or forfeited, the time which elapses after his failure
so to return shall be excluded in computing the time during which he is liable
to be kept in custody.

### 50. Provision in respect of escaped Juveniles.

\- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the
time being in force, any police officer may take charge without warrant of a
juvenile who has escaped from a special home or a juvenile home or from the
care of a person under whom he was placed under this Act and shall send the
juvenile back to the special home or the juvenile home or that person, as the
case may be; and no proceeding shall be instituted in respect of the juvenile
by reason of such escape but the special home, juvenile home or the person
may, after giving the information to the competent authority which passed the
order in respect of the juvenile, take such steps against the juvenile as may
be deemed necessary.

### 51. Contribution by parents.

(1)The competent authority which makes an order for sending a neglected
juvenile or a delinquent juvenile to a juvenile home or a special home or
placing the juvenile under the care of a fit person or fit institution may
make an order requiring the parent or other person liable to maintain the
juvenile to contribute to his maintenance, if able to do so, in the prescribed
manner.(2)The competent authority before making any order under subsection (1)
shall inquire into the circumstances of the parent or other person liable to
maintain the juvenile and shall record evidence, if any, in the presence of
the parent or such other person, as the case may be.(3)The person liable to
maintain a juvenile shall, for the purposes of sub-section (1), include in the
case of illegitimacy, his putative father:Provided that where the juvenile is
illegitimate and an order for his maintenance has been made under section 125
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, the competent authority shall not
ordinarily make an order for contribution against the putative father, but may
order the whole or any part of the sums accruing due under the said order for
maintenance to be paid to such person as may be named by the competent
authority and such sum shall be paid by him towards the maintenance of the
juvenile.(4)Any order made under this section may be enforced in the same
manner as an order under section 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.

### 52. Fund.

(1)The State Government may create a Fund under such name as it thinks fit for
the welfare and rehabilitation of the juveniles dealt with under this
Act.(2)There shall be credited to the Fund such voluntary donations,
contributions or subscriptions as may be made by any individual or
organisation.(3)The Fund created under sub-section (1) shall be administered
by such officers or authority, in such manner and for such purposes as may be
prescribed.

### 53. Advisory Board.

(1)The State Government may constitute an Advisory Board to advice it on
matters relating to the establishment and maintenance of homes, mobilisation
or resources, provision of facilities for education training and
rehabilitation of neglected and delinquent juveniles and coordination among
the various official and non official agencies concerned.(2)The Advisory Board
shall consist of such number of officers and other persons as the State
Government thinks fit and may also include experts and the representatives of
voluntary organisations engaged in the relevant areas.

### 54. Visitors.

(1)The State Government may nominate not more than three non-officials to be
Visitors for each of the homes established under this Act.(2)A visitor
nominated for a home under sub-section (1) shall periodically visit such home
and make a report to the State Government.

### 55. Control of custodian over juvenile.

\- Any person in whose custody a juvenile is placed in pursuance of this Act,
shall, while the order is in force, have the like control over the juvenile as
he would have if he were his parent, and shall be responsible for his
maintenance, and the juvenile shall continue in his custody for the period
stated by the competent authority, notwithstanding that he is claimed by his
parent or any other person:Provided that no juvenile while in such custody
shall be carried except with the permission of the competent authority.

### 56. Delinquent juvenile undergoing sentence at commencement of the Act.

\- In any area in which this Act is brought into force, the State Government
may direct that a delinquent juvenile who is undergoing any sentence of
imprisonment at the commencement of this Act shall, in lieu of undergoing such
sentence, be sent to a special home or be kept in safe custody in such place
and manner as the State Government thinks fit for the remainder of the period
of the sentence: and the provisions of this Act shall apply to the juvenile as
if he had been ordered by a Juvenile Court to be sent to such special home or,
as the case may be, ordered to be detained under sub-section (2) of section
22.

### 57. Appointment of officers.

(1)The State Government may appoint as many probation officers, officers for
the inspection of special homes, juvenile homes, observation homes or after-
care organisations and such other other officers as it may deem necessary for
carrying out the purposes of this Act.(2)It shall be the duty of the probation
officer-(a)to inquire, in accordance with the direction of a competent
authority, into the antecedents and family history of any juvenile accused of
an offence, with a view to assist the authority in making the inquiiy;(b)to
visit neglected the delinquent juveniles at such intervals as the probation
officer may think fir;(c)to report to the competent authority as to the
behaviour of any neglected or delinquent juvenile;(d)to advise and assist
neglected or delinquent juveniles and, if necessary, endeavour to find them
suitable employment;(e)where a neglected or delinquent juvenile is placed
under the care of any person or institution on certain conditions, to see
whether such conditions are being complied with; and(f)to perform such other
duties as may be prescribed.(3)Any officer empowered in this behalf by the
State Government may enter any special home, juvenile home, observation home
or after-care organisation and make a complete inspection thereof in all its
departments and of all papers, registers and accounts relating thereto and
shall submit the report of such inspection to the State Government.

### 58. Officers appointed under the Act to be public servants.

\- Probation officers and other officers appointed in pursuance of this Act
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the
Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 59. Procedure in respect of bonds.

\- The provisions of Chapter XXXIII of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973,
shall, as far as may be, apply to bonds taken under this Act.

### 60. Delegation of powers.

\- The State Government may by general or special, order, direct that any
power exercisable by it under this Act shall, in such circumstances and under
such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the order, be exercisable also
by an officer subordinate to that Government.

### 61. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the State Government or
any probation officer or other officer appointed under this Act in respect of
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done is pursuance of
this Act or of any rules or orders made thereunder.

### 62. Power to make rules.

(1)The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, power, such rules may provide
for all or any of the following matters,namely:-(a)the places at which, the
days on which, the time at which, and the manner in which, a competent
authority may hold its sittings;(b)the procedure to be followed by a competent
authority in holding inquires under this Act, and the mode of dealing with
juveniles suffering from dangerous diseases or mental complaints;(c)the
circumstances in which, and the conditions subject to which, an institution
may be certified as a special home or a juvenile's home or recognised as a
observation home, and the certification or recognition withdrawn;(d)the
internal management of special homes, juvenile homes and observation homes and
the standards and the nature of services to be maintained by them;(e)the
functions and responsibilities of special homes, juvenile homes and
observation homes;(f)the inspection of special homes, juvenile homes,
observation homes and after-care organisations;(g)the establishment,
management functions of after-care organisation: the circumstances in which,
and the conditions subject to which an institution may be recognised as an
after-care organisation and such other matters as are referred to in section
12;(h)the qualifications and duties of probation officer;(i)the recruitment
and training of persons appointed to carry out the purposes of this Act and
the terms and conditions of their service;(j)the conditions subject to which a
girl who is a neglected or delinquent juvenile may be escorted from one place
to another, and the manner in which a juvenile may be sent outside the
jurisdiction of a competent authority;(k)the manner in which contribution for
the maintenance of a juvenile may be ordered to be paid by a parent or
guardian;(l)the officers or authorities by whom, the manner in which and the
purpose for which the Fund created under section 52 shall be
administered;(m)the conditions under which a juvenile may be placed out on
licence and the form and conditions of such licence;(n)the conditions subject
to which juveniles may be placed under the care of any parent, guardian or
other fit person or fit institution under this Act and the obligations of such
persons or institutions towards the juveniles so placed;(o)any other matter
which has to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Every rule made by a State
Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made,
before the Legislature of that State.

### 63. Repeal and savings.

\- If, immediately before the date on which this Act comes into force in any
State, there is in force in that State, any law corresponding to this Act,
that law shall stand repealed on the said date:Provided that the repeal shall
not affect-(a)the previous operation of any law so repealed or anything duly
done or suffered thereunder; or(b)any right privilege, obligation or liability
acquired, accrued or incurred under any law so repealed; or(c)any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against
any law so repealed; or(d)any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in
respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty,
forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid;and any such investigation, legal
proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced and any such
penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed, as if this Act had not been
passed.vf/klwpuk,Wavkns'k la[;k ,Q0 14(1) (46) eqc@v@ldfo@64823] ,l0vks0] 14]
uoEcj] 25] 1987& tqcsukby tfLVd ,DV] 1986 dh /kkjk (11)2 ds vUrxZr iznRr
'kfDr;ksa ds vuqlj.k esa lekt dY;k.k foHkkx ds ek/;e ls lapkfyr fuEufyf[kr
laLFkkvksa dks mlds lkeus fyf[kr ftyksa ds misf{kr vkSj vijkph ckfydkvksa ds
fy, mDr vf/kfu;e ds iz;kstukFkZ osyQs;j cksMZ@tqcsukbZy dksVZ }kjk tkap yfEcr
jgus ds nkSjku mUgsa vLFkkbZ rkSj ij j[kus ,oa mDr vf/kfu;e dh /kkjk (ii)(3)
ds vuqlkj O;oLFkk ds fy, jktL; ljdkj lEisz{k.k x`g ds :i esa ekU;rk iznku djrh
gS&

laLFkk dk uke | ftyk  
---|---  
1 | 2  
1- ckfydkx`g] t;iqj |  t;iqj]Vksad] lhdj] >qU>quaw  
2- mRrj j{kkx`g] vtesj |  vtesj]HkhyokM+k] ukxkSj  
3- ftyk vkJex`g(efgyk)]dksVk |  dksVk]cwUnh] >kykokM+] mn;iqj] fpRrkSM+x<+] Mawxjiqj] ckalokM+k  
4- ftyk vkJex`g(efgyk)]tks/kiqj |  tks/kiqj]ckMesj] tSlyesj] ikyh] chdkusj] pq:] xaxkuxj] tkykSj] fljksgh  
5- ftyk vkJex`g(efgyk)]Hkjriqj |  lokbZek/kksiqj] vyoj] Hkjriqj] /kkSyiqjA  
  
[Published in Rajathan Gazette, 4(Ga)(II)- Dated 14-4-88 Page 8.]vkns'k la[;k
,Q0 14@1 46 eqckv@ldfo@64894] ,l0vks0 15] uoEcj 25] 1987& tqcsukby tfLVd ,DV]
1986 dh /kkjk (II)(2) ds vUrxZr iznRr 'kfDr;ksa ds vuqlj.k esa lekt dY;k.k
foHkkx ds ek/;e ls lapkfyr f'k'kq x`g] t;iqj o tks/kiqj dks jkt0 ds vukFk ,oa
fujkfJr f'k'kq ckyd@ckfydkvksa ds mDr vf/kfu;e ds iz;kstukFkZ cky dY;k.k cksMZ
ds }kjk tkap yfEcr nkSjku mUgsa vLFkkbZ rkSj ij j[kus ,oa mDr vf/kfu;e dh
/kkjk (11) dh mi&/kkjk (3) ds vuqlkj O;oLFkk djus ds fy, jkT; ljdkj lEisz{k.k
x`g ds :i esa ekU;rk iznku djrh gSA[Published in Rajathan Gazette, 4(Ga)(II)-
Dated 14-4-88 Page 9.]vkns'k la[;k ,Q0 14@1 46 eqvkc@ldfo@65197] ,l0vks0 16]
uoEcj 25] 1987-& tqcsukby tfLVd ,DV] 1986 /kkjk 10 dh mi&/kkjk 2 }kjk iznRr
'kfDr;ksa ds vuqlj.k esa jkT; ljdkj lekt dY;k.k foHkkx }kjk lapkfyr jkT; efgyk
lnu] t;iqj dks mDr vf/kfu;e ds iz;kstukFkZ vipkj ckfydkvksa dks j[kus ds fy,
,oa mDr vf/kfu;e dh /kkjk 10 dh mi /kkjk 3 ds vuqlkj O;oLFkk gsrq fo'ks"k x`g
ds :i esa izekf.kr djrh gSA[Published in Rajathan Gazette, 4(Ga)(II)- Dated
14-4-88 Page 9.]vkns'k la[;k ,Q0 14(1)(46) eqvkc@ldfo@65384] ,l0vks0 17] uoEcj
25] 1987& tqcsukby tfLVd ,DV] 1986 dh /kkjk 57(1) ds vUrxZr iznRr 'kfDr;ksa ds
vuqlj.k esa jktLFkku jkT; esa vijk/kh ifjoh{kk vf/kfu;e] 1958 ds vUrxZr fu;qDr
ifjoh{kk vf/kdkfj;ksa rFkk tqcsukby tfLVd ,DV] 1986 ds vUrxZr LFkkfir
lEizs{k.k x`g ds v/kh{kdksa dks mDr vf/kfu;e ds iz;kstukFkZ ifjoh{kk vf/kdkjh
fu;qDr fd;k tkrk gSA[Published in Rajathan Gazette, 4(Ga)(II)- Dated 14-4-88
Page 9.]vkns'k la[;k ,Q0 14@1@46 eqvkc@ldfo@65283] ,l0vks0 18] uoEcj 25] 1987
& tqcsukby tfLVd ,DV] 1986 dh /kkjk 9 ds vuqlkj misf{kr ckydksa ds fy, orZeku
esa jkT; esa rhu tqcsukby gkse (fd'kksj x`g) t;iqj] tks/kiqj ,oa mn;iqj esa
lapkfyr gSaA mu ckyd x`gksa dks fd'kksj x`gksa ds :i esa ekU;rk iznku djus
rFkk muds lkeus vafdr ftyksa ds misf{kr ckydksa dks j[kus dh Lohd`fr ,rn~}kjk
iznku dh tkrh gS&

uke laLFkk | ftyk  
---|---  
1 | 2  
1- fd'kksjx`g] t;iqj |  t;iqj]Vksad] lhdj] >qU>quaw] vtesj] ukxkSj] l0 ek/kksiqj] vyoj]Hkjriqj] /kkSyiqj] dksVk] cwanh] >kykokM+] xaxkuxj] chdkusj]pq:A  
2- fd'kksjx`g] tks/kiqj |  tks/kqij]ckM+esj] tSlyesj] ikyh] fljksgh] tkykSjA  
3- fd'kksjx`g] mn;iqj |  mn;iqj]Mwaxjiqj] ckalokM+k] HkhyokM+k] fpRrkSM+x<+A  
  
[Published in Rajathan Gazette, 4(Ga)(II)- Dated 14-4-88 Page 9.]vkns'k la[;k
,Q0 14(1) (46) eqckvk@ldfo@64@671] ,l0vks0 6] uoEcj 25] 1987& tqcsukby tfLVd
,DV dh /kkjk 9 dh mi&/kkjk (2) }kjk iznRr 'kfDr;ksa ds vuqlj.k esa jkT; ljdkj
lekt dY;k.k foHkkx }kjk lapkfyr ckfydk x`g] t;qij dks mDr vf/kfu;e ds
iz;kstukFkZ misf{kr ckfydkvksa dks j[kus ds fy, ,oa mDr vf/kfu;e dh /kkjk 9 dh
mi&/kkjk (3) ds vuqlkj O;oLFkk djus ds fy, fd'kksj x`g ds :i esa izekf.kr djrh
gSA[Published in Rajathan Gazette, 4(Ga)(II)- Dated 7-4-88 Page 3.]vkns'k
la[;k ,Q0 14(1) (46) eqvkc@lfdo@64762] ,l0vks0 20] uoEcj 25] 1987 & tqcsukby
tfLVd ,DV 1986 dh /kkjk 13(1) }kjk iznRr 'kfDr;ksa ds vuqlj.k esa jkT; ljdkj
misf{kr ckydksa dks tqcsukbZy osyQs;j cksMZ ds le{k is'k fd;s tkus gsrq vius
Hkkj lk/ku esa ysus ds fy, lekt dY;k.k foHkkx ds fuEu vf/kdkfj;ksa dks vf/kd`r
djrh gS %&

### 1\.

\- lgk;d funs'kd@ftyk ifjoh{kk vf/kdkjh

### 2\.

\- ftyk ckyd vf/kdkjh

### 3\.

\- ifjoh{kk ,oa djkx`g dY;k.k vf/kdkjh

### 4\.

\- v/kh{kd] lEizs"k.k x`g

### 5\.

\- v/kh{kd] lsok lnu

### 6\.

\- v/kh{kd] f'k'kq x`g@dq"B x`g

### 7\.

\- v/kh{kd foefUnr x`g

### 8\.

\- ifjoh{kk vf/kdkjh] lEizs"k.k x`g@ckyd x`g@fo'ks"k x`g

### 9\.

\- v/khf{kdk@lgk;d v/khf{kdk] efgyk lnu mRrj j{kk x`g[Published in Rajathan
Gazette, 4(Ga)(II)- Dated 21-4-88 Page 11.]vf/klwpuk la[;k ,Q0 14(1)(46)
eqvkc@ldfo@40075] tqykbZ 31] 1989 & fd'kksj U;k; (jkt0) fu;e] 41(1) esa iznRr
'kfDr;ksa ds vuqlj.k esa jkT; ljdkj }kjk eq[; ckyd vf/kdkjh lekt dY;k.k
foHkkx] t;iqj dks ,rn~}kjk fd'kksj U;k; vf/kfu;e] 1986 ,oa fd'kksj U;k; (jkt0)
fu;e] 1987 ds leLr iz;kstukFkZ eq[; fujh{kd fu;qDr fd;k tkrk gSAla[;k i0 1(6)
U;k;@87 fn0 2&7&1992& bl foHkkx dh lela[;d vf/klwpuk fnukad 29&9&87 ds
vfrdze.k esa tqcsukby tfLVd ,DV] 1986 dh /kkjk 5 dh mi&/kkjk (1) rFkk (2) }kjk
iznRr 'kfDr;ksa dk iz;ksx djrs gq, rFkk jktLFkku mPp U;k;ky; ds ijke'kZ ls
jkT; ljdkj vipkjh ckydksa ds laca/k esa fuEufyf[kr {ks=ksa ds fy, mDr vf/kfu;e
}kjk mUgsa iznRr 'kfDr;ksa dk iz;ksx rFkk mu ij vf/kjksfir drZO;ksa dk fuoZgu
djus ds fy, ,rn~}kjk ,d&,d tqcsukby dksVZ xfBr djrh gS %&

dz0 la0 | {ks= | eq[;ky; | cSp  
---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
1 |  t;iqj nkSlkvkSj VkSad ftys | t;iqj |  eq[; U;kf;deftLVs~V] t;iqj(fizalhiyeftLVs~V)vij eq[; U;kf;d eftLV~sV] t;iqj]ftyk t;iqjA  
2 |  vtesj]HkhyokM+k vkSj vtesj ukxkSj ftys | vtesj |  eq[; U;kf;deftLVs~V] vtesj](fizalhiyeftLVs~V)vij eq[; U;kf;d eftLVs~V ua0 1] vtesjA  
3 |  dksVk]ckjka] cwanh vkSj >kyokM+ ftys | dksVk |  eq[; U;kf;deftLVs~V] dksVk(fizalhiyeftLVs~V)vij eq[; U;kf;d eftLV~V] ua0 1] dksVkA  
4 |  tks/kiqj]ikyh] ckM+esj] tSlyesj] fljksgh vkSj tkykSj ftys | Tks/kiqj |  eq[; U;kf;deftLVs~V] tks/kiqj(fizalhiyeftLVs~V)vij eq[; U;kf;d eftLVs~V ua0 1 tks/kiqjA  
5 |  chdkusj vkSjpq: ftys | chdkusj |  eq[; U;kf;deftLVs~V] chdkusj](fizalhiyeftLVs~V)vij eq[; U;kf;d eftLVs~V chdkusjA  
6 |  mn;iqjjktlean vkSj fpRrkSM+x<\+ ftys | mn;iqj |  eq[; U;kf;deftLVsV] mn;iqj(fizalhiyeftLVs~V)vij eq[; U;kf;d eftLVs~V ua0 1] mn;iqjA  
7 |  Hkjriqj]/kkSyiqj vkSj lokbZ ek/kksiqj ftys | Hkjriqj |  eq[; U;kf;deftLVs~V] Hkjriqj(fizalhiyeftLVs~V)vij eq[; U;kf;d eftLVs~V ua0 1 mn;iqjA  
8 | Vyoj ftyk | vyoj |  eq[; U;kf;deftLVs~V] vyoj](fizalhiyeftLVs~V)vij eq[; U;kf;d eftLVs~V] ua0 1] vyoj  
9 | xaxkuxj ftyk | xaxkuxj |  eq[; U;kf;deftLVs~V xaxkuxj(fizalhiyeftLVs~V)vij eq[; U;kf;d eftLVs~V] xaxkuxj  
10 |  lhdj vkSj>qa>uwa ftys | lhdj |  eq[; U;kf;deftLVs~V] lhdj(fizalhiyeftLVs~V)eqaflQ ,oa U;kf;d eftLVs~V izFke oxZ lhdjA  
11 |  ckalokM+kvkSj Mwaxjiqj ftys | ckalokM+k |  eq[; U;kf;deftLVs~V] lhdj] ckalokM+k(fizalhiyeftLVs~V)eaqflQ ,oa U;kf;d eftLVs~V] izFke oxZ]ckalokM+kA  
  
(jktLFkku jkti= Hkkx 1 ([k)] fn0 5&11&1992] i`"B 1265)vkns'k la[;k ,Q0
14(1)(46) eqckv@ldfo@73744] fnlEcj 23] 1988 & fd'kksj U;k; vf/kfu;e] 1986 dh
/kkjk 11(1) ds vUrxZr LFkkfir fuEufyf[kr lEizs"k.k x`gksa dks muds lkeus vafdr
ftys ds fopkjk/khu fd'kksjksa dks j[kus gsrq ekU; laLFku ,oa lEizs"k.k x`g
?kksf"kr fd;k tkr gS %&

uke lEizs"k.kx`g | ftyk  
---|---  
1- t;iqj | t;iqj] Vksad  
2- vtesj |  vtesj]HkhyokM+k] ukxkSj  
3- dksVk |  dksVk]>kykokM+] cwUnh  
4- mn;iqj |  mn;iqj]fpRrkSM+x<+  
5- tks/kiqj |  tks/kiqj]ikyh] ckM+esj] tSlyesj] fljksgh] tkykSj  
6- chdkusj | chdkusj] pq:  
7- Hkjriqj |  Hkjriqj] l0ek/kksiqj] /kkSyiqj  
8- vyoj | vyoj  
9- xaxkuxj | xaxkuxj  
10- lhdj |  lhdj]>qU>wuaw  
11- ckalokM+k |  ckalokM+k]Mwaxjiqj  
  
[Published in Rajathan Gazette, 1(Kh)- Dated 16-7-92 Page 572.]"fd'kksj U;k;
vf/kfu;e] 1986 dh /kkjk 9 ds vUrxZr foHkkx }kjk lapkfyr fd'kksj x`g] t;iqj]
tks/kiqj ,oa chdkusj dks muds lkeus vafdr ftyksa ds mipkjh o misf{kr
fd'kksjksa dks fd'kksj U;k;ky;@fd'kksj dY;k.k cksMZ esa tkap yfEcr jgus ds
nkSjku mUgsa vLFkk;h rkSj ij j[kus ,ao mDr vf/kfu;e dh /kkjk 11 ds vuqlkj
O;oLFkk djus ds fy, jkT; ljdkj lEizs{k.k ds :i esa ekU;rk iznku djrh gSA"

uke laLFkk | lEc) ftys  
---|---  
1- fd'kksjx`g] t;iqj |  t;iqj] Vksad]lhdj ,oa >qU>quw  
2- fd'kksjx`g] tks/kiqj |  tks/kiqj]ckMesj] tSlyesj] ikyh] fljksgh ,oa tkykSj  
3- fd'kksjx`g] chdkusj |  chdkusj] pq:]Jhxaxkuxj ,oa guqekux<+A  
  
[Order No. F. 14(1) eqckv@ldfo@94-95/5511, dated 4-2-95- Rajasthan gazette,
Part I-B, dated 13-4-95, page 9.],l0vks0 42] la[;k ,Q0 1(6) U;k;@87] fn0
6&5&1996& tqcsukby tfLVd ,DV] 1986 dh /kkjk 5 dh mi/kkjk (1) ,oa (2) }kjk
iznRr 'kfDr;ksa dk iz;ksx djrs gq, rFkk bl foHkkx dh lela[;d vf/klwpuk fnukad
2 tqykbZ] 1992 esa vkaf'kd la'kks/ku djrs gq,] jkT; ljdkj] mDr vf/klwpuk }kjk
xaxkuxj rFkk lhdj] >qa>quw ftyksa ds fy, xfBr tqcsukby U;k;ky;ksa dks ftudk
eq[;ky; dze'k% xaxkuxj ,oa lhdj esa gSa] dks mRlkfgr djrh gS rFkk xaxkuxj ftys
ds {ks= dk {ks=kf/kdkj chdkusj eq[;ky; ij xfBr tqcsukby U;k;ky; dks ,oa lhdj o
>q>quaw ftyksa dk {ks=kf/kdkj t;iqj eq[;ky; ij xfBr tqcsukby U;k;ky; dks] ,rn
}kjk] iznRr fd;k tkrk gSA(jkt0 jkti= Hkkx&4 (x) (II) vlk/kk0 fn0 15&6&1995]
i`0 57- la[;k ,Q0 1(6) U;k;@87)vf/klwpuk la[;k ,Q0 14(1)(46) eqckv@ldfo@40021]
tqykbZ 31] 1989 & fd'kksj U;k; (jktLFkku) fu;e] 1987 ds fu;e 41(1) ds vuqlj.k
esa jkT; ljdkj funs'kd] lekt dY;k.k foHkkx] jktLFkku] t;iqj dks fd'kksj U;k;
vf/kfu;e] 1986 ,oa fd'kksj U;k; (jkt0) fu;e] 1987 ds iz;kstuksa ds fy,
funs'kd] fd'kksj U;k; lsok,sa fu;qDr djrh gSA[Published in Rajasthan Gazette 1
(ka)- Date 4-1-90, page....]fd'kksj U;k; jktLFkku fu;e] 1987 ds fu;e & 41(2)
esa iznRr 'kfDr;ksa ds vuqlj.k esa jkT; ljdkj }kjk iwoZ izlkfjr vf/klwpuk
dzekad i0 14(1)] 46 eqvkc@ldfo 140103 fnukad 31&7&89 esa la'kks/ku djrs gq,
jktLFkku esa inLFkkfir fuEufyf[kr ftyk ckyd vf/kdkfj;ksa dks muds lkeus vafdr
ftyksa ds fy, ,rn~}kjk fd'kksj vf/kfu;e] 1986 ,oa fd'kksj U;k; (jktLFkku)
fu;e] 1987 ds iz;kstuksa gsrq ftyk fujh{kd fu;qDr djrh gS %&

dz0 la0 |  ftyk ckydvf/kdkjh | lEc) ftys  
---|---|---  
1 |  ftyk ckydvf/kdkjh] t;iqj |  t;iqj]Vksad] vyoj] Hkjriqj] /kkSyiqj] nkSlk] lhdj ,oa >qa>quA  
2 |  ftyk ckydvf/kdkjh] vtesj |  vtessj]HkhyokM+k ,oa ukxkSjA  
3 |  ftyk ckydvf/kdkjh] dksVk |  dksVk]cwanh] >kykokM+] ckjk ,oa lokbZ ek/kksiqjA  
4 |  ftyk ckydvf/kdkjh] tks/kiqj |  tks/kiqj]ikyh] ckMesj] tSlyeSj] fljksgh ,oa tkykSjA  
5 |  ftyk ckydvf/kdkjh] mn;iqj |  mn;iqj]fpRrkSM+x<+] ckalokM+k] Mawxjiqj ,oa jktleanA  
6 |  ftyk ckydvf/kdkjh] chdkusj |  chdkusj]pq:] Jhxaxkuxj ,oa guqekux<+A  
  
"ftyk ckyd vf/kdkjh lacaf/kr laHkkx ds la;qDr funs'kd ds v/khu dk;Z
djsxsA"[Notification No. F. 14(1) eqckv@ldfo@94-95/5605, dated 4-2-95-
Rajasthan Gazette, Part I-A, dated 13-4-95, page 4.]

