## Union of India - Act

## The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019

## Act 34 of 2019

  * Published in Gazette of India on 9 August 2019 
  * Commenced on 9 August 2019 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 February 2021.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE JAMMU AND KASHMIR REORGANISATION (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2021 (Act 2 of 2021) on 25 February 2021] 

The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019(Act No. 34 of 2019)Last Updated
13th September, 2019Statement of Objects and Reasons. - The Ladakh Division of
the State of Jammu and Kashmir has a large area but is sparsely populated with
a very difficult terrain. There has been a long pending demand of people of
Ladakh, to give it the status of a Union Territory to enable them to realise
their aspirations. The Union Territory of Ladakh will be without
Legislature.Further, keeping in view the prevailing internal security
situation, fuelled by cross border terrorism in the existing State of Jammu
and Kashmir, a separate Union Territory for Jammu and Kashmir is being
created. The Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir will be with
legislature.[Dated 9.8.2019.]The Following Act of Parliament received the
assent of the President on the 9th August, 2019 and is hereby published for
general information:-An Act to provide for the reorganisation of the existing
State of Jammu and Kashmir and for matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Seventieth Year of the Republic of
India as follows:-Part-I Preliminary

### 1. Short title.

\- This Act may be called the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"appointed day"
means the day which the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint;(b)"article" means an article of the
Constitution;(c)"assembly constituency" and "parliamentary constituency" have
the same meanings as in the Representation of the People Act,
1950;(d)"Election Commission" means the Election Commission appointed by the
President under article 324;(e)"existing State of Jammu and Kashmir" means the
State of Jammu and Kashmir as existing immediately before the appointed day,
comprising the territory which immediately before the commencement of the
Constitution of India in the Indian State of Jammu and Kashmir;(f)"law"
includes any enactment, ordinance, regulation, order, bye-law, rule, scheme,
notification or other instrument having, immediately before the appointed day,
the force of law in the whole or in any part of the existing State of Jammu
and Kashmir;(g)"Legislative Assembly" means Legislative Assembly of Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir;(h)"Lieutenant Governor" means the
Administrator of the Union territory appointed by the President under article
239;(i)"notified order" means an order published in the Official
Gazette;(j)"population ratio", in relation to the Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir, and Union territory of Ladakh means the ratio as per 2011
Census;(k)"Scheduled Castes" in relation to the Union territory means such
castes, races or tribes or parts of groups within such castes, races or tribes
as are deemed under article 341 to be Scheduled Castes in relation to that
Union territory;(l)"Scheduled Tribes" in relation to the Union territory means
such tribes or tribal communities or parts of or groups within such tribes or
tribal communities as are deemed under article 342 to be Scheduled Tribes in
relation to that Union territory;(m)"sitting member", in relation to either
House of Parliament or of the Legislature of the existing State of Jammu and
Kashmir, means a person who immediately before the appointed day, is a member
of that House;(n)"Union territory", in relation to the existing State of Jammu
and Kashmir, means the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir or Union territory
of Ladakh, as the case may be;(o)"transferred territory" means the territory
which on the appointed day is transferred from the existing State of Jammu and
Kashmir to Union territories formed under sections 3 and 4 of this Act;
and(p)any reference to a district, tehsil or other territorial division of the
existing State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be construed as a reference to the
area comprised within that territorial division on the appointed day.

## Part II – Reorganisation of the State of Jammu and Kashmir

### 3. Formation of Union territory of Ladakh without Legislature.

\- On and from the appointed day, there shall be formed a new Union territory
to be known as the Union territory of Ladakh comprising the following
territories of the existing State of Jammu and Kashmir, namely: -"Kargil and
Leh districts",and thereupon the said territories shall cease to form part of
the existing State of Jammu and Kashmir.

### 4. Formation of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir with Legislature.

\- On and from the appointed day, there shall be formed a new Union territory
to be known as the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir comprising the
territories of the existing State of Jammu and Kashmir other than those
specified in section 3.

### 5. Governor of existing State of Jammu and Kashmir to be common Lieutenant
Governor.

\- On and from the appointed day, the Governor of the existing State of Jammu
and Kashmir shall be the Lieutenant Governor for the Union territory of Jammu
and Kashmir, and Union territory of Ladakh for such period as may be
determined by the President.

### 6. Amendment of First Schedule to the Constitution.

\- On and from the appointed day, in the First Schedule to the Constitution,
under the heading - "I. THE STATES",-(a)entry 15 shall be deleted.(b)entries
from 16 to 29 shall be renumbered as 15 to 28.(c)under the heading -"II. UNION
TERRITORIES",-after entry 7, the following entries shall be inserted,
namely:-"8. Jammu and Kashmir: The territories specified in section 4 of the
Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act, 2019"."9. Ladakh: The territories
specified in section 3 of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act, 2019".

### 7. Saving powers of the Government of Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir.

\- Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this Part shall be deemed to affect
the power of the Government of successor Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir
to alter, after the appointed day, the name, area or boundaries of any
district or other territorial division in that Union territory.

## Part III – Representation in the Legislatures

The Council of States

### 8. Amendment of Fourth Schedule to Constitution.

\- On and from the appointed day, in the Fourth Schedule to the Constitution,
in the Table,-(a)entry 21 shall be deleted;(b)entries 22 to 31 shall be
renumbered as entries 21 to 30, respectively;(c)after entry 30, the following
entry shall be inserted, namely:-"31. Jammu and Kashmir
........................4"

### 9. Allocation of sitting members.

(1)On and from the appointed day, four sitting members of the Council of
States representing the existing State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be deemed to
have been elected to fill the seats allotted to the Union territory of Jammu
and Kashmir, as specified in the First Schedule to this Act.(2)The term of
office of such sitting members shall remain unaltered.The House of the People

### 10. Representation in House of the People.

\- On and from the appointed day, there shall be allocated five seats to the
successor Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and one seat to Union territory
of Ladakh, in the House of the People, and the First Schedule to the
Representation of the People Act, 1950 shall be deemed to be amended
accordingly.

### 11. Delimitation of Parliamentary Constituencies Order 1976.

(1)On and from the appointed day, the Order, 1976 shall stand amended as
directed in the Second Schedule of this Act.(2)The Election Commission may
conduct the elections to the House of the People for the Union territory of
Jammu and Kashmir and Union territory of Ladakh as per the allocation of seats
specified in the Delimitation of Parliamentary Constituencies Order, 1976 as
amended by this Act.

### 12. Provision as to sitting members.

(1)Every sitting member of the House of the People representing a constituency
which, on the appointed day by virtue of the provisions of section 10, stands
allotted, with or without alteration of boundaries, to the successor Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir or Union territory of Ladakh, as the case may
be, shall be deemed to have been elected to the House of the People by that
constituency as so allotted.(2)The term of office of such sitting members
shall remain unaltered.The Lieutenant Governor and The Legislative Assembly of
Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir

### 13. Applicability of article 239A of Constitution.

\- On and from the appointed day, the provisions contained in article 239A,
which are applicable to "Union territory of Puducherry", shall also apply to
the "Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir".

### 14. Legislative Assembly for the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and
its composition.

(1)There shall be an Administrator appointed under article 239 of the
Constitution of India for the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and shall
be designated as Lieutenant Governor of the said Union territory.(2)There
shall be a Legislative Assembly for the Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir.(3)The total number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of the Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir to be filled by persons chosen by direct
election shall be 107.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(3), until the area of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir under the
occupation of Pakistan ceases to be so occupied and the people residing in
that area elect their representatives -(a)twenty four seats in the Legislative
Assembly of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir shall remain vacant and shall
not be taken into account for reckoning the total membership of the Assembly;
and(b)the said area and seats shall be excluded in delimiting the territorial
constituencies as provided under PART V of this Act.(5)On and from the
appointed day, the Delimitation of Assembly Constituencies Order, 1995, as
applicable to Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, shall stand amended as
directed in the Third Schedule of this Act.(6)Seats shall be reserved for the
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in the Legislative Assembly of the
Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.(7)The number of seats reserved for the
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in the Legislative Assembly of the
Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir under sub-section (6) shall bear, as
nearly as may be, the same proportion to the total number of seats in the
Assembly as the population of the Scheduled Castes in the Union territory of
Jammu and Kashmir or of the Scheduled Tribes in the Union territory of Jammu
and Kashmir, in respect of which seats are so reserved, bears to the total
population of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.Explanation: In this
sub-section, the expression "population" means the population as ascertained
at the last preceding census of which the relevant figures have been
published:Provided that the reference in this Explanation to the last
preceding census of which the relevant figures have been published shall,
until the relevant figures for the first census taken after the year 2026 have
been published, be construed as a reference to the 2011
census.(8)Notwithstanding anything in sub-section (6), the reservation of
seats for the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes in the Legislative Assembly
of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir shall cease to have effect on the
same date on which the reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes or the
Scheduled Tribes in the House of the People shall cease to have effect under
article 334 of the Constitution of India:(9)In the Second Schedule to the
Representation of the People Act, 1950, under the heading :-"I. The
States:""(a) entry 10 shall be deleted"."(b) entries 11 to 29 shall be
renumbered as 10 to 28".(10)In the Second Schedule to the Representation of
the People Act, 1950 , under the heading :-"II. Union Territories"(a)after
entry 2, the following entries shall be inserted, namely:-

1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
'"3. Jammu and Kashmir | 83 | 6 | .... | 83 | 6 | ....."  
  
(11)The provisions of articles 324 to 327 and 329 of the Constitution of
India, shall apply in relation to the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir,
the Legislative Assembly and the members thereof as they apply, in relation to
a State, the Legislative Assembly of a State and the members thereof
respectively; and any reference in articles 326 and 329 to "appropriate
Legislature" shall be deemed to be a reference to Parliament.

### 15. Representation of women.

\- Notwithstanding anything in sub-section (3) of section 14 the Lieutenant
Governor of the successor Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir may nominate
two members to the Legislative Assembly to give representation to women, if in
his opinion, women are not adequately represented in the Legislative Assembly.

### 16. Qualification for membership of Legislative Assembly.

\- A person shall not be qualified to be chosen to fill a seat in the
Legislative Assembly unless he-(a)is a citizen of India and makes and
subscribes before some person authorised in that behalf by the Election
Commission an oath or affirmation according to the form set out for the
purpose in the Fourth Schedule of this Act;(b)is not less than twenty-five
years of age; and(c)Possesses such other qualifications as may be prescribed
in that behalf by or under any law made by the Parliament.

### 17. Duration of Legislative Assembly.

\- The Legislative Assembly, unless sooner dissolved, shall continue for five
years from the date appointed for its first meeting and no longer, and the
expiration of the said period of five years shall operate as a dissolution of
the Legislative Assembly:Provided that the said period may, while a
Proclamation of Emergency issued under clause (1) of article 352 is in
operation, be extended by the President by order for a period not exceeding
one year at a time and not extending in any case beyond a period of six months
after the Proclamation has ceased to operate.

### 18. Sessions of Legislative Assembly, prorogation and dissolution.

(1)The Lieutenant Governor shall, from time to time, summon the Legislative
Assembly to meet at such time and place as he thinks fit, but six months shall
not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed
for its first sitting in the next session.(2)The Lieutenant Governor may, from
time to time,-(a)prorogue the House;(b)dissolve the Legislative Assembly.

### 19. Speaker and Deputy Speaker of Legislative Assembly.

(1)The Legislative Assembly shall, as soon as may be, choose two members of
the Assembly to be respectively Speaker and Deputy Speaker thereof and, so
often as the office of Speaker or Deputy Speaker becomes vacant, the Assembly
shall choose another member to be Speaker or Deputy Speaker, as the case may
be.(2)A member holding office as Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the
Assembly-(a)shall vacate his office if he ceases to be a member of the
Assembly;(b)may at any time by writing under his hand addressed, if such
member is the Speaker, to the Deputy Speaker, and if such member is the Deputy
Speaker, to the Speaker, resign his office;(c)may be removed from his office
by a resolution of the Assembly passed by a majority of all the then members
of the Assembly:Provided that no resolution for the purpose of clause (c)
shall be moved unless at least fourteen days' notice has been given of the
intention to move the resolution:Provided further that, whenever the Assembly
is dissolved, the Speaker shall not vacate his office until immediately before
the first meeting of the Assembly after the dissolution.(3)While the office of
Speaker is vacant, the duties of the office shall be performed by the Deputy
Speaker or, if the office of Deputy Speaker is also vacant, by such member of
the Legislative Assembly as may be determined by the rules of procedure of the
Assembly.(4)During the absence of the Speaker from any sitting of the
Legislative Assembly, the Deputy Speaker, or, if he is also absent, such
person as may be determined by the rules of procedure of the Assembly, or, if
no such person is present, such other person as may be determined by the
Legislative Assembly, shall act as Speaker.(5)There shall be paid to the
Speaker and the Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly, such salaries and
allowances as may respectively be fixed by the Legislative Assembly of the
Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir by law and, until provision in that
behalf is so made, such salaries and allowances as the Lieutenant Governor
may, by order determine.

### 20. Speaker or Deputy Speaker not to preside while a resolution for his
removal from office is under consideration.

(1)At any sitting of the Legislative Assembly, while any resolution for the
removal of the Speaker from his office is under consideration, the Speaker, or
while any resolution for the removal of the Deputy Speaker, from his office is
under consideration, the Deputy Speaker, shall not, though he is present,
preside, and the provisions of sub-section (4) of section 19 shall apply in
relation to every such sitting as they apply in relation to a sitting from
which the Speaker or, as the case may be, the Deputy Speaker, is absent.(2)The
Speaker shall have the right to speak in, and otherwise to take part in the
proceedings of, the Legislative Assembly while any resolution for his removal
from office is under consideration in the Assembly and shall, notwithstanding
anything in section 25, be entitled to vote only in the first instance on such
resolution or on any other matter during such proceedings but not in the case
of an equality of votes.

### 21. Special address by Lieutenant Governor to Legislative Assembly.

(1)At the commencement of the first session after each general election to the
Legislative Assembly and at the commencement of the first session of each
year, the Lieutenant Governor shall address the Legislative Assembly, and
shall inform the Legislative Assembly of the causes of its
summons.(2)Provision shall be made by the rules regulating the procedure of
the Legislative Assembly for the allotment of time for the discussion of
matters referred to in such address.

### 22. Rights of Ministers and Advocate General as respects Legislative
Assembly.

\- Every Minister and the Advocate-General for the Union territory of Jammu
and Kashmir shall have the right to speak in, and otherwise to take part in
the proceedings of, the Legislative Assembly, and to speak in, and otherwise
to take part in the proceedings of, any committee of the Legislative Assembly
of which he may be named a member, but shall not by virtue of this section be
entitled to vote.

### 23. Rights of Lieutenant Governor to address and send messages to the
Legislative Assembly.

(1)The Lieutenant Governor may address the Legislative Assembly and may for
that purpose require the attendance of members.(2)The Lieutenant Governor may
also send messages to the Legislative Assembly whether with respect to a Bill
then pending in the Legislative Assembly or otherwise, and when a message so
sent, the Legislative Assembly shall with all convenient despatch consider any
matter required by the message to be taken into consideration.

### 24. Oath or affirmation by members.

\- Every member of the Legislative Assembly shall, before taking his seat,
make and subscribe before the Lieutenant Governor of the said Union territory,
or some person appointed in that behalf by him, an oath or affirmation
according to the form set out for the purpose in the Fourth Schedule of this
Act.

### 25. Voting in Assembly, power of Assembly to act notwithstanding vacancies
and quorum.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in this Act, all questions at any sitting of the
Legislative Assembly shall be determined by a majority of votes of the members
present and voting, other than the Speaker or person acting as such.(2)The
Speaker, or person acting as such, shall not vote in the first instance, but
shall have and exercise a casting vote in the case of an equality of
votes.(3)The Legislative Assembly shall have power to act notwithstanding any
vacancy in the membership thereof, and any proceedings in the Legislative
Assembly shall be valid notwithstanding that it is discovered subsequently
that some person who was not entitled so to do, sat or voted or otherwise took
part in the proceedings.(4)The quorum to constitute a meeting of the
Legislative Assembly shall be ten members or one- tenth of the total number of
members of the Legislative Assembly, which ever is greater.(5)If at any time
during a meeting of the Legislative Assembly there is no quorum, it shall be
the duty of the Speaker, or person acting as such, either to adjourn the
Legislative Assembly or to suspend the meeting until there is a quorum.

### 26. Vacation of seats.

(1)No person shall be a member both of Parliament and of the Legislative
Assembly, and if a person is chosen a member both of Parliament and of such
Assembly, then, at the expiration of such period as may be specified in the
rules made by the President, that person's seat in Parliament shall become
vacant, unless he has previously resigned his seat in the Legislative Assembly
of the said Union territory.(2)If a member of the Legislative
Assembly-(a)becomes subject to any of disqualification mentioned in section 27
or section 28 for membership of the Legislative Assembly; or(b)resigns his
seat by writing under his hand addressed to the Speaker, and his resignation
is accepted by the Speaker, his seat shall thereupon become vacant.(3)If for a
period of sixty days a member of the Legislative Assembly is without
permission of the Assembly absent from all meetings thereof, the Assembly may
declare his seat vacant:Provided that in computing the said period of sixty
days, no account shall be taken of any period during which the Assembly is
prorogued or is adjourned for more than four consecutive days.

### 27. Disqualifications for membership.

(1)A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, and for being, a member
of the Legislative Assembly-(a)if he holds any office of profit under the
Government of India or the Government of any State or the Government of Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir or the Government or administration of any
other Union territory or other than an office declared by law made by
Parliament or by the Legislative Assembly not to disqualify its holder;
or(b)if he is for the time being disqualified for being chosen as, and for
being, a member of either House of Parliament under the provisions of sub-
clause (b), subclause(c)or sub-clause (d) of clause (1) of article 102 or of
any law made in pursuance of that article.(2)For the purposes of this section,
a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of profit under the Government
of India or the Government of any State or the Government of Union Territory
of Jammu and Kashmiror the Government of any other Union territory by reason
only that he is a Minister either for the Union or for such State or Union
territory.(3)If any question arises as to whether a member of the Legislative
Assembly becomes subject to any of disqualification under the provisions of
sub-sections (1) and (2), the question shall be referred for the decision of
the Lieutenant Governor and his decision shall be final.(4)Before giving any
decision on any such question, the Lieutenant Governor shall obtain the
opinion of the Election Commission and shall act according to such opinion.

### 28. Disqualification on ground of defection for being a member.

\- The provisions of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution shall, subject to
the necessary modifications (including modifications for construing references
therein to the Legislative Assembly of a State, article 188, article 194 and
article 212 as references, respectively, to the Legislative Assembly of Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir, as the case may be, section 24, section 30 and
section 50 of this Act), apply to and in relation to the members of the
Legislative Assembly of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir as they apply to
and in relation to the members of the Legislative Assembly of a State, and
accordingly,-(a)the said Tenth Schedule as so modified shall be deemed to form
part of this Act; and(b)a person shall be disqualified for being a member of
the Legislative Assembly if he is so disqualified under the said Tenth
Schedule as so modified.

### 29. Penalty for sitting and voting before making oath or affirmation or
when not qualified or when disqualified.

\- If a person sits or votes as a member of the Legislative Assembly before he
has complied with the requirements of section 24 or when he knows that he is
not qualified or that he is disqualified for membership thereof, or that he is
prohibited from doing so by the provisions of any law made by Parliament or
the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, he shall
be liable in respect of each day on which he so sits or votes to a penalty of
five hundred rupees to be recovered as a debt due to the said Union territory.

### 30. Powers, privileges, etc., of members.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act and to the rules and standing orders
regulating the procedure of the Legislative Assembly, there shall be freedom
of speech in the Legislative Assembly.(2)No member of the Legislative Assembly
shall be liable to any proceedings in any court in respect of anything said or
any vote given by him in the Assembly or any committee thereof, and no person
shall be so liable in respect of the publication by or under the authority of
such Assembly of any report, paper, votes or proceedings.(3)In other respects,
the powers, privileges and immunities of the Legislative Assembly and of the
members and the committees thereof shall be such as are for the time being
enjoyed by the House of the People and its members and committees.(4)The
provisions of sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) shall apply in relation to persons
who by virtue of this Act have the right to speak in, and otherwise to take
part in the proceedings of, the Legislative Assembly or any committee thereof
as they apply in relation to members of the Legislative Assembly.

### 31. Salaries and allowances of members.

\- Members of the Legislative Assembly shall be entitled to receive such
salaries and allowances as may from time to time be determined by the
Legislative Assembly by law and, until provision in that behalf is so made,
such salaries and allowances as the Lieutenant Governor may, by order
determine.

### 32. Extent of legislative power.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Legislative Assembly may make
laws for the whole or any part of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir
with respect to any of the matters enumerated in the State List except the
subjects mentioned at entries 1 and 2, namely "Public Order" and "Police"
respectively or the Concurrent List in the Seventh Schedule to the
Constitution of India in so far as any such matter is applicable in relation
to the Union territories.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall derogate from the
powers conferred on Parliament by the Constitution to make laws with respect
to any matter for the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir or any part
thereof.

### 33. Exemption of property of the Union from taxation.

\- The property of the Union shall, save in so far as Parliament may by law
otherwise provide, be exempted from all taxes imposed by or under any law made
by the Legislative Assembly or by or under any other law in force in the Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir:Provided that nothing in this section shall,
until Parliament by law otherwise provides, prevent any authority within the
Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir from levying any tax on any property of
the Union to which such property was immediately before the commencement of
the Constitution liable or treated as liable, so long as that tax continues to
be levied in that Union territory.

### 34. Restrictions on laws passed by Legislative Assembly with respect to
certain matters.

(1)The provisions of article 286, article 287 and article 288 shall apply in
relation to any law passed by the Legislative Assembly with respect to any of
the matters referred to in those articles as they apply in relation to any law
passed by the Legislature of a State with respect to those matters.(2)The
provisions of article 304 shall, with the necessary modifications, apply in
relation to any law passed by the Legislative Assembly with respect to any of
the matters referred to in that article as they apply in relation to any law
passed by the Legislature of a State with respect to those matters.

### 35. Inconsistency between laws made by Parliament and laws made by
Legislative Assembly.

\- If any provision of a law made by the Legislative Assembly with respect to
matters enumerated in the State List, in the Seventh Schedule to the
Constitution is repugnant to any provision of a law made by Parliament with
respect to that matter, whether passed before or after the law made by the
Legislative Assembly, or, if any provision of a law made by the Legislative
Assembly with respect to any matter enumerated in the Concurrent List in the
Seventh Schedule to the Constitution is repugnant to any provision of any
earlier law, other than a law made by the Legislative Assembly, with respect
to that matter, then, in either case, the law made by Parliament, or, as the
case may be, such earlier law shall prevail and the law made by the
Legislative Assembly of the Union territory shall, to the extent of the
repugnancy, be void:Provided that if such law made by the Legislative Assembly
has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his
assent, such law shall prevail in the Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir:Provided further that nothing in this section shall prevent Parliament
from enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a
law adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the
Legislative Assembly.

### 36. Special provisions as to financial Bills.

(1)A Bill or amendment shall not be introduced into, or moved in, the
Legislative Assembly except on the recommendation of the Lieutenant Governor,
if such Bill or Amendment makes provision for any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the imposition, abolition, remission, alteration or regulation of
any tax;(b)the amendment of the law with respect to any financial obligations
undertaken or to be undertaken by the Government of the Union territory;(c)the
appropriation of moneys out of the Consolidated Fund of the Union
territory;(d)the declaring of any expenditure to be expenditure charged on the
Consolidated Fund of the Union territory or the increasing of the amount of
any such expenditure;(e)the receipt of money on account of the Consolidated
Fund of the Union territory or the public account of the Union territory or
the custody or issue of such money or the audit of the account of the Union
territory:Provided that no recommendation shall be required under this sub-
section for the moving of an amendment making provision for the reduction or
abolition of any tax.(2)A Bill or Amendment shall not be deemed to make
provision for any of the matters aforesaid by reason only that it provides for
the imposition of fines or other pecuniary penalties, or for the demand or
payment of fees for licences or fees for services rendered, or by reason that
it provides for the imposition, abolition, remission, alteration or regulation
of any tax by any local authority or body for local purposes.(3)A Bill which,
if enacted and brought into operation, would involve expenditure from the
Consolidated Fund of Union territory shall not be passed by the Legislative
Assembly of the Union territory unless the Lieutenant Governor has recommended
to the Assembly, the consideration of the Bill.

### 37. Procedure as to lapsing of Bills.

(1)A Bill pending in the Legislative Assembly shall not lapse by reason of the
prorogation of the Legislative Assembly.(2)A Bill which is pending in the
Legislative Assembly shall lapse on dissolution of the Legislative Assembly.

### 38. Assent to Bills.

\- When a Bill has been passed by the Legislative Assembly, it shall be
presented to the Lieutenant Governor and the Lieutenant Governor shall declare
either that he assents to the Bill or that he withholds assent therefrom or
that he reserves the Bill for the consideration of the President:Provided that
the Lieutenant Governor may, as soon as possible after the presentation of the
Bill to him for assent, return the Bill if it is not a Money Bill together
with a message requesting that the Assembly will reconsider the Bill or any
specified provisions thereof, and, in particular, will consider the
desirability of introducing any such amendments as he may recommend in his
message and, when a Bill is so returned, the Assembly will reconsider the Bill
accordingly, and if the Bill is passed again with or without amendment and
presented to the Lieutenant Governor for assent, the Lieutenant Governor shall
declare either that he assents to the Bill or that he reserves the Bill for
the consideration of the President:Provided further that the Lieutenant
Governor shall not assent to, but shall reserve for the consideration of the
President, any Bill which,-(a)in the opinion of the Lieutenant Governor would,
if it became law, so derogate from the powers of the High Court as to endanger
the position which that Court is, by the Constitution, designed to fill;
or(b)relates to any of the matters specified in clause (1) of article 31A;
or(c)the President may, by order, direct to be reserved for his
consideration.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section and section 39,
a Bill shall be deemed to be a Money Bill if it contains only provisions
dealing with all or any of the matters specified in sub-section (1) of section
36 or any matter incidental to any of those matters and, in either case, there
is endorsed thereon the certificate of the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly
signed by him that it is a Money Bill.

### 39. Bills reserved for consideration.

\- When a Bill is reserved by Lieutenant Governor for the consideration of the
President, the President shall declare either that he assents to the Bill or
that he withholds assent therefrom:Provided that where the Bill is not a Money
Bill, the President may direct the Lieutenant Governor to return the Bill to
the Legislative Assembly together with such a message as is mentioned in the
first proviso to section 38 and, when a Bill is so returned, the Assembly
shall reconsider it accordingly within a period of six months from the date of
receipt of such message and, if it is again passed by the Assembly with or
without amendment, it shall be presented again to the President for his
consideration.

### 40. Requirements as to sanction and recommendations to be regarded as
matters of procedure only.

\- No Act of the Legislative Assembly and no provision in any such Act, shall
be invalid by reason only that some previous sanction or recommendation
required by this Act was not given, if assent to that Act was given by the
Lieutenant Governor, or, on being reserved by the Lieutenant Governor for the
consideration of the President, by the President.

### 41. Annual financial statement.

(1)The Lieutenant Governor shall in respect of every financial year cause to
be laid before the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir, a statement of the estimated receipts and expenditure of the Union
territory for that year, in this Part referred to as the "annual financial
statement".(2)The estimates of expenditure embodied in the annual financial
statement shall show separately-(a)the sums required to meet expenditure
described by this Act as expenditure charged upon the Consolidated Fund of the
Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, and(b)the sums required to meet other
expenditure proposed to be made from the Consolidated Fund of the Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir; and shall distinguish expenditure on revenue
account from other expenditure.(3)The following expenditure shall be
expenditure charged on the Consolidated Fund of the Union territory of Jammu
and Kashmir:-(a)the emoluments and allowances of the Lieutenant Governor and
other expenditure relating to his office;(b)the charges payable in respect of
loans advanced to the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir from the
Consolidated Fund of India including interest, sinking fund charges and
redemption charges, and other expenditure connected therewith;(c)the salaries
and allowances of the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker of the Legislative
Assembly;(d)expenditure in respect of the salaries and allowances of Judges of
High Court of Jammu and Kashmir;(e)any sums required to satisfy any judgment,
decree or award of any court or arbitral tribunal;(f)expenditure incurred by
the Lieutenant Governor in the discharge of his special responsibility;(g)any
other expenditure declared by the Constitution or by law made by Parliament or
by the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir to be
so charged.

### 42. Procedure in Legislative Assembly with respect to estimates.

(1)So much of the estimates as relates to expenditure charged upon the
Consolidated Fund of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir shall not be
submitted to the vote of the Legislative Assembly, but nothing in this sub-
section shall be construed as preventing the discussion in the Legislative
Assembly of any of those estimates.(2)So much of the said estimates as relates
to other expenditure shall be submitted in the form of demands for grants to
the Legislative Assembly, and the Legislative Assembly shall have power to
assent, or to refuse to assent, to any demand, or to assent to any demand
subject to a reduction of the amount specified therein.(3)No demand for a
grant shall be made except on the recommendation of the Lieutenant Governor.

### 43. Appropriation Bills.

(1)As soon as may be after the grants under section 42 have been made by the
Legislative Assembly, there shall be introduced a Bill to provide for the
appropriation out of the Consolidated Fund of the Union territory of all
moneys required to meet-(a)the grants so made by the Legislative Assembly,
and(b)the expenditure charged on the Consolidated Fund of the Union territory
of Jammu and Kashmir but not exceeding in any case the amount shown in the
statement previously laid before the Assembly.(2)No amendment shall be
proposed to any such Bill in the Legislative Assembly which will have the
effect of varying the amount or altering the destination of any grant so made
or of varying the amount of any expenditure charged on the Consolidated Fund
of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and the decision of the person
presiding as to whether an amendment is inadmissible under this sub-section
shall be final.(3)Subject to the other provisions of this Act, no money shall
be withdrawn from the Consolidated Fund of the Union territory except under
appropriation made by law passed in accordance with the provisions of this
section.

### 44. Supplementary, additional or excess grants.

(1)The Lieutenant Governor shall-(a)if the amount authorised by any law made
in accordance with the provisions of section 43 to be expended for a
particular service for the current financial year is found to be insufficient
for the purposes of that year or when a need has arisen during the current
financial year for supplementary or additional expenditure upon some new
service not contemplated in the annual financial statement for that year,
or(b)if any money has been spent on any service during a financial year in
excess of the amount granted for that service and for that year, cause to be
laid before the Legislative Assembly, another statement showing the estimated
amount of that expenditure or cause to be presented to the Legislative
Assembly with such previous approval a demand for such excess, as the case may
be.(2)The provisions of sections 41, 42 and 43 shall have effect in relation
to any such statement and expenditure or demand and also to any law to be made
authorising the appropriation of moneys out of the Consolidated Fund of the
Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir to meet such expenditure or the grant in
respect of such demand as they have effect in relation to the annual financial
statement and the expenditure mentioned therein or to a demand for a grant and
the law to be made for the authorisation of appropriation of moneys out of the
Consolidated Fund of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir to meet such
expenditure or grant.

### 45. Votes on account.

(1)Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions of this Part, the
Legislative Assembly shall have power to make any grant in advance in respect
of the estimated expenditure for a part of any financial year pending the
completion of the procedure prescribed in section 42 for the voting of such
grant and the passing of the law in accordance with the provisions of section
43 in relation to that expenditure and the Legislative Assembly shall have
power to authorise by law the withdrawal of moneys from the Consolidated Fund
of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir for the purposes for which the
said grant is made.(2)The provisions of sections 42 and 43 shall have effect
in relation to the making of any grant under sub-section (1) or to any law to
be made under that sub-section as they have effect in relation to the making
of a grant with regard to any expenditure mentioned in the annual financial
statement and the law to be made for the authorisation of appropriation of
moneys out of the Consolidated Fund of the Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir to meet such expenditure.

### 46. Rules of procedure.

(1)The Legislative Assembly may make rules for regulating, subject to the
provisions of this Act, its procedure and the conduct of its business:Provided
that the Lieutenant Governor shall, after consultation with the Speaker of the
Legislative Assembly, make rules-(a)for securing the timely completion of
financial business;(b)for regulating the procedure of, and the conduct of
business in, the Legislative Assembly in relation to any financial matter or
to any Bill for the appropriation of moneys out of the Consolidated Fund of
the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir;(c)for prohibiting the discussion of,
or the asking of questions on, any matter which affects the discharge of the
functions of the Lieutenant Governor in so far as he is required by this Act
to act in his discretion.(2)Until rules are made under sub-section (1), the
rules of procedure and standing orders in force immediately before the
commencement of this Act, with respect to the Legislative Assembly of the
existing State of Jammu and Kashmir shall have effect in relation to the
Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir subject to
such modifications and adaptations as may be made therein by the Speaker of
Legislative Assembly.

### 47. Official language or languages of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir
and language or languages to be used in Legislative Assembly thereof.

(1)The Legislative Assembly may by law adopt any one or more of the languages
in use in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir or Hindi as the official
language or languages to be used for all or any of the official purposes of
the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.(2)The business in the Legislative
Assembly of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir shall be transacted in
the official language or languages of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir
or in Hindi or in English:Provided that the Speaker of the Legislative
Assembly or person acting as such, as the case may be, may permit any member
who cannot adequately express himself in any of the languages aforesaid to
address the Legislative Assembly in his mothertongue.

### 48. Language to be used for Acts, Bills, etc.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 47, until Parliament by law
otherwise provides, the authoritative texts-(a)of all Bills to be introduced
or amendments thereto to be moved in the Legislative Assembly,(b)of all Acts
passed by the Legislative Assembly, and(c)of all orders, rules, regulations
and bye-laws issued under any law made by the Legislative Assembly,shall be in
the English language:Provided that where the Legislative Assembly has
prescribed any language other than the English language for use in Bills
introduced in, or Acts passed by, the Legislative Assembly or in any order,
rule, regulation or bye-law issued under any law made by the Legislative
Assembly of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, a translation of the
same in the English language published under the authority of the Lieutenant
Governor in the Official Gazette shall be deemed to be the authoritative text
thereof in the English language.

### 49. Restriction on discussion in the Legislative Assembly.

\- No discussion shall take place in the Legislative Assembly with respect to
the conduct of any judge of the Supreme Court or of a High Court in the
discharge of his duties.

### 50. Courts not to inquire into proceedings of Legislative Assembly.

(1)The validity of any proceedings in the Legislative Assembly shall not be
called in question on the ground of any alleged irregularity of
procedure.(2)No officer or member of the Legislative Assembly in whom powers
are vested by or under this Act for regulating procedure or the conduct of
business, or for maintaining order in the Legislative Assembly shall be
subject to the jurisdiction of any court in respect of the exercise by him of
those powers.

### 51. Secretariat of the Legislative Assembly.

(1)The Legislative Assembly shall have a separate secretariat staff.(2)The
Legislative Assembly may by law regulate the recruitment, and the conditions
of service of persons appointed, to the secretarial staff of the Legislative
Assembly.(3)Until provision is made by the Legislative Assembly under sub-
section (2), the Lieutenant Governor may, after consultation with the Speaker
of the Legislative Assembly make rules regulating the recruitment, and the
conditions of service of persons appointed, to the secretarial staff of the
Assembly and any rules so made shall have effect subject to the provisions of
any law made under the said sub-section.

### 52. Power of Lieutenant Governor to promulgate Ordinances during recess of
Legislative Assembly.

(1)If at any time, except when the Legislative Assembly is in session, the
Lieutenant Governor thereof is satisfied that circumstances exist which render
it necessary for him to take immediate action, he may promulgate such
Ordinances as the circumstances appear to him to require:Provided that the
power of making an Ordinance under this section shall extend only to those
matters with respect to which the Legislative Assembly has power to make
laws.(2)An Ordinance promulgated under this section shall have the same force
and effect as an Act of the Legislative Assembly assented by the Lieutenant
Governor but every such Ordinance-(a)Shall be laid before the Legislative
Assembly and shall cease to operate at the expiration of six weeks from the
re-assembly of the Legislative Assembly, or if before the expiration of that
period a resolution disapproving it is passed by the Legislative Assembly;
and(b)May be withdrawn at any time by the Lieutenant Governor. Council of
Ministers for the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir

### 53. Council of Ministers.

(1)There shall be a Council of Ministers consisting of not more than ten
percent of the total number of members in the Legislative Assembly, with the
Chief Minister at the head to aid and advise the Lieutenant Governor in the
exercise of his functions in relation to matters with respect to which the
Legislative Assembly has power to make laws except in so far as he is required
by or under this Act to act in his discretion or by or under any law to
exercise any judicial or quasi-judicial functions.(2)The Lieutenant Governor
shall, in the exercise of his functions, act in his discretion in a
matter:(i)which falls outside the purview of the powers conferred on the
Legislative Assembly; or(ii)in which he is required by or under any law to act
in his discretion or to exercise any judicial functions.(iii)related to All
India Services and Anti Corruption Bureau:Provided that if any question arises
whether any matter is or is not a matter as respects which the Lieutenant
Governor is by or under this Act required to act in his discretion, the
decision of the Lieutenant Governor in his discretion shall be final, and the
validity of anything done by the Lieutenant Governor shall not be called in
question on the ground that he ought or ought not to have acted in his
discretion.(3)The question whether any, and if so what, advice was tendered by
Ministers to the Lieutenant Governor shall not be inquired into in any court.

### 54. Other provisions as to Ministers.

(1)The Chief Minister shall be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor and the
other Ministers shall be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor on the advice of
the Chief Minister.(2)The Ministers shall hold office during the pleasure of
the Lieutenant Governor.(3)The Council of Ministers shall be collectively
responsible to the Legislative Assembly.(4)Before a Minister enters upon his
office, the Lieutenant Governor shall administer to him the oaths of office
and of secrecy according to the forms set out for the purpose in the Fourth
Schedule to this Act.(5)A Minister who for any period of six consecutive
months is not a member of the Legislative Assembly shall at the expiration of
that period cease to be a Minister.(6)The salaries and allowances of Ministers
shall be such as the Legislative Assembly may from time to time by law
determine, and until the Legislative Assembly so determines, shall be
determined by the Lieutenant Governor.

### 55. Conduct of business.

(1)The Lieutenant Governor shall make rules on the advice of the Council of
Ministers-(a)for the allocation of business to the Ministers; and(b)for the
more convenient transaction of business with the Ministers including the
procedure to be adopted in case of a difference of opinion between the
Lieutenant Governor and the Council of Ministers or a Minister.(2)Save as
otherwise provided in this Act, all executive action of the Lieutenant
Governor, whether taken on the advice of his Ministers or otherwise, shall be
expressed to be taken in the name of the Lieutenant Governor.(3)Orders and
other instruments made and executed in the name of the Lieutenant Governor,
shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in rules to be made
by the Lieutenant Governor on the advice of council of ministers, and the
validity of an order or instrument which is so authenticated shall not be
called in question on the ground that it is not an order or instrument made or
executed by the Lieutenant Governor.

### 56. Duties of Chief Minister as respects the furnishing of information to
the Lieutenant Governor, etc.

\- It shall be the duty of the Chief Minister-(a)to communicate to the
Lieutenant Governor all decisions of the Council of Ministers relating to the
administration of the affairs of the Union territory and proposals for
legislation;(b)to furnish such information relating to the administration of
the affairs of the Union territory and proposals for legislation as Lieutenant
Governor may call for.Legislative Council

### 57. Abolition of Legislative Council of the State of Jammu and Kashmir.

(1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law, document,
judgment, ordinance, rule, regulation or notification, on and from the
appointed day, the Legislative Council of the existing State of Jammu and
Kashmir shall stand abolished.(2)On the abolition of the Legislative Council,
every member thereof shall cease to be such member.(3)All Bills pending in the
Legislative Council immediately before the appointed day shall lapse on the
abolition of the Council.

## Part IV – Administration of Union Territory of Ladakh

### 58. Appointment of Lieutenant Governor of Union territory of Ladakh.

(1)The Union territory of Ladakh will be administered by the President acting,
to such extent as he thinks fit, through a Lieutenant Governor to be appointed
by him under article 239.(2)The President may make regulations for the peace,
progress and good government of the Union territory of Ladakh under article
240 of the Constitution of India.(3)Any regulation so made may repeal or amend
any Act made by Parliament or any other law which is for the time being
applicable to the Union territory of Ladakh and, when promulgated by the
President, shall have the same force and effect as an Act of Parliament which
applies to the Union territory of Ladakh.(4)The Lieutenant Governor shall be
assisted by advisor(s) to be appointed by the Central Government.

## Part V – Delimitation of Constituencies

### 59. Definitions.

\- In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"associate member"
means a member associated with the Delimitation Commission under section
60;(b)"Delimitation Commission" means the Delimitation Commission to be
constituted under section 3 of the Delimitation Act, 2002 (33 of 2002); and
thereafter by any law made by the Parliament.(c)"Election Commission" means
the Election Commission appointed by the President under article 324 of the
Constitution of India;(d)"latest census figures" mean the census figures
ascertained at the latest census of which the finally published figures are
available;(e)"Parliamentary Constituency" means a constituency provided by law
for the purpose of elections to the House of the People from Union territory
of Jammu and Kashmir and Union territory of Ladakh.(f)"Assembly Constituency"
means a constituency provided by law for the purpose of elections to the
Legislative Assembly.

### 60. Delimitation of constituencies.

(1)Without prejudice to sub-sections (3) of section 14 of this Act, the number
of seats in the Legislative Assembly of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir
shall be increased from 107 to 114, and delimitation of the constituencies may
be determined by the Election Commission in the manner hereinafter
provided-(a)the number of seats to be reserved for the Scheduled Castes and
the Scheduled Tribes in the Legislative Assembly, having regard to the
relevant provisions of the Constitution;(b)the assembly constituencies into
which the Union territory shall be divided, the extent of each of such
constituencies and in which of them seats shall be reserved for the Scheduled
Castes or for the Scheduled Tribes; and(c)the adjustments in the boundaries
and description of the extent of the parliamentary constituencies in each
Union territory that may be necessary or expedient.(2)In determining the
matters referred to in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (1), the Election
Commission shall have regard to the following provisions, namely:-(a)all the
constituencies shall be single-member constituencies;(b)all constituencies
shall, as far as practicable, be geographically compact areas, and in
delimiting them, regard shall be had to physical features, existing boundaries
of administrative units, facilities of communication and conveniences to the
public; and(c)constituencies in which seats are reserved for the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall, as far as practicable, be located in
areas where the proportion of their population to the total population is the
largest.(3)The Election Commission shall, for the purpose of assisting it in
the performance of its functions under sub-section (1), associate with itself
as associate members, four persons as the Central Government may by order
specify, being persons who are the members of the Legislative Assembly of the
Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir or four members of the House of the
People representing the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir:Provided that
none of the associate members shall have a right to vote or to sign any
decision of the Election Commission.(4)If, owing to death or resignation, the
office of an associate member falls vacant, it shall be filled as far as
practicable, in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3).(5)The
Election Commission shall-(a)publish its proposals for the delimitation of
constituencies together with the dissenting proposals, if any, of any
associate member who desires publication thereof in the Official Gazette and
in such other manner as the Commission may consider fit, together with a
notice inviting objections and suggestions in relation to the proposals and
specifying a date on or after which the proposals will be further considered
by it;(b)consider all objections and suggestions which may have been received
by it before the date so specified; and(c)after considering all objections and
suggestions which may have been received by it before the date so specified,
determine by one or more orders the delimitation of constituencies and cause
such order or orders to be published in the Official Gazette, and there upon
such publication, the order or orders shall have the full force of law and
shall not be called in question in any court.(6)As soon as may be after such
publication, every such order relating to assembly constituencies shall be
laid before the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir.

### 61. Power of Election Commission to maintain Delimitation Orders up-to
date.

(1)The Election Commission may by notification in the Official
Gazette,-(a)correct any printing mistakes in any order made under section 60
or any error arising therein from inadvertent slip or omission; and(b)where
the boundaries or name of any territorial division mentioned in any such order
or orders is or are altered, make such amendments as appear to it to be
necessary or expedient for bringing such order up-to-date.(2)Every
notification under this section relating to an assembly constituency shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is issued, before the Legislative Assembly.

### 62. Special provision as to readjustment of Parliamentary and Assembly
Constituencies on the basis of 2011 census.

(1)On and from the appointed day, notwithstanding the publication of orders
under sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Delimitation Act, 2002 (33 of 2002)
or anything contained in sub-section (2) or sub-section (4) of the said
section, the Delimitation Act, 2002 (33 of 2002) shall be deemed to have been
amended as provided below:(a)in section 2, in clause (f), the words "but does
not include the State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted; and(b)for the
purpose of delimitation of Assembly and Parliamentary Constituencies, the
words and figures "census held in the year 2001", wherever occurring, shall be
construed as words and figures "census held in the year 2011".(2)Readjustment
of the constituencies as provided under section 60 in the successor Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir into Assembly Constituencies, shall be carried
by the Delimitation Commission, to be constituted under the Delimitation Act,
2002 as amended by this Act, and shall take effect from such date as the
Central Government may, by order, publish in the Official Gazette,
specify.(3)Readjustment of the constituencies as provided under section 11 in
the successor Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir into Parliamentary
Constituencies, shall be carried by the Delimitation Commission, to be
constituted under the Delimitation Act, 2002 as amended by this Act, and shall
take effect from such date as the Central Government may, by order, publish in
the Official Gazette, specify.

### 63. Special provisions as to readjustment of Assembly and Parliamentary
Constituencies.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 59 to 61, until the relevant
figures for the first census taken after the year 2026 have been published, it
shall not be necessary to readjust the division of successor Union territory
of Jammu and Kashmir into Assembly and Parliamentary Constituencies and any
reference to the "latest census figures" in this Part shall be construed as a
reference to the 2011 census figures.

### 64. Procedure as to delimitation.

\- The procedure as provided in the law made by Parliament, shall apply, in
relation to the delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly constituencies
under this Part as they apply in relation to the delimitation of Parliamentary
and Assembly constituencies under that law.

## Part VI – Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

### 65. Applicability of Scheduled Castes Order.

\- On and from the appointed day, the Constitution Jammu and Kashmir
(Scheduled Castes) Order, 1956, shall stand applied to the Union territory of
Jammu and Kashmir and Union territory of Ladakh.

### 66. Applicability of Scheduled Tribes Order.

\- On and from the appointed day, the Constitution Jammu and Kashmir
(Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1989, shall stand applied to the Union territory of
Jammu and Kashmir and Union territory of Ladakh.

## Part VII – Miscellaneous and Transitional Provisions

### 67. Consolidated Fund of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.

(1)On and from the appointed day, all revenues received in the Union territory
of Jammu and Kashmir by the Government of India or the Lieutenant Governor of
the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir in relation to any matter with
respect to which the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir has power to make laws, and all grants made and all loans advanced to
the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir from the Consolidated Fund of India
and all loans raised by the Government of India or the Lieutenant Governor of
the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir upon the security of the Consolidated
Fund of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and all moneys received by
the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir in repayment of loans shall form one
Consolidated Fund to be entitled "the Consolidated Fund of the Union territory
of Jammu and Kashmir".(2)No moneys out of such Consolidated Fund shall be
appropriated except in accordance with, and for the purposes and in the manner
provided in, this Act.(3)The custody of such Consolidated Fund, the payment of
moneys into such Funds, the withdrawal of moneys therefrom and all other
matters connected with or ancillary to those matters shall be regulated by
rules made by the Lieutenant Governor.

### 68. Public Account of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and moneys
credited to it.

(1)On and from the appointed day, all other public moneys received by or on
behalf of the Lieutenant Governor shall be credited to a Public Account
entitled "the Public Account of the Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir".(2)The custody of public moneys, other than those credited to the
Consolidated Fund of the Union territory or the Contingency Fund of the Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir, received by or on behalf of the Lieutenant
Governor, their payment into the Public Accounts of the Union territory of
Jammu and Kashmir and the withdrawal of moneys from such account and all other
matters connected with or ancillary to the aforesaid matters shall be
regulated by rules made by the Lieutenant Governor on the advice of Council of
Ministers.

### 69. Contingency Fund of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.

(1)There shall be established a Contingency Fund in the nature of an imprest
to be entitled "the Contingency Fund of the Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir", into which shall be paid from and out of the Consolidated Fund of
the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir such sums as may, from time to time,
be determined by law made by the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory
of Jammu and Kashmir; and the said Fund shall be held by the Lieutenant
Governor to enable advances to be made by him out of such Fund.(2)No advances
shall be made out of the Contingency Fund of the Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir except for the purposes of meeting unforeseen expenditure pending
authorisation of such expenditure by the Legislative Assembly under
appropriations made by law.(3)The Lieutenant Governor on the advice of the
Council of Ministers may make rules regulating all matters connected with or
ancillary to the custody of, the payment of moneys into, and the withdrawal of
moneys from, the Contingency Fund of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.

### 70. Borrowing upon the security of Consolidated Fund of Union territory of
Jammu and Kashmir.

(1)The executive power of the Union territory extends to borrowing upon the
security of the Consolidated Fund of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir
within such limits, if any, as may, from time to time, be fixed by Legislative
assembly by law and to the giving of guarantees within such limits, if any, as
may be so fixed.(2)Any sums required for the purpose of invoking a guarantee
shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund of the Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir.

### 71. Form of accounts of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.

\- The accounts of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir shall be kept in
such form as the Lieutenant Governor may, after obtaining advice of the
Comptroller and Auditor- General of India, prescribe by rules.

### 72. Audit reports.

\- The reports of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India relating to the
accounts of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir for any period subsequent to
the date referred to in sub-section (1) of section 67 shall be submitted to
the Lieutenant Governor who shall cause them to be laid before the Legislative
Assembly.

### 73. Provision in case of failure of constitutional machinery.

\- If the President, on receipt of a report from the Lieutenant Governor of
Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, or otherwise, is satisfied,-(a)that a
situation has arisen in which the administration of the Union territory of
Jammu and Kashmir cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of
this Act, or(b)that for the proper administration of Union territory of Jammu
and Kashmir it is necessary or expedient so to do, the President may, by
order, suspend the operation of all or any of the provisions of this Act for
such period as he thinks fit and make such incidental and consequential
provisions as may appear to him to be necessary or expedient for administering
the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir in accordance with the provisions of
this Act.

### 74. Authorisation of expenditure by President.

\- Where the Legislative Assembly is dissolved, or its functioning as such
Assembly remains suspended, on account of an order under section 73, it shall
be competent for the President to authorize, when the House of the People is
not in session, expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of the Union territory
of Jammu and Kashmir pending the sanction of such expenditure by Parliament.

## Part VIII – High Court

### 75. High Court of Jammu and Kashmir to be common High Court.

(1)On and from the appointed day,-(a)the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir shall
be the common High Court for the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and
Union territory of Ladakh;(b)the Judges of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir
for the existing State of Jammu and Kashmir holding office immediately before
the appointed day shall become on that day the Judges of the common High
Court.(2)The expenditure in respect of salaries and allowances of the Judges
of the common High Court shall be allocated amongst the Union territory of
Jammu and Kashmir and Union territory of Ladakh on the basis of population
ratio.

### 76. Special provision relating to Bar Council and advocates.

(1)On and from the date referred to in sub-section (1) of section 75, in the
Advocates Act, 1961, (25 of 1961) in section 3, in sub-section (1),-(a)in
clause (a), the words "Jammu and Kashmir" shall be deleted.(b)after clause
(f), the following clause shall be inserted, namely-\- (g) - for the Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Union territory of Ladakh, to be known as
the Bar Council of Jammu and Kashmir; and Ladakh.(2)Any person who immediately
before the date referred to in sub-section (1) of section 75 is an advocate on
the roll of the Bar Council of the existing State of Jammu and Kashmir and
practising as an advocate in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir, may continue
to be members of the "Bar council of Jammu and Kashmir; and Ladakh'',
notwithstanding anything contained in the Advocates Act, 1961 and the rules
made thereunder.(3)The persons other than the advocates who are entitled
immediately before the date referred to in sub-section (1) of section 75, on
and after that date, be recognised as such persons entitled also to practise
in the common High Court of Jammu and Kashmir or any subordinate court
thereof, as the case may be.(4)The right of audience in the common High Court
of Jammu and Kashmir shall be regulated in accordance with the like principles
as immediately before the date referred to in sub-section (1) of section 75,
are in force with respect to the right of audience in the High Court of Jammu
and Kashmir.

### 77. Practice and procedure in common High Court of Jammu and Kashmir.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Part, the law in force immediately before
the date referred to in sub-section (1) of section 75 with respect to practice
and procedure in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir shall, with the necessary
modifications, apply in relation to the common High Court of Jammu and Kashmir
and accordingly, the common High Court of Jammu and Kashmir shall have all
such powers to make rules and orders with respect to practice and procedure as
are immediately before that date exercisable by the common High Court of Jammu
and Kashmir:Provided that any rules or orders which are in force immediately
before the date referred to in sub-section (1) of section 75 with respect to
practice and procedure in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir shall, until
varied or revoked by rules or orders made by the common High Court of Jammu
and Kashmir, apply with the necessary modifications in relation to practice
and procedure in the common High Court of Jammu and Kashmir as if made by that
Court.

### 78. Savings.

\- Nothing in this Part shall affect the application to the common High Court
of Jammu and Kashmir of any provisions of the Constitution, and this Part
shall have effect subject to any provision that may be made on or after the
date referred to in sub-section (1) of section 75 with respect to the common
High Court of Jammu and Kashmir by any Legislature or other authority having
power to make such provision.

## Part IX – Advocate-General of Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir

### 79. Advocate General for Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.

(1)The Lieutenant Governor shall appoint a person who is qualified to be
appointed a Judge of the High Court, to be Advocate-General for the Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir.(2)It shall be the duty of such Advocate -
General to give advice to the Government of such Union territory upon such
legal matters and to perform such other duties of a legal character, as may
from time to time be referred or assigned to him by the said Government, and
to discharge the functions conferred on him by or under the Constitution or
any other law for the time being in force.(3)In the performance of his duties,
the Advocate-General shall have the right of audience in all courts in the
Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.(4)The Advocate-General shall hold office
during the pleasure of the Lieutenant Governor and receive such remuneration
as the Lieutenant Governor may determine.

## Part X – Authorisation of Expenditure and Distribution of Revenues

### 80. Authorisation of expenditure of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.

\- The Governor of existing State of Jammu and Kashmir may, at any time before
the appointed day, authorise such expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of
the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir as he deems necessary for any period
not more than six months beginning with the appointed day pending the sanction
of such expenditure by the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of
Jammu and Kashmir:Provided that the Lieutenant Governor of Union territory of
Jammu and Kashmir may, after the appointed day, authorise such further
expenditure as he deems necessary from the Consolidated Fund of the Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir for any period not extending beyond the said
period of six months.

### 81. Authorisation of expenditure of Union territory of Ladakh.

\- The Governor of existing State of Jammu and Kashmir may, at any time before
the appointed day, authorise such expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of
Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir as he deems necessary for any period not
more than six months beginning with the appointed day pending the sanction of
such expenditure by the Parliament:Provided that the President may, after the
appointed day, authorise such further expenditure as he deems necessary from
the Consolidated Fund of India for any period not extending beyond the said
period of six months.

### 82. Reports relating to accounts of Jammu and Kashmir State.

(1)The reports of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India referred to in
clause (2) of article 151 relating to the accounts of the existing State of
Jammu and Kashmir in respect of any period prior to the appointed day shall be
submitted to the Lieutenant Governors of the successor Union territory of
Jammu and Kashmir, and Union territory of Ladakh.(2)The Lieutenant Governor of
Jammu and Kashmir, thereafter shall cause the reports to be laid before the
Legislature of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.(3)The Lieutenant
Governor of Jammu and Kashmir may by order-(a)declare any expenditure incurred
out of the Consolidated Fund of Jammu and Kashmir on any service in respect of
any period prior to the appointed day during the financial year or in respect
of any earlier financial year in excess of the amount granted for that service
and for that year as disclosed in the reports referred to in sub-section (1)
to have been duly authorised; and(b)provide for any action to be taken on any
matter arising out of the said reports.

### 83. Distribution of revenue.

(1)The award made by the Fourteenth Finance Commission to the existing State
of Jammu and Kashmir shall be apportioned between the successor Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir; and Union territory of Ladakh by the Central
Government on the basis of population ratio and other parameters:Provided that
on the appointed day, the President shall make a reference to the Union
Territories Finance Commission to take into account the resources available to
the successor Union territory of Ladakh and make separate award for the
successor Union territory of Ladakh:Provided Further that on the appointed
day, the President shall make a reference to the Fifteenth Finance Commission
to include Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir in its Terms of Reference and
make award for the successor Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir.(2)Notwithstanding anything in sub-section (1), the Central Government
may, having regard to the resources available to the successor Union territory
of Ladakh make appropriate grants and also ensure that adequate benefits and
incentives in the form of special development package are given to the
backward areas of this region.

## Part XI – Apportionment of Assets and Liabilities

### 84. Application of this Part.

(1)The provisions of this Part shall apply in relation to the apportionment of
the assets and liabilities of the existing State of Jammu and Kashmir
immediately before the appointed day, between the successor Union territory of
Jammu and Kashmir and successor Union territory of Ladakh.(2)The apportionment
of the assets and liabilities of the existing State of Jammu and Kashmir shall
be subject to the recommendations of a committee constituted by the Central
Government.(3)The process of apportionment shall be completed within a period
of twelve months from the appointed day.

## Part XII – Provisions as to Certain Corporations and any Other Matters

### 85. Advisory Committee(s).

(1)The Central Government may by order, establish one or more Advisory
Committees within a period of 90 days from the appointed day, for the purposes
of :(a)apportionment of assets, rights and liabilities of the companies and
corporations constituted for the existing State of Jammu and Kashmir between
Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Union territory of Ladakh;(b)issues
relating to Continuance of arrangements in regard to generation and supply of
electric power and supply of water;(c)issues related to Jammu and Kashmir
State Financial Corporation;(d)issues related to Companies constituted for the
existing state of Jammu and Kashmir regarding the division of the interests
and shares and reconstitution of Board of Directors;(e)issues related to
facilities in certain State Institutions; and(f)issues related to any other
matters not covered under this section.(2)The committees so appointed under
sub-section (1) of this section, shall submit their reports within six months
to the Lieutenant Governor of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, who shall
act on the recommendations of such committees within a period of 30 days from
the date of receiving such reports.

### 86. Temporary provisions as to continuance of certain existing road
transport permits.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 88 of the Motor Vehicles Act,
1988, (59 of 1988) a permit granted by the State Transport Authority of the
existing State of Jammu and Kashmir or any Regional Transport Authority in
that State shall, if such permit was, immediately before the appointed day,
valid and effective in any area in the transferred territory, be deemed to
continue to be valid and effective in that area after that day till its period
of validity subject to the provisions of that Act as for the time being in
force in that area; and it shall not be necessary for any such permit to be
countersigned by the Transport Authority of any of Union territory or any
Regional Transport Authority therein for the purpose of validating it for use
in such area:Provided that the Lieutenant Governor may add to amend or vary
the conditions attached to the permit by the Authority by which the permit was
granted.(2)No tolls, entrance fees or other charges of a like nature shall be
levied after the appointed day in respect of any transport vehicle for its
operations in any of the successor Union Territories under any such permit, if
such vehicle was, immediately before that day, exempt from the payment of any
such toll, entrance fees or other charges for its operations in the
transferred territory:Provided that the Central Government may, after
consultation with the Government of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir or
the administration of Union territory of Ladakh, as the case may be, authorise
the levy of any such toll, entrance fees or other charges, as the case may
be:Provided further that the provisions of this sub-section shall not be
applicable where any such tolls, entrance fees or other charges of a like
nature are leviable for the use of any road or bridge which is constructed or
developed for commercial purpose by the State Government, an undertaking of
the State Government, a joint undertaking in which the State Government is a
shareholder or the private sector.

### 87. Special provision as to income-tax.

\- Where the assets, rights and liabilities of any body corporate carrying on
business are, under the provisions of this Part, transferred to any other
bodies corporate which after the transfer carry on the same business, the
losses or profits or gains sustained by the body corporate first-mentioned
which, but for such transfer, would have been allowed to be carried forward
and set off in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI of the Income-tax
Act, 1961, (43 of 1961) shall be apportioned amongst the transferee bodies
corporate in accordance with the rules to be made by the Central Government in
this behalf and, upon such apportionment, the share of loss allotted to each
transferee body corporate shall be dealt with in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter VI of the said Act, as if the transferee body corporate
had itself sustained such loss in a business carried on by it in the years in
which those losses were sustained.

## Part XIII – Provisions as to Services

### 88. Provisions relating to All-India Services.

(1)In this section, the expression "State cadre"-(a)in relation to the Indian
Administrative Service, has the same meaning assigned to it in the Indian
Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954;(b)in relation to the Indian Police
Service, has the same meaning assigned to it in the Indian Police Service
(Cadre) Rules, 1954; and(c)in relation to the Indian Forest Service, has the
same meaning assigned to it in the Indian Forest Service (Cadre) Rules,
1966.(2)The members of the Indian Administrative Service, Indian Police
Service and Indian Forest Service for the existing cadre of Jammu and Kashmir,
shall be borne and become part of the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and
Union territories cadre, and all future allocations of All India Services
Officers for the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Union territory of
Ladakh shall be made to Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union territories
cadre for which necessary modifications may be made in corresponding cadre
allocation rules by the Central Government.(3)The officers so borne or
allocated on Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union territories cadre shall
function in accordance with the rules framed by the Central Government.(4)The
members of each of the said services, currently borne on the Jammu and Kashmir
cadre immediately before the appointed day shall be finally allocated between
the successor Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Union territory of
Ladakh, in such manner and with effect from such date or dates as the Central
Government may, by order, specify on the recommendation of Lieutenant
Governors of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir; and Union territory of
Ladakh.(5)The Officers so allocated to both the Union Territories shall
function within these Union Teritories, in accordance with the rules framed by
the Central Government.(6)In future, the All India Service officers to be
posted to Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir or Union territory of Ladakh,
as the case may be, shall be borne on the Arunachal Goa Mizoram Union
Territory cadre, and necessary modifications in corresponding cadre
allocations rules may be made accordingly, by the Central Government.

### 89. Provisions relating to other services.

(1)Every person who immediately before the appointed day is serving on
substantive basis in connection with the affairs of the existing State of
Jammu and Kashmir shall, on and from that day provisionally continue to serve
in connection with the affairs of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and
Union territory of Ladakh, by general or special order of the Lieutenant
Governor of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir:Provided that every direction
under this sub-section issued after the expiry of a period of one year from
the appointed day shall be issued with the consultation of the Government or
Administration of the successor Union Territories, as the case may be.(2)As
soon as may be after the appointed day, the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and
Kashmir shall, by general or special order, determine the successor Union
territory to which every person referred to in sub-section (1) shall be
finally allotted for service, after consideration of option received by
seeking option from the employees, and the date with effect from which such
allotment shall take effect or be deemed to have taken effect:Provided that
even after the allocation has been made, Lieutenant Governor of Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir may in order to meet any deficiency in the
service, depute officers from one successor Union territory to the other Union
territory.(3)Every person who is finally allotted under the provisions of sub-
section (2) to a successor Union territory shall, if he is not already serving
therein, be made available for serving in the successor Union territory from
such date as may be agreed upon between the Government of the successor Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Administration of Union territory of
Ladakh, or, in default of such agreement, as may be determined by the Central
Government:Provided that the Central Government shall have the power to review
any of its orders issued under this section.

### 90. Other provisions relating to services.

(1)Nothing in this section or in section 89 shall be deemed to affect, on or
after the appointed day, the operation of the provisions of Chapter I of Part
XIV of the Constitution in relation to determination of the conditions of
service of persons serving in connection with the affairs of the Union or any
Union territory:Provided that the conditions of service applicable immediately
before the appointed day in the case of any person deemed to have been
allocated to the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir or Union territory of
Ladakh under section 89 shall not be varied to his disadvantage except with
the previous approval of the Lieutenant Governor.(2)All services prior to the
appointed day rendered by a person,-(a)if he is deemed to have been allocated
to any Union territory under section 89, shall be deemed to have been rendered
in connection with the affairs of that Union territory;(b)if he is deemed to
have been allocated to the Union in connection with the administration of the
successor Union territory, shall be deemed to have been rendered in connection
with the affairs of the Union, for the purposes of the rules regulating his
conditions of service.(3)The provisions of section 89 shall not apply in
relation to members of any All-India Service.

### 91. Provisions as to continuance of officers in same post.

\- Every person who, immediately before the appointed day, is holding or
discharging the duties of any post or office in connection with the affairs of
the existing State of Jammu and Kashmir in any area which on that day falls
within one of the successor Union territory shall continue to hold the same
post or office in that successor Union territory, and shall be deemed, on and
from that day, to have been duly appointed to the post or office by the
Government of, or other appropriate authority in, that successor Union
territory:Provided that nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent a
competent authority, on and from the appointed day, from passing in relation
to such person any order affecting the continuance in such post or office.

### 92. Provision for employees of Public Sector Undertakings, etc.

\- On and from the appointed day, the employees of State Public Sector
Undertakings, corporations and other autonomous bodies shall continue to
function in such undertaking, corporation or autonomous bodies for a period of
one year and during this period the corporate body concerned shall determine
the modalities for distributing the personnel between the successor Union
Territories.

### 93. Provisions as to State Public Service Commission.

(1)The Public Service Commission for the existing State of Jammu and Kashmir
shall, on and from the appointed day, be the Public Service Commission for the
Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.(2)The Union Public Service Commission,
with the approval of the President, shall serve the needs of the Union
territory of Ladakh.(3)The persons holding office immediately before the
appointed day as the Chairman or other member of the Public Service Commission
for the existing State of Jammu and Kashmir shall, as from the appointed day,
be the Chairman or, as the case may be, the other member of the Public Service
Commission for the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.(4)Every person who
becomes the Chairman or other member of the Public Service Commission for the
Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir on the appointed day under subsection (3)
shall be entitled to receive from the Government of the Union territory of
Jammu and Kashmir, conditions of service not less favourable than those to
which he was entitled under the provisions applicable to him.(5)The report of
the Jammu and Kashmir Public Service Commission as to the work done by the
Commission in respect of any period prior to the appointed day shall be
presented to the Lieutenant Governor of the Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir, and the Lieutenant Governor of the Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir shall, on receipt of such report, cause a copy thereof together with a
memorandum explaining as far as possible, as respects the cases, if any, where
the advice of the Commission was not accepted, the reasons for such
nonacceptance to be laid before the Legislature of the Union territory of
Jammu and Kashmir.

## Part XIV – Legal and Miscellaneous Provisions

### 94. Amendment of section 15 of Act 37 of 1956.

\- On and from the appointed day, in section 15 of the States Reorganisation
Act, 1956, in clause (a), for the words "Jammu and Kashmir" the words "Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Union territory of Ladakh" shall be
substituted.

### 95. Territorial extent of laws.

(1)All Central laws in Table -1 of the Fifth Schedule to this Act, on and from
the appointed day, shall apply in the manner as provided therein, to the Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Union territory of Ladakh.(2)All other laws
in Fifth Schedule, applicable to existing State of Jammu and Kashmir
immediately before the appointed day, shall apply in the manner as provided
therein, to the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Union territory of
Ladakh.

### 96. Power to adapt laws.

\- For the purpose of facilitating the application in relation to the
successor Union Territories, of any law made before the appointed day, as
detailed in Fifth Schedule to this Act, the Central Government may, before the
expiration of one year from that day, by order, make such adaptations and
modifications of the law, whether by way of repeal or amendment, as may be
necessary or expedient, and thereupon every such law shall have effect subject
to the adaptations and modifications so made until altered, repealed or
amended by a competent Legislature or other competent authority.

### 97. Power to construe laws.

\- Notwithstanding that no provision or insufficient provision has been made
under section 96 for the adaptation of a law made before the appointed day,
any court, tribunal or authority, required or empowered to enforce such law
may, for the purpose of facilitating its application in relation to the Union
territory of Jammu and Kashmir or Union territory of Ladakh, construe the law
in such manner, without affecting the substance, as may be necessary or proper
in regard to the matter before the court, tribunal or authority.

### 98. Power to name authorities, etc., for exercising statutory functions.

\- The Lieutenant Governor, as respects the concerned territory may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify the authority, officer or person
who, on or after the appointed day, shall be competent to exercise such
functions exercisable under any law in force on that day as may be mentioned
in that notification and such law shall have effect accordingly.

### 99. Legal proceedings.

\- Where, immediately before the appointed day, the existing State of Jammu
and Kashmir is a party to any legal proceedings with respect to any property,
rights or liabilities subject to apportionment among the successor Union
Territories under this Act, the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir or the
Union territory of Ladakh which succeeds to, or acquires a share in, that
property or those rights or liabilities by virtue of any provision of this Act
shall be deemed to be substituted for the existing State of Jammu and Kashmir
or added as a party to those proceedings, and the proceedings may continue
accordingly.

### 100. Transfer of pending proceedings.

(1)Every proceeding pending immediately before the appointed day before a
court (other than High Court), tribunal, authority or officer in any area
which on that day falls within the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall, if it is
a proceeding relating exclusively to the territory, which as from that day are
the territories of any Union territory, stand transferred to the corresponding
court, tribunal, authority or officer of that Union territory.(2)If any
question arises as to whether any proceeding should stand transferred under
sub-section (1), it shall be referred to the common High Court of Jammu and
Kashmir and the decision of that High Court shall be final.(3)In this
section-(a)proceeding includes any suit, case or appeal; and(b)corresponding
court, tribunal authority or officer in any of Union territory means-(i)the
court, tribunal, authority or officer in which, or before whom, the proceeding
would have laid if it had been instituted after the appointed day; or(ii)in
case of doubt, such court, tribunal, authority, or officer in that Union
territory, as may be determined after the appointed day by the Government or
administration of that Union territory, or the Central Government, as the case
may be, or before the appointed day by the Government of the existing State of
Jammu and Kashmir to be the corresponding court, tribunal, authority or
officer.

### 101. Right of pleaders to practise in certain cases.

\- Any person who, immediately before the appointed day, is enrolled as a
pleader entitled to practise in any subordinate court in the existing State of
Jammu and Kashmir shall, for a period of one year from that day, continue to
be entitled to practise in those courts, notwithstanding that the whole or any
part of the territories within the jurisdiction of those courts has been
transferred to any of the Union Territories.

### 102. Effect of provisions of the Act inconsistent with other laws.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law.

### 103. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the President may, by order do anything not inconsistent with such provisions
which appears to him to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing
the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a
period of five years from the appointed day.(2)Every order made under this
section shall be laid before each House of Parliament.The First Schedule(See
Section 9)Union territory of Jammu and KashmirMembers of Council of State

S.No. | Name of the sitting Member | Term  
---|---|---  
1. | Fayaz Mir Mohammad | 11/02/2015 to 10/02/2021  
2. | Laway Shri Nazir Ahmed | 16/02/2015 to15/02/2021  
3. | Manhas Shri Shamsher Singh | 11/02/2015 to 10/02/2021  
4. | Ghulam Nabi Azad | 16/02/2015 to 15/02/2021  
  
The Second Schedule[See Section 11(1)]Amendments to the Delimitation of
Parliamentary Constituencies Order, 1976Union territory of Jammu and
KashmirParliamentary Constituencies

S.No. | Name of the Constituency | Extent of Constituency  
---|---|---  
1. | Baramulla | Baramulla District  
2. | Srinagar | Srinagar District  
3. | Anantnag Anantnag District | Anantnag District  
4. | Udhampur | Udhampur, Doda and Kathua Districts  
5. | Jammu | Jammu, Rajouri and Poonch Districts  
  
Union territory of LadakhParliamentary Constituency

S.No. | Name of the Constituency | Extent of Constituency  
---|---|---  
1. | Ladakh | Ladakh District  
Note. - (i) |  Any reference in this Schedule to a districtshall be taken to mean the area comprised within that districton the 1st day of August, 1975.  
(ii) |  As per details included in Delimitation ofParliamentary and Assembly Constituencies Order, 1976 underArticles 81 & 82 of the Constitution of India as applied tothe State of Jammu and Kashmir by the Constitution (Applicationto J&K) Order, 1954 (C.O. 48).  
  
The Third Schedule[See Section 14(5)]Amendments to the Delimitation of
Assembly Constituencies Order, 1995Union territory of Jammu and
KashmirAssembly Constituencies

S. No. | Name of the Assembly Constituency | Extent  
---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3  
|  | Kupwara District  
1 | Karnah |  All PCs of Tehsil Karnah; PC Keran of TehsilKupwara.  
2. | Kupwara |  PCs 18-Sulakot, 20-Radabug, 22-Bumhama ,23-Drugmulla, 25-Gushi, 26-Batergam, 27-Dadikoot, 30-Gulgam,31-Harrai, 32-Hayan, 33-Trehgam, 34-Guglose, 35-Kralpora,36-Guzeryal, 37-Gundizona-Reshi, 38-Panzgam, 39-Meelyal,40-Shooloora, 41-Dardihairi-Kharagund, 42-Kupwara and P.C.55-Manzgam in Tehsil Handwara.  
3. | Lolab |  PCs 1-Harduring, 2-Chontiwari, 3-Machil,4-Kalaroch, 5-Khumrayal, 6-Kanthpora, 7-Wawoora, 8-Maidanpora,9-Khurhama, 10-Warnow, 11-Krusan, 12-Sogam, 13-Darapora,14-Lalpora, 15-Chandigam, 16-Tekipora, 17-Dewar Inderbug,19-Manigah, 29-Haihama, 45-Dardapora in Kupwara Tehsil.  
4. | Handwara |  PCs 8-Maidan Chogal, 28-Taratpora, 29-Wilgam,30-Lilam, 31-Dulipora, 32-Opzawani, 33-Shogapora, 34-Neelipora,35-Magam, 36-Jagarpora, 39-Behnipora, 40-Rajpora, 41-Zachaldara,42-Wadder, 43-Turkapora, 44-Chanjimulla, 45-Wadipora, 46-BhakiAkhar, 47-Batakoot, 48-Braripora, 49-Waripora Gonipora,50-Nutanoosa, 51-Kandikhas, 52-Handwara; 53- Dhama,54-Panchakoot in Tehsil Handwara; and 21-Kegam, 28-Nagrimalpora,24-Najatpora in Tehsil Kupwara.  
5. | Langate |  PCs 1- Langate, 2-Unusu, 3-Pohrupeth, 4-Glura,5- Martgam, 6-Hanga, 7-Shanoo, 9-Nowgam, 10-Mawar, 11-Qalamchakla, 12- Adura, 13-Haril, 14-Drangsoo-Shah- Nagri,15-Udipora, 16- Kralagund, 17-Lokipora, 18-Kichlo Qazipora,19-Khaipora, 20-Panditpora, 21-Super-Nagam, 22-Ashapora,23-Safalpora, 24-Kralpora, 25-Deedarpora, 26-Shathgund-Balla,27-Rawalpora, 37-Wasiakawnar, 38- Lachampora in Tehsil Handwara.  
|  | Baramulla District  
6. | Uri | All PCs in Tehsil Uri.  
7. | Rafiabad |  PCs 11-Chakloo, 12-Nadihal, 13-Shitloo, 15-Biner Kahdoora in Tehsil Baramulla; andPCs 5-Nowpora Kalan, 8-Watergam, 9-Fidarpora,10-Handipora, 11-Yarbug, 12-Riban-Ramhama, 13- Ladora,14-Rehama, 15-Chijahama, 16- Wanpora, 17-Panzalla- Gundabal, 18-Sailkoot, 19-Balhama-Thakanpora, 20-Chatoosa, 21-Dangiwacha,22-Rawacha, 23-Harduchanam, 24-Bakshipora-Batapora, 25-Zithan,36- Behrampora, 37-Chitlora, 38- Achabal in Tehsil Sopore.  
8. | Sopore |  PCs 1-Sopore with NAC, 2- Warapora, 3-Arampora, 4- Dangerpora, 6- Watalab, 32- Seeloo, 33- Botingoo,34- Mundji, 35- Duroo, 39- Hardu-Shiva, 41- Aadipora- Bomai,42-Wadoora, 40-Tujar-Pahlihar, 43- Harwan, 44- Zaloora in TehsilSopore.  
9. | Gurez | All PCs in Tehsil Gurez.  
10. | Bandipora |  All PCs in Tehsil Bandipora; and PC 1- Ajas ofTehsil Sonawari.  
11. | Sonawari | All PCs in Tehsil Sonawari excluding PC 1-Ajas.  
12. | Sangrama |  PCs 16-Kreeri, 17-Wizar, 18-Authora,19-Shalakawara, 20-Nowpora-Jagir, 21-Wagoora, 22-Kachumuqam, 24-Manigam, 25-Kalantara-Balla, 26 - Dandmoh, 27- Sultanpora-Kandiin Tehsil Baramulla; and 7-Tarzoo, 26-Hygam, 27-Seer-Jagir,28-Bulagam, 29-Sangrama, 30-Krank-Shivan, 31-Wagub in TehsilSopore.  
13. | Baramulla |  PCs 1- Laridora, 2- Heewan, 30 Malapora,4-Kich-Hama, 50-Ushkara, 6-Khanpora with NAC, 7-Khaja-Bagh,8-Taki-Sultan, 9-Khaitangan, 10-Delina, 14-Kansipora, 23-Chandoosa in Tehsil Baramulla.  
14. | Gulmarg |  All PCs in Teshil Gulmarg; and 2-WailooKralpora, 8-Sriwarpora, 9-Chokar, 10- Waripora-Bangil, 12-Malmoh, 13- Nowlari, 16-Yal in Tehsil Pattan.  
15. | Pattan |  Tehsil Pattan excluding 2-Wailoo-Kralpora,8-Sriwarapora, 9-Chokar, 10-Waripora Bangil, 12- Malmoh,13-Nowlari and 16-Yal.  
|  | Srinagar District  
16. | Kangan |  All PCs of Tehsil Kangan; and PCs -Manigam,2-Wailoo, 3-Nunar in Tehsil Ganderwal.  
17. | Ganderbal |  Tehsil Ganderbal excluding 1-Manigam, 2-Wailoo,3-Nunar and P.C. Haran in Srinagar Tehsil.  
18. | Hazratbal |  Ward 16 in Srinagar Municipality (excludingMunicipal areas not falling in Srinagar Tehsil but falling inGanderbal Tehsil) and PC 9-Bachpora in Tehsil Ganderbal andWards 17 and 12 except the following Mohallas of Ward 12 ; MugalMohalla, Surateng, Khawjapora, Kocha Nidan, Zindashah and boatpopulation of these wards.  
19. | Zadibal |  Wards 14 and 15 in Srinagar Municipality andboat population of Anchar and of the ghats of these wards.  
20. | Idgah |  Wards 8 and 11 in Srinagar Municipality andP.C. 38-Palpora and 41-Sangam in Srinagar Tehsil.  
21. | Khanyar |  Wards 10-13 of Srinagar Municipality and thefollowing mohallas of Ward 12-Mugal Mohalla, Surateng,Khawjapora, Zindshah and Kocha Nidan and boat population ofthese wards.  
22. | Habbakadal |  Wards 7 and 9 in Srinagar Municipality and boatpopulation of Wards 6, 7 and 9.  
23. | Amirakadal |  Wards 3 and 4 inSrinagar Municipality excluding (i) Natipora (rural), (ii)Rawalpora (rural), (iii) Hyderpora (rural) ;and excluding Aramwari, Gund Chandal, Stingoo,Sutho Kirther Bagh in Tehsil Chadoora and Watdoor, GalwanporaLaloo and Shesgam Bagh in Tehsil Badgam and boat population ofthese wards and of Ward 5.  
24. | Sonawar |  Wards 1 and 2 in Srinagar Municipality andBadamibagh Cantonment and P.C. 21-Chitrahama, 19-Dara,29-Khunmu, 30-Balhama, 31-Zewan in Tehsil Sringar and boatpopulation of ghats in these wards.  
25. | Batamaloo |  Wards 5 and 6 in Srinagar Municipality ; andPCs 6-Mujgund, 42-Bachipora Tengpora in Srinagar Tehsil.  
|  | Budgam District  
26. | Chadoora |  The following Patwar Circles of TehsilChadoora, 16-Chadoora, 24-Chattergam, 25-Wagora, 26-Wathura,27-Khanda, 28-Bugam Batapora, 29-Kralpora, 30-Hayatpora,31-Pohroo, 32-Rakh Shalina, 33-Bagati Kanipora, 34-Nowgam,35-Kanihama, 36-Daulatpora, 38-Natipora rural area outsideSrinagar Municipal limits in ward 4 and 39-Lasjan and Aramwari,Gund, Chandal Stengoo, Suthoo, Kirtherbagh and 40-KursuPadshahibagh.  
27. | Badgam |  PCs 1-Soibugh, 2-Dhrmana, 3-Wahabpora, 4-Arth,5-Wadwan, 6-Bemina, 7-Pallar, 8-Garriend Kalan, 9-Sholipra,10-Nassar-ullah-Pora, 11-Jahama, 12-Water-Wani, 28-Chune,29-Badgam, 30-Ompora 31-Narkara, 32-Humhama, 35-Karewa Damodar,36-Gund-Sathu, 37-Ichakoot, 38-Ichgam, 33-Rawalpora (rural),34-Hyderpora (rural) in Badgam Tehsil.  
28. | Beerwah |  PCs 1-Suzeth-Gooripora, 2-Kawoosa Khalisa,3-Kawoosa Jagir, 4-Batapora Kahihama, 5-Sanoor-Kalipora, 6-HarduMalpora, 7-Bandagam, 8-Utligam, 9-Mula- Shulla, 10-Sonapah,12-Gondipora, 21-Shanglipora, 22-Khag, 23-Malpora Khag,24-Himchipora, 25-Lalpora, 26-Beerwah, 27-Chewdara, 28-PethMukahama, 29-Rathusun, 30-Bona Makhama, 31-Nagam,32-Iskanderpora, 33-Aripanthan, 34-Palpora, 36-Hardua-Shorsh inTehsil Beerwah.  
29. | Khansahib |  PCs 1-Hokhalatri, 13-Phartahn, 14-Kandoora,15-Drahg, 16-Sitaharan, 17-Zogikharian, 18-Arizal, 19-Qamroo,20-Rawalpora-Beerwah ; and PC 35- Sail in Tehsil Berwah; and PCs13-Waterhail, 14-Jawalapora, 15-Sondipora, 16-Dalipora, 17-YariKhah, 18-Talapora, 19-Parnawah, 20-Drayagram, 21-FrestwarKhasipora, 22-Arigam, 23-Khan Sahib, 24-Raithan, 25-Kachwari,26-Gurwait Kalan, 27-Falchall in Tehsil Budgam.  
30. | Chrar-i-Sharief |  PCs 1-Gogji Pathari, 2-Brinjan, 3-HafrooBatapora, 4-Branawar, 5-Surasyar, 6-Dada- Ompara, 7-Hanjura,8-Nowpora, 9-Pakharpora, 10-Hardu Dalwan Futlipora,11-Teelsarah, 12-Chrar-i-Sharief, 13-Watkaloo, 14-DarawanNowgam, 15-Chtsesn, 17-Nagam, 18-Badipora, 19-Yarikalan,20-Ropora Namtihal, 21-Kanir, 22-Ranger, 23-Sogam, 37-Nowhar inTehsil Chadoora.  
|  | Pulwama District  
31. | Tral | All PCs in Tehsil Tral.  
32. | Pampore |  All PCs in Tehsil Pampore and Patwar Circles26-Awantipora, 27-Padgampora, 29-Lilhar, 46-Nihama, 47-Kakaporain Tehsil Pulwama.  
33. | Pulwama |  PCs 1-Inder, 2-Gangoo, 5-Pulwama with NAC,9-Ratnipora, 10-Pahoo, 11-Trich, 12-Koil, 13-Pinglina, 14-Narwa,17-Litter-Shistar, 18-Nayina, 19-Panzgam, 20-Dogripora,21-Rishipora, 22-Laderpur, 23-Nownagri, 24-Tokna, 25-Malangpora,28-Lajoora, 40-Palapora, 45-Newa, 48-Jagir Parigam, 49-TumchiNowpora, 50-Hakripora in Tehsil Pulwama.  
34. | Rajpora |  PCs 3-Karimabad, 4-Moran, 6-Kangan, 7-Wahibugh,8-Gosoo, 15-Bonarah, 16-Trichal, 30-Ramoo, 31-Billowdergund,32-Qasbayar, 33-Drubgam, 34-Mitrigam, 35-Abhama, 36-Trujan,37-Khaigam, 38-Noorpora Payeen, 39-Arihal, 41-Tahab- Shadipora,42-Achan, 43-Chandigam, 44-Rajpora in Tehsil Pulwama.  
35. | Wachi |  PCs 8-Kalroo Malikgund, 9-Nadigam,11-Dangerpora, 12-Turka Wangam, 13-Urapora, 14-Hardu-Handow,15-Harmain, 16-Chak-Chowand, 17-Kapran, 19-Dangam, 20-Chakora,21-Pratabpora, 24-Kanji-Ullar, 25-Chitragam,, 26-Darikalpora,27-Hef, 28-Sugan, 29-Awnera, 30-Wachi, 31-Aglar, 32-Zainapora,and 39-Allowpora- Sheikhpora in Tehsil Shopian.  
36. | Shopian |  PCs 1-Saidapora, 2-Meemandar, 3-Arhama,4-Pinjoora, 5-Ganowpora Arish, 6-Bemnipora, 7-Harapora,10-Trenz, 18-Vehilchal-Awatoo, 22-Sedew, 23-Ram Nagri,33-Diyaroo, 34-Barthipora, 35-Daramdoora, 36-Zoora-Baderhama,37-Narapora, 38-Keegam, 40-Keller Mastpora, 41-Pahlipora,42-Sindhu-Shrimal, 43-Shopian, 44-Devipora (forest block) inTehsil Shopian.  
|  | Anantnag District  
37. | Noorabad. |  PCs 5-Malwan, 6- Pahloo, 7-Akhal, 23- Gudder,34-Brinal Lamber, 46-Damhal- Hanjipora, 47- Ahmada-Abad, 48-Yaroo, 49 - Hardu-Mandagori, 51- Manzgam, 52-Asnoor, 53-Wattoo,54-Avil, 55-Khuri-Batapora, 56-Nagam, 57-Danow-Kandimarg,58-Bdi-Jehalan, 59-Chimar, 60-Qasba Khul, 61-Nandimarg in TehsilKulgam.  
38. | Kulgam |  PCs 1-Kulgam with NAC, 2-Hanad-Chawalgam,3-Amnoo, 4-Chamabagund, 11-Ashmuji, 19-Mirhama, 20-Akey,21-Pariwan, 22-Chehla, 24-Areh, 25-Bihibagh, 26-Gopalpora,38-Bugam, 39-Tarigam-Devsar, 43-Yamroch, 44-Munand-Guffan,45-Katersoo, 50-Largurhama in Tehsil Kulgam.  
39. | Home-Shalibugh |  PCs 8-Uranhal, 9-Tuli-Nowpora, 10-Kujar,12-Redwani, 13-Arwani, 14-Frisal, 15-Jablipora, 16-Wanpora,17-Hassanpora Tavela, 18-Khandi-Phari, 40-Tarigam- Devibugh,41-Matibugh, 42-Homshalibugh in Tehsil Kulgam.  
40. | Anantnag |  PCs 1-Qasba Bhagat, 2-Khanabal, 3-Roohoo,4-Kamar, 5-Anchidoora, 6-Hardu- Chichan, 10-Ranbirpora in TehsilAnantnag.  
41. | Devsar |  PCs 27-Devsar,28-Bona Devsar, 29-Kilam-Buzgam, 30-Hablishi, 31-Nipora,32-Laram- Ganipora, 33-Chowgam, 35-Razloo, 36-Waitengu, 37-SopatTengpora, 62-Oral in Tehsil Kulgam ; andPCs 18-Vesoo, 19-Nasoo-Badargund, 20-Panzeth,21-Kurigam, 23- Qazigund with NAC in Doru Tehsil.  
42. | Doru |  PCs 1- Doru, 2-Bragam, 3-Oibamdooth,4-Mantpora, 5-Larkipora, 6-Hakura, - Badasgam, 7-Batgund,8-Verinag, 9-Sadiwara, 10-Mundah, 11-Hiller, 12-Nowgam Shahabad,13-Rain-Chowgund, 14-Thamankoot, 15-Qamar, 16-Halsidar,17-Kapron, 22- Wangund in Tehsil Doru.  
43. | Kokernag |  PCs 28-Saagam, 29-Bider-Hayatpora, 30-Bhai,31-Akingam, 32-Nagam, 33-Soof-Shali, 34-Panzgam,35-Bindo-Zulangam, 36-Devalgam, 37-Nalla-Sund-Brari,38-Lohar-Sanzi, 39-Ahlan-Gadol, 40-Kharatti, 41-Desoo,42-Kharapora, 43-Qasba-Nowbugh, 44-Mati Hundoo, 45-Larnoo,46-Kokernag NAC, 47-Achabal NAC in Tehsil Anantnag.  
44. | Shangus |  PCs 13-Sahibabad, 14-Nowgam, 15-Imoh, 16-Brakapora, 17-Shangus, 18-Uttarsoo, 19-Kreri, 20-Chatergul,21-Ghikalpora, 22-Ranipora, 23-Detho-Nagnarian, 24-Gopalpora,25-Telwani, 26-Kwarigam, 27-Ahupaisan in Tehsil Anantnag.  
45. | Bijbehara |  All PCs in Tehsil Bijbehara and PCs 7-MachaBawan, 11-Nanilang, 12-Akora in Tehsil Anantnag.  
46. | Pahalgam |  All PCs in Tehsil Pahalgam and PCs8-Seer-Kanligund, 9-Salia in Tehsil Anantnag.  
|  | Doda District  
47. | Kishtwar |  PCs 1-Marghi, 2-Inshan, 3-Yerudu, 4-Renai,5-Nowpachi, 6-Chanjer, 7-Qaderana, 8-Deharana, 9-Lopara,10-Loharna, 11-Soundhar, 19-Palmar, 30-Trigam, 31-Kishtwar,32-Matta, 33-Poochal, 34-Dool, 35-Bhagnah, 36-Galarbahta,37-Atholi, 38-Sohal, 39-Ishtiari, 40-Gulabgarh, 41-Massu,42-Kishtwar NAC, 43-Forest Block in Tehsil Kishtwar.  
48. | Inderwal |  PCs 12-Chingam,13-Inderwal, 14-Chatroo, 15-Sigdi, 16-Moolchhiter, 17-Drubeel,18-Kochal, 20-Filler, 21-Pakhalan, 22-Keshwan, 23-Shandri,24-Sangna, 25-Patnazi, 26-Jawalapur, 27-Loundri, 28-Badhat and29-Karool in Tehsil Kishtwar ; PCs 1-Jakyas in Tehsil Bhalesa(Gandoh) and following PCs of Tehsil Thathri :--1-Jangalwar, 3-Malanoo, 4-Kansu, 10-Kandote.  
49. | Doda |  All PCs of Tehsil Doda except 8-Dessa,9-Dhandal, 10-Kastigarh, 11-Shamti, 12-Chaka Kundi, 13-Assar,14-Charrota.  
50. | Bhaderwah |  All PCs of TehsilBhaderwah and PCs 2-Budhli, 3-Chilli, 4-Drawani, 5-KahalJugasar, 6-Budwar, 7-Chanisar, 8-Kilotran, 9-Kharangal,10-Gandoh in Tehsil Bhalesa ; andPCs 2-Jora, 5-Bhaja, 6-Bhalla, 7-Jagiti,8-Bhallari, 9-Rokali, 11-Pamshayee in Tehsil Thathri.  
51. | Ramban (SC) |  All PCs of Tehsil Ramban except 5-Sarbagni andPCs of 8-Dessa, 9-Dhandhal, 10-Kastigarh, 11-Shamti, 12-Chaka,13-Assar, 14-Charrota of Tehsil Doda.  
52. | Banihal |  All PCs of Tehsil Banihal and 5-Sarbagni inTehsil Ramban.  
|  | Udhampur District  
53. | Gulabgarh |  PCs 2-Mahore, 2-Sarh, 3-Dewal, 4-Gulabgarh,5-Chasote, 6-Bagankote, 7-Shergarhi, 8-Shikari, 9-Kanthi,10-Tulibana, 13-Shajroo in Tehsil Gulabgarh and PC 16-Jij inTehsil Reasi.  
54. | Reasi |  Tehsil Reasi exceptfollowing Pcs:-1.Salal, 15-Chinkah,16-Jij, 17-Thakrakote and following PCs of Tehsil Udhampur:-13-Panjar, 14-Lali, 15-Ladah, 17-Dhandu,18-Jhandawa, 32-Badhota and 19-Suhal.  
55. | Gool Arnas |  Following PCs ofTehsil Gool Gulabgarh:-11-Thuru, 12-Bhudhan, 14-Kanthan, 15-Judda,16-Dhanow, 17-Kali Masta, 18-Gool, 19-Thatharka, 20-Sangaldan,21-Forest Block ; and 1-Salal, 15-Chinkah, 17-Thakrakote inTehsil Reasi.  
56. | Udhampur All |  PCs of TehsilUdhampur except the following PCs :-13-Panjar, 14-Lali, 15-Ladha, 17-Dhandu,18-Jhandawa, 19-Suhal, 20-Ludha, 21-Balian, 27-Sunal, 29-Meer,30-Kathi, 32-Badhota.  
57. | Chenani (SC) |  All PCs of TehsilChenani and following PCs of Tehsil Udhampur :-20-Ladha, 21-Balian,27-Sunal, 29-Meer, 30-Kathi and following PCs of TehsilRamnagar.10-Dudu, 11-Latti, 31-Ghordi, 33-Hartarian,34-Dandal, 35-Barmeen, 36-Nalla Ghoran.  
58. | Ramnagar |  All PCs of TehsilRamnagar except the following :-10-Dudu, 11-Latti, 31-Ghordi, 33-Hartarian,34-Dhandal, 35-Barmeen, 36-Nala Ghoran.  
|  | Kathua District  
59. | Bani |  PCs 14-Bani, 15-Banjal, 16-Fatehpur,17-Sandroon, 18-Rolka, 19-Buggah, 20-Lowang, 21-Kanthal,22-Surjan, 23-Dhanggar, 24-Koti, 25-Forest Block in TehsilBasohli and 9-Godu Flal, 10-Bdnota, 11-Machadi, 20-Malhar inTehsil Billawar.  
60. | Basohli |  PCs 1-Thein, 2-Basantpur, 3-Lakhanpur, 4-Hatli,7-Tridwan, 36-Lakhanpur NAC, 29-Berthian and 30-Sorlian inTehsil Kathua and PCs 1-Basohli, 1-a-Basohli NAC, 2-Sandhar,3-Hutt, 4-Bhoond, 5-Saman, 6-Dhar Jankar, 7-Dhar Mahanpur,8-Plahi, 9-Prita, 10- Saber, 11-Patti, 12-Athalith, 13-Mahanpurin Tehsil Basohli and PCs 21-Dhar Digno, 22-Huttar, 23-Dambra inTehsil Billawar.  
61. | Kathua |  PCs 5-Dilwan, 6-Maha, 8-Kharote, 9-TarafManjili, 10-Taraf Tajwal, 11-Karian, 12-Taraf Bajwal,13-Changran, 14-Govindsar, 15-Chak Soon Noopa, 16-Khakhyal,17-Mirpur Ram, 18-Taraf Balla, 20-Katharian, 21-Janglote,22-Loagate, 23-Jakhbar, 24-Airwan, 26-Chak Sakta, 27-Budhi,28-Nanan, 31-Barwal, 32-Jherhere, 33-Kathua Forest Block,34-Kathua NAC , 35-Perlain and 25-Folote in Tehsil Kathua.  
62. | Billawar |  PCs 11-Katli, 17-Bhaya, 21-Denga Amb,23-Dhamal, 25-Mangloor, 26-Chelakh, 27-Salain in TehsilHiranagar and PCs 1-Ramkot, 2-Makwal, 3-Salora, 4-Rajwlta,5-Danjisdhar, 6-Thara Kalwal, 7-Kalyal, 8-Thanthoo, 12-Kohag,13-Malti, 14-Durang, 15-Dharan Kote, 16-Bhaddu, 17-Billawar,18-Billawar NAC, 19-Buggan, 24-Parnala, 25-Pallan in TehsilBillawar and PC 19-Juthana in Tehsil Kathua.  
63. | Hiranagar (SC) |  1-Jatwal, 2-Nonath, 3-Ghagwal, 4-Sarath,5-Bhatyari Kotlan, 6-Sanoora, 7-Mawa, 8-Nohran, 9-Chachwal,10-Sarti Kalan, 12-Chak Dulma, 13-Jondi, 14-Londi, 15-Rajpura,16-Kootah, 18-Gurah Mathian, 19-Bavia, 20-Katal Brahmana,24-Hamirpur, 28-Chhan Rorian, 29-Marheen, 22-Saiswan,30-Khanpur, 31-Hiranagar, 32-Hiranagar NAC, 33-Pansar, 34-KorePunu, 35-Chak Deva, 36-Chak Bhagwana, 37-Chak Kahna, 38-Chadwal,39-Forest Block in Tehsil Hiranagar.  
|  | Jammu District  
64. | Samba (SC) |  PCs 1-NAC Samba, 2-Samba Khas, 3-Taloor,4-Amli, 5-Durin, 6-Katli, 7-Ram Nagar, 8-Pingdore, 11-Sunian,10-Sarna, 12-Bhartgarh, 13-Suran, 14-Goran, 15-Balhter,17-Katwalta, 18-Kharah Madena, 21-Baghore, 22-Purmandal,24-Mohar Garh, 25-Badhari, 26-Kard in Tehsil Samba and PC28-Chaudi in Jammu Tehsil.  
65. | Vijaypur |  PCs 9-Khanpur, 20-Vijaypur, 23-Gurah Salathian,28-Harmander, 29-Chak Salarian, 30-Nanga, 31-Logwal, 32-KesoManhasan, 33-Ramgarh, 34-Gho-Brahmana, 35 Chak Chataka, 36-ChannFatwal, 37-Abtal, 38-Swankha, 39-Mahal Shan, 40-Rari,41-Smailpur, 27-Birpur, 42-Tarore, 43-Bagla, 44-Gandwal inTehsil Samba.  
66. | Nagrota |  PCs 39-Ranjan, 40-Sarote, 41-Jandial, 42-Gorda,44-Nagrota, 45-Dansal, 46-Jhajar Kotli, 47-Thara, 48-Bamyal,49-Katal Batal, 50-Shiba, 51-Jagti, 52-Jindrah, 53-Kanyala,54-Kothar, 55-Kharte, 56-Dhan, 57-Songoon, 58-Ponthal,59-Surinsar in Tehsil Jammu and PCs 16-Bain Bajalta, 19-Aithamin Tehsil Samba.  
67. | Gandhinagar |  Ward-16 (Gandhinagar), Ward-17 (Naibasti),Ward-22 (Chhani Rama), Ward-23 (Bahu), 24-Digiana, 26-Bahu,27-Sunjwan, 29-Gadigarh, 30-Satwari in Tehsil Jammu.  
68. | Jammu East | Wards 1 to 6, 9, 10, 12 and 15.  
69. | Jammu West | Wards 7, 8, 11, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20 and 21.  
70. | Bishnah |  All PCs in Tehsil Bishnah and 25-Naugran inTehsil Jammu.  
71. | R. S. Pura (SC) |  PCs 1-Salhar, 2-Rathana, 3-Kandlihar, 4-Khour,5-Kalyana, 14-R. S. Pura with NAC, 15-Khas Gigian, 16-Chohalla,19-Kirpind, 20-Kotli Shah Dula, 25-Marlia, 24-Darsopur,35-Gondla in Tehsil R. S. Pura.  
72. | Suchetgarh |  PCs 6-Dablihar, 7-Magowali, 8-Parlah, 9-ChakBaza, 10-Nekowal, 11-Jevroh, 12-Saie Kalan, 13-Chak Mulo,17-Badyal Brahmana, 18-Jssore, 21-Chak Agra, 22-FatehpurBrahmana, 25-Samka, 26-Baspur, 27-Rangpur Malana, 28-Suchetgarh,29-Chandu Chak, 30-Satowali, 31-Grarana, 32-Badyal Qazian,33-Abdal, 34-Chakroi in Tehsil R. S. Pura.  
73. | Marh |  PCs 60-Prahaladpur, 61-Mandal, 62-Sum, 65-GhoManhasan, 66-Sohanjana, 67-Thub, 68-Sahran, 69-Rathua,70-Chanore, 71-Makwal, 72-Gool, 74-Gajansoo, 75-Kalyanpur,76-Kahnachak, 77-Marh, 78-Gangoo Chak, 79-Kalrup, 80-Dhateryal,31-Flora Nagbani in Tehsil Jammu.  
74. | Raipur Domana (SC) |  PCs 31-Paloura, 32-Muthi, 33-Barn, 34-SiriPanditan, 35-Gharota, 36-Raipur Domana, 37-Kot Bhalwal, 38-Amb,43-Kaink, 63-Hakkal, 64-Khandwal, 73-Bhadora, 82-Panjore inTehsil Jammu.  
75. | Akhnoor |  PCs 1-Chowki, 2-Choura, 3-Kathar, 4-Mandarian,8-Narri, 6-Ambaran, 7-Barui, 9-Ganderwan, 10-Manda, 11-AkhnoorKhas, 12-Sungal, 13-Pangairi, 14-Devipur, 15-Chak Kirpalpur,16-Jadh, 17-Muthi Maira, 18-Rakh Dhoke, 19-Saliote, 20-GharMajoor, 21-Mawa Brahmana, 22-Leherian in Tehsil Akhnoor.  
76. | Chhamb (SC) |  PCs 8-Mattoo, 24-Gurah Manhasan, 25-Sarwal,23-Pargwal, 26-Bhalwal Malu, 27-Hamirpur, 28-Bakore, 29-ChakMalal, 30-Derian, 31-Sainth, 32-Gigarial, 33-Khour, 34-Kot Mera,35-Palanwala, 36-Kharah, 37-Nathal, 38- Doori, 39-ChhaniDewanoo, 40-Samuan, 41-Chakla in Tehsil Akhnoor.  
|  | Rajouri District  
77. | Nowshera |  All PCs of Tehsil Nowshara except 11-Narian andall PCs of Tehsil Sunderbani.  
78. | Darhal |  All PCs of TehsilBudhal except 3-Khawas, 6-Kote Chalwal and following PCs ofTehsil Thanamandi :-5-Darhal, 6-Chowdian, 7-Nadian, 8-Ujhan ; andPC 4-Nagrota in Tehsil Rajouri.  
79. | Rajouri |  Following PCs ofTehsil Rajouri :-1-Gambir Muglan,2-Dani-Dhar, 7-Bathooni, 8-Sarola, 9-Sohana, 10-Doongi Brahmana,11-Katarmal, 12-Deri Delote, 13-Panj Grain, 14-Galhoti,15-Fatehpur, 17-Bagla, 19-Rampur with NAC Rajouri with followingPCs of Thanamandi Tehsil:-1-Dodasan Balla, 2-Saaj, 3-Shahdara Sharief,4-Hosplote, 10-Thanamandi with NAC and 9-Bharote.  
80. | Kalakote |  All PCs of TehsilKalakote and following PCs of Tehsil Rajouri :-2-Dalhari,3-Dhangri, 6-Potha Grlana, 16-Khanpur Chingus, 18-Bhadoon and PC11-Narian of Tehsil Nowshera ; and3-Khaskote Chalwal of Budhal Tehsil.  
|  | Poonch District  
81. | Surankote |  All PCs in Surankote Tehsil and PCs 12-Rajpur,21-Shindra, 22-Seri-Khawja in Poonch Tehsil.  
82. | Mendhar | All PCs of Tehsil Mendhar.  
83. | Poonch Haveli |  All PCs of Tehsil Poonch except 12-Rajpur,21-Shindra, 22-Sheri Khawja.  
Note.- Any reference in thistable to a Tehsil, Patwar Circle (P.C.), Ward or
N.A.C.(Notified Area Committee) shall be taken to mean the areacomprised
within that Tehsil, Patwar Circle, Notified AreaCommittee or Ward as on
1-4-1995.  
  
The Fourth Schedule(See Sections 16, 24 and 54)Forms of Oaths or
AffirmationsIForm of Oath or Affirmation To be Made by a Candidate For
Election To The Legislative Assembly of The Union Territory of Jammu and
Kashmir"I, A.B., having been nominated as a candidate to fill a seat in the
Legislative Assembly of _________________do swear in the name of God/ solemnly
affirm that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India
as by law established and that I will uphold the sovereignty and integrity of
India."IIForm of Oath or Affirmation To Be Made by a Member of The Legislative
Assembly of The Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir"I, A.B., having been
elected (or nominated) a member of the Legislative Assembly of ______________
do swear in the name of God/ solemnly affirm that I will bear true faith and
allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established, that I will
uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India and that I will faithfully
discharge the duty upon which I am about to enter."IIIForm of Oath of Office
For a Member of The Council of Ministers of The Union Territory of Jammu and
Kashmir"I, A.B., ______________ do swear in the name of God/ solemnly affirm
that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by
law established, that I will uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India,
that I will faithfully and conscientiously discharge my duties as a Minister
for the Union territory of ______________, and that I will do right to all
manner of people in accordance with the Constitution and the law without fear
and favour, affection or ill-will."IVForm of Oath of Secrecy For a Member of
The Council of Ministers of The Union Territory of Jammu And Kashmir"I, A.B.,
______________ do swear in the name of God/ solemnly affirm that I will not
directly or indirectly communicate or reveal to any person or persons any
matter which shall be brought under my consideration or shall become known to
me as a Minister for the Union territory of ______________, except as may be
required for the due discharge of my duties as such Minister."The Fifth
Schedule(See Sections 95 and 96)Table - 1Central Laws Made Applicable To The
Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir; and Union Territory of Ladakh

S.No. | Name of the Act | Section/Amendments  
---|---|---  
1. | The Aadhar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
2. | The Administrative Tribunal Act, 1985. |  Clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 1shall be omitted.  
3. | The Anand Marriage Act, 1909. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
4. | The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. |  Proviso to sub-section (2) of section 1 shallbe omitted.  
5. | The Prohibition ofBenamiProperty Transactions Act, 1988. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
6. | The Charitable Endowment Act, 1890. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
7. | The Chit Funds Act, 1982. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
8. | The Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. |  Clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 1shall be omitted.  
9. | The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
10. | The Commercial Courts Act, 2015. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
11. |  The Commissions for Protection of Child RightsAct, 2006. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
12. | The Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952. |  Proviso to sub-section (2) of section 1 shallbe omitted.  
13. | The Consumer Protection Act, 1986. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
14. | The Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. |  Proviso to sub-section (2) of section 1 shallbe omitted.  
15. | The Delimitation Act, 2002. | Section 2(f) shall be omitted.  
16. | The Dissolution of Muslim Marriages Act, 1939. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words,"except the State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall beomitted.  
17. | The Disturbed Areas (Special Courts) Act, 1976. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
18. | The Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
19. |  The Drugs and Magic Remedies (ObjectionableAdvertisements) Act, 1954. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
20. | The Easements Act, 1891. | Extended as whole.  
21. | The Electricity Act, 2003. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
22. |  The Employees Provident Funds and MiscellaneousProvisions Act, 1952. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
23. |  The Employment of Manual Scavengers andConstruction of Dry Latrines (Prohibition) Act, 1993. | Extended as whole.  
24. | The Enemy Property Act, 1968. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
25. | The Energy Conservation Act, 2001. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
26. | The Family Courts Act, 1984. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
27. | The Fatal Accidents Act, 1855. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
28. | The Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
29. | The General Clauses Act, 1897. | Extended as whole.  
30. |  The Governors (Emoluments, Allowances andPrivileges) Act, 1982. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words,"except the State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall beomitted.  
31. | The Gram Nyayalayas Act, 2009. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
32. | The Guardians and Wards Act, 1890. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
33. | The Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
34. | The Hindu Disposition of Property Act, 1916. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
35. | The Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
36. | The Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
37. | The Hindu Succession Act, 1956. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
38. | The Identification of Prisoners Act, 1920. | Extended as whole.  
39. |  The Indecent Representation of Women(Prohibition)Act, 1986. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
40. | The Indian Boilers Act, 1923. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
41. | The Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
42. | The Indian Contract Act, 1872. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
43. | The Indian Easements Act, 1882. | Extended as whole.  
44. | The Indian Evidence Act, 1872. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
45. | The Indian Forest Act, 1927. | Extended as whole.  
46. | The Indian Nursing Council Act, 1947. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
47. | The Indian Partnership Act, 1932. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
48. | The Indian Penal Code, 1860. |  In section 1, words, "except the State ofJammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
49. | The Indian Stamp Act, 1899. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
50. | The Indian Succession Act, 1925. | Extended as whole.  
51. | The Indian Trusts Act, 1882. |  In section 1, words, "except the State ofJammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
52. | The Indian Veterinary Council Act, 1984. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
53. | The Judges (Protection) Act, 1985. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
54. | The Judicial Officers Protection Act, 1850. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
55. |  The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection ofChildren) Act, 2015. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
56. | The Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
57. | The Limitation Act, 1963. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
58. |  The Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and SeniorCitizens Act, 2007. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
59. | The Majority Act, 1875. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
60. | The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
61. |  The Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act,1937. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
62. |  The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Divorce)Act, 1986. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
63. | The National Commission for Minorities Act, 1992. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
64. |  The National Commission for Minority EducationalInstitutions Act, 2004. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
65. |  The National Commission for Safai karamcharis Act,1993. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
66. | The National Commission for Women Act, 1990. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
67. |  The National Council for Teacher Education Act,1993. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
67-A | National Security Act, 1980 |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
68. |  The National Trust for Welfare of Persons withAutism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and MultipleDisabilities Act, 1999. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
69. | The Oaths Act, 1969. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
70. | The Partition Act, 1893. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
71. | The Pharmacy Act, 1948. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
72. | The Powers-of-Attorney Act, 1882. |  In section 1, words, "except the State ofJammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
73. |  The Preconception and Pre-natal DiagnosticTechniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Act, 1994. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
74. |  The Prevention of Blackmarketing and Maintenanceof Supplies of Essential Commodities Act, 1980. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
75. | The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
76. | The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
77. |  The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act,1984. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe Stateof Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
78. | The Prisoners Act, 1900. | Extended as whole.  
79. | The Prisons Act, 1894. | Extended as whole.  
80. |  The Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act,2005. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
81. |  The Prize Chits and Money Circulation Scheme(Banning) Act, 1978. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
82. | The Probation of Offenders Act, 1958. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
83. | The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
84. |  The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengersand their Rehabilitation Act, 2013. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
85. |  The Protection of Children From Sexual OffencesAct, 2012. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words,"except the State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall beomitted.  
86. | The Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993. |  Proviso to sub-section (2) of section 1 shallbe omitted.  
87. |  The Protection of Women from Domestic ViolenceAct, 2005. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
88. | The Public Gambling Act, 1867. | Extended as whole.  
89. | The Public Records Act, 1993. | Extended as whole.  
90. | The Registration Act, 1908. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
91. | The Religious Endowments Act, 1863. | Extended as whole.  
92. |  The Religious Institutions (Prevention of Misuse)Act, 1988. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
93. |  The Right of Children to Free and CompulsoryEducation Act, 2009. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
94. |  The Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency inLand Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
94A. | The Representation of People Act, 1951. |  In Section (2),(i) In sub-section (1) in clause (d) the words"other than the State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall beomitted; and (ii) Sub-section (5) shall be omitted.  
95. | The Right to Information Act, 2005. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
96. | The Sale of Goods Act, 1930. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
97. |  The Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional ForestDwellers (Recognition of Forests Rights) Act, 2007. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
98. |  The Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes(Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
99. | The Special Marriage Act, 1954. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
100. | The Specific Relief Act, 1963. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
101. | The Suits Valuation Act, 1887. | Extended as whole.  
102. | The Transfer of Property Act, 1882. | Extended as whole.  
103. |  The Transplantation of Human Organs and TissuesAct, 1994. | Extended as whole.  
104. | The Wakf Act, 1995. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
105. | The Whistle Blowers Protection Act, 2014. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
106. | The Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972. |  In sub-section (2) of section 1, words, "exceptthe State of Jammu and Kashmir" shall be omitted.  
  
Table - 2State Laws which Shall be Applicable to the Union Territory of Jammu
and Kashmir and Union Territory of Ladakh with Amendments

S.No. | Year | No. | Short title | Amendments  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
1. | Svt 1977 (1920AD) | XLII | The Transfer of Property Act | Section 139 and section 140 shall be omitted.  
2. | Svt 1995 (1938 AD) | V | The Jammu and Kashmir Alienation of Land Act | Section 4 and section 4-A shall be omitted;  
3. | Svt 2007 (1950 AD) | XVII |  The Jammu and Kashmir Big Landed EstatesAbolition Act | Section 20-A shall be omitted.  
4. | 1960 | xxxvm | The Jammu and Kashmir Land Grants Act |  A. Provisos to sub-section 1 of section 4 shallbe omitted; and  
|  |  |  |  B. Clause (i) of sub-section 2 of section 4shall be omitted.  
5. | 1976 | XVII | The Jammu and Kashmir Agrarian Reforms Act | Section 17 shall be omitted.  
6. | 1989 | X | The Jammu and Kashmir Cooperative Societies Act |  Sub-Clause (ii) of clause (a) of sub-section(1) of section 17 shall be omitted.  
7. | 2004 | XIV | The Jammu and Kashmir Reservation Act |  A. In section 2 after clause (g), the followingclause shall be inserted namely:-  
|  |  |  |  "(ga) "economically weaker sections"means such categories as may be notified by the Government fromtime to time, on the basis of family income and other indicatorsof economic disadvantage, other than the classes or categoriesdefined in clauses (m), (n) and (o)";  
|  |  |  | B. In section 3, in sub-section (1),-  
|  |  |  |  (i) in clause (a), the word "and"occurring at the end shall be omitted;  
|  |  |  |  (ii) in clause (b), for the words "backwardclasses:", the words "backward classes; and"shall be substituted;  
|  |  |  |  (iii) after clause (b), the following clauseshall be inserted, namely:-  
|  |  |  | "(c) economically weaker sections:";  
|  |  |  |  (iv) in the first proviso, for the words "thetotal percentage of reservation", the words, brackets andletters "the total percentage of reservation provided inclauses (a) and (b)" shall be substituted;  
|  |  |  |  (v) in the second proviso, for the words"Provided further that", the following shall besubstituted, namely:-  
|  |  |  |  "Provided further that the reservation inappointments in favour of the persons belonging to economicallyweaker sections shall be in addition to the existing reservationas provided in this subsection and shall be subject to a maximumof ten per cent. of the posts in each category:  
|  |  |  | Provided also that".  
|  |  |  | C. In section 9, in sub-section (1),-  
|  |  |  |  (i) for the portion beginning with "shallreserve" and ending with "from time to time;",the following shall be substituted, namely:-  
|  |  |  |  "shall reserve seats in the ProfessionalInstitutions for candidates belonging to,-  
|  |  |  |  (a) reserved categories and such other classes or categories asmay be notified from time to time; and  
|  |  |  | (b) economically weaker sections:";  
|  |  |  |  (ii) in the proviso, for the words "thetotal percentage of reservation", the words, brackets andletter "the total percentage of reservation provided inclause (a)" shall be substituted;  
|  |  |  |  (iii) after the proviso, the following provisoshall be inserted, namely:-  
|  |  |  |  "Provided further that the reservation in the ProfessionalInstitutions in favour of the persons belonging to economicallyweaker sections shall be in addition to the existing reservationas provided in this sub-section and shall be subject to amaximum of ten per cent. of the seats in each category.".  
  
Table - 3State Laws Including Governor's Acts Which are Repealed in Union
Territory of Jammu and Kashmir; And Union Territory of Ladakh

S.No. | Name of the Act | Act/Ordinance No.  
---|---|---  
1. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Accountability CommissionAct, 2002. | XXXVIII of2002  
2. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Advocates Welfare FundAct, 1997. | XXVI of 1997  
3. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Agricultural Income TaxAct, 1962. | XXI of 1962  
4. |  The Jammu and Kashmir [State] AgriculturalProduce Marketing Regulation Act, 1997. | XXXVI of 1997  
5. | The Jammu and Kashmir Anand Marriage Act, 1954. | IX of 2011  
6. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Animal Diseases (Control)Act, 1949. | XV of 2006  
7. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Apartment Ownership Act,1989. | I of 1989  
8. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Arbitration andConciliation Act, 1997. | XXXV of 1997  
9. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Arya Samajist Marriages(Validation) Act, 1942. | III of Svt. 1999  
10. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Ayurvedic and UnaniPractitioners Act, 1959. | XXVI of 1959  
11. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Banker's Books EvidenceAct, 1920. | VI of 1977  
12. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Benami Transactions(Prohibition) Act, 2010. | V of 2010  
13. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Boilers Act, Samvat,1991. | IV of Svt.1991  
14. |  Buddhists Polyandrous Marriages ProhibitionAct, 1941. | II of 1998  
15. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Cattle Trespass Act,1920. | VII of 1977  
16. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Charitable EndowmentsAct, 1989. | XIV of 1989  
17. | The Jammu and Kashmir Chit Funds Act, 2016. | XI of 2016  
18. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Christian Marriage andDivorce Act, 1957. | III of 1957  
19. | The Jammu and Kashmir Cinematograph Act, 1933. | XXIV of 1989  
20. | Code of Civil Procedure, Samvat 1977. | X of Svt. 1977  
21. | Code of Criminal Procedure, Samvat 1989. | XXIII of Svt. 1989  
22. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Collection of StatisticsAct, 2010. | XVIII of 2010  
23. |  The Jammu and Kashmir [State] Commission forWomen Act, 1999. | V of 1999  
24. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Commission of InquiryAct, 1962. | XXXII of 1962  
25. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Consumer Protection Act,1987. | XIVI of 1987  
26. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Contempt of Courts Act,1997. | XXV of 1997  
27. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Contingency Fund Act,1957. | XXIV of 1957  
28. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Contract Act, Samvat1977. | IX of Svt.1977  
29. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Court Fees Act, Samvat1977. | VII of Svt. 1977  
30. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Court of Wards Act,Samvat 1977. | LII of Svt. 1977  
31. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Criminal Law AmendmentAct, Svt 1993. | I of Svt. 1993  
32. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Criminal Law AmendmentAct, 1958. | III of 1958  
33. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Criminal Law AmendmentAct, 1983. | X of 1983  
34. | The Jammu and Kashmir Customs Act, Svt 1958. | VIII of Svt. 1958  
35. | The Jammu and Kashmir Dehi Adalats Act, 2013. | XV of 2013  
36. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Destruction of RecordsAct, 1920. | XII of 1977  
37. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Displaced Persons(Permanent Settlement) Act, 1971. | Xof 1971  
38. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Dissolution of MuslimMarriages Act, 1942. | X of Svt.1999  
39. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Dowry Restraint Act,1960. | XXXVI of 1960  
40. | The Jammu and Kashmir Easements Act, 1920. | XIV of Svt.1977  
41. | The Jammu and Kashmir Electricity Act, 2010. | XIII of 2010  
42. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Electricity (Duty) Act,1963. | XI of 1963  
43. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Employees Provident Funds(And) Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1961. | XV of 1961  
44. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Employment of ManualScavengers and Construction of Dry Latrines (Prohibition) Act,2010. | XIX of2010  
45. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Energy Conservation Act,2011. | XIV of 2011  
46. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Epidemic Diseases Act,1920. | XVI of 1977  
47. |  (State) Evacuees (Administration of Property)(Validation of Orders, Proceedings and Acts) Act, 1958. | IV of 1958  
48. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Evidence Act, Samvat 1977(1920A.D). | XIII of Svt.1977  
49. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Fatal Accidents Act,Samvat 1977. | XVII of Svt.1977  
50. | The Jammu and Kashmir Forest Act, Samvat 1987. | II of Svt.1987  
51. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Forest (Conservation)Act, 1997. | XXX of 1997  
52. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Forest (Sale of Timber)Act, Samvat 1987. | III of Svt.1987  
53. |  The Jammu and Kashmir General Clauses Act,Samvat 1977. | XX of Svt. 1977  
54. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Good Conduct Prisoners(Temporary Release) Act, 1978. | VII of 1978  
55. |  Government Servants (Held in Detention) Act,1956. | XV of 1956  
56. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Permit forResettlement in (or Permanent Return to) the State Act, 1982. | X of 1982  
57. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Guardians and Wards Act,Samvat 1977. | XIX of Svt.1977  
58. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Hindu Adoptions andMaintenance Act, 1960. | II of 1960  
59. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Hindu Disposition ofProperty Act, Samvat 1997. | XVI of Svt. 1997  
60. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Hindu Inheritance(Removal of Disabilities) Act, Samvat 1997. | XVIII of Svt. 1997  
61. | The Jammu and Kashmir Hindu Marriage Act, 1980. | IV of 1980  
62. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Hindu Marriage(Validation of Proceedings) Act, 1963. | XVI of 1963  
63. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Hindu Minority andGuardianship Act, 1957. | VII of 1957  
64. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Hindu Succession Act,1956. | XXXVIII of 1956  
65. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Hindu Widows Remarriageand Property Act, Samvat 1989. | XXIX of Svt. 1989  
66. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Homeopathic PractitionerAct, 2003. | VIII of2003  
67. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Identification ofPrisoners Act, Samvat 1994. | IV of Svt. 1994  
68. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Infant MarriagesPrevention Act, Samvat 1985. | I of Svt. 1985  
69. | Instruments (Control of Noises) Act, 1959. | VII of 1959  
70. | Judicial Officers Protection Act, 1971. |   
71. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Juvenile Justice (Careand Protection of Children) Act, 2013. | VII of 2013  
72. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Juvenile Smoking Act,Samvat 1986. | II of Svt. 1986  
73. | Land Acquisition Act, Samvat 1990. | X of Svt. 1990  
74. | Legal Practitioners (Fees) Act, Samvat 1988. | VII of Svt. 1988  
75. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Legal RepresentativesSuits Act, Samvat 1977. | XXII of Svt. 1977  
76. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Legal ServicesAuthorities Act, 1997. | XXXIII of 1997  
77. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Limitation Act, Samvat1995. | IX of Svt. 1995  
78. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Livestock ImprovementAct, Samvat 1996. | XXIII of Svt.1996  
79. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Local Authorities LoansAct, Samvat 1997. | VI of Svt. 1997  
80. | The Jammu and Kashmir Lunacy Act, Samvat 1977. | XXV of Svt. 1997  
81. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Maintenance and Welfareof Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2014. | XVI of 2014  
82. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Majority Act, Samvat1977. | XXVI of Svt. 1977  
83. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Medical Registration Act,Samvat 1998. | IV of Svt. 1998  
84. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Medical Termination ofPregnancy Act, 1974. | XXIII of 1974  
85. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Muslim Dower Act, Samvat1977. | XLIV of Svt. 1977  
86. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Muslim Personal Law(Shariat) Application Act, 2007. | IV of 2007  
87. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Muslim Specified Wakafsand Specified Wakaf Properties (Management and Regulation) Act,2004. | VIII of 2004  
88. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Nationalization of ForestWorking Act, 1987. | VII of 1987  
89. |  (State) Newspapers (Incitements to Offences)Act, Svt 1971. | VIV of Svt. 1971  
90. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Nursing Council Act,2012. | IV of 2012  
91. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Nursing Homes andClinical Establishments (Registration and Licensing) Act, 1963. | XXXIX of 1963  
92. | Official Secrets Act, Samvat 1977. | XLIII of Svt.1977  
93. | Opium Smoking Act, Samvat 2011. | XXXII of Svt. 2011  
94. |  Essential Services (Maintenance) Ordinance,Samvat 2001. | IX of Svt. 2001  
95. |  Hoarding and Profiteering Prevention Ordinance,Samvat 2000. | XIX of Svt. 2000  
96. |  Police Enhanced Penalties Ordinance, Samvat2005. | III of Svt. 2005  
97. | Prevention of Corruption Ordinance, 2001. | IV of Svt. 2001  
98. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Public Servants Transferof Immovable Property (Restriction) Ordinance, 2004. | XXX of Svt.2004  
99. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Partition Act, Samvat1977. | XXX of Svt. 1977  
100. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Partnership Act, Samvat1996. | V of Svt. 1996  
101. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Permanent ResidentsCertificate (Procedure) Act, 1963. | XIII of 1963  
102. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Pharmacy Act, Samvat2011. | LIII of Svt. 2011  
103. | The Jammu and Kashmir Poisons Act, Samvat 1977. | XXXIV of Svt. 1977  
104. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Preconception andPrenatal Sex Selection (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 2002. | XXXI of 2002  
105. | (State) Press and Publications Act, Svt 1989. | I of Svt. 1989  
106. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prevention of BlackMarketing and Maintenance of Supplies of Essential CommoditiesAct, 1988. | XXV of 1988  
107. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prevention of CorruptionAct, Samvat 2006. | XIII of Svt. 2006  
108. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prevention of Cruelty toAnimals Act, Samvat 1990. | XIII of Svt. 1990  
109. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prevention of Defacementof Property Act, 1985. | XIX of 1985  
110. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prevention of IllicitTraffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1988. | XXIII of 1988  
111. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prevention of Insult toState Honour Act, 1979. | X of 1979  
112. | The Jammu and Kashmir Prisoners Act, Svt 1977. | XXXIII of Svt. 1977  
113. | The Jammu and Kashmir Prisons Act, Svt 1977. | XXXI of Svt. 1977  
114. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Private Security Agencies(Regulation) Act, 2015. | IX of 2015  
115. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prize Competition Act,1956. | XII of 1956  
116. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Probation of OffendersAct, 1966. | XXXVII of 1966  
117. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Protection of HumanRights Act, 1997. | XV of 1997  
118. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Protection of Women fromDomestic Violence Act, 2010. | XI of2010  
119. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Provident Funds Act, Svt1998. | XXII of Svt. 1998  
120. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Public Gambling Act, Svt1977. | XVIII of Svt. 1977  
121. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Public Property(Prevention of Damage) Act, 1985. | XX of 1985  
122. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Public Servants(Inquiries) Act, Svt 1977. | XXVIII of Svt. 1977  
123. | (State) Ranbir Penal Code, Samvat 1989. | XII of Svt. 1989  
124. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Registration Act, Svt.1977. | XXXV of Svt. 1977  
125. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Registration (Amendmentand Validation of Transfers of property) Act, 1955. | VI of 1955  
126. |  Registration of Deeds (Validating) Act, Samvat2008. | VI of Svt. 2008  
127. | Registration of Deeds (Validation) Act, 1956. | XXI of 1956  
128. | Registration of Deeds (Validating) Act, 1968. | XXXIII of 1968  
129. | Registration of Deeds (Validation) Act, 1976. | I of 1976  
130. | Registration of Deeds (Validation) Act, 1985. | IX of 1985  
131. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Religious Endowments Act,Svt 1977. | L of Svt.1977  
132. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Representation of thePeople Act, 1957. | IV of 1957  
133. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Requisitioning andAcquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1968. | XXXV of 1968  
134. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Right to Information Act,2009. | VIII of 2009  
135. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Sale of Goods Act, Svt1996. | II of 1996  
136. |  Separation of Judicial and Executive FunctionsAct, 1966. | XL of 1966  
137. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Small Causes Court Act,Svt 1968. |   
138. | Societies Registration Act, Svt 1998. | VI of Svt. 1998  
139. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Specific Relief Act, Svt1977. | XXXVIII of Svt.1977  
140. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Standards of Weights andMeasures (Enforcement) Act, 1997. | XXXVII of 1997  
141. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Succession CertificateAct, Svt 1977. | XXXIX of Svt. 1977  
142. | Succession (Property Protection) Act, Svt 1977. | XXXVI of Svt. 1977  
143. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Suits Valuation Act, Svt1977. | XXXVII of Svt.1977  
144. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Suppression of IndecentAdvertisements Act, Svt 2003. | IX of Svt. 2003  
145. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Transfer of Property Act,Svt 1977. | XLII of Svt. 1977  
146. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Transplantation of HumanOrgans Act, 1997. | III of 1997  
147. | The Jammu and Kashmir Trusts Act, Svt 1977. | XLI of Svt. 1977  
148. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Venereal Diseases Act,Svt 2000. | XXI of Svt. 2000  
149. | Veterinary Council Act, 2001. | XXI of 2001  
150. |  The Jammu and Kashmir [State] Village and TownPatrol Act, 1959. | XXIV of 1959  
151. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Village Sanitation Act,Svt. 1990. | V of Svt. 1990  
152. | The Jammu and Kashmir Wakafs Act, 2001. | III of 2001  
153. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Wildlife (Protection)Act, 1978. | VIII of 1978  
  
S.No. | Name of the Governor's Act | Governor's Act No.  
---|---|---  
1. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State Trust for Welfareof Persons with Autism Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation andMultiple Disabilities Act, 2018. | VI of 2018  
2. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Drugs and Magic Remedies(Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 2018. | VIII of 2018  
3. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Single Window (IndustrialInvestment and Business Facilitation) Act, 2018. | X of 2018  
4. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Commercial Courts Act,2018. | XIII of 2018  
5. | The Jammu and Kashmir Family Courts Act, 2018. | XXIV of 2018  
6. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Aadhar (Targeted Deliveryof Financial and other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act,2018. | XXXIV of 2018  
7. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Protection of ChildrenFrom Sexual Violence Act, 2018. | II of 2018  
8. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Rights of Persons withDisabilities Act, 2018. | XL of 2018  
9. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prohibition of BenamiProperty Transactions Act, 2018. | XI III of 2018  
10. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State Commission forProtection of Women and Child Rights Act, 2018. | XLVI of 2018  
11. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Real Estate (Regulationand Development) Act, 2018. | LIII of 2018  
  
Table - 4State Acts Including Governor's Acts that shall Remain in Force in
Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir; And Union Territory of Ladakh

S.No. | Name of the Act | Act/Ordinance No.  
---|---|---  
1. | The Jammu and Kashmir Aerial Ropeways Act, 2002 | XII of 2002  
2. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Agrarian Reforms Act,1976 | XVII of 1976  
3. | Agriculturists' Relief Act, Svt. 1983 | I of Svt. 1983  
4. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Government Aid toAgriculturists and Land Improvement Act, Svt. 1993 | VII of Svt. 1993  
5. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State Aid to IndustriesAct 1961 | XXII of 1961  
6. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Alienation of Land Act,Svt. 1995 | V of Svt. 1995  
7. | The Jammu and Kashmir Anatomy Act, 1959 | XXII of 1959  
8. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Ancient MonumentsPreservation Act, Svt. 1977 | V of Svt 1977  
9. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Baba Ghulam Shah BadshahUniversity Act, 2002 | XVI of 2002  
10. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Big Landed EstatesAbolition Act, Svt. 2007 | XVII of Svt. 2007  
11. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Board of ProfessionalEntrance Examination Act, 2002 | XXV of 2002  
12. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Board of School EducationAct, 1975 | XXVIII of 1975  
13. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State Board of TechnicalEducation Act, 2002 | XXIV of 2002  
14. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Brick Kilns (Regulation)Act, 2010 | XV II of 2010  
15. | Camping and Mooring Sites Act, Svt. 2004 | XII of Svt.2004  
16. | The Jammu and Kashmir Chowkidari Act, 1956 | XXXVII of 1956  
17. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Civic Laws (SpecialProvisions) Act, 2014 | III of 2014  
18. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Civil Courts Act, Svt.1977 | XLVI of Svt.1977  
19. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services(Decentralization and Recruitment) Act, 2010 | XVI of 2010  
20. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (SpecialProvisions) Act, 2010 | XIV of 2010  
21. |  The Srinagar and Jammu Cluster UniversitiesAct, 2016. | III of 2016  
22. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State Commission forBackward Classes Act, 1997 | XII of 1997  
23. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Common Lands (Regulation)Act, 1956 | XXIV of 1956  
24. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Consolidation of HoldingsAct, 1962 | V of 1962  
25. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Control of BuildingOperations Act, 1988 | XV of 1988  
26. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Cooperative SocietiesAct, 1989. | X of 1989  
27. | The Jammu and Kashmir Debtors Relief Act, 1976 | XV of 1976  
28. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Delivery of Books andNewspapers (Public Libraries) Act, 1961 | XIII of 1961  
29. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Deputy Ministers'Salaries and Allowances Act, 1957 | VIof 1957  
30. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Deputy Speaker's andDeputy Chairman's (Emoluments) Act, 1956 | XXII of 1956  
31. | The Jammu and Kashmir Development Act, 1970 | XIX of 1970  
32. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Egress and InternalMovement (Control) Ordinance, Svt.2005. | V of Svt.2005  
33. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Enemy Agents Ordinance,Svt.2005. | VIII of Svt.2005  
34. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State Emergency ReliefFund Act, 1960 | XIII of 1960  
35. | The Jammu and Kashmir Excise Act, Samvat 1958 | \--  
36. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Extraction of Resin Act,1988. | IX of 1988  
37. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State Evacuees(Administration of Property) Act, Samvat 2006 (1949 A.D). | VI of Svt. 2006  
38. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Ferry Boats Control Act,1971. | XVIII of 1971  
39. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State Finance CommissionAct, 2006 | XVIII of 2006  
40. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Finance Commission forPanchayats and Municipalities Act, 2011 | XVI of 2011  
41. | The Jammu and Kashmir Fire Force Act, 1967. | XXII of 1967  
42. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Fiscal Responsibility andBudget Management Act, 2006. | XII of 2006  
43. | The Jammu and Kashmir Fisheries Act, 2018. | XVI of 2018  
44. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Flood Plain Zones(Regulation and Development) Act, 2005. XVII of2005 |   
45. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State Forest CorporationAct, 1978. | XII of 1978  
46. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Forest (Protection) ForceAct, 2001. | VI of2001  
47. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Fruit Nurseries(Licensing) Act, 1987. | XXII of 1987  
48. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Gift Goods (UnlawfulPossession) Act, 1963. | XL of 1963  
49. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Golf Development andManagement Authority Act, 2013. | VIII of 2013  
50. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Goods and Services TaxAct, 2017. | V of 2017  
51. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Government Gazette Act,Svt. 1945. | XII of Svt. 1945  
52. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Governor's SpecialSecurity Force Act, 2018 | Governors Act No.XLII of 2018  
53. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Habitual Offenders(Control and Reform) Act, 1956. | XI of 1956  
54. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Handicrafts (QualityControl) Act, 1978. | IV of 1978  
55. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Heritage Conservation andPreservation Act, 2010. | XV of 2010  
56. | The Jammu and Kashmir Highways Act, Svt. 2007. | XXVII of Svt. 2007  
57. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Home Guards Act, Svt.2006. | III of Svt. 2006  
58. | The Jammu and Kashmir Housing Board Act, 1976. | VII of 1976  
59. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Industrial Establishments(National and Festival) Holidays Act, 1974. | XIII of 1974  
60. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Inspector General ofPrisons (Change in Designation) Act, 2001. | XIII of2001  
61. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Islamic University ofScience and Technology Kashmir Act, 2005. | XVIII of 2005  
62. | The Jammu and Kashmir Kahcharai Act, Svt. 2011. | XVIII of Svt. 2011  
63. | Kashmir and Jammu Universities Act, 1969. | XXIV of 1969  
64. | Kashmir Silk Protection Act, 1964. |   
65. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Khadi and VillageIndustries Board Act, 1965. | XVI of 1965  
66. |  Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council Act,1997. | XXXI of 1997  
67. |  Ladakh Budhists Succession to Property Act,Svt. 2000. | XVIII of Svt. 2000  
68. | The Jammu and Kashmir Lambardari Act, 1972. | X of 1972  
69. | The Jammu and Kashmir Land Grants Act, 1960. | XXXVIII of 1960  
70. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Land Improvement SchemesAct, 1972. | XXIV of 1972  
71. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Land Revenue Act, Svt.1996. | XII of Svt. 1996  
72. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Legislative AssemblySpeaker's Emoluments Act, 1956. | IV of 1956  
73. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Legislative CouncilChairman's (Emoluments) Act, 1962. | XXVIII of 1962  
74. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State LegislatureMembers' Pension Act, 1984. | II of 1984  
75. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Legislature (Preventionof Disqualification) Act, 1962. | XVI of 1962  
76. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State LegislatureProceedings (Protection of Publication) Act, 1960. | XXXVII of 1960  
77. | Levy of Tolls Act, Svt.1995. | VIII of Svt. 1995  
78. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Migrant ImmovableProperty (Preservation, Protection and Restraint on DistressSales) Act, 1997. | XVI of 1997  
79. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Migrants (Stay ofProceedings) Act, 1997. | XVII of 1997  
80. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Ministers and Ministersof State Salaries Act, 1956. | VI of 1956  
81. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Ministers and PresidingOfficers Medical Facilities Act, 1975. | XXII of 1975  
82. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Money Lenders andAccredited Loan Providers Act, 2010. | XXIII of 2010  
83. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Motor Spirit and DieselOil (Taxation of Sales) Act, Svt. 2005. | V of Svt. 2005  
84. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Motor Vehicles TaxationAct, 1957. | XXVI of 1957  
85. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Mulberry Protection Act,Svt. 2006. | X of Svt. 2006  
86. | The Jammu and Kashmir Municipal Act, 2000. | XX of 2000  
87. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Municipal CorporationAct, 2000. | XXI of 2000  
88. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Municipal Ombudsman Act,2010. | XX of 2010  
89. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Municipalities PublicDisclosure Act, 2010. | XXIV of 2010  
90. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Muslim MarriagesRegistration Act, 1981. | XXII of 1981  
91. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Namdha Quality ControlAct, Svt. 2010. | VI of Svt. 2010  
92. |  National Defence Fund Donation of ImmovableProperty (Exemption from Stamp Duty and Registration) Act, 1963. | V of 1963  
93. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Natural CalamitiesDestroyed Areas Improvement Act, Svt. 2011. | XXXVIII of Svt. 2011  
94. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Non-BiodegradableMaterial (Management) Handling and Disposal Act, 2007. | XII of 2007  
95. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Obsolete Laws (Repeal)Act, 2010. | XXVII of 2010  
96. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Ombudsman for PanchayatsAct, 2014. | V of 2014  
97. | The Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act, 1989. | IX of 1989  
98. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Paramedical Council Act,2014. | VII of 2014  
99. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Passengers Taxation Act,1963. | XII of 1963  
100. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Plant Disease and PestsAct, 1973. | XIV of 1973  
101. |  Plyboard Industries (Acquisition of Shares andof the Industrial Undertakings) Act, 1987. | VI of 1987  
102. | Police Act, Svt. 1983. | II of Svt. 1983  
103. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Preservation of SpecifiedTrees Act, 1969 | V of 1969  
104. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prevention of BeggaryAct, 1960. | XL of 1960  
105. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prevention ofFragmentation of Agricultural Holdings Act, 1960. | XXV of 1960  
106. |  Prevention of Ribbon Development Act, Svt.2007. | XXVI of Svt. 2007  
107. | Prevention of Rum Rasum Act, Svt. 1997. | I of Svt. 1997  
108. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prevention andSuppression of Sabotages Activities Act, 1965. | XXII of 1965  
109. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prevention of UnfairMeans Examination Act, 1987. | XX of 1987  
110. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Private Colleges(Regulation and Control) Act, 2002 | XXII of 2002  
111. | Probate and Administration Act, Svt. 1977. | XXIX of Svt. 1977  
112. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Professions, Trades,Callings and Employment Tax Act, 2005. | IX of 2005  
113. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prohibition on Conversionof Land and Alienation of Orchards Act, 1975. | VIII of 1975  
114. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prohibition onManufacture of Specified Copper Utensils (By Machine) Act, 2006. | XIII of 2006  
115. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prohibition of RaggingAct, 2011. | VI of2011  
116. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State Prohibition ofSmoking (Cinema and Theatre Halls) Act, Svt. 2009. | XVIII of Svt.2009  
117. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Prohibition of Smokingand Non-Smokers Health Protection in Public Service VehiclesAct, 1997. | XX of 1997  
118. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Property Rights to SlumDwellers Act, 2012. | XI of 2012  
119. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Property Tax Board Act,2013. | XI of 2013  
120. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Protection of Interest ofDepositors (in Financial Establishments) Act, 2018. | XIII of 2018  
121. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Public Men and PublicServants Declaration of Assets and Other Provisions Act, 1983. | V of 1983  
122. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Public Premises (Evictionof Un-authorised Occupants) Act, 1988. | XVII of 1988  
123. | The Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act, 1978. | VI of 1978  
124. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Public Services GuaranteeAct, 2011. | IX of2011  
125. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Registration ofContractors Act, 1956. | XVI of 1956  
126. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Registration of TouristTrade Act, 1978. | IX of 1978  
127. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Regulation of AccountsAct, Svt. 2001. | XIV of Svt. 2001  
128. | The Jammu and Kashmir Reservation Act, 2004. | XIV of 2004  
129. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Residential andCommercial Tenancy Act, 2012. | V of 2012  
130. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Restitution of MortgagedProperties Act, 1976. | XIV of 1976  
131. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Right of Prior PurchaseAct, Svt. 1993. | II of Svt. 1993  
132. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Road Safety Council Act,2018. | V of 2018  
133. | The Jammu and Kashmir Saffron Act, 2007. | V of 2007  
134. |  Salaries and Allowances of Members of Jammu andKashmir State Legislature Act, 1960. | XIX of 1960  
135. |  Salaries and Allowances of Leader of Oppositionin the State Legislature Act, 1985. | XVI of 1985  
136. | The Sapphire Act, Svt. 1989. | XVI of Svt. 1989  
137. |  The Jammu and Kashmir School Education Act,2002. | XXI of 2002  
138. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Self-Reliant CooperativesAct, 1999. | X of 1999  
139. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State Sheep and SheepProducts Development Board Act, 1979. | IX of 1979  
140. |  Sher-i-Kashmir University of AgriculturalSciences and Technology Act, 1982. | VII of 1982  
141. |  Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences(Grant of Degrees) Act, 1983. | XII of 1983  
142. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Shri Amarnath Ji ShrineAct, 2000. | XVIII of 2000  
143. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Shri Mata Sukhrala DeviJi and Shri Mata Bala Sundari Shrine Act, 2013. | III of 2013  
144. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Shri Mata Vaishno DeviShrine Act, 1988. | XVI of 1988  
145. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Shri Mata Vaishno DeviUniversity Act, 1999. | XII of 1999  
146. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Shri Shiv Khori ShrineAct, 2008. | IV of 2008  
147. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Sikh Gurdwaras andReligious Endowments Act, 1973. | XV of 1973  
148. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Silk (Development andProtection) Act, 1988. | XXVIII of 1988  
149. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Special Security GroupAct, 2000. | VI of 2000  
150. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Special Tribunal Act,1988. | XIX of 1988  
151. | Stamp Act, Svt. 1977. | XL of Svt. 1977  
152. | The Jammu and Kashmir Tenancy Act, Svt. 1980. | II of Svt. 1980  
153. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Tenancy (Stay ofEjectment Proceedings) Act, 1966. | XXXIII of 1966  
154. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State Town Planning Act,1963. | XX of 1963  
155. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Treasure Trove Act, Svt.1954. | \---  
156. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Underground PublicUtilities (Acquisition of Rights of User in Land) Act, 2014. | IV of 2014  
157. |  Urban Immovable Property Tax (Repeal andSaving) Act, 2002. | XXVIII of 2002  
158. | The University of Ladakh Act, 2018. | Governor's Act No. LVI of 2018  
159. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Urban Property (Ceiling)Act, 1971. | XII of 1971  
160. | Usurious Loans Act, Svt. 1977. | XLVII of Svt. 1977  
161. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Utilization of Lands Act,Svt. 2010. | IX of Svt. 2010  
162. | The Jammu and Kashmir Vaccination Act, 1967. | XXI of 1967  
163. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Vegetable Seeds Act, Svt.2009. | XII of Svt. 2009  
164. |  The Jammu and Kashmir State VigilanceCommission Act, 2011. | I of2011  
165. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Water Resources(Regulation and Management) Act, 2010. | XXI of 2010  
166. |  The Jammu and Kashmir Willow (Prohibition onExport and Movement) Act, 2000. | XVI of 2000

