## International Treaty - Act

## The Johannesburg Declaration On Sustainable Development

TREATY  
India

# The Johannesburg Declaration On Sustainable Development

## Rule THE-JOHANNESBURG-DECLARATION-ON-SUSTAINABLE-DEVELOPMENT of 2002

  * Published on 4 September 2002 
  * Commenced on 4 September 2002 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 September 2002.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Johannesburg Declaration On Sustainable Development

### 313.

[4th September, 2002]From our Origins to the Future

### 1. We, the representatives of the peoples of the world, assembled at the
World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, South Africa from 2-4
September 2002, reaffirm our commitment to sustainable development.

### 2. We commit ourselves to build a humane, equitable and caring global
society cognisant of the need for human dignity for all.

### 3. At the beginning of this Summit, the children of the world spoke to us
in a simple yet clear voice that the future belongs to them, and accordingly
challenged all of us to ensure that through our actions they will inherit a
world free of the indignity and indecency occasioned by poverty, environmental
degradation and patterns of unsustainable development

### 4. As part of our response to these children, who represent our collective
future, all of us, coming from every corner of the world, informed by
different life experiences, are united and moved by a deeply-felt sense that
we urgently need to create a new and brighter world of hope.

### 5. Accordingly, we assume a collective responsibility to advance and
strengthen the interdependent and mutually reinforcing pillars of sustainable
development-economic development, social development and environmental
protection-at local, national, regional and global levels.

### 6. From this Continent, the Cradle of Humanity we declare, through the
Plan of Implementation and this Declaration, our responsibility to one
another, to the greater community of life and to our children.

### 7. Recognising that humankind is at a crossroad, we have united in a
common resolve to make a determined effort to respond positively to the need
to produce a practical and visible plan that should bring about poverty
eradication and human development.

From Stockholm to Rio de Janeiro to Johannesburg

### 8. Thirty years ago, in Stockholm, we agreed on the urgent need to respond
to the problem of environmental deterioration. Ten years ago, at the United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro, we
agreed that the protection of the environment, and social and economic
development are fundamental to sustainable development, based on the Rio
Principles. To achieve such development, we adopted the global programme,
Agenda 21, and the Rio Declaration, to which we reaffirm our commitment. The
Rio Summit was a significant milestone that set a new agenda for sustainable
development.

### 9. Between Rio and Johannesburg the world's nations met in several major
conferences under the guidance of the United Nations, including the Monterrey
Conference on Finance for Development, as well as the Doha1. Vide World Summit
on Sustainable Development, 2002 at Johannesburg, South Africa, 4-9-2002 after
review of 10 years progress of UN Conference on Environment and Development
(UNCED) held in Rio de Janeiro, 1992 Ministerial Conference. These conferences
defined for the world a comprehensive vision for the future of humanity.

### 10. At the Johannesburg Summit we achieved much in bringing together a
rich tapestry of peoples and views in a constructive search for a common path,
towards a world that respects and implements the vision of sustainable
development. Johannesburg also confirmed that significant progress has been
made towards achieving a global consensus and partnership amongst all the
people of our planet.

The Challenges we Face

### 11. We recognise that poverty eradication, changing consumption and
production patterns, and protecting and managing the natural resource base for
economic and social development are overarching objectives of, and essential
requirements for sustainable development.

### 12. The deep fault line that divides human society between the rich and
the poor and the ever-increasing gap between the developed and developing
worlds pose a major threat to global prosperity, security and stability.

### 13. The global environment continues to suffer. Loss of biodiversity
continues, fish stocks continue to be depleted, desertification claims more
and more fertile land, the adverse effects of climate change are already
evident, natural disasters are more frequent and more devastating and
developing countries more vulnerable, and air, water and marine pollution
continue to rob millions of a decent life.

### 14. Globalisation has added a new dimension to these challenges. The rapid
integration of markets, mobility of capital and significant increases in
investment flows around the world have opened new challenges and opportunities
for the pursuit of sustainable development. But the benefits and costs of
globalisation are unevenly distributed, with developing countries facing
special difficulties in meeting this challenge.

### 15. We risk the entrenchment of these global disparities and unless we act
in a manner that fundamentally changes their lives, the poor of the world may
lose confidence in their representatives and the democratic systems to which
we remain committed, seeing their representatives as nothing more than
sounding brass or tinkling cymbals.

Our Commitment to Sustainable Development

### 16. We are determined to ensure that our rich diversity, which is our
collective strength, will be used for constructive partnership for change and
for the achievement of the common goal of sustainable development.

### 17. Recognising the importance of building human solidarity, we urge the
promotion of dialogue and cooperation among the world's civilisations and
peoples, irrespective of race, disabilities, religion, language, culture and
tradition.

### 18. We welcome the Johannesburg Summit focus on the indivisibility of
human dignity and are resolved through decisions on targets, timetables and
partnerships to speedily increase access to basic requirements such as clean
water, sanitation, adequate shelter, energy, health care, food security and
the protection of biodiversity. At the same time, we will work together to
assist one another to have access to financial resources, benefit from the
opening markets, ensure capacity building, use modern technology to bring
about development, and make sure that there is technology transfer, human
resource development, education and training to banish forever
underdevelopment.

### 19. We reaffirm our pledge to place particular focus on, and give priority
attention to, the fight against the worldwide conditions that pose severe
threats to the sustainable development of our people. Among these conditions
are: chronic hunger; malnutrition; foreign occupation; armed conflicts;
illicit drug problems; organised crime; corruption; natural disasters; illicit
arms trafficking; trafficking in persons; terrorism; intolerance and
incitement to racial, ethnic, religious and other hatreds; xenophobia; and
endemic, communicable and chronic diseases, in particular HIV/AIDS, malaria
and tuberculosis.

### 20. We are committed to ensure that women's empowerment and emancipation,
and gender equality are integrated in all activities encompassed within Agenda
21, the Millennium Development Goals and the Johannesburg Plan of
Implementation.

### 21. We recognise the reality that global society has the means and is
endowed with the resources to address the challenges of poverty eradication
and sustainable development confronting all humanity. Together we will take
extra steps to ensure that these available resources are used to the benefit
of humanity.

### 22. In this regard, to contribute to the achievement of our development
goals and targets, we urge developed countries that have not done so to make
concrete efforts towards the internationally agreed levels of Official
Development Assistance.

### 23. We welcome and support the emergence of stronger regional groupings
and alliances, such as the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD),
to promote regional cooperation, improved international co-operation and
promote sustainable development.

### 24. We shall continue to pay special attention to the developmental needs
of Small Island Developing States and the Least Developed Countries.

### 25. We reaffirm the vital role of the indigenous peoples in sustainable
development.

### 26. We recognise sustainable development requires a long-term perspective
and broad-based participation in policy formulation, decision-making and
implementation at all levels. As social partners we will continue to work for
stable partnerships with all major groups respecting the independent,
important roles of each of these.

### 27. We agree that in pursuit of their legitimate activities the private
sector, both large and small companies, have a duty to contribute to the
evolution of equitable and sustainable comrr}unities and societies.

### 28. We also agree to provide assistance to increase income generating
employment opportunities, taking into account the International Labour
Organisation (ILO) Declaration of Fund4mental Principles and Rights at Work.

### 29. We agree that there is a need for private sector corporations to
enforce corporate accountability. This should take place with a transparent
and stable regulatory environment.

### 30. We undertake to strengthen and improve governance at all levels, for
the effective implementation of Agenda 21, the Millennium Development Goals
and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation.

Multilateralism is the Future

### 31. To achieve our goals of sustainable development, we need more
effective, democratic and accountable international and multilateral
institutions.

### 32. We reaffirm our commitment to the principles and purposes of the UN
Charter and international law as well as the strengthening of multi-
lateralism. We support the leadership role of the United Nations as the most
universal and representative organisation in the world, which is best placed
to promote sustainable development.

### 33. We further commit ourselves to monitor progress at regular intervals
towards the achievement of our sustainable development goals and objectives.

Making it Happen!

### 34. We are in agreement that this must be an inclusive process, involving
all the major groups and Governments that participated in the historic
Johannesburg Summit.

### 35. We commit ourselves to act together, united by a common determination
to save our planet, promote human development and achieve universal prosperity
and peace.

### 36. We commit ourselves to the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation and to
expedite the achievement of the time-bound, socio-economic and environmental
targets contained therein.

### 37. From the African continent, the Cradle of Humankind, we solemnly
pledge to the peoples of the world, and the generations that will surely
inherit this earth, that we are determined to ensure that our collective hope
for sustainable development is realised.

We express our deepest gratitude to the people and the Government of South
Africa for their generous hospitality and excellent arrangements made for the
World Summit on Sustainable Development.

