## Union of India - Act

## The Judges (Protection) Act, 1985

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Judges (Protection) Act, 1985

## Act 59 of 1985

  * Published in Gazette 59 on 6 September 1985 
  * Assented to on 6 September 1985 
  * Commenced on 6 September 1985 
  * [This is the version of this document from 6 September 1985.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Judges (Protection) Act, 1985[6th September, 1985.]ACT NO. 59 of 1985An
Act for securing additional protection for Judges and others acting Judicially
and for matters connected therewith.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-
sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1. Short title and extent.—

(l)This Act may be called The Judges (Protection) Act, 1985.(2)It extends to
the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.

### 2. Definition.—

In this Act, “Judge” means not only every person who is officially designated
as Judge, but also every person—(a)who is empowered by law to give in any
legal proceeding a definitive judgment, or a judgment which, if not appealed
against, would be definitive, or a judgment which, if confirmed by some other
authority, would be definitive; or(b)who is one of a body of persons which
body of persons is empowered by law to give such a judgment as is referred to
in clause (a).

### 3. Additional protection to Judges.—

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force and subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), no court shall
entertain or continue any civil or criminal proceeding against any person who
is or was a Judge for any act, thing or word committed, done or spoken by him
when, or in the course of, acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his
official or judicial duty or function.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall
debar or affect in any manner the power of the Central Government or the State
Government or the Supreme Court of India or any High Court or any other
authority under any law for the time being in force to take such action
(whether by way of civil, criminal, or departmental proceedings or otherwise)
against any person who is or was a Judge.

### 4. Saving.—

The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of,
the provisions of any other law for the time being in force providing for
protection of Judges.

