## Union of India - Act

## The Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1962

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1962

## Act 31 of 1962

  * Published on 1 January 1962 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1962 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1962.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, and to validate
certain acquisitions under that Act.

### 1. Short title. This Act may be called the Land Acquisition (Amendment)
Act, 1962 . 2. to Amendments to the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 of 1894 ). 1
2 to 6.[ Amendments to the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 of 1894 ).] Not
printed.

### 7. Validation of certain acquisitions.

Notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court, every acquisition
of land for a Company made or purporting to have been made under Part VII of
the principal Act before the 20th day of July, 1962 , shall, in so far as such
acquisition is not for any of the purposes mentioned in clause (a) or clause
(b) of sub- section(1) of section 40 of the principal Act, be deemed to have
been made for the purpose mentioned in clause (aa) of the said sub- section,
and accordingly every such acquisition and any proceeding, order, agreement or
action in connection with such acquisition shall be, and shall be deemed
always to have been, as valid as if the provisions of sections 40 and 41 of
the principal Act, as amended by this Act, were in force at all material times
when such acquisition was made or proceeding was held or order was made or
agreement was entered into or action was taken.Explanation.-- In this section"
Company" has the same meaning as in clause (e) of section 3 of the principal
Act, as amended by this Act.

### 8. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Land Acquisition (Amendment) Ordinance, 1962 (3 of 1962 ), is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken
under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under this
Act, as if this Act had commenced on the 20th day of July, 1962 .

### 1\. Rep. by Act 56 of 1974, s. 2 and Sch. I.

