## Union of India - Act

## The Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands (Alteration of Name) Act, 1973

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands (Alteration of Name) Act, 1973

## Act 34 of 1973

  * Published in Gazette of India on 26 August 1973 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 August 1973.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONSAt the time of States reorganisation in 1956,
the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi group of islands were constituted into a
Union territory which was given the name "the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi
Islands". Since then there has been considerable improvement in the inter
-island communication facilities and a feeling of oneness is growing among the
inhabitants of these islands. In order to foster this feeling, the
Administrator's Advisory Council which consists of representatives of the
local people suggested that the islands may be collectively named as
"Lakshadweep the name by which they Were known in ancient times. The
suggestion was later endorsed by the Home Minister's Advisory Committee for
the Union territory. Accordingly, the Bill seeks to alter the name of the
Union territory of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands into
"Lakshadweep". The Bill contains the necessary amendments to the provisions of
the Constitution and the consequential provision. See Gaz. of India,
1972,Pt.ll,S.2 Ext., p. 1734, An Act to alter the name of the Union territory
of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands.BE it enacted by Parliament in
the Twenty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:SECTION 01: SHORT
TITLE AND COMMENCEMENT(1)This Act may be called the Laccadive, Minicoy and
Amindivi Islands (Alteration of Name) Act, 1973.(2)It shall come into force on
such date1as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint.SECTION 02: DEFINITIONSIn this Act, unless the context
otherwise requires,-(a)"appointed day" means the date appointed under sub-
section (2) of section 1-for the coming into force of this Act;(b)"law"
includes any enactment. Ordinance, regulation, order, bye-law, rule, scheme,
notification or other instrument having the force of law in the whole or any
part of the Union territory of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi
Islands.SECTION 03: ALTERATION OF NAME OF THE UNION TERRITORY OF THE
LACCADIVE, MINICOY AND AMINDIVI ISLANDSAs from the appointed day,2[the Union
territory of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands shall be known as the
Union territory of Lakshadweep.SECTION 04: AMENDMENT OF ARTICLE 240 OF THE
CONSTITUTIONIn Article 240 of the Constitution, in clause (1), for entry (b),
the following entry shall be substituted, namely:-"(b) Lakshadweep;"SECTION
05: AMENDMENT OF FIRST SCHEDULE TO THE CONSTITUTIONIn the First Schedule to
the Constitution, under the heading "II. THE UNION TERRITORIES", in entry 3,
for the words "The Laccadive, Minicoy and- Amindivi Islands", the word
"Lakshadweep" shall be substituted.SECTION 06: POWER TO ADAPT LAWS(1)For the
purpose of giving effect to the alteration of the name of the Union territory
of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands bysection 3-, the Central
Government may, before the expiration of one year from the appointed day, by
order, make such adaptation and modifications of any law made before the
appointed day, whether by way of repeal or amendment as may be necessary or
expedient, and thereupon every such law shall have effect subject to the
adaptations and modifications so made.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be
deemed to prevent Parliament or other competent authority from repealing or
amending any law adapted or modified by the Central Government under the said
sub-section.SECTION 07: POWER TO CONSTRUE LAWSNotwithstanding that no
provision or insufficient provision has been made under section 6-for the
adaptation of a law made before the appointed day, any court, tribunal or
authority required or empowered to enforce such law may construe the law in
such manner, without affecting the substance, as may be necessary or proper in
regard to the matter before the court, tribunal or authority.SECTION 08: LEGAL
PROCEEDINGSWhere immediately before the appointed day any legal proceedings
are pending to which the Administrator of the Union territory of the
Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands is a party, or the Union of India
represented by the said Administrator is a party, then, for the purposes of
those proceedings, any reference to the Administrator of the Union territory
of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands shall be construed as a
reference to the Administrator of the Union territory of Lakshadweep.

