## Union of India - Act

## The Lotteries (Regulation) Rules, 2010

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Lotteries (Regulation) Rules, 2010

## Rule THE-LOTTERIES-REGULATION-RULES-2010 of 2010

  * Published on 1 January 2010 
  * Commenced on 1 January 2010 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2010.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Lotteries (Regulation) Rules, 2010

### 1833.

Noti. No G.S.R. 278(E), dated April 1, 2010. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by sub-section (1) of section 11 of the Lotteries (Regulation) Act,
1998 (Act 17 of 1998), the Central Government hereby makes the following
rules, namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Lotteries (Regulation) Rules, 2010.(2)They
shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official
Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In the rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Lotteries (Regulation) Act, 1998 (17 of 1998);(b)"central computer server"
means a system of multiple computers at a central location under the direct
control of the Organising State that accepts, processes, stores and validates
the online lottery transactions or otherwise manages, monitors and controls
the entire system of online lottery;(c)"distributor or selling agent" means an
individual or a firm or a body corporate or other legal entity under law so
appointed by the Organising State through an agreement to market and sell
lotteries on behalf of the Organising State;(d)"draw" means a method by which
the prize winning numbers are drawn for each lottery or lottery scheme by
operating the draw machine or any other mechanical method based on random
technology, which is also visibly transparent to the viewers;(e)"online
lottery" means a system created to permit players to purchase lottery tickets
generated by the computer or online machine at the lottery terminals where the
information about the sale of a ticket and the player's choice of any
particular number or combination of numbers is simultaneously registered with
the central computer server;(f)"Organising State" means the State Government
which conducts the lottery either in its own territory or sells its tickets in
the territory of any other State;(g)"prize" means the amount payable against a
winning number ticket;(h)"sale proceeds" means the amount payable by the
distributor to the Organising State in respect of sale of tickets calculated
at the face value printed on each ticket in respect of lotteries of a
particular draw or scheme or both;(i)"security deposit" means a deposit or
amount or bank guarantee paid to the Organising State by the distributor or
selling agent in any form for due fulfillment of the contract.(2)Words and
expressions used but not defined herein but defined in the Act shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Organisation of Lottery.

(1)A State Government may organise a paper lottery or online lottery or both
subject to the conditions specified in the Act and these rules.(2)The State
Government may organise a lottery or lotteries, if it so decides, by issuing a
notification in its Official Gazette, outlining the purpose, scope, limitation
and methods thereof.(3)The Organising State shall announce in advance, by way
of a notification in the Official Gazette, the following information about
every lottery, namely :-(a)the name of the lottery or lottery scheme;(b)prices
of the lottery ticket;(c)total number of tickets printed in case of paper
lottery;(d)gross value of the tickets printed;(e)name or names of the
distributors or selling agents with their addresses and contact
information;(f)prize structure;(g)the amount offered as prize
money;(h)periodicity of the draw;(i)the place where the draw shall be
conducted; and(j)the procedure for drawing the prize winning tickets or prize-
winners.(4)In case an Organising State decides to organise more than one
lottery, the procedure as provided in sub-rule(3) shall be followed for each
lottery.(5)The paper lottery tickets and the stationery on which the online
lottery tickets are issued shall be printed by the Organising State at a
Government Press or any other high security press included in the panel of the
Reserve Bank of India or the Indian Banks' Association, Mumbai.(6)The number
of lottery draws except bumper draw by an Organising State, from all the
lottery schemes put together, shall not be more than twenty four per day.(7)No
draws of a lottery shall be conducted on any National Holiday.(8)The minimum
sale price of a ticket shall not be less than two rupees.(9)The first prize in
any lottery scheme shall not be less than ten thousand rupees.(10)The
Organising State shall charge a minimum amount of five lakh rupees per draw
for bumper draw of lottery and, for all other forms of lottery, a minimum
amount of ten thousand rupees per draw.(11)The State Government under whose
jurisdiction the lottery tickets are being sold shall be entitled to charge a
minimum amount of two thousand rupees per draw from the Organising State but
the maximum amount chargeable shall not be more than what is being charged by
the State Government from its own lotteries.(12)The Organising State shall
publish the result of the draws in at least one national and two state level
newspapers out of which one shall be in English as well as in its Official
Gazette.(13)The Organising State shall designate an officer, not below the
rank of Secretary to the Government of the State, as the designated authority,
who shall be responsible for organising the lottery in the State.(14)An
Organising State shall not offer a prize on a lottery ticket or in an online
lottery on the basis of single, double or triple digit in any form or
combination.(15)In cases where an Organising State appoints or authorizes
distributors or selling agents, it shall be the responsibility of the
Organising State to ensure that the said distributors or selling agents act in
conformity with the provisions of the Act and these rules.(16)The Organising
State shall keep records of the tickets printed, tickets issued for sale,
tickets sold, tickets which remain unsold at the time of the draw, and the
prize winning tickets along with the amount of prize or prizes in respect of
each draw, in the manner prescribed by the Organising State.(17)The Organising
State shall ensure that proceeds of the sale of lottery tickets, as received
from the distributors or selling agents or any other source, are deposited in
the Public Ledger Account or in the Consolidated Fund of the Organising
State.(18)It shall be the responsibility of the Organising State to ensure
that income tax on prizes, wherever applicable, is deducted at source and that
the prize money is credited to the bank account(s) of the prize
winner(s).(19)Every Organising State shall conduct an annual financial and
systems audit of the various lottery schemes organised by it including online
lottery.(20)The Central Government may also conduct a special audit of any
lottery or lottery scheme organised by any Organising State through the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India or any other agency appointed by the
Central Government for the purpose and take suitable action thereon.(21)The
Organising State shall devise suitable means and procedures to effectively
supervise the conduct of the lottery including the process of draws and all
steps till publication of results to avoid any malpractices.(22)Every State
Government shall ensure that no lottery, in any form, is organised by any
authority other than the Organising State or its appointed distributors or
selling agents within its jurisdiction.

### 4. Appointment of distributor or selling agent.

(1)The Organising State may specify qualifications, experience and other terms
and conditions for the appointment of distributors or selling agents.(2)The
distributors or selling agents shall furnish a security deposit or a bank
guarantee, as may be specified by the Organising State.(3)The distributors or
selling agents shall maintain a record of the tickets obtained from the
Organising State, tickets sold and those which remain unsold up to the date
and time of draw along with other details, as may be specified by the
Organising State.(4)The Organising State shall pay to the distributors or
selling agents any commission due to them and the prize amounts disbursed by
the distributors or selling agents to the winners, if any, out of the money so
deposited in the Public Ledger Account or in the Consolidated Fund of the
Organising State.(5)The distributors or selling agents shall return the unsold
tickets to the Organising State with full accounts along with the challans of
the money deposited in the Public Ledger Account or in the Consolidated Fund
of the Organising State through the sale of tickets.(6)The unsold tickets and
unused counterfoils of lottery tickets shall be disposed of in the manner
specified by the Organising State from time to time.

### 5. Procedure to prohibit the sale of lottery tickets by the Central
Government.

(1)If a State Government is of the opinion that the Organising State or their
distributors or selling agents are organising lotteries in violation of the
provisions of the Act and these rules, it shall immediately bring the
violations to the notice of the Organising State concerned alongwith the
details of such violations or irregularities noticed and the Central
Government shall also be apprised of such violations or irregularities
simultaneously.(2)The Organising State shall send a suitable response on the
issues raised by the State Government under sub-rule (1), within a period of
thirty days of the receipt of such communication.(3)In case where the State
Government concerned is not satisfied with the response sent by the Organising
State under sub-rule (2) or the Organising State does not respond or does not
take action to discontinue the organization of the said lottery scheme, the
State Government concerned, under whose jurisdiction the lottery tickets are
being sold, may bring to the notice of the Central Government all relevant
details of violations or irregularities and the communications made with the
Organising State, along with its recommendations on the action to be taken
including banning of such lottery scheme of the Organising State in the
geographical limits of its State.(4)The Central Government shall, after giving
reasonable opportunity to the Organising State of being heard either in
writing or in person, take the final decision whether action is required to be
taken against the lottery scheme of the Organising State under section 6 of
the Act.(5)In case the Central Government decides to prohibit any such lottery
scheme, it shall issue an order under section 6 of the Act prohibiting such
lottery and direct the State Government concerned to give wide publicity
through daily newspapers or electronic media or both about the decision of the
Central Government.

