## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Legal Practitioners' Fees Rules, 1973

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Legal Practitioners' Fees Rules, 1973

## Rule THE-LEGAL-PRACTITIONERS-FEES-RULES-1973 of 1973

  * Published on 1 January 1973 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1973 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1973.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Legal Practitioners' Fees Rules, 1973Published vide Notification No. SRO
C-3/74. - ROC No. 1032/64-FIBy virtue of the powers conferred by Article 227
of the Constitution of India read with section 27 of the Legal Practitioners'
Act, 1879 (Central Act XVIII of 1879) and all other powers thereunto enabling
and in supersession of all rules relating, to the fees payable to Legal
Practitioners and incorporated in section C, Chapter X, Part II of the Civil
Rules of Practice and Circular Orders, Volume I (1941 Edition), the High Court
hereby makes the following rules, with the previous approval of the Governor
of Tamil Nadu:-

### 1. Short title, commencement and application.

\- These rules may be called the Legal Practitioners' Fees Rules, 1973.They
shall come into force as and from the date of publication in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and shall apply to all proceedings pending on that date and
all proceedings initiated thereafter.

### 2.

Save by special leave of the Court and except in the case of a Legal
Practitioner appearing on behalf of the Government or of a public servant
whose defence is undertaken by the Government or of an incapacitated
proprietor who is a ward of the Court of Wards, no fee shall, on any case, be
entered as recoverable in a decree or order except on production, within ten
days from the date of the judgement or order or such further period as may be
allowed by the Court of a certificate from the Legal Practitioner that he has
received such fee.Explanation. - (1) The term "Legal Practitioner" means and
includes an Advocate, Vakil, Attorney or Pleader authorised by any law for the
time being in force to practice before Civil Courts.(2)The fact of a
promissory note or other agreement to pay the fee having been given or made by
the client does not entitle the Legal Practitioner to certify that he has
received the fee.Courts Subordinate to the High Court

### 3. In Courts subordinate to the High Court.

\- In suits for money, effects or other personal property or for land or other
immovable property of any description, fees to Legal Practitioners shall be
payable on the following scale:-(1)Small Cause Suits. - At 10 per cent of the
claim subject to a minimum of Rs. 50 (100 AP).(2)Original Suits. - (a) For
money based on negotiable instruments and loans,-(i)if the amount or value
does not exceed Rs. 5000.00, at 10 per cent subject to a minimum of Rs.
150;(ii)if the amount or value exceeds Rs 5,000.00, but does not exceed 'Rs.
15,000.00, on Rs. 5,000.00 as above, and on the remainder at 7 per
cent;(iii)if the amount or value exceeds Rs 15,000.00, but does not exceed Rs.
30,000.00, on Rs. 15,000.00 as above, and on the remainder at 5 per
cent;(iv)if the amount or value exceeds Rs. 30,000.00, but does not exceed Rs.
50,000.00, on Rs. 30,000.00 as above, and on the remainder at 3 per cent;(v)if
the amount or value exceeds Rs. 50,000.00, but does not exceed Rs.
1,00,000.00, on Rs. 50,000.00 as above, and on the remainder at 2 per
cent;(vi)if the amount or value exceeds Rs. 1,00,000.00, on Rs. 1.00.000.00 as
above, and on the remainder at 1 per cent.(b)Other Original Suits not falling
under sub-clause (a) of clause (2)-(i)if the amount or value of the claim does
not exceed Rs. 5.000.00 at 15 per cent subject to a minimum of Rs.
500.00;(ii)if the amount or value exceeds Rs. 5,000.00, but does not exceed
Rs. 30,000.00, on Rs. 5,000.00, as above and on the remainder at 10 per
cent;(iii)if the amount or value exceeds Rs. 30,000.00, but does not exceed
Rs. 50,000.00, on Rs. 30,000.00 as above, and on the remainder at 7 per
cent;(iv)if the amount or value exceeds Rs. 50,000.00, but does not exceed Rs.
1,00,000.00, on Rs. 50,000.00 as above, and on the remainder at 5 per
cent;(v)if the amount or value exceeds Rs. 1,00,000.00, but does not exceed
Rs. 2,00,000.00, on Rs. 1,00,000.00 as above, and on the remainder at 3 per
cent;(vi)if the amount or value exceeds Rs. 2,00,000.00, but does not exceed
Rs. 3,00,000.00, on Rs. 2,00,000.00 as above, and on the remainder at 2 per
cent;(vii)if the amount or value exceeds Rs. 3,00,000.00, on Rs. 3.00.000.00
as above, and on the remainder at 1 per cent.(c)In batches of more than five
suits which are tried together and disposed of by a common judgement, the fees
shall be at the discretion of the Court, but shall not exceed the fees
prescribed above and shall not be less than the highest fee prescribed for any
suit of the highest value in that batch:Provided that in the case of suits of
the kind mentioned in clause (2) above, when such suits are settled,
withdrawn, compromised, decided on confession of judgement or dismissed for
default (1) at or before the settlement of issue, or (2) after the settlement
of issues, but before the commencement of trial, or (3) after the commencement
of trial, but before judgement, the fee payable shall be one-third, or one-
fourth or one-half respectively (as the case may be), of the fee calculated
under that clause: Provided further that where suits of the kind mentioned in
clause (2) above are decided ex parte, the defendant not entering appearance
or having entered appearance, not contesting, the fee payable shall be one
half of the calculated under that clause:Provided also that in case where a
Commissioner is appointed to make a local inspection or inquiry or examine
witnesses, the Court may, in its discretion after taking into account the
amount of work involved before the Commissioner, allow in addition to the ad
valorem fee, a further fee not exceeding one-third thereof:Provided also that
in suits for rendition of accounts, partition, dissolution of partnership,
mesne profits and the like, the fees payable to practitioners for their
appearance before the Court in proceedings for final decree shall be at the
discretion of the Court, having regard to the issue involved and the time
taken, such fee shall be in addition to and on the same scale as the fee for
the preliminary decree and the maximum thereof shall not exceed the fee
payable on the amount, if any, decreed and the minimum shall not be less than
one-third of the fee payable at the stage of the passing of the preliminary
decree:Provided also that the Court shall, at its discretion, having regard to
the work involved, fix in addition a fee for their appearance before the
Commissioner on the same scale, subject to a maximum of Rs. 2,000.00.

### 4.

(1)In Courts subordinate to the High Court, in appeals for money, effects or
other personal property or for land other than immovable property of any
description, the fees payable to practitioners shall be as calculated under
rule 3(2) subject to a minimum of Rs. 300.00.(2)When such appeals are settled,
withdrawn, compromised or dismissed for default, the fee payable shall be one-
half of the fees calculated under sub-rule (1).

### 5.

In Courts subordinate to the High Court, in a suit or appeal, an additional
fee calculated at one-third of the fee allowable under rules 3 and 4 shall be
payable to a junior practitioner engaged with a senior practitioner, provided
that a junior practitioner was on record from at least the date of the
settlement of issues in a suit or from the last of the dates fixed for the
appearance of the respondent or respondents in an appeal.

### 6.

Where a Legal Practitioner on record engages a senior practitioner (not
necessarily a senior.Advocate as defined in the Advocates Act) at or after the
commencement of trial or hearing of the appeal, an additional fee calculated
at one-half the fee allowable under rules 3 and 4 shall be payable to a senior
practitioner:Provided that the appearance is filed in such cases before the
commencement of arguments at the latest.

### 7.

(1)The fee for practitioners appearing in execution petitions shall, in
contested cases, be one-half and in uncontested cases, one-third of the fee
allowable on the amount or value of the relief claimed in execution, as
provided under rule 3.(2)The fee for practitioners appearing in proceedings
under section 47 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall be at the discretion of
the Court subject to the minimum of Rs. 300.00 and a maximum of Rs. 500.00.

### 8.

The fee payable to practitioners in the following applications shall be at the
discretion of the Court subject to the minimum and maximum prescribed in each
case, except, where the actual fee payable itself has been prescribed:(1)In
applications to set aside ex parte decrees (Order IX, Rule 13, Schedule I,
Cede of Civil Procedure and Order XI.I, Rule 21; Schedule I, Code of Civil
Procedure), claim petitions Order XXI, Rule 58, Schedule I, Code of Civil
Procedure), application under (Order XXI, Rules 97 and 100, Schedule I, Code
of Civil Procedure, applications to set aside abatement (Order XXII, Schedule
I, Code of Civil Procedure), application to sue or appeal in forma pauperis
(Order XXXIII and Order XLIV, Schedule I, Code of Civil Procedure),
applications for arrest or attachment before judgement (Order XXXVIII,
Schedule I, Code of Civil Procedure), applications for injunctions (Order
XXXIX, Schedule 1, Code of Civil Procedure) or for the appointment of
Receivers (Order XL, Schedule I, Code of Civil Procedure), applications for
review (Order XLVII, Schedule I, Code of Civil Procedure) rejected after
notice to the other, but without a rehearing and applications in other cases
not specifically provided for in this rule, whether before or after decree,
the lee shall not be less than Rs. 250.00 and not more than Rs. 500.00.(2)In
applications for discovery, inspection and production of documents (Order XI,
Schedule I, Code of Civil Procedure) and for notice to admit documents (Order
XII, Schedule I, Code of Civil Procedure), the fee shall be Rs. 250.00.(3)In
applications for setting aside execution of sales (Order XXI, Rules 90 and 91,
Schedule I, Code of Civil Procedure), the fee shall be one-half of the fee
allowable on the value of the property sold according to the scale prescribed
in rule 3(2), subject to a maximum of Rs. 300.00. In applications under Order
XXI, Rule 89, Schedule 1, Code of Civil Procedure, the maximum fee shall be
Rs. 500.00.(4)Where a suit or appeal is re-heard on review, the fee for the
rehearing shall be one-half of the fee allowable on the amount or Value or the
claim calculated as under rule 3(2).(5)In applications for filing an award
passed on a submission out of Court (section 14, Arbitration Act, 1940), the
fee shall be one-half of the fee allowable on the amount or value of the
matter calculated under rule 3(2), subject to a minimum of Rs. 500.00.(6)In
applications for filing an agreement to refer to arbitration (section 20,
Arbitration Act, 1940), the fee shall be one-half of the fee allowable on the
amount or value of the matter as under rule 3(2), subject to a minimum of Rs.
500.00.(7)In applications under the Arbitration Act, 1940, other than those
provided for by clauses (5) and (6), the fee shall be at the discretion of the
Court, subject to a minimum of Rs. 500.00.

### 9.

The fee for Legal Practitioners in Civil Miscellaneous Appeals against orders
including orders under section 47, Code of Civil Procedure, shall be at the
discretion of the Court subject to a minimum of Rs. 500.00 and a maximum of
the fee prescribed for the suit.

### 10.

The fee for legal practitioners in the following special cases shall be as
given below, namely:-(1)(a)In suits under sections 91 and 92 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, suits under the Religious Endowments Act, 1863 (Central Act
XX of 1863) and suits under the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable
Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1959), the fee shall be at the
discretion of the Court, subject to a minimum of Rs. 500.00 and a maximum of
Rs. 1500.00.(b)In applications under sections 47(4) and 90(4) (a) of the Tamil
Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of
1959), the fee shall be at the discretion of ' the Court, subject to a minimum
of Rs. 500.00 and a maximum of Rs. 1,500.00.(2)In declaratory suits, the fee
shall be as specified below:-(a)Where the subject-matter in respect of which
relief claim is capable of valuation, according to the scale prescribed in
rule 3(2).(b)Where it is not so capable of valuation, the fee shall be fixed
in, accordance with rule 15, subject to a minimum of Rs. 500.00 in a District
Munsif's Court or in a Subordinate Judge's Court and Rs. 1,000.00 in the
District Court.(3)In suits under section 77 of the Indian Registration Act,
1908 (Central Act XVI of 1908), a reasonable fee at the discretion of the
Court, regard being had to the time occupied in the preparation and hearing of
the case and the nature of the question raised therein, subject to a minimum
of Rs. 200 and maximum of Rs. 500.00 in a Munsif's Court or a Subordinate
Judge's Court and a minimum of Rs. 500.00 and a maximum of Rs. 1,000.00 in the
District Court.(4)In Inter-pleader suits, the fee to be awarded to the
original plaintiff shall be one-fourth of the fee prescribed under rule 3(2),
subject to a maximum of Rs. 1,000.00.(5)In summary suits under section 6 of
the Specific Relief Act, 1963 (Central Act 47 of 1963), the fee shall be one-
half of the fee prescribed under rule 3(2), subject to a maximum of Rs. 500.00
in a Munsif's Court and Rs. 1,000.00 in other Courts.(6)In suits under Order
XXXVI, Schedule I, Code of Civil Procedure and under Order XXXVII, Schedule I,
Code of Civil Procedure, where leave to defend has not been granted, the fee
shall be one-half of the fee prescribed under rule 3(2), subject to a maximum
of Rs. 1000.00.(7)In Insolvency Proceedings:The fee shall be as specified
below:-(a)Creditor's Petition-Fee not exceeding Rs. 300.00 in a Munsif's Court
and Rs. 500.00 in other Courts.(b)Applications under sections 4, 53 and 54 of
the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 (Central Act V of 1920)-Fee not exceeding
Rs. 300.00 in a Munsifs Court and Rs. 500.00 in other Courts.(c)Application
for annulment of adjudications - Fee not exceeding Rs.300.00in Munsif's Court
and Rs. 500.00 in other Courts.(d)Other Petitions - Fee not exceeding Rs.
300.00 in a Munsif's Court and Rs. 500.00 in other Courts.(e)Contested proof
of claims before the Official Receiver in cases, where proof of claim is
contested by another creditor, the fee shall be at the discretion of the Court
subject to a minimum of Rs. 300.00 and maximum of Rs. 500.00: Provided that no
pleader's fee shall be allowed for any other proceedings before the Official
Receiver.(8)Applications for succession certificate or letters of
administration, fee shall be one-half of the lee prescribed in rule 3(2),
subject to a minimum of Rs. 300.00 and a maximum of Rs. 500.00.(9)Applications
for probate or letters of administration with the will annexed, where the
genuineness of the will is disputed, the fee shall be as prescribed in rule
3(2), subject to a minimum of Rs. 300.00 and a maximum of Rs.
1,000.00.(10)Applications under Part VII of Indian Succession Act, 1925
(Central Act XXXIX of 1925), the fee shall be one-half of the fee prescribed
under rule 3 (2), subject to a minimum of Rs. 300.00 and a maximum of Rs.
1,000.00.(11)Original Petitions under the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890
(Central Act VIII of 1890) and under the Indian Lunacy Act, 1912 (Central Act
IV of 1912), the fee shall be at the discretion of the Court subject to a
maximum of Rs. 1000.00 and a minimum of Rs. 300.00. In the case of
interlocutory applications, the fee shall be at the discretion of the Court,
subject to a maximum of Rs. 300.00 and a minimum of Rs. 100.00.(12)Land
Acquisition cases, as between the Collector and the claimants, the fee shall
be as under rule 3(2) on the amount claimed in excess of the award, subject to
a minimum of Rs. 250.00 and a maximum of Rs. 5,000.00 in cases between rival
claimants, the fee shall be calculated as prescribed for suits under rule 3
(2).(13)Proceedings for restitution of conjugal rights, divorce and other
matrimonial cases, the fee shall be at the discretion of the Court, having
regard to the nature of the contest, subject to a maximum of Rs. 2000.00 and a
minimum of Rs. 500.00.(14)Petitions arising out of elections under the Tamil
Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920) and the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994), the fee shall be
at the discretion of the Court, subject to a maximum of Rs. 2500.00 and a
minimum of Rs. 500.00.(15)Proceedings under the Companies Act, 1956 (Central
Act I of 1956), the scale of fees for Legal Practitioners in all proceedings
under the Companies Act shall be governed by Rule 348 and Appendix III of the
Companies (Court) Rules, 1959, framed by the Supreme Court of
India.(16)Proceedings relating to copyright and under the Patents and Designs
Act, Trade and Merchandise Marks Act and cases under special and local
laws,-(a)Where damages are not claimed, the fee shall be at the discretion of
the Court subject to a maximum of Rs. 1000.00,(b)Where damages are claimed,
the fee shall be on the amount allowed or disallowed as in suits according to
the scale prescribed in rule 3(2).

### 11.

(1)A Subordinate Judge's Court or a District Court shall, when dealing with
any suit, application, petition or other matter, within the ordinary pecuniary
jurisdiction of a Munsif's Court owing to there being no Munsif's Court with
jurisdiction or other cause, be deemed to be a Munsif's Court for the purpose
of rules 1 to 10.(2)In suits, appeals, execution proceedings and in the
special cases referred to in rule 10, where the amount of work involved is
unusually heavy or the proceedings take a considerable time, having regard to
the value of the suit, appeal or proceedings or the special cases, as the case
may be, the Court may, on the application of a party, direct that a higher fee
than would ordinarily be admissible under these rules be allowed to a party
for reasons to be recorded in writing.(3)So far as the fee payable to a Law
Officer of the State or Legal Practitioner doing such work for, and on behalf
of, the State or an officer of the State or State Government Undertaking is
concerned, he shall be entitled to claim at the rates or scales provided as
above only whenever the Courts concerned award costs and in all other cases
where no costs are awarded, such Law Officer or Legal Practitioner doing such
work for the State Government or an Undertaking of the State Government or its
Officers, shall be eligible to claim only such fee provided under any of the
Standing Orders regulating the payment of fees, subject to which the Legal
Practitioner was appointed or engaged for such purpose.Rules 3 to 11 of the
Legal Practitioner's Fees Rules, 1973 prescribe the fees to be paid to the
Legal Practitioners in various types of civil suits filed in the Courts of the
District Munsif, Subordinate Judge's Court and District Judge's Court and the
Courts of Small Causes.;High Court

### 12.

(1)In the High Court, in appeals from original or appellate decrees in suits
for money, effects or other personal property, or for land or other immovable
property or any description, fees are payable on the same scales as under rule
3(2)(b):Provided that when the appeal is compromised, settled, withdrawn or
dismissed for default (a) before the appeal gets into the ready board, the fee
shall be one-fourth of the fee prescribed under rule 3(2)(b) and (c) after
appeal stands on the ready board, the fee shall be one-half of the fee
prescribed under rule 3(2)(b) subject to this, in all the above cases, the
minima prescribed in rule 14 shall apply:Provided further that when the appeal
is from an award or from any part of an award of a Court in a land acquisition
case as between the Collector and the claimant or claimants, the maximum fee
shall be Rs. 2000.00.(2)When the amount or value of the claim in the appeal
exceeds Rs. 2000.00, an additional fee calculated at one-third of the fee
allowable under clause (1) shall be payable to a junior practitioner engaged
with a senior practitioner:Provided that the junior was on record at least
from the last of the dates fixed for appearance of the respondent:Provided
further that in any case where a junior's fee is payable under this rule or
under rule 19, the Court shall have discretion to fix that fee at half the
senior's fee instead of one-third.(3)The fees for the junior Legal
Practitioner for setting of documents for translation and or printing in first
appeals shall be minimum of Rs. 25.00 and a maximum of Rs. 50.00 subject to
the discretion of the Taxing Officer.

### 13.

In the High Court, in appeals from orders rehearing on review, and other
miscellaneous cases (not being applications provided for in rule 21), fees are
payable on the following scale, namely:-(1)If the amount or value of the claim
does not exceed Rs. 5,000.00 at 3 per cent.(2)If the amount or value of the
claim exceeds Rs. 5,000.00 and does not exceed Rs. 10,000.00, on Rs. 5,000.00
as above, and on the remainder at 2 per cent.(3)If the amount or value of the
claim exceeds Rs. 10,000.00 and does not exceed Rs. 20,000.00, on Rs.
10,000.00 as above, and on the remainder at 1 per cent.(4)If the amount or
value of the claim exceeds Rs. 20,000.00 and does not exceed Rs. 50,000.00, on
Rs. 20,000.00 as above, and on the remainder at = per cent.(5)If the amount or
value of the claim exceeds Rs. 50,000.00, on Rs. 50,000.00 as above, and on
the remainder at per cent .

### 14.

In appeals, the fee payable under rules 12 and 13 shall be subject to the
following minima:-

|  | Minimum fee (Rs.)  
---|---|---  
(1) |  In appeals to the High Court from Originaldecrees. | 100  
(2) |  In appeals to the High Court from Appellatedecrees. | 75  
(3) |  In all other cases on the Appellate side of theHigh Court not hereinbefore specified and not being Applicationsmentioned in Rule 21. | 50  
  
Notes. - Rules 12 to 14 of the Legal Practitioners Fees Rule's, 1973 prescribe
the fees to be paid to the Legal Practitioners in the suits filed in High
Court of Madras in appeals from original or appellate decrees in civil suits,
appeal from order, rehearing on review and other miscellaneous cases.General

### 15.

(1)In the absence of any other provision to the contrary contained in these
rules, the words "the amount or value of the claim" in rules 3 to 13 mean the
value as set forth in the plaint, written statement containing a counter
claim, memorandum of appeal of cross objection or petition and where the
Court-fees are payable ad valorem, the value on which such Court-fees are
paid; Where the claim does not admit of valuation, but is valued for purpose
of jurisdiction, then, such value, unless the Court orders otherwise.(2)In all
other cases, where the relief is incapable of valuation and is not valued for
purpose of jurisdiction, the Court or in the case of High Court, the Taxing
Officer, shall fix a reasonable fee, regard being had to the time occupied in
the preparation and hearing of the case and the nature of the question raised
therein, as also the minimum fees prescribed in rules 3(2) and 14.

### 16.

Fractions of a rupee in the amount or value of a claim are to be rejected in
calculating the fee payable thereupon.

### 17.

If several defendants or respondents who have a joint or common interest
succeeded upon a joint defence, or upon separate defences substantially the
same, not more than one fee shall be allowed, unless the Court shall otherwise
order for reasons to be recorded in the judgement. If only one fee is allowed,
the Court shall direct to which of defendants or respondents it shall be paid
or shall apportion it among the several defendants or respondents in such
manner as the Court shall think fit.

### 18.

If several defendants or respondents who have separate interest set up
separate and distinct defences and succeed thereon, a fee for one Legal
Practitioner for each of the defendants or respondents who shall appear by a
separate Legal Practitioner may be allowed in respect of his interest. Such
fee, if allowed, shall be calculated with reference to the value of the
separate interest of such defendant or respondent in the manner hereinbefore
prescribed.

### 19.

On the Appellate Side of the High Court (except in appeals from the Original
Side) in cases of special difficulty or importance, the Judge or Bench
disposing of an appeal or other matter may, on the application of a party,
direct that: (1) a higher fee than would ordinarily be admissible under these
rules be allowed, (2) two sets of fees be allowed to a party who has engaged
more than one Legal Practitioner.

### 20.

For each fee allowed under the three last preceding rules, the value of stamp
on one vakalatnama only shall be awarded as costs.

### 21.

On the Appellate Side of the High Court, in all interlocutory applications in
pending appeals or other matters and in all miscellaneous applications after
their disposal, which are decided on merits after contest, the Taxing Officer
shall fix a reasonable fee in any case not exceeding Rs. 50.

### 22.

Except where an adjournment is made with the consent of all parties, or where,
from insufficiency of notice, a party has not had reasonable time to prepare
himself for trial, or where the adjournment is necessitated by a cause beyond
the control of the party, an adjournment should not be granted, save on the
condition that the party applying pays all the costs of the day including a
reasonable fee to the Legal Practitioner engaged by his adversary. In a
District Munsif's Court, a sum not exceeding [Rs. 20], in a Subordinate
Judge's Court or a District Court, a sum not exceeding [Rs. 40] and the
Appellate Side of the High Court a sum not exceeding [Rs. 50], shall be deemed
to be a reasonable fee within the meaning of this rule.

### 23.

Where a suit or appeal is remanded for retrial and disposal under Order XLI,
Rule 23, Code of Civil Procedure or for a finding on issues under Order XLI,
Rule 25, Code of Civil Procedure or remitted for recording additional evidence
under Order XLI, Rule 28, Code of Civil Procedure and additional fee not
exceeding one-half of the ad valorem fee may be allowed for the retrial or
proceedings after such remand.

### 24.

In cases in which the Court directs the appellant and respondent to pay and
receive proportionate costs, the whole costs incurred by each party, including
Court-fee, pleaders fee, printing and translation charges, cost of printed
papers, batta and the like shall, unless the Court otherwise orders, be taxed
by the Taxing Officer and after such taxation, be ordered to be paid and
received in the proportion in which the parties have respectively succeeded or
failed.Presidency Court of Small Causes, Madras

### 25.

Where costs are awarded by the Court, and where the certificate prescribed in
rule 2 has been obtained, the fees payable in respect of an adversary's Legal
Practitioner in the Presidency Court of Small Ca uses shall be as follows:-In
suit not exceeding Rs. 20 in value, a fee not exceeding Rs. 2, in suit
exceeding Rs. 20 but not exceeding Rs. 50 in value, a fee of Rs. 5, in suit
exceeding Rs. 50 but not exceeding Rs. 100 in value, a fee of Rs. 10 and in
suit exceeding Rs. 100 in value, a fee calculated at 10 per cent of the claim.

### 26.

Fees shall be fixed at the termination of a suit and except as hereinafter
mentioned in rule 27 shall be in full satisfaction for all trouble and
attention bestowed, but exclusively of any compensation which may be granted
under section 26, or section 62 of the Presidency Small Causes Court Act, 1882
(Central Act XV of 1882).

### 27.

Except where an adjournment is made with the consent of all parties, or where,
from insufficiency of notice, a party has not had reasonable time to prepare
himself for a trial, or where the adjournment is necessitated by a cause
beyond the control of the party, an adjournment shall not be granted, save on
the condition, that the party applying pays all the costs of the day including
a reasonable fee not exceeding Rs. 10 to the Legal Practitioner engaged by his
adversary.

### 28.

Except by special leave of the Court, fees shall not be allowed in cases
entered as compromised, or in any case where the defendant, three days before
the day of hearing, has intimated to the Court his intention not to contest
the plaintiffs demand. When the defendant confesses judgement or where a
number of suits by the same plaintiff are summarily disposed of in succession,
the Court shall exercise its discretion in granting fees. In cases of a value
exceeding Rs. 500 decided ex parte, three-fifths of the fee usually allowable
may be allowed subject to a minimum of Rs. 30.

### 29.

In respect of claims and proceedings under Chapter VIII of the Presidency
Small Causes Court Act, 1882 (Central Act XV of 1882} and other miscellaneous
proceedings, the Court may allow a Legal Practitioner such fee as it thinks
fit, provided that it shall ordinarily be guided by the scales contained in
these rules and that the highest rate of fee allowable is in no case exceeded.

### 30.

For the purpose of determining the fee to be allowed in suits for ejectment,
the amount of one year's rent, and in other suits or proceedings, the amount
of debt or damage claimed, or value of the property in dispute, shall be taken
to be the value of the suit.

### 31.

Fees shall not be allowed in any case unless the order of the Judge, and he
shall be determined and certify in each case what fee or fees shall be allowed
and by whom they shall be paid.

