## Union of India - Act

## The Limited Liability Partnership (Winding up and Dissolution) Rules, 2010

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Limited Liability Partnership (Winding up and Dissolution) Rules, 2010

## Rule THE-LIMITED-LIABILITY-PARTNERSHIP-WINDING-UP-AND-DISSOLUTION-
RULES-2010 of 2010

  * Published on 30 March 2010 
  * Commenced on 30 March 2010 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 March 2010.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Limited Liability Partnership (Winding up and Dissolution) Rules,
2010Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 266(E), dated 30th March,
2010Ministry of Corporate AffairsG.S.R. 266(E). - In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 65 read with section 79 of the Limited Liability
Partnership Act, 2008 (6 of 2009), the Central Government hereby makes the
following rules:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Limited Liability Partnership (Winding up and
Dissolution) Rules, 2010.(2)They shall come into force from the date of
publication in the Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(i)"Act" means the
Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 (6 of 2009);(ii)"Annexure" means an
Annexure to these rules;(iii)"Bench" means a bench of the Tribunal and
includes the Principal Bench;(iv)"certified", in relation to a copy of a
document, means certified as provided in section 76 of the Indian Evidence
Act, 1872;(v)"Code" means the Code of civil Procedure, 1908;(vi)"filed" means
filed in the office of the Registrar of Tribunal or Bench;(vii)"LLP" means
Limited Liability Partnership;(viii)"LLPIN" means the Limited Liability
Partnership Identification Number as referred to in the Limited Liability
Partnership Rules, 2009;(ix)"LLP Liquidator" means a liquidator appointed in
connection with voluntary winding up of a limited liability partnership (LLP)
from the panel maintained by the Central Government consisting of the names of
practicing chartered accountants, advocates, practicing company secretaries,
practicing cost and works accountants or firms or bodies corporate having
chartered accountants, advocates, company secretaries, cost and works
accountants and such other professionals as may be notified by the Central
Government;(x)"Member" means any judicial member or technical member of the
Tribunal;(xi)"Officer" includes any designated partner, partner, employee of
the LLP and any person in accordance with whose directions or instructions the
partners of the LLP have been accustomed to act;(xii)"Officer of the Tribunal"
includes a liquidator appointed under these rules;(xiii)"Official Liquidator"
means a Liquidator who, in relation to winding up by Tribunal, is appointed by
the Central Government exercise the powers of Official Liquidator and includes
Joint, Deputy or Assistant Official Liquidators;(xiv)"Proceedings" means
proceedings and procedures specified in Part VI of these rules and include
other proceedings or procedures under the Act or the rules.(xv)"Registrar of
Tribunal" means, the Registrar of the Tribunal, and includes an Additional
Registrar, a Deputy Registrar or an Assistant Registrar of the Tribunal or any
of its Bench, and such other officer as may be authorized by the President of
the Tribunal to perform all or any of the duties assigned to the Registrar of
Tribunal under the Act and rules made thereunder(xvi)"Section" means a section
of the Limited liability Partnership Act, 2008 (6 of 2009);(xvii)"Summons"
means a summons returnable before any Member of the Tribunal;(xviii)"Tribunal"
means the Tribunal as defined in clause (u) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of
the Act:Provided that until the Tribunal is constituted under the Companies
Act, 1956, the word "Tribunal" shall be substituted with the words "High
Court".(2)Save as aforesaid, and unless the context otherwise requires, words
and expressions contained in these rules shall bear the same meaning as in the
Limited liability Partnership Act, 2008.

### 3. Forms.

\- The forms annexed to these rules shall be used in all matters to which the
forms relate with such variations as may be necessary.

## Part II – Modes of winding up

### 4. Modes of winding up.

\- The winding up of an LLP may be either voluntary or by the Tribunal.

## Part III – Voluntary Winding Up

### 5. Circumstances in which LLP may be wound up voluntarily.

(1)Any LLP may be wound-up voluntarily if the LLP passes a resolution to wind
up the LLP with approval of at least three-fourths of the total number of its
partners:Provided that where the LLP has creditors, whether secured or
unsecured, the winding up shall not take place unless approval of such
creditors takes place in pursuance of rule 7.(2)A copy of the resolution shall
be filed with the Registrar within thirty days of passing of such resolution
in Form No. 1.

### 6. Commencement of voluntary winding up and filing up of statement of
affairs.

(1)A voluntary winding up shall be deemed to commence on the date of passing
of the resolution for voluntary winding up under rule 5.(2)The provisions of
sub-rule (3) of rule 28 shall, so far as may be, apply to the voluntary
winding up as they apply to the winding up by the Tribunal except that the
reference to -(a)the Tribunal shall be omitted;(b)the liquidator or the
Provisional Liquidator shall be construed as reference to the LLP liquidator,
and(c)the "relevant date" shall be construed as reference to the date of
commencement of the voluntary winding up.

### 7. Declaration of solvency in case of proposal to wind up voluntarily.

(1)Where it is proposed to wind up an LLP voluntarily, the majority of its
designated partners (being not less than two) shall make a declaration in Form
No. 2 verified by an affidavit to the effect that the LLP has no debt or that
it will be able to pay its debts in full within such period, as may be
specified in the declaration, but not exceeding one year from the commencement
of the winding up.(2)A declaration made under sub-rule (1) shall have no
effect for the purposes of the Act and these rules, unless -(a)it is delivered
to the Registrar for registration in Form No. 3 within fifteen days
immediately preceding the date of the passing of the resolution for winding up
of LLP;(b)it contains a statement declaring that the LLP is not being wound up
to defraud any person or persons;(c)it is accompanied by a statement of assets
and liabilities prepared in Form No. 4 for the period commencing from the date
up to which the last account was prepared and ending with the latest
practicable date immediately before the making of the declaration duly
attested by at least two designated partners; and(d)it is accompanied by a
report of the valuation of the assets of the LLP prepared by a valuer, if
there are any assets of the LLP.(3)The LLP or its designated partners may
repay any dues of the creditors or satisfy the claims of creditors in any
manner, before any declaration is made by designated partners under sub-rule
(1).

### 8. Meeting of creditors.

(1)Where any LLP has creditors, secured or otherwise, such LLP shall, before
taking any action for winding up of the LLP, seek approval of such creditors
and shall send them, by registered or speed post or any other mode defined in
rule 15 of Limited Liability Partnership Rules 2009, a copy of declaration
under sub-rule (1) of rule 7, the estimated amount of the claims due to each
of the creditors and an offer for creditors to accept such claims.(2)The
creditors shall give to the LLP their opinion in respect of voluntary winding
up proposed by the LLP or acceptance of offer made under sub-rule (1) within
thirty days of receipt of declaration under sub-rule (1) of rule 7.(3)Where
two-thirds in value of creditors of the LLP referred to in sub-rule (1) give
their consent that-(a)it is in the interest of all the partners and creditors
that the LLP be wound up voluntarily by partners, the LLP shall be wound up
voluntarily by partners; or(b)the LLP will not be able to pay for its debts in
full from the proceeds of assets to be sold in voluntary winding up and
propose that the LLP be wound up voluntarily by creditors, the LLP shall be
wound up voluntarily by creditors; or(c)the LLP will not be able to pay for
its debts in full from the proceeds of assets to be sold in voluntary winding
up and propose that it will be in the interest of all partners and creditors
if the LLP is wound up by the Tribunal, the LLP shall, within fourteen days
thereafter, file an application before the Tribunal for winding up:Provided
that where the LLP pays the dues of creditors to their satisfaction,
provisions of clause (b) or clause (c), as the case may be, shall not be
applicable.(4)Notice of any decision of creditors in pursuance of this rule
shall be given by the LLP to the Registrar in Form No. 5 within fifteen days
from the date of receipt of consent of the creditors referred to in sub-rule
(3).

### 9. Publication of resolution to wind up voluntarily.

\- Where LLP has by resolution resolved for voluntary winding up and consent
of creditors under clause (b) of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 is received for
voluntary winding up of the LLP, it shall, within fourteen days of the receipt
of creditors consent, give notice of the resolution by advertisement in a
newspaper circulating in the district where the registered office or the
principal office of the LLP is situated.

### 10. Appointment and removal of LLP Liquidator.

(1)The LLP shall within thirty days of-(a)passing of resolution of voluntary
winding up under rule 5, where LLP has no creditors, or(b)filing of notice
intimating the decision of winding up pursuant to sub-rule (4) of rule 8,
where it has creditors,with the consent of majority of partners through
resolution, appoint a voluntary Liquidator as LLP Liquidator for the purpose
of winding up its affairs and fix the remuneration to be paid to the LLP
Liquidator.(2)Where the creditors have given consent under clause (b) or (c)
of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, the appointment of LLP Liquidator under this rule
shall be effective only after it is approved by two-thirds of the creditors in
value of the LLP:Provided that where such creditors do not approve the
appointment of LLP Liquidator appointed by the partners of LLP, creditors
shall appoint another LLP Liquidator, with two-thirds of the creditors in
value of the LLP and fix the remuneration to be paid to the LLP
Liquidator.(3)If the creditors and the partners of the LLP nominate different
LLP Liquidators, the LLP Liquidator nominated by creditors shall be the LLP
Liquidator but where the creditors neither approve the LLP Liquidator
nominated by the partners of the LLP nor nominate any other LLP Liquidator,
the LLP Liquidator nominated by the partners of the LLP shall be the LLP
Liquidator.(4)If for any cause whatever, there is no LLP liquidator acting,
the Tribunal may appoint an LLP liquidator on such remuneration as may be
determined by it.(5)The Tribunal may, on cause being shown, remove an LLP
liquidator and appoint any other LLP liquidator in place of the removed LLP,
liquidator.(6)The Tribunal may also appoint or remove an LLP liquidator on an
application made by the Registrar in this behalf.(7)The Tribunal shall give a
reasonable opportunity of being heard to the LLP liquidator before being
removed.(8)The LLP Liquidator, after his appointment, shall file a declaration
in the Form No. 6 disclosing conflict of interest or lack of independence in
respect of his appointment, if any, with the LLP or the creditors, as the case
may be, and such obligation shall continue throughout the term of his or its
appointment.(9)An LLP Liquidator may be removed by the partners of the LLP
where his appointment has been made by the LLP and, by the creditors, where
his appointment is approved, or made, by such creditors.(10)Where a LLP
Liquidator is sought to be removed under sub-rule (9), he shall be given a
notice in writing stating the grounds of removal from his office by the LLP or
the creditors, as the case may be.(11)Where three-fourths of total number of
partners of the LLP or three-fourths of creditors in value, as the case may
be, after consideration of the reply, if any, filed by the LLP Liquidator, in
their meeting decide to remove the LLP Liquidator, the LLP shall remove the
LLP Liquidator and he shall vacate his office.

### 11. Filling up of vacancy in office of LLP Liquidator.

\- If a vacancy occurs by death, resignation, removal or otherwise in the
office of any LLP Liquidator (other than a Liquidator appointed by, or by the
direction of, the Tribunal) appointed under rule 10, the partners of the LLP
or the creditors, as the case may be, fill the vacancy in the manner as
specified in that rule.

### 12. Notice of appointment of LLP Liquidator to be given to Registrar.

\- The LLP shall give notice to the Registrar of the appointment of, or any
vacancy occurred by death, resignation, removal or otherwise of, the LLP
Liquidator indicating the name and particulars of that LLP Liquidator, within
ten days of such appointment or change in Form No. 7.

### 13. Designated partner's and other partner's power to cease on appointment
of LLP Liquidator.

\- On the appointment of a LLP Liquidator, all the powers of the designated
partner and other partner, if any, shall cease, except for the purpose of
giving notice of such appointment of the LLP Liquidator to the Registrar.

### 14. Duties of LLP Liquidator.

(1)The LLP Liquidator shall perform such functions and discharge such duties
as are determined from time to time by the LLP or its creditors, as the case
may be.(2)The LLP Liquidator shall settle the list of creditors or partners,
which shall be prima facie evidence of the liability of the persons named
therein to be creditors, or partners.(3)The LLP Liquidator shall obtain
approval of partners or creditors of LLP, as the case may be, for any purpose
he may consider necessary.(4)The LLP Liquidator shall maintain regular and
proper books of accounts in the form and manner as specified in Part VI and
the partners or the creditors or any officer authorized by the Central
Government may inspect such books of accounts.(5)The LLP Liquidator shall pay
the debts of the LLP and shall adjust the rights of the partners among
themselves.(6)The LLP Liquidator shall observe due care and diligence in the
discharge of his duties.

### 15. Audit of the LLP liquidator's Account.

\- The accounts of the LLP liquidator shall be audited in accordance with the
manner specified in rule 56.

### 16. Appointment of committees.

\- The partners or the creditors, as the case may be, may appoint such
committees as they consider appropriate to supervise the voluntary winding up
and assist the LLP Liquidator in discharging his functions.

### 17. LLP Liquidator to submit report on progress of winding up.

\- The LLP Liquidator shall report quarterly (quarters ending on 31st March,
30th June, 30th September and 31st December) on the progress of winding up of
the LLP in Form No. 8 to the partners or creditors, as the case may be, which
shall be made before the end of the following quarter.

### 18. Report of LLP Liquidator to Tribunal for examination of persons.

(1)Where a report along with sufficient evidence is received from the LLP
Liquidator that any fraud materially affecting the rights of partners or
creditors or interests of LLP or public has been committed by any person in
respect of the LLP, the Tribunal may, without prejudice to the continuation of
process of winding up under these rules, order for investigation under section
43 and on consideration of the report of such investigation, the Tribunal may
pass such order and give such directions as it may consider necessary
including the direction that such person shall attend before the Tribunal on a
day appointed by it for that purpose and be examined as to the promotion of
formation or the conduct of the business of the LLP or as to his conduct and
dealings as an officer thereof or otherwise:Provided that where the fraud is
reported against any person other than a partner or designated partner of the
LLP, the LLP Liquidator, before sending a report under this rule to the
Tribunal, may intimate it to the partners or designated partners, as the case
may be, and include their views in the report.(2)Without prejudice to powers
of Tribunal to make any order under sub-rule (1), the Tribunal shall have
power to transfer the winding up proceedings from voluntary winding up to
compulsory winding up by Tribunal.(3)The provisions relating to powers to
order public examination of partners, designated partners, officers, etc.
under Part VI shall apply mutatis mutandis in relation to any examination
directed under sub-rule (1).

### 19. Dissolution of LLP.

(1)As soon as the affairs of a LLP are fully wound up, the LLP Liquidator
shall prepare a report stating the manner in which the winding up has been
conducted and property has been disposed off, final winding up accounts and
explanations, in the Form No. 9, showing, that the property and assets of the
LLP have been disposed of and its debts fully discharged or discharged to the
satisfaction of the creditors and thereafter seek approval of the partners or
the creditors of the LLP, as the case may be, on the said report and the final
winding up accounts and explanation in the meeting of partners or
creditors:Provided that no such meeting of creditors is required, if creditors
are paid their dues in the manner provided in rule 8:Provided further that
approval under this rule may be sought by circulation of relevant resolution
in physical form or electronic form:Provided further that in case of
circulation, if any clarification or further information or supplementary
information is required by the partners or the creditors, the same shall be
sought by them within thirty days of the date of such circulation and such
further or supplementary information shall be provided by the LLP Liquidator
within thirty days of receipt of such request.(2)If two-thirds of total number
of partners or, two thirds in value of creditors, as the case may be, after
considering the report, accounts and explanations of the LLP Liquidator are,
satisfied that the LLP shall be wound up, they shall pass a resolution, within
thirty days of receipt of such report, winding up accounts and explanation for
its dissolution in the case of meeting or within thirty days of receipt of
such circulation or further information, whichever is later, in the case of
circulation:Provided that in case the requisite number of partners or value of
creditors, as the case may be, are not able to decide on the approval of the
report of LLP Liquidator, the LLP Liquidator shall make an application to the
Tribunal to determine the issue under rule 23 for an order, and order of the
Tribunal on the matter shall be binding on all parties.(3)Within fifteen days
after the resolution under sub-rule (2), the LLP liquidator shall:(a)send to
the Registrar a copy of the final winding up accounts, explanation and report
in Form No. 10; and(b)file an application with the Tribunal along with a copy
of the final winding up accounts, explanations and report, for passing an
order of dissolution of the limited liability partnership.(4)If the Tribunal
is satisfied, after considering the application, final winding up accounts,
explanations and report of the LLP Liquidator, that the process of winding up
has been duly followed, the Tribunal may pass an order, within sixty days of
the receipt of such, application, accounts, explanations and report; that the
limited liability partnership shall stand dissolved.(5)The LLP Liquidator
shall file a copy of the order under sub-rule (4) with the Registrar within
thirty days in Form No. 11.(6)The Registrar, on receiving the copy of the
order passed by the Tribunal under sub-rule (4) shall forthwith publish a
notice in the Official Gazette that the LLP stands dissolved.(7)In the event
affairs of the LLP are not fully wound up within a period of one year from the
date of commencement of voluntary winding up, LLP Liquidator shall file an
application before the Tribunal explaining the reasons thereof and seek
appropriate directions.Explanation: - (i) For the purpose of this rule, the
application may be presented in person or through registered or speed post or
any other mode specified in rule 15 of the Limited, Liability Partnership
Rules 2009;(ii)In computing the period of thirty days from the date of the
order, the requisite time for obtaining a certified copy of the order shall be
excluded.

### 20. LLP Liquidator to accept contribution, etc., as consideration for sale
of property of LLP.

(1)Where a limited liability partnership (the transferor LLP) is proposed to
be, or is in the course of being, wound up voluntarily and the whole or any
part of its business or property is proposed to be transferred or sold to any
other limited liability partnership (the transferee LLP), the LLP Liquidator
of the transferor LLP may, with the sanction of a resolution of the transferor
LLP passed by at least three-fourths of total number of partners conferring on
LLP liquidator either a general authority or an authority in respect of any
particular arrangement,-(a)receive, by way of compensation wholly or in part
for the transfer or sale, cash, securities, policies, or other like interests
in the transferee LLP, for distribution among the partners of the transferor
LLP; or(b)enter into any other arrangement whereby the partners of the
transferor LLP may, in lieu of receiving cash, securities, policies or other
like interest or in addition thereto, participate in the profits of, or
receive any other benefit from, the transferee LLP:Provided that no such
arrangement shall be entered into without the consent of the secured
creditors, if any.(2)Any transfer, sale or other arrangement in pursuance of
this section shall be binding on all the partners of the transferor LLP,(3)Any
partner of the transferor LLP who did not vote in favour of the resolution and
expressed his dissent therefrom in writing addressed to the LLP Liquidator and
left at the registered office of the limited liability partnership within
seven days after the passing of the resolution, may require the LLP Liquidator
to purchase his interest at a price to be determined in accordance with the
agreement or by the registered valuer.(4)If the LLP Liquidator decides to
purchase such partner's interest, the purchase money, raised by him in such
manner as may be determined by a resolution passed by three fourths of total
number of partners, shall be paid before the limited liability partnership is
dissolved.

### 21. Distribution of property of LLP.

\- Subject to the provisions of the Act and these rules in respect of
overriding preferential payments, the assets of an LLP shall, on its winding
up, be applied in satisfaction of its liabilities pari passu and, subject to
such application, shall, unless the LLP Agreement otherwise provides, be
distributed among the partners according to their rights and interests in the
LLP.

### 22. Arrangement between LLP and creditors.

\- Any arrangement entered into between an LLP in the course of being wound up
and its creditors by three-fourths of the total number of partners of LLP and
the three-fourths of the total number of creditors in value shall be binding,
provided that the said arrangement is presented before the Tribunal within
twenty one days from the date of approval by the LLP and the creditors and is
approved by the Tribunal.

### 23. Application to Tribunal.

(1)The LLP Liquidator or any partner or creditor may apply to the
Tribunal-(a)to determine any question arising in the course of the winding up
of a LLP; or(b)to exercise as respects the enforcing, the staying of
proceedings or any other matter, all or any of the powers which the Tribunal
might exercise, if the LLP were being wound up by the Tribunal.(2)The LLP
Liquidator or any creditor of partner may apply to the Tribunal for an order
setting aside any attachment, distress or execution put into force against the
estate or effects of the LLP after the commencement of the winding up.(3)The
Tribunal may, on an application under sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) allow the
application on such terms and conditions as it thinks fit or may make such
other order on the application as it thinks fit.(4)Where an order staying the
proceedings in the winding up is made under this rule, a copy of such order
shall be filled by the LLP in Form No. 11, with the Registrar, within thirty
days of such order.Explanation. - In computing the period of thirty days from
the date of the order, the requisite time for obtaining a certified copy of
the order shall be excluded.

### 24. Costs of voluntary winding up.

\- All costs, charges and expenses properly incurred in the winding up,
including the fee of the LLP Liquidator, shall, subject to the rights of
secured creditors, if any, and workmen, be payable out of the assets of the
LLP in priority to all other claims.

## Part IV – Winding up by the Tribunal

### 25. Inability to pay debts.

\- For the purposes of clause (c) of section 64, an LLP shall be deemed to be
unable to pay its debts-(a)if a creditor, by assignment or otherwise, to whom
the LLP is indebted for an amount exceeding one lakh rupees then due, has
served on the LLP, by causing it to be delivered at its registered office, by
registered post or otherwise, a demand requiring the LLP to pay the amount so
due and the LLP has failed to pay the such amount within twenty-one days after
the receipt of such demand or to provide adequate security or restructure or
compound the debt to the reasonable satisfaction of the creditor;(b)if any
execution or other process issued on a decree or order of any Court or
Tribunal in favour of a creditor of the LLP is returned unsatisfied in whole
or in part; or(c)if it is proved to the satisfaction of the Tribunal that the
LLP is unable to pay its debts, and, in determining whether a LLP is unable to
pay its debts, the Tribunal shall take into account the contingent and
prospective liabilities of the LLP.

### 26. Petition for winding up.

(1)An application to the Tribunal for the winding up of an LLP shall be by a
petition presented -(a)by the LLP or any of its partner or partners,(b)by any
secured creditor or creditors, including any contingent or prospective
creditor or creditors,(c)by the Registrar, or(d)by any person authorised by
the Central Government in that behalf,(e)by the Central Government, in a case
falling under section 51 of the Act,(f)by the Central Government or a State
Government, in a case falling under clause (d) of section 64.(2)A partner
shall be entitled to present a petition for the winding up of a LLP,
notwithstanding that he may have paid his full contribution, or that the LLP
may have no assets at all or may have no surplus assets left for distribution
among the partners after the satisfaction of its liabilities.(3)The Registrar
shall be entitled to present a petition for winding up on any of the grounds
specified in section 64 except on the ground specified in clause (d) of that
section:Provided that the Registrar shall not present a petition on the ground
that the LLP is unable to pay its debts unless it appears to him either from
the financial condition of the LLP as disclosed in its Statement of Accounts
and Solvency or from the report of an inspector appointed under section 43
that the LLP is unable to pay its debts:Provided further that the Registrar
shall obtain the previous sanction of the Central Government to the
presentation of a petition:Provided also that the Central Government shall not
accord its sanction for the presentation of the petition unless the LLP
concerned has been given a reasonable opportunity of making representations,
if any.(4)A petition filed by the LLP or any of its partner or partners for
winding up before the Tribunal shall be admitted only if accompanied by a
statement of affairs of the LLP on the date of petition and a resolution of
three-fourths of total number of partners in the form and manner specified in
Part VI.(5)Before a petition for winding up of a LLP presented by a contingent
or prospective creditor is admitted, the leave of the Tribunal shall be
obtained for the admission of the petition and such leave shall not be
granted, unless in the opinion of the Tribunal there is a prima facie case for
the winding up of the LLP and such security for costs has been given as the
Tribunal thinks reasonable.

### 27. Powers of Tribunal.

(1)On hearing a winding up petition, the, Tribunal may-(a)dismiss it, with or
without costs;(b)make any interim order, as it thinks fit;(c)direct the action
for revival or rehabilitation of the limited liability partnership in
accordance with procedure laid down in sections 60 to 62 of the Limited
Liability Partnership Act, 2008;(d)appoint a "Liquidator" as provisional
liquidator of the limited liability partnership till the making of a winding
up order;(e)make an order for the winding up of the limited liability
partnership with or without costs; or(f)any other orders or orders as may be
considered fit:Provided that the Tribunal shall not refuse to make a winding
up order on the ground only that the assets of the LLP have been mortgaged for
an amount equal to or in excess of those assets, or that the LLP has no
assets.(2)Where a petition is presented on the ground that it is just and
equitable that the LLP should be wound up, the Tribunal may refuse to make an
order of winding up, if it is of the opinion that some other remedy is
available to the petitioners and that they are acting unreasonably in seeking
to have the LLP wound up instead of pursuing that other remedy,(3)Where a
Provisional Liquidator is appointed by the Tribunal, the Tribunal may limit
and restrict his powers and duties by the order appointing him or by a
subsequent order, but otherwise he shall have the same powers and duties as a
liquidator.

### 28. Directions for filing statement of affairs.

(1)Where a petition for winding up is filed before the Tribunal by any person
other than the LLP, the Tribunal shall, if satisfied that a prima facie case
for winding up of the LLP is made out, by an order, direct the LLP to file its
objections along with a statement of its affairs in the form and the manner
specified in Part VI within the time specified in the order:Provided that the
Tribunal may direct the petitioner to deposit such security for costs as it
may consider reasonable as a precondition to issue directions to the
LLP.(2)Notwithstanding any other liability, a LLP which fails to file the
statement of affairs as referred to in sub-rule (1), shall forfeit the right
to oppose the petition.(3)Where the Tribunal has made a winding up order or
appointed the Liquidator as provisional liquidator, unless the Tribunal in its
direction otherwise orders, there shall be made out and filed with the
Liquidator a Statement as to affairs of the LLP in the form and the manner as
specified in Part VI, within twenty-one days from relevant date or within such
extended time not exceeding two months (including the period of twenty-one
days) as the Liquidator or the Provisional Liquidator or the Tribunal may for
special reasons extend.Explanation. - The expression 'relevant date' means, in
a case where a Provisional Liquidator is appointed, the date of his
appointment and in a case where no such appointment is made, the date of the
winding up order.(4)The partners and other officers of the LLP, who are or
have been responsible for completion of accounts and their audit shall ensure
that the accounts of the LLP, in respect of which a petition for winding up is
made, are completed and audited in accordance with Limited Liability
Partnership Rules 2009, up to the date of the winding up order and submitted
to the Tribunal at the cost of the LLP.(5)The partners and other officers of
the LLP, who are or have been responsible for completing accounts and their
audit, shall submit the statement of affairs with the Tribunal or the
Provisional Liquidator or the Liquidator, as the case may be.

### 29. 'Liquidators' and their appointments.

(1)For the purposes of winding up of a LLP by the Tribunal or for the
appointment of Provisional Liquidator, there shall be a 'Liquidator' who may
be either an 'Official Liquidator' or a Liquidator appointed by an order of
the Tribunal from the panel maintained by the Central Government.Provided that
in the absence of any such order, the Official Liquidator shall become or act
as 'Liquidator' or 'Provisional Liquidator', as the case may be.(2)For the
purposes of appointment of a Liquidator in the winding up order or appointment
of Provisional Liquidator from the panel, the Central Government shall
maintain a panel consisting of the names of practicing chartered accountants,
advocates, practicing company secretaries, practicing cost and works
accountants or firms or bodies corporate having chartered accountants,
advocates, company secretaries, cost and works accountants and such other
professionals as maybe notified by the Central Government or from a firm or a
body corporate of persons having a combination of such professionals as may be
notified by Central Government and having at least ten years experience in
company or LLP matters and such other qualifications and any other terms and
conditions as may be notified by the Central Government.(3)The Central
Government may remove the name of any person or firm or body corporate from
the panel maintained under sub-rule (2) on the grounds of misconduct, fraud,
misfeasance, breach of duties or professional incompetence:Provided that the
Central Government before removing the name of any such person or firm or body
corporate from panel, shall give him or it a reasonable opportunity of being
heard.(4)Every Liquidator appointed from the panel, shall, before entering
upon his duties as a Liquidator of the LLP for which he is appointed, furnish
security of such sum and in such manner as the Tribunal may direct. The cost
of furnishing the required security shall be borne by the Liquidator and shall
not be charged against the assets of the LLP as an expense incurred in the
winding up.(5)If the Tribunal is of the opinion that the security furnished by
the Liquidator under sub-rule (3) is inadequate, the Tribunal may require the
Liquidator to furnish additional security. Where the security furnished is
excessive, the Liquidator may apply to the Tribunal for reducing the amount of
security, and the Tribunal may make such order thereon as it thinks fit.(6)The
terms and conditions of appointment of a liquidator from panel and the fee
payable to him shall be specified by the Tribunal on the basis of task
required to be performed, experience, qualification and size of the LLP.(7)On
appointment as Provisional Liquidator or Liquidator from panel, such
liquidator shall file a declaration in the Form No. 6 disclosing conflict of
interest or lack of independence in respect of his appointment, if any, with
the Tribunal and such obligation shall continue throughout the term of his or
its appointment.(8)A Liquidator shall be described by the style of "The
Liquidator" of the particular LLP in respect of which he acts and not by his
or its name.

### 30. Removal and replacement of liquidator, etc.

(1)The Tribunal may, on a reasonable cause being shown and for reasons to be
recorded in writing, remove the Provisional Liquidator or the Liquidator,
appointed from the panel on any of the following grounds,
namely:-(a)misconduct,(b)fraud or misfeasance,(c)professional incompetence or
failure to exercise due care and diligence in performance of the powers and
functions;(d)inability to act as liquidator,(e)conflict of interest or lack of
independence during the term of his appointment.(2)If any vacancy occurs due
to death, resignation, removal or otherwise in the office of liquidator, the
Tribunal may transfer the work assigned to him to another Liquidator for
reasons to be recorded in writing.(3)Where the Tribunal is of the opinion that
any liquidator under this rule is responsible for causing any loss or damage
to the LLP due to fraud or misfeasance or failure to exercise due care and
diligence in the performance of his powers and functions, the Tribunal may
recover or cause to be recovered such loss or damage from the liquidator and
pass such other orders as it may think fit.(4)The Tribunal shall, before
passing any order under this rule, provide a reasonable opportunity of being
heard to the liquidator.

### 31. Winding up order to be communicated to the liquidator and the
Registrar.

(1)Where the Tribunal makes an order for the winding up of a LLP, it shall,
within a period not exceeding fifteen days from the date of passing of the
order, cause intimation there of to be sent to the Liquidator and the
Registrar in Form No. 12.(2)On the making of a winding up order, it shall be
the duty of the petitioner in the winding up proceedings and of the LLP to
file with the Registrar a certified copy of the order with in fifteen days of
the making of the order.(3)On receipt of the intimation under sub-rule (1),
the Registrar shall make an endorsement to that effect in his records relating
to the LLP and notify in the Official Gazette that such an order has been
made.(4)On receipt of the intimation under sub-rule (1), a notice shall be
sent by Liquidator to the registered office of the LLP by registered post and
Liquidator shall serve notice to the partners, designated partners, officers,
employees including Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer and
auditors and secured creditors, if any, within fifteen days of the receipt of
the intimation, for the purpose of custody of the property, assets, effects,
actionable claims, books of accounts or other documents.(5)The winding up
order shall be deemed to be a notice of discharge to the officers, employees
and workmen of the LLP, except when the business of the LLP is continued.

### 32. Winding up to operate in favour of all creditors and partners.

\- An order of winding up of an LLP shall operate in favour of all the
creditors and all the partners.

### 33. Jurisdiction of Tribunal.

\- The Tribunal shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for
the time being in force, have jurisdiction to entertain, or dispose of-(a)any
suit or proceeding by or against the LLP ;(b)any claim made by or against the
LLP, including claims by or against any of its branches in India;(c)any
application made under sections 60 to 62 of the Act;(d)any scheme submitted
under the Act or any other law, for the time being in force, for revival and
rehabilitation of LLP;(e)any question of priorities or any other question
whatsoever, whether of law or fact, which may relate to or arise in the course
of the winding up of the LLP ,whether such suit or proceeding has been
instituted or such claim or question has arisen or arises or such application
is made or has been made or such scheme is submitted or has been submitted,
before or during the pendency of winding up petition or after the winding up
order is made.

### 34. Submission of report by Liquidator.

(1)Where the Tribunal has made a winding up order, the Liquidator shall,
within sixty days from the date of winding up order, submit to the Tribunal, a
report containing the following particulars, namely:-(a)the nature and details
of the assets of the LLP including their location and value, stating
separately the cash balance in hand and in the bank, if any, and the
marketable securities, if any, held by the LLP:Provided that the valuation of
the assets shall be obtained from the panel of the valuers maintained by the
Liquidator;(b)amount of contribution received and outstanding from
partners;(c)the existing and contingent liabilities of the LLP including
names, addresses and occupations of its creditors, stating separately the
amount of secured and unsecured debts, and in the case of secured debts,
particulars of the securities given, whether by the LLP or a partner or an
officer thereof, their value and the dates on which they were given;(d)the
debts due to the LLP and the names, addresses and occupations of the persons
from whom they are due and the amount likely to be realised on account
thereof;(e)guarantees, if any, given by the LLP;(f)list of partners and dues
if any payable by them and details of any outstanding contributions;(g)details
of intangible assets such as trade marks, intellectual property rights etc.
owned by the LLP;(h)details of subsisting contracts, joint ventures and
collaborations, if any;(i)details of other LLPs or companies, etc. in which
LLP has any stake;(j)details of legal cases filed by or against the
LLP;(k)details of the properties, assets, books of records and other documents
taken under the custody of the Liquidator.(l)scheme of revival or
rehabilitation of LLP, if any, and(m)any other information which the Tribunal
may direct or the Liquidator may consider necessary to include.(2)The
Liquidator may include in his report the manner in which the LLP was promoted
or formed and whether in his opinion any fraud has been committed by any
person in its promotion or formation or by any officer of the LLP in relation
to the LLP since the formation thereof and any other matters which, in his
opinion, it is desirable to bring to the notice of the Tribunal.(3)The
Liquidator may make, in the report under sub-rule (1), the viability of the
business of the LLP or the steps which, in his opinion, are necessary for
maximizing the value of the assets of the LLP.(4)The Liquidator may, if he
thinks fit, make any further report or reports in respect of such matters,
which in his opinion, it is desirable to bring to the notice of the
Tribunal.(5)Any person describing himself in writing to be a creditor or a
partner of the LLP shall be entitled by himself or by his agent at all
reasonable times to inspect the report submitted in accordance with this rule
and take copies thereof or extracts there from on payment of the fee
prescribed in Annexure.

### 35. Directions of Tribunal on report of Liquidator etc.

(1)The Tribunal shall, on consideration of report of Liquidator under rule 34,
subject to these rules, fix a time limit within which the entire proceedings
shall be completed and the LLP dissolved:Provided that the Tribunal may, if it
is of the opinion, at any stage of the proceedings, or on examination of the
reports submitted to it by the Liquidator and after hearing the Liquidator,
creditors or partners, that it will not be advantageous or economical to
continue the proceedings, reduce the time-limit within which the entire
proceedings shall be completed and the LLP dissolved:Provided further that in
the event any such individual proceedings or activity to be completed by the
liquidator or his agent for which the time is fixed under these rules, in the
opinion of the liquidator which can not be completed within such time,
Tribunal, after satisfying itself, on an application of the liquidator, may
extend the time, but not exceeding further thirty days.(2)The Tribunal may, on
examination of the reports submitted to it by the Liquidator and after hearing
the Liquidator, creditors or partners, order sale of the LLP as a going
concern or its assets or part thereof:Provided that the Tribunal may, where it
considers fit, appoint a Sale Committee comprising such creditors, partners
and officers or employees of the LLP as the Tribunal may decide to assist the
Liquidator under this sub-rule:Provided further that where the Tribunal is of
the opinion that an LLP can be revived or rehabilitated, it may, direct that
an action for revival or rehabilitation may be taken in accordance with the
procedures prescribed under sections 60 to 62 of the Act.(3)Where a report is
received from the Liquidator that a fraud has been committed in respect of the
LLP, the Tribunal shall, without prejudice to the process of winding up, order
for investigation under section 43, and on consideration of the report of
such, investigation, it may pass order and give such directions as it may
think appropriate.(4)The Tribunal may order such steps as may be necessary to
protect, preserve or enhance the value of the assets of the LLP.(5)The
Tribunal may pass such other order or give such other directions as it
considers fit.

### 36. Custody of LLP's properties.

(1)Where a winding up order has been made or where a Provisional Liquidator
has been appointed, the liquidator shall, on the order of the Tribunal,
forthwith take into his custody or under his control all the property, assets,
effects and actionable claims to which the LLP is or appears to be entitled to
and take such steps and measures, as may be necessary, to protect and preserve
the properties of the LLP.(2)On an application by the Liquidator or the
Provisional Liquidator, as the case may be, the Tribunal may, require any
partner and any trustee, receiver, banker, agent, officer or other employee of
the LLP or any other person, to pay, deliver, surrender or transfer forthwith,
or within such time as the Tribunal directs, to the Liquidator or the
Provisional Liquidator, as the case may be, any money, property or books and
papers in his custody or under his control to which the LLP is entitled.(3)For
the purpose of enabling the Liquidator or the Provisional Liquidator, as the
case maybe, to take into his custody or under his control any property,
effects or actionable claims and books of accounts to which the LLP is or
appears to be entitled, on an application by the Liquidator or the Provisional
Liquidator, as the case may be, the Tribunal may, direct Chief Presidency
Magistrate or the District Magistrate within whose jurisdiction such property,
effects or actionable claims or any books of account or other documents of the
LLP may be found, to take possession of such property, assets, effects,
actionable claims, books of accounts or other documents and delivered the
possession thereof to the Liquidator or the provision Liquidator.(4)All the
property and effects of the LLP shall be deemed to be in the custody of the
Tribunal from the date of the order for the winding up of the LLP.

### 37. Partners, officers, employees, etc. to discover and deliver property,
books, etc. and to cooperate with Liquidator.

(1)The partners, designated partners, officers and employees, past and present
including Chief Executive Officer and Chief Finance Officer of the LLP shall
discover all the property, assets, effects, actionable claims, books of
accounts or other documents and deliver the possession thereof to the
liquidator or the Provisional Liquidator, as the case may be, within sixty
days of the relevant date as defined in rule 28. It shall be the duty of all
persons having custody of any property, assets, effects, books of account or
other documents to deliver possession thereof to the liquidator.(2)The
partners, designated partners, officers and employees, past and present,
including Chief Executive Officer and Chief Finance Officer and auditors shall
extend full cooperation to the Liquidator in discharge of his functions and
duties. The liquidator may hold personal interviews with any such person
including the person having custody of property, assets, effects, books of
accounts or other documents for the purpose of investigating the LLP's
affairs, and it shall be the duty of every such person to attend on the
liquidator at such time and place as the liquidator may appoint and give the
liquidator all information that he may require and answer all such questions
as may be put to him by the liquidator. The liquidator shall maintain minutes
of the interview held by him or memoranda containing the substance of such
interviews. In case of any failure to extent such cooperation, Liquidator may
apply to the Tribunal for such directions.

### 38. Application of assets.

\- Assets of the LLP shall be applied first for the payment of the cost
including expenses, charges or fees and remuneration of the Liquidator
incurred in the winding up of the LLP and thereafter be applied for the
discharge of its liabilities pari passu in accordance with the provisions of
the Act and the rules.

### 39. Committee of inspection.

(1)The Tribunal may, at the time of making an order for the winding up of an
LLP or at any time thereafter, direct that there shall be appointed a
committee of inspection (hereafter referred to as the Committee) to act with
the liquidator.(2)A Committee of inspection appointed shall consist of such
number of members not exceeding twelve, as the Tribunal may order, being
creditors and partners of the LLP or persons holding general or special powers
of attorney from creditors or partners in such proportions as may be agreed on
by the meeting of creditors and parties or in case of difference of opinion be
determined by the Tribunal.(3)The Liquidator shall convene a meeting of
partners and creditors, if any, (as ascertained from the books and documents
of the LLP) within thirty days from the date of order of winding up for
enabling the Tribunal to determine the persons who may be members of the
committee of inspection.(4)The Committee shall meet at such times as it may
from time to time appoint and the liquidator or any member of the committee
may also call a meeting of the committee as and when he thinks
necessary.(5)The quorum for a meeting of the committee shall be one-third of
the total number of the members, or two, whichever is higher.(6)The Committee
may act by a majority of its members present at a meeting, but shall not act
unless a quorum is present.(7)A member of the committee may resign by notice
in writing signed by him and delivered to the liquidator.(8)If a member of the
committee is adjudged an insolvent, or compounds or arranges with his
creditors, or is absent from five consecutive meetings of the Committee
without the leave of those members who, together with himself, represent the
creditors or partners, as the case may be, his office shall become vacant.(9)A
member of the Committee may be removed at a meeting of creditors if he
represents creditors, or at a meeting of partners if he represents partners,
agreed by majority.(10)On a vacancy occurring in the Committee, the liquidator
shall forthwith summon a meeting of creditors or of partners, as the case may
require, to fill the vacancy; and the meeting may, by resolution, re-appoint
the same, or appoint another, creditor or partner to fill the vacancy:Provided
that if the liquidator, having regard to the position in the winding up, is of
the opinion that it is unnecessary for the vacancy to be filled, he may apply
to the Tribunal and the Tribunal may make an order that the vacancy shall not
be filled, or shall not be filled except in such circumstances as may be
specified in the order.(11)The continuing members of the Committee, if not
less than two, may act notwithstanding any vacancy in the committee.(12)As
soon as possible after the holding of the said meetings, the Liquidator shall
report the result thereof to the Tribunal for further directions.(13)An
application by the Liquidator for an order that a vacancy occurring in the
Committee shall not be filled, shall be made upon a notice to the remaining
members of the Committee and such other persons as the Tribunal may
direct.(14)Neither the Liquidator nor any member of the Committee shall, while
acting as liquidator or member of such Committee in any winding-up, either
directly or indirectly, by himself or any employer, partner, clerk, agent,
servant or relative, become purchaser of any part of the LLP's assets or be
entitled to derive any profit from any transaction arising out of the winding
up except by leave of the Tribunal and any purchase made contrary to the
provisions of this rule may be set aside by the Tribunal on the application of
the Liquidator or of a creditor or partner, as the case may be, and the
Tribunal may make such order as to costs, as it may think fit.(15)Where the
sanction of the Tribunal to a payment to a member of the Committee of
Inspection for services rendered by him in connection with the administration
of the LLP's assets is obtained, the order of the Tribunal shall specify the
nature of the services, and such sanction shall only be given where the
service performed is of a special nature:Provided that except by the express
sanction of the Tribunal, no remuneration shall be paid to a member of the
Committee for services rendered by him in the discharge of the duties
attaching to his office as a member of such Committee.

### 40. Submission of periodical reports, etc. to the Tribunal.

(1)The Liquidator shall report quarterly (quarters ending on 31st March, 30th
June, 30th September and 31st December) on the progress of winding up of the
LLP in Form No. 13 to the Tribunal, which shall be made before the end of the
following quarter.(2)The Tribunal may, on an application by the Liquidator,
review any order made by it and make such modifications as it thinks fit with
or without any further directions.

### 41. Duties of Liquidator.

(1)Subject to sanction by the Tribunal, the Liquidator in a winding up by the
Tribunal shall perform all or any of the following duties:-(a)to carry on the
business of the LLP as may be necessary for the beneficial winding up of the
LLP;(b)to do all acts and to execute, in the name and on behalf of the LLP,
all deeds, receipts, and other documents, and for that purpose, to use, when
necessary, the LLP's seal, if any;(c)to take custody of property, assets,
actionable claims, books of accounts and other documents;(d)to sell the
immovable and movable property including intangible assets ouch as
intellectual property rights, trademarks, logo, etc. and actionable claims of
the LLP by public auction or inviting bids or tenders or private contracts
with power to transfer such property to any person or body corporate, or to
realize any debts;(e)to inspect the records and returns of the LLP on the
files of the Registrar or any other authority;(f)to prove rank and claim in
the insolvency of any partner for any balance against his estate, and to
receive distributable sums in the insolvency, in respect of that balance, as a
separate debt due from the insolvent, and rateably with the other separate
creditors;(g)to draw, accept, make and endorse any bill of exchange, hundi or
promissory note in the name and on behalf of the LLP, with the same effect
with respect to the liability of the LLP as if the bill, hundi, or note had
been drawn, accepted, made or endorsed by or on behalf of the LLP in the
course of its business;(h)to take out, in his official name, letters of
administration to any deceased partner, and to do in his official name any
other act necessary for obtaining payment of any money due from a partner or
his estate which cannot be conveniently done in the name of the LLP, and in
all such cases, the money due shall, for the purpose of enabling the
Liquidator to take out the letters of administration or recover the money, be
deemed to be due to the Liquidator himself;(i)to apply to the Tribunal for
such orders or direction is as may be necessary for the winding up of the
LLP;(j)to appoint security guards or security agency from the panel maintained
by the Liquidator, to protect the property and assets of the LLP taken into
his custody, in consultation with secured creditors or after giving them
notice;(k)to make out an inventory of the assets, books and records either by
the Liquidator himself or by the panel of experts maintained by the
Liquidator, in consultation with secured creditors or after giving them
notice;(l)to appoint valuers including chartered surveyors or chartered
accountants, from the panel maintained by the Liquidator to assess the value
of the LLP's assets within fifteen days after taking into custody of property,
assets and effects or actionable claims, in consultation with secured
creditors or after giving them notice;(m)to give an advertisement, inviting
bids for sale of the assets of the LLP, within fifteen days from the date of
receiving valuation report;(n)to apply to the Tribunal for an order directing
any person who, in his opinion, is competent to furnish a statement of the
affairs under rule 28 and such person shall be served a notice by the
liquidator to submit and verify the statement of affairs by the LLP;(o)to
carry out investigation into the affairs of the LLP relating to fraudulent
conduct or business, misfeasance etc, either himself or by the Chartered
Accountants appointed from the panel maintained by the Liquidator and submit
report on such investigation to the Tribunal within one year from the date of
the winding up order or within such extended time as may be granted by the
Tribunal on an application by the Liquidator:Provided that if in the opinion
of the Liquidator no such investigation is required, the Liquidator shall
submit a report to the Tribunal, explaining the reasons thereof, within one
year from the date of winding up order;(p)to call any person for recording any
statement for the purpose of investigating the affairs of the LLP being wound
up and it shall be the duty of every such person to attend to the liquidator
at such time and place as the liquidator may appoint and give the liquidator
all information which he may require and answer all such questions relating to
winding up of LLP as may be put to him by the liquidator;(q)to maintain a
separate bank, account for each LLP under his charge for depositing the sale
proceeds of the assets and recovery of debts of each LLP;(r)to maintain proper
books of account in respect of all receipts and payments made by him in
respect of each LLP and submit statement of accounts to the Tribunal;(s)to
invite claims from the creditors, examine the proof and prepare and submit the
list of creditors and partners; and(t)to do all such other acts and things as
may be necessary for the winding up of the LLP and distribution of its
assets.(2)Every bidder shall, in response to advertisement referred to in
clause (m) of sub-rule (1), deposit, his offer in the manner as may be
specified by the Tribunal with the Liquidator or Provisional Liquidator, as
the case may be, within forty-five days from the date of the advertisement and
the liquidator or Provisional Liquidator shall permit inspection of property
and assets in respect of which bids were invited:Provided that such bid may be
withdrawn within three days before the last day of closing of the bid:Provided
further that the inspection of property shall be open for not more than five
days before closing of the bid.(3)The advertisement inviting bids shall
contain the following, namely:-(a)name, address of registered office of the
LLP, its branch offices, if any, factories and plants and the place where
assets of the LLP kept and available for sale;(b)last date for submitting bids
which shall not exceed ninety days from the date of advertisement;(c)time
during which the premises of the LLP shall remain open for inspection;(d)the
last date for withdrawing the bid;(e)financial guarantee which shall not be
less than one-half of the value of the bid;(f)validity period of the
bids;(g)place and date of opening of the bids in public;(h)reserve price and
earnest money to be deposited along with the bid;(i)any other terms and
conditions of sale which may be specified by the Tribunal.(4)The liquidator or
the Provisional Liquidator, as the case may be, shall file his report before
the Tribunal on the outcome of the bid within fifteen days from the last date
of the closing of the bid.(5)The performance of duties by the Liquidator under
this rule shall be subject to the overall control of the Tribunal and any
creditor or partner may apply to the Tribunal with respect to the performance
or proposed performance of any of the duties conferred by this rule on the
Liquidator.(6)Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-rule (1) to (5), the
Liquidator shall perform such duties as the Tribunal may specify in this
behalf.

### 42. Provision for assistance to Liquidator.

(1)The Liquidator may, with the sanction of the Tribunal, appoint one or more
practicing chartered accountants or practicing company secretaries or
practicing cost accountants or legal practitioners entitled to appear before
the Tribunal or such other professionals or experts or valuer or agency as he
considers necessary to assist him in the performance of his duties and
functions under the Act or the rules:Provided that if any such appointment is
made from the panel maintained, the Liquidator shall submit report of such
appointment including terms and conditions, fees payable, source of fund for
payment of fee, fund available with the LLP and the extent of unrealized
assets, to the Tribunal forthwith:Provided further that such panel shall be
maintained by the liquidator with the approval of the Tribunal.(2)Any person
appointed as such shall disclose forthwith to the Tribunal in the Form No. 14
any conflict of interest or lack of independence in respect of his
appointment.(3)The Tribunal may, on cause shown to it, remove any member from
the panel maintained by the Liquidator.

### 43. Exercise and control of Liquidator's powers and duties.

(1)The Liquidator shall, in the administration of the assets of the LLP and
the distribution thereof among its creditors, have regard to any directions
which may be given by the resolution of the creditors or partners or the
Committee of inspection.(2)Any directions given by the creditors or partners
shall, in case of conflict, be deemed to be overridden by any directions given
by the Committee of inspection.(3)The Liquidator-(a)may summon meetings of the
creditors or partners, whenever he thinks fit, for the purpose of ascertaining
their wishes; and(b)shall summon such meetings at such times, as the creditors
or partners, as the case may be, may, by resolution, direct, or whenever
requested in writing to do so by not less than one-tenth in value of the
creditors or partners, as the case may be.(4)Subject to the provisions of the
Act and these rules, liquidator shall, use his own discretion in the
administration of the assets of the LLP and in the distribution thereof among
the creditors.(5)Any person aggrieved by any act or decision of the Liquidator
may apply to the Tribunal, and the Tribunal may confirm, reverse or modify the
act or decision complained of and make such further order as it thinks just in
the circumstances.

### 44. Books to be kept by Liquidator.

(1)The Liquidator shall keep proper books in a manner specified in Part VI in
which he shall cause entries or minutes to be made of proceedings at
meetings.(2)Any creditor or partner may, subject to the control of the
Tribunal, inspect any such books, personally or through his agent.

### 45. Audit of Liquidator's accounts.

(1)The Liquidator shall maintain proper books of accounts including the
accounts of receipts and payments made by him in the form and manner/specified
in Part VI.(2)The accounts of the liquidator shaH be audited in the form and
manner specified in rule 56 and in Part VI.(3)The Liquidator shall cause the
statement of accounts when audited or a summary thereof to be printed, and
shall send a printed copy of the statement of accounts or summary thereof by
post to every creditor and every partner:Provided that the Tribunal may
dispense with the compliance of the provisions of this sub-rule if it deems
fit.

### 46. Payment of debts due by partner.

(1)The Tribunal may, at any time after passing of a winding up order, pass an
order requiring any partner for the time being on the list of partners to pay,
in the manner directed by the order, any money due to the LLP including
outstanding or unrealized or unrecovered contribution, from him or from the
estate of the person whom he represents.

### 47. Adjustment of rights of partners.

\- The Tribunal shall adjust the rights of the partners among themselves and
distribute any surplus among the persons entitled thereto.

### 48. Control of Central Government over official liquidator as liquidator.

(1)The Central Government shall take cognizance of the conduct of official
liquidator as liquidators of LLPs which are being wound up by the Tribunal and
if a liquidator does not faithfully perform his duties and duly observe all
the requirements imposed on him by the Act and these rules or otherwise, with
respect to the performance of his duties or if any complaint is made to the
Central Government by any creditor or partner in regard thereto, the Central
Government shall inquire into the matter and take such action thereon as it
may think expedient.(2)The Central Government may at any time, for the purpose
of inquiry apply to the Tribunal to examine such liquidator or any other
person on oath concerning winding up.(3)The Central Government may also direct
a local investigation to be made of the books and vouchers of such
liquidators.

### 49. Inspection or investigation of books of accounts and records of the
Liquidator.

\- The Central Government may authorize any person to inspect or investigate
the books of accounts and records of the Liquidator appointed from the panel
maintained by the Central Government in respect of affairs of any such LLP
under Liquidation.

## Part V – Provisions applicable to every mode of winding up

### 50. Debts of all descriptions to be admitted to proof.

\- In every winding up, (subject, in the case of insolvent LLPs to the
application in accordance with the provisions of the Act, of the law of
insolvency), all debts payable on a contingency, and all claims against the
LLP, present or future, certain or contingent, ascertained or sounding only in
damages, shall be admissible to proof against the LLP, as just estimate being
made, so far as possible, of the value of such debts or claims as may be
subject to any contingency or may sound only in damages, or for the some other
reason may not bear a certain value.

### 51. LLP Liquidator or Liquidator to exercise certain powers subject to
sanction.

(1)The LLP Liquidator or Liquidator, as the case may be, may -(a)with the
sanction of the Tribunal, when the LLP is being wound up by the Tribunal;
or(b)with the sanction of a resolution by three-fourths of total number of
partners of the LLP and prior approval of the Tribunal, in the case of a
voluntary winding up,-(i)pay any class of creditors in full;(ii)make any
compromise or arrangement with creditors or persons claiming to be creditors,
or having or alleging themselves to have any claim, present or future, Certain
or contingent, against the LLP, or whereby the LLP may be rendered liable;
or(iii)compromise any money due from partners including outstanding,
unrealized or unrecovered contribution, debt, and liability capable of
resulting in a debt, and any claim, present or future, certain or contingent,
ascertained or sounding only in damages, subsisting or alleged to subsist
between the LLP and a partner or alleged partner or other debtor or person
apprehending liability to the LLP, and all questions in any way relating to or
affecting the assets or liabilities or the winding up of the LLP, on such
terms as may be agreed, and take any security for the discharge of any such
debt, liability or claim, and give a complete discharge in respect
thereof.(2)Any creditor or partner may apply to the Tribunal with respect to
any exercise or proposed exercise of powers by the LLP Liquidator under this
rule, and the Tribunal shall after giving a reasonable opportunity to such
applicant and the LLP Liquidator, pass such orders as it may think fit.

### 52. Statement that a LLP is in liquidation.

\- Where an LLP is being would up, whether by the Tribunal or voluntarily,
every invoice, order for goods or business letter issued by or on behalf of
the LLP or a LLP Liquidator of the LLP, or a receiver or designated partner of
the property of the LLP, being a document on or in which the name of the LLP
appears, shall contain a statement that the LLP is being wound up.

### 53. Books and papers of LLP to be evidence.

\- Where a LLP is being wound up, all books and papers of the LLP, LLP
Liquidator and liquidator shall, as between the partners of the LLP, be prima
facie evidence of the truth of all matters purporting to be recorded therein.

### 54. Inspection of books and papers by creditors and partners.

(1)At any time after the making of an order for the winding up of a LLP by the
Tribunal, any creditor or partner of the LLP may inspect the books and papers
of the LLP only in accordance with, and subject to manner and conditions
specified in Part VI.(2)Nothing in sub-rule (1) shall be taken as excluding or
restricting any rights conferred by any law for the time being in force-(a)on
the Central Government or a State Government or any authority or officer of
such Government,(b)on any person acting under the authority of any such
Government or of any such authority or officer.

### 55. Disposal of books and papers of LLP.

(1)When the affairs of a LLP have been completely wound up and it is about to
be dissolved, its books and papers and those of the LLP Liquidator may be
disposed of as follows ;-(a)in the case of winding up by the Tribunal, in such
manner as the Tribunal directs; and(b)in the case of voluntary winding up, in
such manner as the LLP approves it by three-fourths of the total number of
partners with the prior approval of the secured creditors.(2)After the expiry
of five years from the dissolution of the LLP, no responsibility shall devolve
on the LLP, the LLP Liquidator, or the liquidator any person to whom the
custody of the books and papers has been entrusted, by reason of any book or
paper not being forthcoming to any person claiming to be interested
therein.(3)The Central Government may, by notification direct, for such period
(not exceeding five years from the dissolution of the LLP) as the Central
Government thinks proper the prevention of the destruction of the books and
papers of a LLP which has been wound up and of its LLP Liquidator or
liquidator;(4)If any person acts in contravention of this rule or of any
direction of the Central Government made there under, he shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine which
may extend to fifty thousand rupees, or with both;

### 56. Information as to pending liquidations.

(1)(i)The LLP liquidator, in the case of voluntary winding up, and the
liquidator, in the case of winding up by Tribunal, shall during the tenure of
his office prepare every year a statement of accounts as on 31st March in Form
No. 15 within two months thereof which shall be verified by a
declaration:Provided that where the LLP Liquidator or liquidator has not,
during the period of account, received or paid any sum of money on account of
the assets of the LLP, he shall file an affidavit of no receipts or payments
on the date on which he shall have to file his accounts for the period.(ii)The
accounts shall be audited by a Chartered Accountant, and for the purpose of
the audit, the LLP Liquidator or liquidator shall furnish the auditor such
vouchers and information as the auditor may require:Provided that the accounts
need not be got audited by the Chartered Accountant where the value of total
transactions during the period is for rupees fifty thousand or less:Provided
further that, where the audit of the accounts is not required under this rule,
the statements of accounts shall contain a declaration that the LLP Liquidator
or liquidator acknowledges his responsibility for maintaining the books and
records and funds are utilized only for the purpose of winding up of the
affairs of the LLP.Explanation. - 'Year' in relation to the statement means
period from first day of April of a Year to the 31st day of March following
year:(2)(i)A copy of the statement of accounts along with the auditor's report
shall be filed with the Tribunal forthwith in the case of winding up by
Tribunal.(ii)A copy of the statement of accounts along with the Auditor's
report shall be filed with the Registrar in every kind of winding up in Form
No. 10 not later than 30th September following.(3)Any person stating himself
in writing to be a creditor or partner of the LLP shall be entitled, by
himself or by his agent, at all reasonable times, on payment of the fee
specified in Annexure, to inspect the statement referred to in sub-rule (1),
and to receive a copy thereof or an extract therefrom.(4)Any person
fraudulently stating himself to be a creditor or partner under sub-rule (3)
shall be deemed guilty of an offence under section 182 of the Indian Panel
Code, and shall, on the application of the LLP Liquidator, be punishable
accordingly.

### 57. Liquidator to make payments into public account of India in the
Reserve bank of India or any designated Scheduled bank.

\- Every Liquidator shall, in the manner and within the time specified in Part
VI, pay the moneys received by him as Liquidator of any LLP into the public
account of India in the Reserve Bank of India.

### 58. LLP Liquidator to make payments into Scheduled Bank.

(1)Every LLP Liquidator of a LLP shall, in a manner and at times specified in
Part VI, pay the monies received by him in his capacity as such in a Scheduled
bank to the credit of a special bank account opened by him in that
behalf:Provided that if the Tribunal considers that it is advantageous for the
creditors or partners or the LLP, it may permit the account to be opened in
such other bank specified by it.(2)If any LLP Liquidator at any time retains
for more than ten days a sum exceeding fifty thousand rupees or such other
amount as the Tribunal may, on the application of the LLP Liquidator,
authorize him to retain, then, unless he explains the retention to the
satisfaction of the Tribunal, he shall-(a)pay interest on the amount so
retained in excess, at the rate of twelve per cent per annum and also pay such
penalty as may be determined by the Tribunal;(b)be liable to pay any expenses
occasioned by reason of his default; and(c)be liable to have all or such part
of his remuneration, as the Tribunal may consider just, disallowed or may also
be removed from his office.

### 59. Liquidator or LLP Liquidator not to deposit monies into private bank
account.

\- Neither the Liquidator nor the LLP Liquidator of a LLP shall deposit any
monies received by him in his capacity as such into any private bank account.

### 60. Unpaid and Undistributed Assets Account.

(1)If the Liquidator or LLP Liquidator has in its hands or under his control
any money representing -(a)any money representing distributable sum payable to
any creditor or creditors, he shall transfer, within five days of such money
being due, in a separate special bank account known as the "Distributable Sum
Account of M/s________ LLP (in liquidation)".(b)any money representing assets
refundable to any partner or partners, he shall transfer, within five days of
such money being due, in a separate special bank account known as the
"Distributable Asset Account of M/s_________ LLP (in liquidation)".(2)If the
amounts which have been transferred to the "Distributable Sum Account of
M/s____________ LLP (in liquidation)" or "Distributable Asset Account of
M/s_____________ LLP (in liquidation)" but have not been paid or claimed
within six months from the date of transfer of such amount, the Liquidator or
LLP Liquidator shall, within seven days from the date of expiry of the said
period of six months, transfer the said amount into the Public Account of
India in a separate account to be known as the "LLP Liquidation
Account".(3)The liquidator or the LLP liquidator, as the case may be, shall,
on the dissolution of the LLP, pay into the "LLP Liquidation Account" any
money representing unpaid distributable sums or undistributed assets in his
hands at the date of dissolution.(4)The liquidator or the LLP liquidator, as
the case may be, shall, when making any payment referred to in sub-rules (2)
and (3), furnish to the Registrar, a statement in the form as specified in
these rules prescribed setting forth, in respect of all sums included in such
payment, the nature of the sums, the names and last known addresses of the
persons entitled to participate therein, the amount to which each is entitled
and the nature of his claim thereto, and any other particulars specified in
Part VI.(5)The liquidator or the LLP liquidator, as the case may be, shall be
entitled to a receipt from the Scheduled bank for any money paid to it under
sub-rules (2) and (3), and such receipt shall be an effectual discharge of the
liquidator or the LLP Liquidator in respect thereof.(6)Where a LLP is being
wound up voluntarily, the LLP Liquidator shall, when filing a statement in
pursuance of sub-rule (1) of rule 56, indicate the sum of money which is
payable under sub-rules (2) and (3) of this rule and shall, pay that sum into
the accounts mentioned in sub-rule (2) or sub-rule (3) of this rule, as the
case may be.(7)Any person claiming to be entitled to any money paid into the
"LLP Liquidation Account" paid in pursuance of this rule may apply to the
Tribunal for an order for payment thereof, and the Tribunal, if satisfied that
the person claiming is entitled, may make an order for the payment to that
person of the sum due:Provided that before making such an order, the Tribunal
shall cause a notice to be served on Registrar, calling him to show cause
within one month from the date of the service of the notice why the order
should not be made.(8)Any money paid into the "LLP Liquidation Account" in
pursuance of this rule, which remains unclaimed thereafter for a period of
seven years, shall be transferred to the general revenue account of the
Central Government, but a claim to any money so transferred may be preferred
under sub-rule (7) and shall be dealt with as if such transfer had not been
made and the order, if any, for payment on the claim will be treated as an
order for refund of revenue.(9)Any liquidator or LLP liquidator, as the case
may be, retaining any money which should have been paid by him into the "LLP
Liquidation Account" under this rule shall -(a)pay interest on the amount so
retained at the rate of twelve per cent per annum and also pay such penalty as
may be determined by the Tribunal:Provided that the Central Government may, in
any proper case remit either in part or in whole the amount of interest which
the liquidator is required to pay under this clause;(b)be liable to pay any
expenses occasioned by reason of his default; and(c)where the winding up is by
the Tribunal, also be liable to have all or such part of his remuneration, as
the Tribunal may consider just, to be disallowed, and to be removed from his
office by the Tribunal.

### 61. Meetings to ascertain wishes of creditors or partners.

(1)In all matters relating to the winding up of a LLP, the Tribunal
may-(a)have regard to the wishes of creditors or partners of the LLP, as
proved to it by any sufficient evidence;(b)direct, if it thinks fit for the
purpose of ascertaining their wishes, meetings of the creditors or partners to
be called, held and conducted in such manner as the Tribunal may direct;
and(c)appoint a person to act as chairman of any such meeting and to report
the result thereof to the Tribunal.(2)for the purpose of ascertaining the
wishes of creditors, regard shall be had to the value of each creditor's
debt.(3)For the purpose of ascertaining the wishes of partners, regard shall
be had to the value of each partner's contribution.

### 62. LLP Liquidator or Liquidator to make returns, etc.

(1)Every LLP liquidator or Liquidator shall file, deliver or make any report,
statement of accounts or other document, or give any notice which is required
to be filed, delivered or made or given, as the case may be, pursuant to any
rule, within the time specified in such rule.(2)Without prejudice to sub-rule
(1) above, the Central Government may, by notification, specify any other
report, statement of accounts or other document or notice which shall be
required to be filed, delivered, made or given, as the case may be, by the LLP
Liquidator or Liquidator within the time specified in such notification.(3)If
any LLP Liquidator or Liquidator who has made any default in filing,
delivering or making any report, statement of account or other document, or in
giving any notice which he is by law required to file, deliver, make or give,
fails to make good the default within fourteen days after the service on him
of a notice requiring him to do so, the Tribunal may, on an application made
to it by any partner or creditor of the LLP or by the Registrar, make an order
directing the LLP Liquidator or Liquidator to make good the default within
such time as may be specified in the order.(4)Any order under sub-rule (3) may
provide that all costs of and incidental to the application shall be borne by
the LLP Liquidator or Liquidator.(5)Nothing in this rule shall prejudice the
operation of any enactment imposing penalties on a LLP Liquidator or
Liquidator in, respect of any such default as aforesaid.

### 63. Court, Tribunal or person, etc. before whom affidavit may be sworn.

(1)Any affidavit required to be sworn under the provisions, or for the
purposes, of these rules may be sworn-(a)in India before any Court, Tribunal,
Judge or person lawfully authorised to take and receive affidavits; and(b)in
any other country before any Court, Judge or person lawfully authorised to
take and receive affidavits in that country or before an Indian diplomatic or
consular officer.(2)All courts, tribunals, judges, justices, commissioners and
persons acting judicially in India shall take judicial notice of the seal,
stamp or signature; as the case may be, of any such court, tribunal, judge,
commissioner, person, diplomatic or consular officer, attached, appended or
subscribed to any such affidavit or to any other document to be used for the
purposes of these rules.

### 64. Tribunal to declare dissolution of LLP void.

(1)Where an LLP has been dissolved, whether in pursuance of these rules or
otherwise, the Tribunal may at any time within two years of the date of the
dissolution, on application by the LLP Liquidator or Liquidator of the LLP or
by any other person who appears to the Tribunal to be interested, make an
order, upon such terms as the Tribunal thinks fit, declaring the dissolution
to be void, and thereupon such proceedings may be taken as if the LLP had not
been dissolved.(2)It shall be the duty of the person on whose application the
order was made, within thirty days after the making of the order, to file a
certified copy of the order with the Registrar in Form No. 11 who shall
register the same.Explanation. - In computing the period of thirty days from
the date of the order, the requisite time for obtaining a certified copy of
the order shall be excluded.

### 65. Commencement of winding up by Tribunal.

(1)Where, before the presentation of a petition for the winding up of a LLP by
the Tribunal, a resolution has been passed by the LLP for voluntary winding
up, the winding up of the LLP shall be deemed to have commenced at the time of
the passing of the resolution, and unless the Tribunal, on proof of fraud or
mistake, thinks fit to direct otherwise, all proceedings taken in the
voluntary winding tip shall be deemed to have been validly taken.(2)In any
other case, the winding up of a LLP by the Tribunal shall be deemed to
commence at the time of the presentation of the petition for the winding up.

### 66. Exclusion of certain time in computing period of limitation.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Limitation Act, 1963 or in any
other law for the time being in force, in computing the period of limitation
specified for any suit or application in the name and on behalf of a LLP which
is being wound up by the Tribunal, the period from the date of commencement of
the winding up of the LLP to a period of one year immediately following the
date of the winding up order shall be excluded.

### 67. Filing with Registrar and filing Fee.

\- A notice, document, form, resolution, order, etc. under these rules or
notification issued under section 67 of the Act required to be filed with
Registrar, shall be filed in electronic form along with the fee as specified
in Annexure.Provided that in the case of winding up by the Tribunal, the
Central Government may waive the fee, if it deems fit;Provided further that no
fee shall be payable if any LLP under liquidation by the order of the Tribunal
does not have funds and the liquidator submits a certificate to the effect
that the LLP does not have any fund.

## Part VI – Proceedings and Procedures General

### 68. Jurisdiction of the Tribunal.

(1)All proceedings shall be instituted before the Bench of the Tribunal having
jurisdiction, as may be notified by the Central Government.

### 69. Form of Proceedings.

(1)All petitions, applications, affidavits, and other proceedings presented to
the Tribunal shall be written, typewritten, or printed neatly and legibly on
substantial paper of foolscape size in duplicate and separate sheets shall be
stitched together. Numbers and dates shall be expressed in figures, and, where
dates given are not according to the English-Calendar, the corresponding
English dates shall also be given.(2)Every proceeding shall be consecutively
numbered, dated and shall be instituted in the matter of a Limited Liability
Partnership (LLP) or Limited Liability Partnerships (LLps) to which it
relates. The contents shall be divided into separate paragraphs, which shall
be numbered serially. The general heading in all proceedings before the
Tribunal, and in all advertisements and notices, shall be in Form No.
16.(3)Sitting hours of Tribunal shall ordinarily be from 10.30 AM. to 1.30 PM
and from 2.30 PM to 4.30 PM on all working days except Saturday, Sunday and
other public holidays subject to any general or special order made by the
Chairperson or President.(4)Fees on applications or petitions shall be as
specified in Annexure.

### 70. Language of proceedings.

\- Every petition, application, affidavit or other proceedings shall be in
English or Hindi and except in so far as the Tribunal may otherwise order, no
document in other language shall be accepted for use in any proceedings,
unless translated into English or Hindi.

### 71. Power of the Tribunal to enlarge or abridge time.

\- The Tribunal should not extend the time without any genuine reason and
exceptional circumstances and orders should be recorded in detail giving
reasons for grant of extension.

### 72. Provisions of the Code to apply.

\- Save as provided by the Act or by these rules, the provisions of the Code
so far as applicable, shall apply to all proceedings under the Act and these
rules.

### 73. Saving of inherent powers of the Tribunal.

\- Nothing to these rules shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect the
inherent powers of the Tribunal to make such orders as may be necessary for
the ends of justice or to prevent abuse of the process of the Tribunal.

### 74. Power to dispense with the requirement of the rules.

\- The Tribunal shall have power for reasons to be recorded in writing to
dispense with the requirements of any of these rules, subject to such terms
and conditions as may be specified in the order.

### 75. Computation of time.

\- Where any particular number of days is specified, the same shall be
reckoned exclusively of the first day and inclusively of the last day, unless
the last day shall happen to fall on a day on which the offices of the
Tribunal are closed, in which case the time shall be reckoned exclusively of
that day also and of any succeeding day or days on which the offices of the
Tribunal continued to be closed.

### 76. Registers to be kept.

\- There shall be kept, in the Tribunal, the following registers either in
physical or digital format or both physical and digital, relating to
proceedings under the Act and these rules:-(1)LLP Petitions Register in which
shall be entered and numbered serially the petitions filed under the Act or
these rules stating the particulars as to-(i)date of presentation(ii)name of
LLP(iii)name of parties, their advocates etc.(iv)provision of law under which
the petition is made(v)nature of relief sought(vi)date and nature of order
made(vii)date of filing of appeal, if any,(viii)date of disposal of appeal,
and(ix)result of judgment in appeal.(2)LLP Applications' Register in which
shall be entered applications other than petitions stating particulars as
to-(i)date of presentation,(ii)name of LLP,(iii)number of main proceeding, if
any, to which the application relates,(iv)name of parties, their Advocates,
etc.(v)provision of law, if any, under which the application is
made,(vi)nature of relief sought,(vii)date and nature of order made,(viii)date
of filing of appeal, if any,(ix)date of disposal of appeal, and(x)result of
Judgment in appeal.(3)In the Liquidations Register, there shall be entered
under a separate heading for each LLP ordered to be wound-up in the form
specified in these rules briefly and in chronological order, all proceedings
in winding-up until conclusion of the winding-up.(4)In the LLP Documents
Register there shall be entered under a separate heading for each LLP any
valuable securities, such as, negotiable instruments, documents of title and
the like that may be filed in proceedings before the Tribunal as prescribed in
the form.(5)Appearance of the person appearing before the Tribunal shall be
indicated in the order sheet.

### 77. Serial number of proceedings.

(1)Every petition or application shall bear its distinctive serial number, and
an interlocutory application shall bear, besides its own serial number, the
serial number of the main proceeding to which it relates. Every order made,
process issued or document filed, shall bear the serial number of the
proceedings to which it relates.(2)All petitions, applications and affidavits,
upon being filed and all orders, summons, warrants or processes of any kind
(including notices issued by Tribunal) and certified copies, of any
proceedings, shall be issued under the authority and seal of the Tribunal.

### 78. Powers, functions and duties of Registrar of the Tribunal.

(1)The Registrar of Tribunal shall be principal officer of the Tribunal and
shall exercise his powers and perform his duties under the control of
Chairperson or President.(2)The Tribunal in discharge of its functions under
the Act, may take such assistance from the Registrar of Tribunal, as it may
deem fit, and the Registrar of Tribunal or other officer, shall be bound to
assist the Tribunal.(3)In particular and without prejudice to the generally of
the provisions of this rule, the Registrar of Tribunal shall have the
following powers and duties, namely: -(a)to have the custody of the records of
the, Principal Bench of the Tribunal and other Benches;(b)to receive all
petitions, applications or references pertaining to the Principal Bench and
other Benches of the Tribunal;(c)to assist Principal Bench and other Benches
of the Tribunal in the proceedings relating to the powers exercised by
them;(d)to authenticate the orders passed by the Principal Bench an other
Benches of the Tribunal;(e)to ensure compliance of the orders passed by the
Principal Bench and other Benches of the Tribunal;(f)to have the custody and
control of the Official seal of the Tribunal;(g)to have the right to collect
from the Central Government or other officers, companies, LLPs and firms, or
any other person such information as may be considered useful for the purpose
of efficient discharge of the functions of the Tribunal under the Act and
place the said information before the Tribunal. These rules shall apply to all
Benches of the Tribunal situated all over India.(4)The Registrar of Tribunal
shall have the following powers and duties subject to any general or special
order of the Tribunal, namely: -(i)to received all petitions or applications
and other documents including transferred applications;(ii)to decide all
questions arising out of the scrutiny of the petitions and applications before
they are registered;(iii)to decline to accept any document which is presented
otherwise than in accordance with these rules.(iv)to require any petition or
application presented to the Tribunal to be amended in accordance with the
Act;(v)Subject to the directions of Tribunal to fix the date of first hearing
of the petition or application or other proceedings and issue notices
thereof;(vi)to direct any formal amendment of records(vii)to order grant of
copies of documents to the parties to the proceedings;(viii)to grant leave to
inspect the records of the Tribunal;(ix)to dispose of matters relating to the
service of notices;(x)to receive application within thirty days from the date
of death for substitution of authorized representatives of the deceased
parties during the pendency of the petition or application;(xi)to receive and
dispose of application for substitution, except where the substitution would
involve setting aside an order of abatement;(xii)to receive and dispose of
applications by parties for return of documents.(5)An appeal against any
decision by the Registrar of Tribunal shall be made to the Tribunal by the
aggrieved party within fifteen days from the date such decision communicated
to him.

### 79. Inspection and copies of proceedings.

(1)Records of every proceedings pending before the Tribunal will be available
for the inspection of the parties or their authorized representatives on
making an application in writing and on payment of a fee as specified in
Annexure.(2)A person who is not party to the proceedings is not entitled for
inspection of the records or proceedings except with the consent of the
parties by whom they were presented or produced or under the orders of the
Tribunal on payment of the fee.(3)A person not a party to the proceedings or
petitions on which final orders have been passed can obtain copy of the orders
on payment of such fee as given in Annexure.

### 80. Forms.

\- The forms annexed to these rules, where applicable, shall be used with such
variations as circumstances may require including the variations required for
the purpose of filing or submitting or maintaining the documents in the
electronic form.

### 81. Affidavits.

(a)Every affidavit shall be drawn up in the first person and shall state the
full name, age, occupation and the place of abode of the deponent. It shall be
signed by the deponent and sworn, or, in the manner prescribed by the Code or
by the rules and practice of the Court of the State where affirmed.(b)Every
exhibit annexed to an affidavit shall be marked with the number of the
proceedings to which it relates, and shall be initialed and dated by the
authority before which it is sworn.(c)No affidavit having interlineations,
alteration or erasure, shall be filed in Tribunal unless such interlineations
or alternation is initialed by the authority before whom it is sworn, or, in
the case of an erasure, the words and figures written on the erasure are
rewritten in the margin and initialed by such authority.

### 82. Form of summons and service thereof.

(1)A summon shall be in Form No. 17 and shall, unless otherwise provided by
these rules or permitted by the Member, be supported by an affidavit.(2)The
summons, together with a copy of the affidavit, shall be served upon every
person against whom an order is sought and such other person, as the Member
may direct, in person or by prepaid registered or speed post or through
empanelled courier agency or upon his representative or advocate or pleader
where he appears by an advocate or representative or pleader, or in such other
manner as the Member may direct.(3)Unless otherwise provided by these rules or
by an order of the Tribunal, a summons, which is an interlocutory application
in a proceeding, shall be served not less than three clear days before the day
named in the summons for the hearing thereof, and where the summons is other
than interlocutory, it shall be served riot less than ten days before the date
fixed for the hearing thereof.

### 83. Issue of summons.

\- Every summons, together with duplicates of the same for service thereof,
shall be prepared by the applicant or his advocate or representative or
pleader and issued from the office of the Registrar of the Tribunal.

### 84. Affidavit verifying petition.

\- Every petition shall be verified by an affidavit made by the petitioner or
by one of the petitioners, where there are more than one, and in the case the
petition is presented by a body corporate, by a director, secretary or manager
or partner or designated partner or an officer authorized in that behalf
thereof and such affidavit shall be Form No. 18 and shall be filed along with
the petition.

### 85. Enclosures to petition.

\- Unless dispensed with by the Member or Registrar of Tribunal, every
petition and application shall be accompanied by the documents required to be
annexed.

### 86. Summons for direction.

(a)Where a petition is presented, an application shall, in every case, be made
by along with summons in Form No. 19 to the Member for directions as to the
advertisement of the petition, the notices to be served and the proceedings to
be taken.(b)The petition shall be posted for hearing before the Member at the
next sitting, and the Member may make such orders thereon and may give such
directions as it may seem to him appropriate.

### 87. Advertisement of petition.

(1)Where any petition is required to be advertised, it shall, unless the
Member otherwise orders, or these rules otherwise provide, be advertised not
less than seven days before the date fixed for hearing, in one issue each of a
daily newspaper in the English language and a daily newspaper in the regional
language circulating in the State or the Union territory concerned, as may be
fixed by the Member.(2)Except in the case of a petition to wind up a LLP, the
Member may, if he thinks fit, dispense with any advertisement required by
these rules.

### 88. Contents of advertisement.

\- Except as otherwise provided in these rules, such advertisement shall be in
Form No. 20 and shall state the date on which the petition was presented, the
name and address of the petitioner and his advocate or pleader, the nature of
the petition and the date fixed for hearing. It shall, unless otherwise
ordered, further state that any person who intends either to oppose or support
the petition at the hearing should send notice of his intention to the
petitioner or his advocate or pleader so as to reach him not later than two
days previous to the day fixed for the hearing, and in the case of a petition
for a winding-up, not later than four days previous to the day fixed for the
hearing of the petition.

### 89. Service of petition.

\- Every petition shall be served on the respondent, if any, named in the
petition and on such other persons as the Act or these rules may require or as
the Member or the Registrar of Tribunal may direct and unless otherwise
ordered, a copy of the petition shall be served along with the notice of the
petition.

### 90. Notice of petition and time of service.

\- Notice of every petition required to be served upon any person shall be in
Form No. 21 and shall, unless otherwise ordered by Tribunal or otherwise
provided, be served not less than seven days before the date of hearing.

### 91. Service on LLP.

(1)Where a petition is presented against a LLP, it shall be accompanied by a
notice of the petition in the form prescribed under these rules together with
a copy of the petition for service on the LLP and an envelope addressed to the
LLP at its registered office or its principal place of business and
sufficiently stamped for being sent by registered post for acknowledgement or
through empanelled courier agency.(2)The Registrar of Tribunal shall
immediately on the admission of the petition send the notice together with the
copy of the petition to the LLP by registered post or through courier.(3)Every
petition, and, save as otherwise provided or by an order of Tribunal, every
application, shall unless presented by the LLP, be served on the LLP at its
registered office, or at its principal or last known principal place of
business, by leaving a copy thereof with an officer or employee of the LLP,
and in case no such person is available, in such manner, as the Member or
Registrar of Tribunal may direct, or, by sending a copy thereof by prepaid
registered post or through empanelled courier agency addressed to the LLP at
its registered office, or, if there is no registered office, at its principal
or last known principal place of business, or to such person and at such
address as the Member or Registrar of Tribunal may direct.

### 92. Petitioner to effect service.

\- Save as otherwise provided and subject to any directions of the Member or
Registrar of Tribunal, the petitioner, applicant or any other person having
the conduct of proceedings in Tribunal, shall be responsible for the service
of all notices, summons and other processes and for the advertisement and
publication of notices, required to be effected by these rules or by order of
Tribunal.

### 93. Affidavit of service.

(1)An affidavit or affidavits stating whether the petition has been advertised
and whether the notices, if any, have been duly served upon the persons
required to be served shall be filed not less than three days before the date
fixed for hearing and such proof of the advertisement or of the service, as
may be available shall be filed along with the affidavit.(2)An affidavit of
service on a LLP or its liquidator shall be in Form No. 22 or 23, as the case
may be.

### 94. Procedure on default of compliance as regards advertisement and
service of notice.

\- In default of compliance with the requirements of the rules or the
directions of the Member or Registrar of Tribunal, as regards the
advertisement and service of the petition, the petition shall, on the date
fixed for hearing be posted for orders of the Member and the Member may either
dismiss the petition or give such further directions as he thinks fit.

### 95. Mode of service and service when deemed to be effected.

(1)Save as otherwise provided or by an order of Tribunal, all notices,
summons, and other documents required to be served on any person, may be
served either personally by delivering a copy thereof to such person or upon
his advocate or pleader or authorised representative where he appears by
advocate or pleader; except where personal service is required by prepaid
registered post for acknowledgement due addressed to the last known address of
such person or through process server by affixing at the last known address.
In the case of service by registered post where no acknowledgement signed by
the addressee or his duly authorized agent is received, orders of Tribunal
shall be obtained as to the sufficiency of service or as to the further steps
to be taken for service as the Tribunal may direct:Provided that where a
notice, summons or other document has to be served on any class of persons
such as partners, creditors and the like, the same may be sent by prepaid
registered post or by ordinary post by prepaid letter post under certificate
of posting or registered post, as may be provided by these rules or by an
order of Tribunal, and unless otherwise ordered by the Tribunal, the service
shall be deemed to be effected at the time when the said notice, summons or
other document ought to be delivered in the ordinary course of post by the
post office, notwithstanding the same is returned undelivered by the post
office.(2)Where notice of any petition, application, summons or other
proceedings has to be given to the Central Government under these rules, it
shall be addressed to and served on the Secretary to Government of India,
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, New Delhi, or such other officer or office of
the Central Government as may be authorised to receive notices on its
behalf.(3)Where any person has to be served at an address outside India, the
notice or other process to be served on him shall, subject to orders of the
Tribunal, be sent to such address by empanelled courier agency or by prepaid
airmail registered post for acknowledgment due.(4)Service may be done in any
other manner including the manner as provided in rule 15 of Limited Liability
Partnership Rules, 2009 or as may be ordered by the Tribunal.

### 96. Validity of service and of proceedings.

\- No service shall be deemed to be invalid by reason of any defect in the
name or description of a person in the list of partners or in the petition,
summons, notice or other proceeding, provided that the Tribunal is satisfied
that such service is in other respects sufficient; and no proceedings shall be
invalidated by reason of any formal defect or irregularity; unless the Member
before whom the objection is taken is of the opinion that substantial
injustice has been caused by such defect or irregularity and that the
injustice cannot be remedied by an order of Tribunal.

### 97. Notice to be given by persons intending to appear at the hearing of
petition.

(1)Every person, who intends to appear at the hearing of a petition, whether
to support or oppose the petition, shall serve on the petitioner or his
advocate or pleader, notice of his intention at the address given in the
advertisement.(2)The notice shall contain the address of such person, and be
signed by him or his advocate or pleader or authorised representative, and
save as otherwise provided shall be served (or if sent by post or through
courier, shall be posted in such time as to reach the addressee) not later
than two days previous to the day of hearing, and in the case of a petition
for winding-up not later than four days previous to the day of hearing and
such notice shall be in Form No. 24 with such variations as the circumstances
may require, and where such person intends to oppose the petition, the grounds
of his opposition, or a copy of his affidavit, if any, shall be furnished
along with the notice.(3)Any person who has failed to comply with this rule
shall not, except with the leave of the Member, be allowed to appear at the
hearing of the petition.

### 98. List of persons, intending to appear, to be filed.

\- The petitioner or his advocate or authorized representative or pleader
shall prepare a list of the names and addresses of the persons who have given
notice of their intention to appear at the hearing of the petition and such
list shall be in Form No. 25, and shall be filed in Tribunal before the
hearing of the petition.

### 99. Procedure at hearing of petition.

(1)At the hearing of the petition, the Member may either dispose of the
petition finally, or give such directions as may be deemed necessary for the
filing of counter-affidavit and reply affidavits, if any, and for service of
notice on any person who, in his opinion has been omitted to be served or has
not been properly served with the notice of the petition and may adjourn the
petition to enable the parties to comply with his directions.(2)All
adjournments and postings will be subject to time schedule prescribed under
the Act or the rules and except as otherwise ordered by the Member, it shall
not be necessary to give notice of the adjourned hearing to any person.

### 100. Order to be drawn up.

(1)Every order, shall be drawn up by the Registrar of Tribunal, unless in any
proceeding or class of proceedings, the Member or the Registrar of Tribunal
directs that the order need not be drawn up.(2)Where a direction is given
under sub-rule (1) that no order need be drawn up, the note or memorandum of
the order signed or initialed by the Member making the order or by the
Registrar of Tribunal shall be sufficient evidence of the order having been
made.(3)The date of every order shall be the date on which it was actually
made, notwithstanding that it is drawn up and issued on a later date.(4)The
costs should be awarded for every adjournment on the party seeking adjournment
at the time of granting adjournment except in cases of serious illness and
such similar circumstance.(5)Where costs are awarded to a party in any
proceeding, the order shall direct that the party liable to pay the costs
shall pay the same.Petition for Winding up, Provisional Liquidator, Winding up
Order, and Statement of Affairs.

### 101. Petition for winding-up.

(1)A petition for winding up an LLP shall be in Form No. 26, or 27 or 28, as
the case may be, with such variations as the circumstances may require, and
shall be presented in duplicate:Provided that where the petition is by the LLP
it should be accompanied with the statement of affairs of the LLP on the date
of petition.(2)the Registrar of Tribunal shall note on the petition the date
of its presentation.

### 102. Admission of petition and directions as to advertisement.

(1)Upon the filing of the petition, it shall be posted before the Member in
chambers for admission of the petition and fixing a date for the hearing
thereof and for directions as to the advertisements to be published, and the
persons, if any, upon whom copies of the petition are to be served.(2)The
Member may, if he thinks fit, direct notice to be given to the LLP before
giving directions as to the advertisement of the petition.

### 103. Petition by a contingent or prospective creditor.

\- A petition for the winding-up of a LLP presented by a contingent or
prospective creditor shall be accompanied by an application for the leave of
the Tribunal for the admission of the petition and no advertisement of such
petition shall be made unless the leave has been granted, or, where the leave
has been granted subject to any conditions precedent to the admission of the
petition, unless such conditions have been satisfied.

### 104. Copy of petition to be furnished.

\- Every partner or creditor of the LLP shall be entitled to be furnished by
the petitioner or by his advocate or pleader or authorized representative with
a copy of the petition within 24 hours on payment of the charges as specified
in Annexure.

### 105. Advertisement of petition.

\- Subject to any directions of the Tribunal, the petition shall be advertised
within the time and in the manner provided in rule 87. The advertisement shall
be in Form No. 29.

### 106. Application for leave to withdraw petition.

(1)A petition for winding-up shall not be withdrawn after presentation without
the leave of the Tribunal.(2)An application for leave to withdraw a petition
for winding-up which has been advertised in accordance with the provisions of
rule 87 shall not be heard at any time before the date fixed in the
advertisement for the hearing of the petition.

### 107. Substitution of creditor or partner for original petitioner.

\- Where a petitioner-(a)is not entitled to present a petition, or(b)fails to
advertise his petition within the time specified by these rules or by order of
Tribunal or such extended then as the Tribunal may allow with cost,
or(c)consents to withdraw the petition, or to allow it to be dismissed, or the
hearing to be adjourned or fails to appear in support of his petition when it
is called on in Tribunal on the day originally fixed for the hearing thereof,
or any day to which the hearing has been adjourned, or(d)if appearing, does
not apply for an order in terms of the prayer of his petition.orwhere in the
opinion of the Tribunal, there is other sufficient cause for an order being
made under this rule,the Tribunal may, by an order, upon such terms as it may
think just, substitute as petition of the Tribunal, would have a right to
present a petition, and who is desirous of presenting the petition.(5)Where a
member makes an order substituting a creditor or partner as petitioner in
winding up petition, such petitioner shall pay an additional fee equivalent to
the half of the amount of the original fee paid in the original petition.

### 108. Procedure on substitution.

(1)Where the Member makes an order substituting a creditor or partner as
petitioner in a winding-up petition, he shall adjourn the hearing of the
petition to a date to be fixed by him and direct such amendments of the
petition as may be necessary and such creditor or partner shall, within seven
days from the making of the order, amend the petition accordingly, and file
two clean copies thereof together with an affidavit in duplicate setting out
the grounds, on which he supports the petition.(2)The amended petition shall
be treated as the petition for the winding-up of the LLP and shall be deemed
to have been presented on the date on which the original petition was
presented.

### 109. Affidavit-in-opposition.

(1)Subject to the rule 28, an affidavit intended to be used in opposition to
the petition, shall be filed not less than five days before the date fixed for
the hearing of the petition, and a copy of the affidavit shall be served on
the petitioner or his advocate or pleader or authorized representative
forthwith. The Statement of Affairs of the LLP along with the affidavit in
opposition in question shall also be filed.(2)The copies of the affidavit
shall also be given to any creditor or partner appearing in support of the
petition who may require the same, on payment of the prescribed charges.

### 110. Affidavit in reply.

\- Subject to rule 28, an affidavit intended to be used in reply to the
affidavit filed in opposition to the petition shall be filed not less than two
days before the day fixed for the hearing of the petition, and a copy of the
affidavit in reply shall be served on the day of the filing thereof on the
person by whom the affidavit in opposition was filed or his advocate or
pleader or authorized representative.Provisional Liquidator

### 111. Appointment of Provisional Liquidator.

(1)After the admission of a petition of the winding-up of a LLP by the
Tribunal, upon the application of a creditor, or a partner, or of the LLP, and
upon proof by affidavit of sufficient ground for the appointment of a
Provisional Liquidator, subject to rules 27 and 28, the Tribunal, if it thinks
fit, and upon such terms as in the opinion of the Tribunal shall be just and
necessary, may appoint the Liquidator to be Provisional Liquidator of the LLP
pending final orders on the winding-up petition.(2)Where the LLP is not the
applicant, notice of the application for appointment of Provisional Liquidator
shall be given to the LLP unless the Tribunal, for special reasons to be
recorded (in writing), dispenses with the notice. The order appointing the
Provisional Liquidator shall set out the restrictions and limitations, if any,
on his powers imposed by the Tribunal. The order shall be in Form No. 30 with
such variations as may be necessary.

### 112. Rules and procedures applicable to Provisional Liquidator.

\- The rules and procedures relating to Liquidators shall apply to Provisional
Liquidators, so far as applicable, subject to such directions, as the Tribunal
may give in each case.

### 113. Costs, etc. of Provisional Liquidator.

\- Subject to any order of the Tribunal, all the costs, charges and expenses
properly incurred by the Liquidator, as Provisional Liquidator, including such
sum as is or would be payable to the Central Government under the scale of
fees for the time being in force applicable where the Official Liquidator acts
as the Provisional liquidator of the LLP, shall be paid out of the assets of
the LLP.Winding up order

### 114. Notice to Liquidator of order.

\- Where an order for the winding-up of a LLP or for the appointment of a
Provisional Liquidator has been made, the Registrar of Tribunal shall
forthwith send to the Liquidator appointed by the Tribunal notice of the order
under the seal of the Tribunal in duplicate in Form No. 31 or 32, as the case
may be, together with a copy of the petition and the affidavit, if any, filed
in support thereof with a copy of Statement of Affairs filed with the petition
or at the time of opposition, as the case may be. The concerned Registrar
shall also be served with the copy of the order.

### 115. Contents of winding-up order and order appointing Provisional
Liquidator.

\- An order to wind-up an LLP or for the appointment of a Provisional
Liquidator shall contain at the foot thereof a note stating that it will be
the duty of such of the persons specified in rule 37 to attend on the
Liquidator at such time and place as he may appoint and to give him all
information he may require.

### 116. Order to be sent to Liquidator and form of order.

(1)The order for winding-up shall be drawn up by the Registrar of Tribunal
forthwith, and after it is signed and sealed, two certified copies thereof
duly sealed shall be sent to the Liquidator. The order shall be in Form No. 33
with such variations as may be necessary.(2)Except where the LLP is the
petitioner, the Liquidator shall cause a sealed copy of the order to be served
upon the LLP by prepaid registered post or by empanelled courier agency
addressed at its registered office (if any), or if there is no registered
office, at its principal or last known principal place of business, or upon
such other person or persons or in such manner as the Tribunal may direct.

### 117. Summons for directions to be taken out by the Liquidator.

(1)On receipt of the winding up order, liquidator shall make out a report for
direction with regard to the performance by the liquidator of all or any of
the duties under rule 41 or any other matter requiring directions of the
Tribunal.(2)The Tribunal after hearing the liquidator may give such directions
as it thinks fit in regard to various matters including fixing the time-limits
before which the various matters shall be completed by the liquidator subject
to time-limits specified under these rules.

### 118. Directions on making the winding-up order.

\- At the time of making the winding up order, or at any time thereafter, the
Tribunal shall give directions as to the advertisement of the order and the
persons, if any, on whom the order shall be served and the persons, if any, to
whom notice shall be given of the further proceedings, in the liquidation, and
such further directions as may be necessary.

### 119. Advertisement of the order.

\- Save as otherwise ordered by the Tribunal, every order for the winding up
of an LLP by the Tribunal, shall within fourteen days of the date of making
the order, be advertised by the petitioner in one issue each of a newspaper in
the English language and a newspaper in the regional language circulating in
the State or the Union territory concerned and shall be served by the
petitioner upon such person, if any, and in such manner as the Member may
direct. The advertisement shall be in Form No. 34.

### 120. Form of proceedings after winding up order is made.

\- After a winding up order is made, every subsequent proceeding in the
winding up shall bear the original number of the winding up petition, besides
its own distinctive number, but against the name of the LLP in the cause-
title, the words 'in liquidation' shall appear in brackets.

### 121. Application for stay of winding up proceedings.

(1)An application for stay of proceedings in the winding up shall be made upon
notice to the parties to the winding up petition and to such other persons as
the Tribunal may direct, and where the application is made by any person other
than the Liquidator, notice shall be given to the Liquidator.(2)Where an order
is made staying proceedings of winding up, the applicant shall within fifteen
days file a certified copy thereof with the Registrar in Form 10.Explanation.
- In computing the period of fifteen days from the date of the order, the
requisite time for obtaining a certified copy of the order shall be excluded.

### 122. Application for leave to commence or continue or transfer suits or
proceedings.

(1)An application for leave of the Tribunal to commence or continue any suit
or proceeding against the LLP shall be made to the Tribunal upon notice to
Liquidator and the parties to the suit or proceeding sought to be commenced or
continued.(2)An application for transfer to the Tribunal of any suit or
proceeding by or against the LLP pending in any Court (other than in High
Court or Supreme Court) or any tribunal shall be made upon the notice to the
Liquidator and to the parties to the suit or proceeding sought to be
transferred.

### 123. Notice to submit statement.

\- A notice by the Liquidator requiring any of the persons mentioned in rule
28 to submit and verify a statement of affairs of the LLP shall be in Form No.
35 and may be served by the Liquidator forthwith after the order for winding
up or the order appointing the Liquidator as Provisional Liquidator is made.

### 124. Application by Liquidator appointed by Tribunal.

(1)The Liquidator may, if required, apply to the Tribunal for an order
directing any person, who, in his opinion, is liable to furnish a statement of
affairs under rule 28, to prepare and submit such a statement or concur in
making the same and notice of the application shall be served on the person
against whom the order is sought.(2)Where the Tribunal makes the order, such
order shall be in Form No. 36 with such variations as may be necessary.

### 125. Preparation of statement of affairs.

\- Any person who under rule 28 is required to submit and verify a statement
as to the affairs of the LLP shall prepare the statement of affairs on his own
cost.

### 126. Form of the statement.

(1)The statement as to the affairs of the LLP to be submitted under rule 28
shall be in Form No. 37 and shall be made out in duplicate, one copy of which
shall be verified by affidavit.(2)An affidavit of concurrence in the statement
of affairs shall be in Form No. 28.(3)The Liquidator shall cause the verified
statement of affairs and the affidavit of concurrence, if any, to be filed in
the Tribunal forthwith on submission and completion of the statement of
affairs and shall retain the duplicate thereof for his records.

### 127. Extension of time for submitting statement.

(1)Where any person required to submit a statement of affairs under rule 28
requires an extension of time for submitting the same, he shall apply in the
first instance to the Liquidator who may, if he thinks fit, subject to rule
28, give a written certificate extending the time, which certificate shall be
filed with the proceedings. The certificate shall be in Form No. 39.

### 128. Partners and Officers of LLP to attend and give information.

\- The Liquidator may from time to time hold personal interviews with any such
person, as is mentioned in rule 28 or rule 37 for the purpose of investigating
the LLP's affairs, and it shall be the duty of every such person to attend on
the Liquidator at such time and place as the Liquidator may appoint and give
the Liquidator all information that he may require and answer all such
questions as may be put to him by the Liquidator. The Liquidator shall
maintain minutes of the interview held by him or memoranda containing the
substance of such interviews.

### 129. Duty of person making or concurring in statement.

\- After the statement of affairs of the LLP has been submitted to the
Liquidator, it shall be the duty of every person who has made or concurred in
making it, if, and when required, to attend on the Liquidator and answer all
such questions as may be put to him, and give all such further information as
may be required of him by the Liquidator in relation to the statement of
affairs.

### 130. Default in complying with rule 28.

\- Any default on the part of any person in complying with the requirements of
rule 28 shall be reported to the Tribunal by the Liquidator, and the Tribunal
may thereupon pass such orders or give such directions as it may think fit.

### 131. LLP Liquidator in voluntary winding-up to submit statement.

(1)Where before the making of the winding up order the LLP was being wound-up
voluntarily, the Liquidator may require any LLP liquidator or liquidators in
such winding up to furnish him, not later than fourteen days of his making the
requisition, or such other time as he may fix, a statement as to the manner in
which the winding up was conducted, how the assets of the LLP were dealt with,
and the position of the liquidation on the date of the order for winding up by
the Tribunal; and on the requisition being made, it shall be the duty of the
LLP liquidator or liquidators so required to furnish the statement within the
time limit.(2)Where the LLP liquidator or liquidators fails to furnish the
statement as required under sub-rule (1), the Liquidator may apply to the
Tribunal for such directions as may be necessary.

### 132. Report by Liquidator.

\- The report to be submitted by the Liquidator under rule 34 shall be in Form
No. 40 with such variations as may be necessary and shall contain the
information as specified in rule 34.

### 133. Inspection of statement and report.

\- Every creditor or partner, by himself, or by his agent, shall be entitled
to inspect the statement of affairs submitted under rule 28 and the report of
the Liquidators submitted under rule 34 on payment of a fee as specified in
the Annexure and to obtain copies thereof or extracts therefrom on payment of
the specified charges in Annexure.

### 134. Further report by Liquidator.

(1)Where the Liquidator makes a further report under rule 34(4), such report
shall state whether any fraud has been detected subsequent to the submission
of report under rule 34(1).(2)If any such fraud has been detected, the report
shall set out the names of the persons by whom the fraud, in his opinion, was
committed and the facts on which such opinion is based and the report shall
set out in a narrative form the facts and matters which the liquidator desires
to bring to the notice of the Tribunal.

### 135. Consideration of report(s) by the Tribunal.

(1)The consideration of the report (or reports), made by the Liquidator
pursuant to rule 34, shall be placed before the Member in Chambers, and the
Liquidator shall personally or by counsel attend the consideration thereof and
give the Tribunal any further information or explanation with reference to the
matters contained therein which the Tribunal may require.(2)On a consideration
of the report (or reports), the Tribunal may pass such orders and give such
directions as it may think fit including directions of examination of
designated partners, partners, officers and employees past and present of the
LLP:Provided that where the Liquidator makes report(s) under rule 34
containing the fraud committed by the partners or designated partners or
officers or employees, of the LLP, the Registrar of Tribunal shall fix a date
for the consideration thereof by the Member and notify the date on the notice
board of the Tribunal and to the Liquidator.

### 136. Summons for direction to be taken out by Liquidator.

(1)As soon as practicable after the winding up order is made and in any event,
not later than seven days after the filing of the report under sub-rule (1) of
rule 34, the liquidator shall make a report for direction with regard to the
performance by the liquidator of the duties under rule 41, the settlement of
list of creditors and settlement of list of partners.(2)Upon hearing the
liquidator, Tribunal may give such directions as it shall think fit in regard
to the said matters.Settlement of list of creditors

### 137. Fixing a date for proving debts.

\- Subject to the provisions of the Act and rules made thereunder and in a
winding up by the Tribunal, subject to the directions of the Tribunal, the
Liquidator in a winding up by the Tribunal shall, and the LLP Liquidator in
voluntary winding up may, fix a certain day, which shall be not less than
fourteen days from the date of the notice to be given under the rule 138, on
or before which the creditors of the LLP are to prove their debts or claims
and to establish any title for they may have to priority under preferential
payments, or to be excluded from the benefit of any distribution made before
such debts or claims are proved, or, as the case may be, from objecting to
such distribution.

### 138. Notice to creditors.

(1)The liquidator shall give not less than fourteen days notice of the date so
fixed by advertisement in one issue of a daily newspaper in the English
language and one issue of a daily newspaper in the regional language
circulating in the State or Union territory concerned, as he considers
suitable.(2)the advertisements under sub-rule (1) shall be released within
thirty days from the date of confirmation of the sale and be in Form No.
41.(3)If the number of creditors do not exceed one hundred, individual notices
may be given by letter post under certificate of posting or registered post or
any other mode specified in rule 15 of the Limited Liability Partnership
Rules, 2009 within thirty days from the date of confirmation of the sale or on
any earlier date and advertisement in newspapers may be dispensed with.(4)The
Liquidator shall also give not less than fourteen days notice of the date
fixed, in a winding up by the Tribunal, to every person mentioned in the
statement of affairs, as a creditor, who has not proved his debt and to every
person mentioned in the statement of affairs as a preferential creditor whose
claim to be a preferential creditor has not been established or is not
admitted, to the address indicated in the statement of affairs and such notice
shall be in Form No. 42 or Form No. 43 and shall be sent to each such creditor
either by letter post under certificate of posting or registered post or any
other mode specified, in rule 15 of the Limited Liability Partnership Rules
2009.(5)All proceedings and procedures hereinafter set out as to the admission
or rejection of proofs shall apply with necessary variations to any claim to
priority as a preferential creditor,

### 139. Proof of debt.

(1)In a winding up by the Tribunal, every creditor shall, subject as
hereinafter provided, prove his debt, unless the Member in any particular case
directs that any creditors or class of creditors shall be admitted without,
proof.

### 140. Mode of proof and verification thereof.

\- A debt may be proved by delivering or sending by post to the Liquidator, an
and if affidavit verifying the debt made by the creditor or by some person
authorised by him and if the affidavit is made by a person authorised by the
creditor, it shall state the authority and means of knowledge of the deponent.
A creditor need not attend upon the investigation unless required to do so by
the Liquidator.

### 141. Contents of proof.

\- An affidavit proving a debt shall contain or refer to a statement of
accounts showing the particulars of the debt, and shall specify the vouchers
or bills or contracts or any other material documents, by which the same can
be substantiated and shall state whether the creditor is a secured creditor,
or a preferential creditor, and if so, shall set out the particulars of the
security or of the preferential claims. The affidavit shall be in Form No. 44.

### 142. Workmen's wages.

\- In case where there are numerous claims for wages or accrued holiday
remuneration by workmen and others employed by the LLP, it shall be sufficient
if one proof in Form No. 45 for all such claims are made by anyone of the
workman on behalf of all such workmen. Such proof shall have a schedule
annexed thereto setting forth the names of the workmen and others and the
amounts severally due to them. Any proof made in compliance with this rule
shall have the same effect as if separate proofs had been made by each of the
said workmen

### 143. Value of debts.

\- The value of all debts and claims against the LLP shall, as far as
possible, be estimated according to the value thereof at the date of the order
of the winding up of the LLP or at the date of passing of such resolution,
where before the presentation of the petition for winding up, a resolution has
been passed by the LLP for voluntary winding up.

### 144. Interest.

\- On any debt or certain sum payable at a certain time or otherwise, whereon
interest is not reserved or agreed for, and which is overdue at the date of
the winding up order, or at the date of passing of the resolution, as the case
may be, the creditor may prove for interest at rate not exceeding the prime
lending rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of India upto that date from the time
when the debt or sum was payable, if the debt or sum is payable by virtue of a
written instrument at a certain time, and if payable otherwise, then from the
time when a demand in writing has been made by giving notice that interest
will be claimed from the date of demand until the time of payment.

### 145. Periodical payments.

\- When any rent or other payment falls due at any stated period, and the
order or resolution to wind up is made at any time other than one of those
periods, the persons entitled to the rent or payment may prove for a
proportionate part thereof up to the date of winding up order or resolution as
if the rent or payment accrued due from day to day:Provided that where the
Liquidator remains in occupation of the premises demised to a LLP which is
being wound up, nothing herein contained shall prejudice or alter the right of
the landlord of such premises to claim payment by the LLP, or the liquidator,
of rent during the period of the LLP's or liquidator's occupation,

### 146. Proof of debt payable at a future time.

\- A creditor may prove for a debt not payable at the date of the winding up
order or at the date of passing of resolution, as if it were payable
presently, and may receive distributable sums equally with the other
creditors, deducting only thereout a rebate of interest at the rate of four
per cent per annum computed from the date of declaration of the distributable
sum to the time when the debt would have become payable according to the terms
on which it was contracted.

### 147. Examination of proof.

\- The Liquidator shall examine every proof of debt lodged with him and the
grounds of the debt. He may call for the production of the vouchers or bills
or contracts or other material document, if any referred to in the affidavit
of proof or require further evidence in support of the debt. If he requires
further evidence, or requires that the creditor should attend the
investigation in person, he shall fix a day and time at which the creditor is
required to attend or to produce further evidence and send a notice to such
creditor in Form No. 46 by a registered post or through empanelled courier
agency or other mode specified in rule 15 of Limited Liability Partnership
Rules, 2009, so as to reach him not later than seven days before the date
fixed.

### 148. Liquidator's right to summon any person in connection with the
investigation.

(1)The Liquidator in a winding up by the Tribunal may summon any person whom
he may deem capable of giving information in respect of the debts to be proved
in liquidation and may require such person to produce any documents in his
custody or control relating to such debts and shall tender, with the summons
such sum as appears to the Liquidator sufficient to defray the travelling and
other expenses of the person summoned for one day's attendance.(2)Where the
person summoned under sub-rule (1) fails without lawful excuse to attend or
produce any documents in compliance with the summons or avoids or evades
service, the Liquidator may apply to the Tribunal for such orders as may be
deemed fit for the attendance of such person and the production before him of
such documents as may be required, or for other appropriate orders.

### 149. Oaths.

\- For the purpose of his duties in relation to the admission of proof of
debts, the Liquidator may administer oaths and take affidavits.

### 150. Costs of proof.

\- Unless otherwise ordered by the Member, a creditor shall bear the costs of
proving his debt.

### 151. Acceptance or rejection of proof to be communicated.

\- After such investigation as he may think necessary, the liquidator shall in
writing admit or reject the proof in whole or in part and every decision of
the Liquidator accepting or rejecting a proof, either wholly or in part, shall
be communicated to the creditor concerned by letter post under certificate of
posting or registered post where the proof is admitted and by registered post
or through empanelled courier agency for acknowledgement where the proof is
rejected wholly or in part within forty-five days from the last date fixed for
proving the debts, provided that it shall not be necessary to give notice of
the admission of a claim to a creditor who has appeared before the Liquidator
and the acceptance of whose claim has been communicated to him or his agent in
writing at the time of acceptance. Where the Liquidator rejects a proof,
wholly or in part, he shall state the grounds of the rejection to the creditor
in Form No. 47. Notice of admission of proof shall be Form No.48.

### 152. Appeal by creditor.

\- If a creditor is dissatisfied with the decision of the Liquidator in
respect of his proof, the creditor may, not later than twenty-one days from
the date of service of the notice upon him of the decision of the Liquidator,
appeal to the Tribunal against the decision. The appeal shall be supported by
an affidavit which shall set out the grounds of such appeal, and notice of the
appeal shall be given to the Liquidator.

### 153. Procedure where creditor appeals.

(1)The liquidator shall, upon receiving notice of the appeal against a
decision rejecting a proof wholly or in part, under rule 151, file with the
Registrar of Tribunal such proof with the order containing the grounds of
rejection.(2)It shall be open to any creditor or partner to apply to the
Tribunal for leave to intervene in the appeal, and the Tribunal may, if it
thinks fit, grant the leave subject to such terms and conditions as may be
just and where leave has been granted notice of the hearing of the appeal
shall be given to such creditor or partner.

### 154. Liquidator not to be personally liable for costs.

\- The Liquidator shall in no case be personally liable for costs in relation
to an appeal from his decision rejecting ally proof wholly or in part.

### 155. Proofs and list of creditors to be filed in Tribunal.

(1)In a winding up by the Tribunal, the Liquidator shall, within two months
from the last date fixed for proving the debts, file in Tribunal a certificate
in Form No. 49 containing a list of the creditors who submitted proofs of
their claims in pursuance of the advertisement and the notices referred to in
rule 138, the amounts of debt for which they claimed to be creditors,
distinguishing in such list the proofs admitted wholly, the proofs admitted or
rejected in part and the proofs wholly rejected. The proofs, with the
memorandum of admission or rejection of the same in whole or in part, as the
case may be endorsed thereon, shall be filed in Tribunal along with the
certificate.

### 156. List of creditors not to be varied.

\- The list as certified by the Liquidator and filed in Tribunal shall be the
list of the creditors of the LLP, and shall not be added to or varied except
in accordance with orders of Tribunal. Where an order is made adding to or
varying the list of creditors, the Liquidator shall amend the list in
accordance with such order.

### 157. Notice of filing the list and inspection of the same.

\- Upon the filing of the certificate containing the list of creditors as
settled by the Liquidator, the Registrar of Tribunal shall notify the filing
thereof on the notice board of the Tribunal and the certificate and the list
of creditors as settled and the proofs relating thereto shall be open to the
inspection of every creditor or partner on payment of a fee specified in
Annexure.

### 158. Expunging of proof.

(1)If after the admission of a proof, the Liquidator has reason to think that
the proof has been improperly admitted or admitted by a mistake, he may apply
to the Tribunal upon notice to the creditor who made the proof, to expunge the
proof or reduce its amount, as the case may be.(2)Any creditor or partner may
also apply to the Tribunal to expunge a proof or reduce the amount thereof, if
the Liquidator declines to move in the matter, and on such application, the
Tribunal may pass such orders as it may think just.

### 159. Payment of subsequent interest.

\- In the event of there being a surplus after payment in full of all the
claims admitted to proof, creditors whose proofs have been admitted shall be
paid interest from the date of the winding up order or of the resolution, as
the case may be, up to the date of the declaration of the final distributable
sum, at a rate not exceeding the prime lending rate fixed by RBI on the
admitted amount of the claim, after adjusting against the said amount the
distributable sums as on the date, of the declaration of each distributable
sum.

### 160. Provisional list of partners.

(1)Subject to the Act and the rules, in the event of there being a surplus
after payment to creditors in full of the claims admitted to proof and the
subsequent interest under rule 159, the partners are entitled for return of
asset. Unless the Tribunal dispenses with the settlement of a list of
partners, the Liquidator shall prepare and file in the Tribunal not later than
fifteen days after the date of the confirmation of the sale, a provisional
list of partners of the LLP with their names and addresses, the amount of
contribution and such list shall be in Form No. 50.

### 161. Notice to be given of date of settlement of list.

(1)Upon the filing of the provisional list under rule 160, the Liquidator
shall, fix a date not later than one month from the date of the filing of the
provisional list for the settlement of the list before him, and shall give
notice thereof to every person included in such list, stating in such notice
amount of contribution. Such notice shall be in Form No. 51 and shall be sent
by letter post under certificate of posting or registered post or any other
mode specified in rule 15 of the Limited Liability Partnership Rules, 2009, to
every person included in the list at the address mentioned therein so as to
reach him in the ordinary course of post not later than fourteen days before
the date fixed for the settlement.

### 162. Settlement of the list.

\- On the date fixed for the settlement of the list, the Liquidator shall hear
any person who objects to being settled as a partner or to being settled as a
partner in such character or for such amount of contribution mentioned in the
provisional list, and after such hearing, shall finally settle the list. The
list when so settled shall be the list of partners of the LLP.

### 163. Certificate of final settlement of the list to be filed in Tribunal.

\- Within seven days after the settlement of the list, the Liquidator shall
file in Tribunal a certificate of the list of partners as finally settled by
him under rule 162. Such certificate shall be in Form No. 52.

### 164. Notice to partners.

\- Upon the filing of the certificate of the list of partners, the Liquidator
shall forthwith give notice to every person placed on the list of partners as
finally settled, stating amount of contribution and in the notice he shall
inform such person that any application for the removal of his name from the
list or for a variation of the list, must be made to the Tribunal within
twenty-one days from the date of service on the partner of such notice. Such
notice shall be in Form No. 53 and shall be sent to each person settled on the
list by letter post under certificate of posting or registered post or any
other mode specified in rule 15 of the Limited Liability Partnership Rules,
2009, at the address mentioned in the list as settled.

### 165. Application by Liquidator for rectification of list.

\- If after the settlement of the list of partners, the Liquidator has reason
to think that a partner who had been included in the provisional list has been
improperly or by mistake excluded or omitted from the list of partners as
finally settled or that the character in which or the amount of contribution
or extent of interest for which he has been included in the list as finally
settled or any other particular contained therein requires rectification in
any respect, he may, upon notice to the partner concerned, apply to the
Tribunal for such rectification of the list as may be necessary and the
Tribunal may, on such application, rectify or vary the list as it may think
fit.

### 166. Application by partner to vary the list.

\- Subject to the powers of the Tribunal to extend the time or to allow an
application to be made notwithstanding the expiration of the time limit for
that purpose, no application to the Tribunal by any person who objects to his
being settled on the list of partners as finally settled by the Liquidator
shall be entertained after the expiration of twenty-one days from the date of
service on such person of the notice of the settlement of the list of
partners. An order varying such a list of partners shall be in Form No. 54.

### 167. Liquidator not to be personally liable for costs.

\- The Liquidator shall not in any case be personally liable to pay any costs
of, or in relation to, an application to set aside or vary his act or decision
settling the name of a person on the list of partners of a LLP.Meetings of
Creditors or Partners in a Winding up by Tribunal and of Creditors in a
Voluntary Winding Up

### 168. 'Tribunal meetings', 'Liquidator's meetings' and 'Voluntary
Liquidation meetings'.

(1)In addition to the meeting of creditors or partners which may be directed
to be held by the Tribunal under rule 61, hereinafter referred to as 'Tribunal
meetings' of creditors or partners, the Liquidator may, in a winding up by the
Tribunal, as and when he thinks fit, summon and hold meetings of the creditors
or partners, hereinafter referred to as 'Liquidator's meetings' of creditors
or partners, for the purpose of ascertaining their wishes in all matters
relating to the winding up and such meetings shall be summoned, held and
conducted in the manner provided by these rules and subject to the control of
the Tribunal.(2)In a voluntary winding up, the LLP liquidator may himself from
time to time summon, hold and conduct meetings of creditors for the purpose of
ascertaining their wishes in all matters relating to the winding up. Such
meetings and all meetings of creditors which an LLP or an LLP liquidator is by
the Act or the rules required to convene in or immediately before such a
voluntary winding up and all meetings convened by a creditor in a voluntary
winding up under the rules are hereinafter called 'voluntary liquidation
meeting'.

### 169. Application of rules to meetings.

\- Except where and so far as the nature of the subject matter or the context
may otherwise require, the procedures as to meetings as hereinafter set out
shall apply to 'Tribunal meetings', 'Liquidator's meetings' of creditors or
partners and 'voluntary liquidation meetings', provided that in the case of
'Tribunal meetings', the rules shall apply only subject to any directions
given by the Tribunal.

### 170. Notice of meeting.

(1)Unless otherwise stated elsewhere in the rules, the LLP liquidator or
liquidator shall summon all meetings of creditors or partners, as the case may
be, by giving not less than fourteen days notice of the time and place
appointed for the meeting by advertisement in one daily newspaper in the
English language and one daily newspaper in the regional language circulating
in the State or Union territory concerned as the LLP liquidator or liquidator
may consider suitable, and by sending individually to every creditor of the
LLP notice of the meeting of creditors, and to every partner of the LLP notice
of the meeting of partners by registered or speed post or other mode specified
under rule 15 of the Limited Liability Partnership Rules 2009 so as to reach
such person not less than fourteen days before the date fixed for the meeting.
Where the creditors or partners are one hundred or less than one hundred, it
shall not be necessary to give notice by advertisement but individual notices
shall be issued.(2)The notice to each creditor shall be sent to the address
given in his proof, if any, submitted or, if he has not proved, to the address
given in the statement of affairs, or, if there is no statement of affairs, to
the address given in the books of the LLP, or to such other address as may be
known to the person summoning the meeting. The notice to each partner shall be
sent to the address mentioned in the books of the LLP or Statement of Affairs
as the address of such partner or to such other address as may be known to the
person summoning the meeting.(3)In the case of meetings to fill vacancy in
office of LLP liquidator, the continuing LLP liquidator, or if there is no
continuing LLP liquidator, as the case may be, any creditor may summon the
meeting.(4)The notices shall be in such of the Form Nos. 55, 55A, 55B, 55C and
55D as may be appropriate.(5)This rule shall not apply to meeting of partners
under rule 5 and of creditors, under rule 8 and final meeting for dissolution.

### 171. Place and time of meeting.

\- Every meeting shall be held at such place and time as the person convening
the same considers most convenient for the majority of the creditors or
partners or both. Different times or places or both may, if thought fit, be
appointed for the meetings of creditors and the meetings of partners.

### 172. Notice of first or other meeting to the officers of LLP.

(1)In a winding up by the Tribunal, the Liquidator shall also give to each of
the officers of the LLP, who in his opinion ought to attend the first or any
other meeting of creditors, fourteen days notice of the time and place
appointed for such, meeting. The notice may either by delivered personally or
sent by registered or speed post or other modes as specified in rule 15 of the
Limited Liability Partnership Rules 2009 as may be convenient.(2)It shall be
the duty of every officer who receives notice of such meeting to attend if so
required by the Liquidator, and if any such officer fails to attend the
Liquidator may report such failure to the Tribunal. Such notice shall be in
Form No. 56.(3)The Liquidator, if he thinks fit, may, instead of requiring any
of the officer of the LLP to attend the meeting under sub-rule (1), require
such officer to answer any interrogatories or to furnish in writing any
information that he may require for purposes of such meeting, and if such
officer fails to answer the interrogatories or furnish such information, he
shall report such failure to the Tribunal.

### 173. Proof of notice.

\- An affidavit by the Liquidator, or by any person who sent the notices, that
such notices have been duly sent, shall be sufficient evidence of the notices
having been sent to the persons to whom the same were addressed. In the case
of Tribunal meetings, the affidavit shall be filed in Tribunal and in the case
of Liquidator's meetings, the affidavit shall be filed with the Liquidator.
Such affidavit shall be in Form No. 57.

### 174. Costs of calling meetings at the instance of creditor or partner.

(1)Where a creditor or partner requests the LLP liquidator or liquidator to
convene a meeting, the LLP liquidator or liquidator may require such creditor
or partner to deposit as a condition precedent thereto a sum sufficient for
the costs thereof, to be computed as hereinafter provided; and on any
application to the Tribunal by a creditor or partner to direct the LLP
Liquidator or liquidator to convene a meeting, the Member may if he thinks
fit, require the applicant to deposit a similar sum for such costs and such
sum shall include all disbursements necessary to be made for printing,
stationery, postage and hire of room, to be calculated at the rate of Rs. 200
for each creditor or partner up to the first 25 creditors or partners, Rs.
150/- for each creditor or partner for the next 75 creditors or partners, Rs.
100/- for each creditor or partner above the first 100 creditors or partners.
The sum so deposited shall be repaid to the person depositing the same out of
the assets of the LLP, if the Tribunal shall by order, or if the creditors
shall by resolution in voluntary winding up, so direct.(2)This rule shall not
apply to meetings to be summoned by the Liquidator under rule 43 or a meeting
summoned at the instance of a creditor for filling the vacancy of the LLP
liquidator occurs by death, resignation or otherwise.

### 175. Chairman of meeting.

\- Where a meeting is summoned by the LLP liquidator or the liquidator, the
LLP liquidator or the liquidator or some person nominated by him, shall be the
Chairman of the meeting. The nomination shall be in Form No. 58. At every
other meeting of creditors or partners, not being Tribunal meetings of
creditors and partners, the Chairman shall be such person as the meeting by
resolution shall appoint. This procedure shall not apply to meetings of
partners under rule 5 and of creditors under rule 8.

### 176. Resolution at creditors' meeting.

\- At a meeting of creditors, a resolution shall be deemed to be passed, when
a majority in value of the creditors present personally or by proxy and voting
on the resolution has voted in favour of the resolution. In a winding-up by
the Tribunal, the value of a creditor, shall, for the purpose of a first
meeting of the creditors, be deemed to be the value as shown in the books of
the LLP, or the amount mentioned in his proof, whichever is less, and for the
purpose of any other meeting, the value for which the creditor has proved his
debt or claim.

### 177. Resolution of partners' meeting.

\- At a meeting of partners, a resolution shall be deemed to be passed when a
majority in number of the partners present personally or by proxy and voting
on the resolution have voted in favour of the resolution.

### 178. Copies of resolutions to be filed.

\- In a winding-up by the Tribunal, the Liquidator shall file in Tribunal a
copy certified by him of every resolution passed at a meeting of creditors or
partners The Registrar of Tribunal shall keep in each case a file of such
resolution.

### 179. Non-receipt of notice by a creditor or partner.

\- Where a meeting of creditors or partners is summoned by notice, the
proceedings and resolutions at the meeting shall, unless the Tribunal
otherwise orders, be valid notwithstanding that some creditors or partners may
not have received the notice sent to him.

### 180. Adjournment.

\- The Chairman may, with the consent of partners or creditors present in the
meeting, adjourn it from time to time, but the adjourned meeting shall be held
at the same place as the original meeting unless in the resolution for
adjournment another place is specified or unless the Tribunal otherwise
orders. No adjournment should be granted unless there are compelling
circumstances that are recorded in speaking order to be passed by the
chairman.

### 181. Quorum.

\- A meeting may not act for any purpose except for adjournment thereof unless
there are present or represented thereat in the case of a creditors' meeting
at least two creditors entitled to vote if there are more than 2 or in the
case of a meeting of partners at least two partners.

### 182. Procedure in the absence of quorum.

\- If, within half an hour from the time appointed for the meeting, a quorum
of creditors or partners, as the case may be, is not present or represented,
the meeting shall be adjourned to the same day in the following week at the
same time and place, or to such other day, or time or place as the chairman
may appoint, but the day appointed shall be not less than seven or more than
fourteen days from the day from which the meeting was adjourned. If at such
adjourned meeting, a quorum be not present, two creditors or partners present
in person shall form a quorum and may transact the business for which the
meeting was convened.

### 183. When creditor can vote.

\- In the case of a meeting of creditor or any adjournment thereof a person
shall not be entitled to vote as a creditor unless he has duly lodged with the
Liquidator not later than the time mentioned for that purpose in the notice
convening the meeting, a proof of the debt which he claims to be due to him
from the LLP. In the case of other meetings of creditors a person shall not be
entitled to vote as a creditor unless he has lodged with the Liquidator a
proof of the debt which he claims to be due to him from the LLP and such proof
has been admitted wholly or in part before the date on which the meeting is
held:Provided that this rule shall not apply to any creditors or class of
creditors who by virtue of these rules or any directions given thereunder are
not required to prove their debts, or to any voluntary liquidation meetings.

### 184. Cases to which creditors may not vote.

\- A creditor shall not vote in respect of any unliquidated or contingent debt
or any debt the value of which is not ascertained, nor shall a creditor vote
in respect of any debt on or secured by a current bill of exchange or
promissory note held by him unless he is willing to treat liability to him
thereon of every person who is liable thereon antecedently to the LLP, and
against whom no order of adjudication has been made, as a security in his
hands, and to estimate the value thereof, and for the purposes of voting, but
not for purposes of distributable sum, to deduct it from his proof.

### 185. When secured creditor can vote and effect of voting.

(1)For the purposes of voting at a meeting, in a winding-up by the Tribunal, a
secured creditor shall, unless he surrenders his security, state in his proof
the particulars of his security, the date when it was given and the value at
which he assesses it, and shall be entitled to vote only in respect of the
balance due to him, if any, after deducting the value of his security.(2)For
the purpose of voting at any voluntary liquidation meeting, a secured creditor
shall, unless he surrenders his security, lodge with the LLP liquidator, or
where there is no LLP liquidator, at the registered office of the LLP, before
the meeting, a statement giving the particulars of his security, the date when
it was given and the value at which he assesses it, arid shall be entitled to
vote only in respect of balance due to him, if any, after deducting the value
of his security.(3)If a secured creditor votes in respect of his whole debt he
shall be deemed to have surrendered his security, unless the Tribunal on
application is satisfied that the omission to value the security was due to
inadvertence.

### 186. Procedure when secured creditor votes without surrendering security.

\- The liquidator may within twenty-eight days from the date of the meeting at
which a secured creditor voted on the basis of his valuation of the security,
require him to give up the security for the benefit of the creditors generally
on payment of the value so estimated by him, and may, if necessary, apply to
the Tribunal for an order to compel such creditor to give up the
security:Provided that the Tribunal may, for good cause shown, permit a
creditor to correct his valuation before being required to give up the
security, upon such terms as to costs as the Tribunal may consider just.

### 187.

The procedure for voting by the creditors specified in rules 183 to 186 shall
not apply to a Tribunal meeting of creditors.

### 188. Admission or rejection of proofs for purposes of voting.

\- The chairman shall have power to admit or reject a proof for the purpose of
voting, hut his decision shall be subject to appeal to the Tribunal. If he is
in doubt whether a proof shall be admitted or rejected, he shall mark it as
objected to and allow the creditor to vote subject to the vote being declared
invalid in the event of the objection being sustained.

### 189. Report of Tribunal meetings.

\- Where a meeting is summoned under the direction of the Tribunal, the
Chairman shall, within the time fixed by the Tribunal, or if no time is fixed,
within seven days of the conclusion of the meeting, report the result thereof
to the Tribunal. Such report shall be in Form No. 59.

### 190. Minutes of proceedings.

(1)The chairman shall cause minutes of the proceedings at the meeting to be
drawn up and fairly entered in the book and the minutes shall be signed by him
or by the chairman of the next meeting.(2)A list of creditors and partners
present at every meeting shall be made and kept as in Form No. 60.Proxies in
relation to meetings in winding-up by tribunal and to meetings of creditors in
a voluntary winding-up.

### 191. Voting by proxies.

\- A creditor or partner may vote either in person or by proxy. Where a person
is authorised to represent a body corporate at any meeting of creditors or
partners, such person shall produce to the Liquidator or the LLP liquidator in
the case of meetings after the winding up of the LLP or in any other meeting
the chairman of the meeting a copy of the resolution so authorizing him. Such
copy must be certified to be a true copy by a director, the manager, the
secretary or designated partner or other officer of the body corporate duly
authorised in that behalf, who shall certify that he is so authorised.

### 192. Form of proxies.

\- A creditor or partner may give a general proxy or a special proxy to any
person. A general proxy shall be in Form No. 61 and a special proxy in Form
No. 61A.

### 193. Proxies to Liquidator or Chairman.

\- A creditor or partner in a winding up by the Tribunal may appoint the
Liquidator, and in a voluntary winding up, the LLP liquidator, or if there is
no LLP liquidator, some person under his official control to act as his
general or special proxy.

### 194. Use of proxies by deputy.

\- Where an Liquidator who holds any proxies cannot attend the meeting for
which they are given, he may in writing depute some person under his official
control to use the proxies on his behalf and in such manner as he may direct.

### 195. Forms to be sent with notice.

\- Forms of proxies shall be sent to the creditors and partners with the
notice summoning the meeting. No name shall be inserted or printed in the form
before it is sent.

### 196. Proxies to be lodged.

\- A proxy shall be lodged not later than forty-eight hours before the meeting
at which it is to be used, with the Liquidator in a winding-up by the Tribunal
and with the LLP liquidator in voluntary winding up, or if there is no LLP
liquidator, with the person named in the notice convening the meeting to
receive the same, in a voluntary winding-up.

### 197. Holder of proxy not to vote on matter in which he is financially
interested.

\- No person acting either under a general or special proxy, shall vote in
favour of any resolution which would directly or indirectly place himself, his
partner or employer in a position to receive any remuneration out of the
assets of the LLP otherwise than as a creditor ratably with the other
creditors of the LLP.

### 198. Minor not to be appointed proxy.

\- No person shall be appointed as a general or special proxy who is a minor.

### 199. Filling in proxy where creditor or partner is blind or incapable.

\- The proxy of a creditor or a partner, who is blind or incapable of writing,
may be accepted if such creditor or partner has attached his signature or mark
thereto in the presence of a witness who shall add to his signature his
description and address:Provided that all insertions in the proxy are in the
handwriting of the witness and such witness shall have certified at the fool
of the proxy that all such insertions have been made by him at the request and
in the presence of the creditor or partner before he attached his signature or
mark.

### 200. Proxy of person not acquainted with English.

\- The proxy of a creditor or partner who does not know English may be
accepted if it is executed in the manner specified in rule 199 and the witness
certifies that it was explained to the creditor or partner in the language
known to him, and gives the creditor's or partner's name in English below the
signature.Attendance and Appearance of Creditors and Partners

### 201. Attendance proceedings.

(1)Save as otherwise provided or by an order of Tribunal, every person for the
time being on the list of partners of the LLP and every creditor whose debt
has been admitted by Liquidator wholly or in part shall be at liberty at his
own expense to attend the proceedings before the Tribunal or before the
Liquidator and shall be entitled upon payment of the costs occasioned thereby
to have notice of all such proceedings as he shall, by request in writing
addressed to the Liquidator, desire to have notice of; but if the Tribunal is
of the opinion that the attendance of any such person has occasioned any
additional costs which ought not to be borne by the funds of the LLP; it may
direct such costs or a gross sum in lieu thereof to be paid by such person and
such person shall not be entitled to attend any further proceedings until he
had paid the same.(2)No partner or creditor shall be entitled to attend any
proceedings before the Member, unless and until he or an Advocate or pleader
or authorized representative on his behalf has filed an appearance with the
Registrar of Tribunal. The Registrar of Tribunal shall keep an "Appearance
Book" in which all such appearances shall be entered. Such book shall be open
to the inspection of the Liquidator.

### 202. Representation of creditors and partners before Tribunal.

\- The Tribunal may, if it thinks fit, appoint from time to time anyone or
more of the creditors or partners to represent before the Tribunal at the
expense of the LLP all or any class of creditors or partners upon any question
or in relation to any proceedings before the Tribunal, and may remove any
person so appointed, if more than one person is appointed under this rule to
represent one class, the persons so appointed, shall employ the same advocate
or pleader or same authorized representative to represent them, and where they
fail to agree as to the advocate or the authorized representative to be
employed, the Member may nominate an advocate or pleader for them.Collection
and Distribution of Assets in a winding-up by Tribunal

### 203. Powers of Liquidator.

\- The duties imposed on the Tribunal with regard to the collection of the
assets of the LLP and the application of the assets in discharge of the LLP's
liabilities shall be discharged by the Liquidator as an officer of the
Tribunal subject to the control of the Tribunal.

### 204. Liquidator to be in the position of a receiver.

\- For the discharge by the Liquidator of the duties under rule 41 and
exercise of the powers under rule 203, the Liquidator shall, for the purpose
of acquiring and retaining possession of the property of the LLP, be in the
same position as if he were a Receiver of the property appointed by the
Tribunal, and the Tribunal may on his application enforce such acquisition or
retention accordingly.

### 205. LLP's property to be surrendered to Liquidator on requisition.

\- Any partner for the time being on the list of partners, trustee, receiver,
banker or agent or officer of a LLP which is being wound-up under order of the
Tribunal, shall on notice from the Liquidator and within such time as he shall
by notice require, pay, deliver, convey, surrender or transfer to or into the
hands of the Liquidator any money; property or documents, books or papers
which happen to be in his hands for the time being and to which the LLP is
prima facie entitled. Where the person required to do so fails to comply with
the notice, the Liquidator may apply to the Tribunal for appropriate orders.
The notice shall be in Form No. 62.Monies due from partners in a winding up by
the tribunal including outstanding contribution, etc.

### 206. Liquidator to realize unrealized contribution etc.

\- Notwithstanding any charge or encumbrance on the contribution, the
Liquidator shall alone be entitled to recover from any partner, the obligation
to contribute but not contributed or to realize the unrealized or outstanding
contribution in respect of contracts for services to be performed or agreement
to contribute or in any other event. Such recovery shall be deemed to be
collection of the assets of the LLP free from charge.

### 207. Service of notice of demand.

\- The Liquidator shall serve under registered or speed post or other modes as
specified in rule 15 of the Limited Liability Partnership Rules 2009, demand
notice of not less than fourteen days in Form No. 63 specifying the amount due
from such partner.

### 208. Order for payment of demand.

\- In case where the partner fails to make the payment, the Liquidator may
apply to the Tribunal for an order against any partner or partners for payment
of moneys due on the demands made by him. The application shall be made by
summons in Form No. 64 and shall be supported by an affidavit in Form No. 65.
Notice of the application, together with a copy of the affidavit shall be
served on the partner by registered post for acknowledgement or through
empanelled courier agency not less than fourteen days before the date fixed
for the hearing of the summons. The order payment shall be in Form No. 66.

### 209. Other moneys due by partners.

\- When any money is due to the LLP from a partner or from the estate of the
person whom he represents, other than moneys due on demands made subsequent to
the winding-up on unrealized, unrecovered or outstanding contribution, the
Liquidator may make an application to the Tribunal supported by an affidavit
for an order against such partner for the payment of such moneys. Notice of
the application shall be given to such partner by registered post or through
empanelled courier agency not less than fourteen days prior to the date fixed
for the hearing of the application.Examination of person suspected of having
property of LLP etc and examination of partners, designated partners, officers
etc in connection with the fraud etc.

### 210. Application for examination of persons suspected of having property,
etc.

(1)An application for the examination of any officer of the LLP or person
known or suspected to have in his possession any property or books or papers
of the LLP or known or suspected to be indebted to the LLP or any person whom
the Tribunals deem capable of giving information concerning the formation,
trade, dealings, property, book or papers or affairs of the LLP may be made ex
parte, provided that where the application is made by any person other than
the Liquidator, notice of the application shall be given to the
Liquidator.(2)The summons shall be in Form No. 67 and, where the application
is by the Liquidator, it shall be accompanied by a statement signed by him
setting forth the facts on which the application is based. Where the
application is made by a person other than the Liquidator, the summons shall
be supported by an affidavit of the applicant setting forth the matters in
respect of which the examination is sought and the grounds, relied on in
support of the summons.

### 211. Directions at bearing of summons.

\- Upon the hearing of the summons the Member may, if satisfied that there are
grounds for making the order, make an order directing the issue of a summons
against the person named in the order for his examination and/or for the
production of documents. Unless the Member otherwise directs, the examination
of such person shall be held in Chambers. The order shall be in Form No. 68.

### 212. Examination on commission or by interrogation.

\- The Tribunal may, if it thinks fit, instead of issuing a summons to any
person for his appearance before the Tribunal for examination, issue a
commission to any person or authority authorized by the Tribunal within whose
jurisdiction such person resides for the examination or make an order for his
examination by interrogatories, as the Tribunal may think fit.

### 213. Service of the summons.

\- The summons issued in pursuance of the order shall be in Form No. 69 and
shall be served on the person to be examined not less than seven days before
the date fixed for the examination. When the summons is served in person there
shall be paid or tendered to the person summoned along with the summons a
reasonable sum for his expenses to be fixed by the Member or Registrar of
Tribunal with due regard to the scale of fees in force in the Tribunal. When
the summons is served by registered or speed post, such sum shall be sent to
such person by any other manner.

### 214. Conduct of the examination.

(1)The Liquidator shall conduct an examination. However, the Tribunal may, if
for any reasons it thinks fit to do so, entrust the conduct of the examination
to any partner or creditors. Where the conduct of the examination is entrusted
to any person other than the Liquidator, the Liquidator shall nevertheless be
entitled to be present at the examination in person or by advocate or by
authorized representative, and may take notice of the examination for his own
use and put such questions to the person examined as the Tribunal may
allow.(2)Save as provided in sub-rule (1), no person shall be entitled to take
part in an examination except the Liquidator and his advocate, but any person
examined shall be entitled to have the assistance of his advocate, who may re-
examine the witness:Provided that the Tribunal may permit, if it thinks fit,
any creditor or partner to attend the examination subject to such conditions
as it may impose.(3)Notes of the examination may be permitted to be taken by
the witness or any person on his behalf on his giving an undertaking to the
Tribunal that such notes shall be used only for the purpose of the re-
examination of the witness. On the conclusion of the examination, the notes
shall, unless otherwise directed, be handed over to the Tribunal for
destruction.

### 215. Notes of the deposition.

(1)The notice of the deposition of a person examined shall be signed by such
person and shall be lodged in the office of the Registrar of Tribunal. But the
notes shall not be open to the inspection of any creditor, partner or other
person, except the Liquidator, nor shall a copy thereof or extract therefrom
be supplied to any person other than the Liquidator, save upon orders of
Tribunal.(2)The Tribunal may from time to time give such general or special
directions as it shall think expedient as to the custody any inspection of
such notes and the furnishing of copies thereof of extracts therefrom.

### 216. Order for public examination of partners, designated partners,
officers etc in connection with fraud etc.

(1)Where an order is made for the examination of any person or persons the
examination shall be held before the Member, the Member may direct that the
whole or any part of the examination of any such person or persons, be held
before any of the officers as may be mentioned in the order. Where the date of
the examination has not been fixed by the order, the Liquidator shall take an
appointment from the Member, or officer before whom the examination is to be
held as to the date of the examination. The order directing a public
examination shall be in Form No. 70.(2)The Member may, if he thinks fit,
either in the order for examination or by any subsequent order, give
directions as to the specific matters on which such person is to be examined.

### 217. Notice of public examination.

\- Not less than seven clear days before the date fixed for the examination,
the Liquidator shall give notice thereof to the creditors and partners of the
LLP by advertisement in Form No. 71, in such newspapers as the Member shall
direct, and shall within the same period, serve, either personally or by
registered or speed post through empanelled courier agency, on the person or
persons to be examined, a notice in Form No. 72, of the date and hour fixed
for the examination and the officer before whom it is to be held, together
with a copy of the order directing the examination. Where a public examination
is adjourned, it shall not be necessary to advertise the adjournment or serve
notice thereof unless otherwise ordered.

### 218. Adjournment of public examination to Tribunal.

\- Where on an examination held before an officer appointed by the Member,
such officer is of the opinion that the examination is being unduly or
unnecessarily protracted or, for any other sufficient cause, he is of the
opinion that the examination should be held before the Member, such officer
may adjourn the examination of any person, or any part of the examination to
be held before the Member and submit his report to the Member. The Member may
thereupon hold the examination himself or pass such orders as he may think
fit.

### 219. Procedure for contumacy.

(1)If a person examined before an officer appointed by the Member refuses to
answer to the satisfaction of such officer any question which he may put or
allow to be put, such officer shall report such refusal to the Member and upon
such report being made, the person in default shall be dealt with in the same
manner as if he had made default in answering before the Member.(2)The report
shall be in writing and shall set forth the question or questions put and the
answer or answers given (if any) by the person examined, and the officer shall
notify the person examined of the date when he should attend before the
Member. The report shall be in Form No. 73. Upon receiving the report, the
Member may take such action thereon as he shall think fit.

### 220. Notes of Examination.

\- The notes of every public examination shall, after being signed, form part
of the records of winding up. The Liquidator, the person examined and any
creditor or partner of the LLP, shall be entitled to obtain a copy thereof
from the Tribunal on payment of the prescribed charges.

### 221. Shorthand notes of examination under above rules.

\- In respect of any examination, the Tribunal may order that the evidence be
taken down in shorthand. Where such order is made, the Member or the officer
before whom the evidence is taken shall nominate a person to take down the
evidence and the costs, if any, occasioned thereby shall be paid out of the
assets of the LLP. The shorthand note of the examination shall be transcribed
and the transcript shall be read over to or by the person examined, and signed
by him.

### 222. Application by any person under examination for fraud, etc. to be
exculpated.

\- An application by any person ordered to be exculpated from any charges made
or suggested against him, shall be made upon notice to the Liquidator and to
such other persons as the Tribunal may direct.

### 223. Default in attending examination.

(1)If any person who has been directed by the Tribunal to attend for
examination fails to attend at the time and place appointed for holding or
processing with the same and no good cause is shown by him for such failure,
or if before the day appointed for such examination, the Liquidator satisfies
the Tribunal that such person has absconded or that there is reason to
believe, that he is about to abscond with the view of avoiding the
examination, the Tribunal may, if satisfied that notice of the date and hour
fixed for the examination was duly served on such person, make such orders as
may be deemed fit.

### 224. Public examination in connection with fraud etc.

\- Where, in a voluntary winding-up, an order is made for the public
examination of any of the persons in connection with fraud, etc., the
procedures relating to a public examination in a winding-up by the Tribunal
shall apply mutatis mutandis in respect of such examination.Application
against delinquent partners, designated partners and officers of the LLP

### 225. Applications in connection with Liability for fraudulent conduct of
business or to assess damages against delinquent partners, etc.

\- An application shall be made by a summons returnable in the first instance
in chambers. The summons shall state the nature of the declaration or order
for which the application is made, and the grounds of the application, and
shall be served on every person against whom an order is sought not less than
seven days before the day named in the summons for the hearing of the
application. It shall not be necessary to file any affidavit or report before
the return of the summons. The summons shall be in Form No. 74 or 74A with
such variations as may be necessary.

### 226. Directions at preliminary hearing of summons.

\- On the return of the summons, the Tribunal may give such directions as it
shall think fit as to whether points of claim and defense are to be delivered,
as to the taking of evidence wholly or in part by affidavit or orally, as to
the cross-examination, before the Member on the hearing, either in Tribunal or
in Chamber, of any deponents to affidavits in support of or in opposition to
the application, as to any report it may require the Liquidator to make, and
generally as to the procedure on the summons for the hearing thereof. Points
of claim to be delivered shall be in Form No. 75 or 75A, with such variations
as may be necessary.

### 227. Application for further directions.

\- Where the Tribunal has directed that-points of claim and defence shall be
delivered, it shall be open to either party who wishes to apply for any
further direction as to any interlocutory matter, to apply, by restoration, of
the summons, before the summons has been set down for trial, for such
direction, upon giving two clear days notice in writing to the other party
stating the grounds of the application. A copy of the notice shall be filed
with the Registrar of Tribunal two clear days before the day fixed for the
hearing of the application.

### 228. Application for disclaimer of onerous property.

(1)An application for leave to disclaim any part of the property of a LLP
shall be made by a summons supported by an affidavit setting out the full
facts relating to the property, the parties interested and the nature of their
interests, and stating whether the LLP is solvent and whether any notice has
been served on the liquidator by any party requiring him to elect whether or
not he will disclaim.(2)Form Nos. 76 to 76F shall be used in respect of the
matters to which they relate with such variations as may be necessary.

### 229. Preliminary hearing of the summons.

\- The summons shall be posted before the Tribunal ex parte in the first
instance for directions as to the persons on whom notice of the summons should
be served, and the Tribunal shall thereupon fix a date for the hearing of the
summons and give such directions as may be necessary as to the persons on whom
notice of the summons should be served.

### 230. Claimant to furnish statement of his interest.

\- Where a person claims to be interested in any part of the property of a
LLP, which the Liquidator wishes to disclaim, such person shall, if so
required by the Liquidator, furnish a statement of the interest claimed by
him.

### 231. Service of notice.

\- Notice of the date fixed for the hearing of the summons shall be in Form
No. 77, and shall be served not less than seven days before the date fixed for
the hearing, together with a copy of the summons and of the affidavit filed,
in support thereof. The notice shall require that any affidavit-in-opposition
to the summons shall be filed in Tribunal and a copy thereof served on the
Liquidator of the LLP not later than two days before the date fixed for the
hearing.

### 232. Order granting leave to disclaim.

\- On the hearing of the summons, the Tribunal may after hearing the
Liquidator and such parties as may appear in response to the notices issued,
and such other persons appearing and interested as the Tribunal may think fit
to hear, grant leave to the Liquidator and to disclaim on such terms and
conditions if any, as to the Tribunal may seem just. The order granting leave
to disclaim shall be in Form No. 78.

### 233. Disclaimer to be filed in Tribunal.

(1)Every disclaimer shall be filed in Tribunal by the Liquidator and shall not
be operative until it is so filed. Where the disclaimer is in respect of a
leasehold interest, it shall be filed in Tribunal forthwith. Notice of the
filing of the disclaimer shall be given to the persons interested in the
property. The disclaimer shall contain particulars of the interest disclaimed
and a statement of the persons to whom notice of the disclaimer has been
given. A disclaimer shall be in Form No. 79, and a notice of disclaimer in
Form No. 80.(2)Where a disclaimer has been filed in Tribunal, the Liquidator
shall file a copy thereof with the Registrar,

### 234. Vesting of disclaimed property.

\- Where the disclaimed property is a leasehold interest and an application is
made by any person who either claims any interest in any disclaimed property
or is under any liability riot discharged by the Act in respect of any
disclaimed property, and after hearing any such persons as it thinks fit, make
an order for the vesting of the property in, or the delivery of the property
to. any person entitled thereto or to whom it may seem just that the property
should be delivered by way of compensation for such liability as aforesaid, or
a trustee for him, and on such terms as the Tribunal thinks just; and on any
such vesting order being made, the property comprised therein shall vest
accordingly in the person therein named in that behalf without any conveyance
or assignment for the purpose:Provided that, where property disclaimed is of a
lease-hold nature, the Tribunal shall not make a vesting order in favour of
any person claiming under the LLP, whether as under-lessee or as mortgagee or
holder of a charge by way of demise, except upon the terms of making that
person-(a)subject to the same liabilities and obligations as those to which
the LLP was subject under the lease in respect of the property at the
commencement of the winding up; or(b)if the Tribunal thinks fit, subject only
to the same liabilities and obligations as if the lease had been assigned to
that person at that date;and in either event (if the case so requires) as if
the lease had comprised only the property comprised in the vesting order; and
any mortgagee or under-lessee declining to accept a vesting order upon such
terms shall be excluded from all interest in and security upon the property,
and, if there is no person claiming under the LLP who is willing to accept an
order upon such terms, the Tribunal shall have power to vest the estate and
interest of the LLP in the property in any person liable, either personally or
in a representative character, and either alone or jointly with the LLP, to
perform the lessee's covenants in the lease, freed and discharged from all
estates, encumbrances and interests created therein by the LLP.(2)The Tribunal
may adjourn the application for such notice to be given and for such under-
lessee, mortgagee or holder of charge, to be added as a party to and served
with a copy of the application, and to make, if he sees fit, such election and
application as is mentioned in the notice. If at the expiration of the time so
fixed by the Tribunal, such under-lessee, mortgagee or holder of charge, fails
to make such election and application, the Tribunal, may make an order vesting
the property in the applicant or other person who, in the opinion of the
Tribunal, may be entitled thereto, and excluding such under-lessee, mortgagee
or holder of charge, from all interest in or security upon the property.(3)Any
person injured by the operation of a disclaimer under this rule shall be
deemed to be a creditor of the LLP to the amount of the compensation or
damages payable in respect of the injury, and may accordingly prove the amount
as a debt in the winding up.(4)An order requiring parties interested in a
disclaimed lease to apply for a vesting order or to be excluded from all
interest in the lease shall be in Form No. 81, and an order vesting lease and
excluding persons who have not elected to apply, shall be in Form No.
81A.Compromise or Abandonment of Claims

### 235. No claim to be compromised or abandoned without sanction of Tribunal.

\- In a winding up, no claim by the LLP against any person shall be
compromised or abandoned by the Liquidator without the sanction of the
Tribunal upon notice to such person as the Tribunal may direct.

### 236. Application for sanction of compromise.

\- Every application for sanction of a compromise or arrangement with any
person shall be accompanied by a copy of the proposed compromise or
arrangement and shall be supported by an affidavit of the Liquidator stating
that for the reasons set out in the affidavit he is satisfied that the
proposed compromise or arrangement is beneficial to the LLP. The Tribunal may,
if it thinks fit, direct notice of the application to be given to the
Committee of Inspection, if there is one, and to such other person as it may
think fit.Sales by the Liquidators

### 237. Sale to be subject to sanction and to confirmation by Tribunal.

\- Unless the Tribunal otherwise orders, no property belonging to LLP which is
being wound-up by the Tribunal shall be sold by the Liquidator without the
previous sanction of the Tribunal, and every sale shall be subject to
confirmation by the Tribunal and such order of confirmation or otherwise may
be passed within sixty days of the filing of the report by the liquidator or
the Provisional Liquidator, as the case may be.

### 238. Procedure at sale.

(1)Subject to the provisions of the Act and rules, every sale shall be held by
the Liquidator by an agent or an auctioneer approved by the Tribunal, and
subject to such terms and conditions, if any, as may be approved by the
Tribunal.(2)All sales shall be made by public auction or by inviting sealed
tenders or in such manner as the Member may direct.

### 239. Expenses of sale.

\- Where property forming part of a LLP's assets is sold by the Liquidator
through an auctioneer or other agent, the gross proceeds of the sale shall,
unless, the Tribunal otherwise orders, be paid over to the Liquidator by such
auctioneer or agent and the charges and expenses connected with the sale shall
afterwards be paid to such auctioneer or agent in accordance with the scales,
if any, fixed by the Tribunal or as approved by the Tribunal.Distributable sum
and returns of assets in a winding up by tribunal

### 240. Declaration of distributable sum or return of assets.

\- No distributable sum to creditors or return of assets to partners shall be
declared by the Liquidator without the sanction of the Tribunal. No payment
shall be made to the creditors which would be deemed to be distributable sum
without filing list of creditors and sanctioned by the Tribunal as
distributable sum and no payment shall be made to the partners without filing
final settlement of the list of settlement of partners and sanctioned by the
Tribunal.

### 241. Notice of declaration.

\- The Liquidator shall give notice of the declaration of distributable sum
not less than one month prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
Unless otherwise directed by the Member, such notice shall be given by
advertisement in such newspapers as the Member shall direct and by sending by
prepaid letter post under certificate of posting a notice to every person
whose name appears in the list of creditors as on such date. The advertisement
shall be in Form No. 82 and the notice to creditor in Form No. 83.

### 242. Form of authority to pay distributable sum.

\- A person to whom distributable sum is payable may lodge with the Liquidator
an authority in writing to pay such distributable sum to another person named
therein. Such authority shall be in Form No. 84.

### 243. Transmission of distributable sums by post.

\- Distributable sum may, at the request and risks of the persons to whom they
are payable, be transmitted to him by registered post or any other mode as
approved by the Tribunal, by cheques or Demand Drafts or any other manner as
may be appropriate or as approved by the Tribunal within forty five days from
the date of filing the list of creditors before the Tribunal.

### 244. Form of order directing return of Assets.

(1)Every order by which the Liquidator is authorized to make a return to
partners of the LLP, shall, unless the Tribunal otherwise directs, contain or
have appended thereto a list (which the Liquidator shall prepare) setting out
in a tabular form the full names and addresses of the persons to whom the
return is to be paid, and the amount of money payable to each person, and
particulars of the transfers of economic interest (if any) which have been
made or the variations in the list of partners which have arisen since the
date of the settlement of the list of partners and such other information as
may be necessary to enable the return to be made. The list shall be in Form
No. 85, with such variations as circumstances shall require and the Liquidator
shall send a notice of return to each partner by ordinary post under
certificate of posting in Form No. 86.(2)Payment may be sent either by
registered post or any other mode as may be appropriate or as approved by the
Tribunal at the risk of the partners.

### 245. Payment of distributable sum or return of Assets due to a deceased
creditor or partner.

\- Where a claim made in respect of a distributable sum due to a deceased
creditor or a return of contribution due to a deceased partner is Rs.500 or
less, the Liquidator may, upon satisfying himself as to the claimant's right
and title to receive the distributable sum or the return, as the case may be,
apply to the Tribunal for sanctioning the payment of such distributable sum or
return to the claimant without the production of a succession certificate or
like authority. Where the Tribunal sanctions the payment, the Liquidator shall
make the payment upon obtaining a personal indemnity from the
payee.Termination of winding up

### 246. Liquidator to apply for dissolution.

\- As soon as the affairs of the LLP have been fully wound up, the Liquidator
in a winding up by the Tribunal shall file his final account with the Tribunal
in Form No. 89 and apply for orders as to the dissolution of the LLP. The
application shall not be set down for hearing until the completion of the
audit of the final accounts and the filing of the auditor's certificate in
relation thereto. In the event, affairs of the LLP have not been wound up
within one year from the date of the winding up order, the liquidator shall
file an application before the Tribunal explaining the reasons and seek
appropriate directions.

### 247. Dissolution of the LLP.

\- Upon the hearing of the application, the Tribunal may, after hearing the
Liquidator and any other person to whom notice may have been ordered by the
Tribunal, upon perusing the account as audited, make such orders as it may
think fit to the dissolution of the LLP, the application, subject to the
provisions of the Act, of the balance in the hands of the Liquidator or the
payment thereof into the LLPs Liquidation Account in the public account of
India and the disposal of the books and papers of the LLP and of the
Liquidator.

### 248. Liquidator to pay the balance into public account.

\- Upon an order for dissolution being made, the Liquidator shall forthwith
pay into the LLPs Liquidation Account in the public account of India any
unclaimed or unpaid distributable sum payable to creditors or undistributed or
unpaid assets refundable to partners in his hands on the date of the order of
dissolution, and such other balance in his hands as he has been directed by
the Tribunal to deposit into the LLPs Liquidation Account. A copy of the order
of dissolution shall, within thirty days from the date thereof, be forwarded
by the Liquidator to the Registrar in Form No. 11 who shall make in his books
a minute of the dissolution of the LLP. Along with the copy of the order shall
be filed with the Registrar, a statement signed by the Liquidator that the
directions of the Tribunal regarding the application of the balance as per his
final account have been duly complied with.Explanation: - In computing the
period of thirty days from the date of the order, the requisite time for
obtaining a certified copy of the order shall be excluded.

### 249. Conclusion of winding up.

\- The winding up of a LLP shall be deemed to be concluded, in the case of
-(a)an LLP wound up by order of the Tribunal, at the date on which the order
dissolving the LLP has been reported by the Liquidator to the Registrar;(b)an
LLP wound up voluntarily, at the date of the dissolution of the LLP, unless at
such date any fund or assets of the LLP remain unclaimed or undistributed in
the hands or under the control of the LLP Liquidator, or any person who has
acted as Liquidator, in which case the winding up shall not be deemed to be
concluded until such funds or assets have either been distributed or paid into
the LLP Liquidation Account.

### 250. Application to declare dissolution void.

\- An application shall be made upon notice to the Central Government and the
Registrar. Where the Tribunal declares the dissolution to have been void, the
applicant shall file a certified copy of the order with the Registrar not
later than thirty days from the date of the order.Explanation: - In computing
the period of thirty days from the date of the order, the requisite time for
obtaining a certified copy of the order shall be excluded.Registers and books
of account of the liquidator

### 251. Registers and Books to be maintained by the Liquidator.

(1)The Liquidator shall maintain the following Registers and Books either in
physical or digital format or both physical and digital:-(a)Register of
Liquidations in Form No. 87.(b)Central Cash Book in Form No. 87A.(c)LLP's Cash
Book in Form No. 87B.(d)General Ledger in Form No. 87C.(e)Cashier's Cash Book
in Form No. 87D.(f)Bank Ledger in Form No. 87E.(g)Register of Assets in Form
No. 87F.(h)Investment Register in Form No. 87G.(i)Register of Book Debts and
Outstanding in Form No. 87H.(j)Tenants Ledger in Form No. 87I.(k)Suits
Register in Form No. 87J.(l)Decree Register in Form No. 87K.(m)Sales Register
in Form No. 87L.(n)Register of Claims and Distributable sums in Form No.
87M.(o)partners Register/ Ledger in Form No. 87N.(p)Distributable sums Paid
Register in Form No. 87O.(q)Commission Register in Form No. 87P.(r)Suspense
Register in Form No. 87Q.(s)Documents Register in Form No. 87R.(t)Books
Register in Form No. 87S.(u)Register of unclaimed distributable sums and
undistributed assets, deposited into the LLPs liquidation account in Form No.
87T;(v)A Record Book for each LLP in which shall be entered all minutes of
proceedings and the resolutions passed at any meeting of the creditors or
partners or of the Committee of Inspection, the substance of all orders passed
by the Tribunal in the liquidation proceedings, and all such matters other
than matters of account as may be necessary to furnish a correct view of the
administration of the LLP's affairs; and(w)any other register as may be
prescribed by the Tribunal or the Central Government from time to time.(2)In
maintaining the registers and books mentioned in sub-rule (1), the Liquidator
shall follow the instructions contained in the respective forms prescribed for
the said books and registers and with such variations as may be necessary for
the purpose of maintaining in the computer system or in digital format. The
Central Government may review the Registers and modify the same from time to
time.(3)The Liquidator shall, in addition to the Registers and Books under
sub-rule (1), maintain such books as may be necessary for the proper and
efficient working of his office such as Petty Cash Register, Correspondence
Register, Dispatch Register, Daily Register of Money Orders and Cheques
received, and so on, and shall also keep the necessary files of correspondence
and of proceedings in respect of each LLP under liquidation in his
charge.(4)Where the accounts of the LLP are incomplete, the Liquidator shall,
with all convenient speed, as soon as the order for winding up is made, have
them completed and brought up-to date and audited by the partners and officers
of the LLP in liquidation.(5)(i)Where the Liquidator is authorised to carry on
the business of the LLP, he shall keep separate books of account in respect of
such business and such books shall, as far as possible, be in conformity with
the books already kept by the LLP in the course of its business. The
Liquidator shall incorporate in the Central Cash Book and in the LLP's Cash
Book, the total weekly amounts of the receipts and payments on such trading
account.(ii)The trading account shall from time to time not less than once in
every month, be verified by affidavit.(6)The Liquidator shall also keep a
counterfoil Receipt Book in triplicate in Form No. 88, the leaves of which
shall be machine numbered serially, from which shall be issued all receipts
for payment made to the Liquidator. The duplicate and the triplicate shall
bear the same number as the original.(7)The Liquidator shall keep proper
vouchers for all payments made or expenses incurred by him. The vouchers shall
be serially numbered.Banking Account of the Liquidator

### 252. All money to be paid into Scheduled Bank.

(1)The Liquidator shall pay into the Public Account of India or the designated
Scheduled bank (hereinafter referred to as the Bank) to the credit of an
account in his Official name, all moneys received by him as the Liquidator of
any LLP, and the realizations of each day shall be paid into the Bank without
deduction not later than the next working day of the Bank, provided that the
remittance of money into the Bank may be deferred until the realizations
exceed rupees one thousand. All payments out of the account by the Liquidator
above rupees one thousand shall ordinarily be made by cheques drawn against
the said account:Provided that in the case of liquidator appointed from the
panel, the Tribunal may direct maintaining and operating the bank account in
any other manner.(2)The Liquidator shall maintain a bank remittance challan
book in counterfoil, the leaves of which shall be serially numbered in which
the acknowledgement of the Bank shall be obtained for all moneys (whether in
cash or cheques) deposited into the Bank to the credit of the account
mentioned in clause (1) above. The Form of the challan book shall be settled
by the Liquidator in consultation with the bank.

### 253. Bills, cheques and securities to be deposited into bank.

\- All bills, cheques, hundies notes and other securities of a like nature
payable to the LLP or to the Liquidator thereof shall, as soon as they come
into the hands of the Liquidator, be deposited by him with the Bank for the
purpose of being presented for acceptance and payment or for payment only, as
the case may be, and the proceeds when realised shall be credited by the Bank
to the account of the Liquidator.

### 254. Payments into Bank.

\- Where the Tribunal makes an order directing any person to pay any money due
to the LLP into the Public Account of India in the Reserve Bank of India or
the designated Scheduled bank, instead of the Liquidator, the person so
directed shall, at the time of making the payment, produce to the Bank a
certified copy of the order or a payment in challan endorsed by the Liquidator
under his signature. The money so paid shall be credited to the Liquidator's
account into the Public Account of India or the designated Scheduled bank. The
person making the payment shall give notice thereof to the Liquidator and
produce before him the receipt relating thereto.

### 255. Liquidator's Distributable sum Account.

(1)The Liquidator shall also open a separate distributable sum account for
each LLP under liquidation either in the designated bank, or, with the
sanction of the Tribunal, in any other Scheduled Bank, as may be convenient,
under the name 'the Distributable Sum Account of .............. (name of the
LLP) in liquidation by the Liquidator', into which account he shall, upon a
declaration of distributable sum being made in the winding up of any LLP,
deposit by transfer from his account, with the Reserve Bank of India or
designated bank the total amount of the distributable sum payable upon such
declaration. There shall be a separate account in respect of each declaration
of distributable sum. All payments of distributable sum shall be made from the
said Liquidator's distributable sum account and any unpaid balance in the
account shall be transferred back to the Liquidations account in the Reserve
Bank of India or designated bank before being paid into the LLPs liquidation
account as unclaimed distributable sums.(2)All payments of distributable sums
above Rs. 100 shall ordinarily be made by cheques drawn against the said
account.

### 256. Fees to be credited to Central Government.

(1)In every winding up where the Official Liquidator becomes or acts as
Liquidator or is appointed as Liquidator in terms of rule 29, there shall be
paid into the public account of India in the designated bank to the credit of
the Central Government, from out of the assets of the LLP in liquidation (or
by the petitioner as provided in clause (a) below such amount as laid down in
clause (b) on or before 30th October the commission due for the preceding
period ended 31st March.(2)In the cases where Liquidator is appointed in terms
of rule 29, the remuneration of the Liquidator shall be approved by the
Tribunal subject to a maximum remuneration of 5% of the value of the debt
recovered and realization by sale of assets. The fees shall be determined in
accordance with the following provisions:-(a)where the Official Liquidator
acts as a Provisional Liquidator only, such fee as the Tribunal may consider
reasonable, to be paid out of the assets of the LLP or by the petitioner as
the Tribunal may direct, in respect of the services of the Liquidator as
Provisional Liquidator;(b)where a winding up order is made and the official
Liquidator acts as liquidator of a LLP,-(i)upon the total assets, including
unrealized or unrecovered contribution, interest on investments and rents from
properties, realised or brought to credit by the Liquidator, after deducting
sums on which fees are chargeable under clause (c) below and the amount spent
out of the money received in carrying on the business of the LLP, upon each
year's collections.

On the first Rs. 10,0000 or fraction thereof | 4 per cent.  
---|---  
On the next Rs. 40,0000 or fraction thereof | 3 per cent.  
On the next Rs. 50,0000 or fraction thereof | 2 per cent.  
Above Rs. 10,0000 | 1 per cent.  
  
(ii)On the total amount distributed as distributable sum to the creditors or
return of contribution or assets to the partners;(c)where the official
Liquidator realises property for secured creditors, on the amount realised for
each secured creditor -

On the first Rs. 10,0000 or fraction thereof | 5 per cent.  
---|---  
On the next Rs. 40,0000 or fraction thereof | 3 ½ per cent.  
On the next Rs. 50,0000 or fraction thereof | 3 per cent.  
Above Rs. 1,00,0000 | 2 per cent.  
  
(d)when the official Liquidator acts as trustee under a scheme of arrangement,
such fee not exceeding the scale of fees under clause (b) above, as the
Tribunal shall allow;(e)when the official Liquidator performs any special
duties not provided for above such fee as the Tribunal may fix on the
application of the Liquidator, in addition to any other fee payable;(f)where
the official Liquidator acts as liquidator in a creditor's voluntary winding
up, such fee as the Tribunal may fix, not exceeding the scale under sub-rule
(2) below;(g)where the Tribunal appoints any persons who are already
liquidators in a winding-up to be additional liquidators in a winding-up of
the LLP by the Tribunal, subject to the control of the official Liquidator,
such fee as may be fixed by the Tribunal after taking into consideration the
remuneration payable to such additional liquidators;(h)where the Tribunal has
sanctioned the reconstruction of the LLP under liquidation or a scheme of
arrangement of its affairs, or where for any reason the Tribunal is of the
opinion that the fees prescribed above would be insufficient. Such fee may be
made as the Tribunal thinks fit.(2)In every winding up where Liquidator has
been appointed under any other rule, the remuneration of the Liquidator shall
be approved by the Tribunal subject to a maximum remuneration of five per cent
of the value of the debt recovered and realization by sale of assets.

### 257. Where the LLP has no available assets.

\- Where a LLP against which a winding up order has been made has no available
assets, the Liquidator may, with the leave of the Tribunal, incur any
necessary expenses in connection with the winding up out of any permanent
advance or other fund provided by the Central Government or the Tribunal, and
the expenses so incurred shall be recouped out of the assets of the LLP in
priority to the debts of the LLP:Provided that where any money has been
advanced to the Liquidator by the petitioning or other creditor or partner for
meeting any preliminary expenses in connection with the winding-up, the
Liquidator may incur any necessary expenses out of such amount, and the money
so advanced shall be paid out of the assets of the LLP in priority to the
debts of the LLP.Investment of Surplus Funds

### 258. Investment of moneys.

\- All such money for the time being standing to the credit of the Liquidator
at the Bank as is not immediately required for the purposes of winding up,
shall be invested in Government securities or in interest bearing deposits in
the designated schedule bank, or, with the previous sanction of the Tribunal,
in interest bearing deposits in any other Scheduled Bank, in the name of the
Liquidator as Liquidator of the LLP to which the funds belong wherever
beneficial to the liquidation:Provided that in the case of liquidator
appointed from the panel, the Tribunal may direct investment of surplus fund
in any other manner.

### 259. Liquidator to examine the accounts for purposes of investment.

\- The Liquidator shall, at the end of every three months, examine the account
of each liquidation in his charge to ascertain what moneys are available for
investment, and shall make an entry at the end of every three months in the
Record Book relating to the LLP of his having examined the account for the
purpose and of the decision taken by him regarding the investment, and in case
he decides not to invest any surplus funds, the reasons for such decision.

### 260. Investments to be made by the Bank.

\- All investments shall be made by the Bank upon the written request of the
Liquidator. The securities shall be retained in the Bank in the name and on
behalf of the Liquidator, and shall not be sold except by the Bank and under
the written instructions of the Liquidator. When the securities are sold the
proceeds shall be credited by the Bank to the account of the Liquidator.

### 261. Distributable sum and interest to be credited.

\- All distributable sums and interest accruing from securities or investments
shall from time to time be received by the Bank and placed to the credit of
the account of the Liquidator and intimation thereof shall be given to the
Liquidator, who shall thereupon credit such distributable sum or interest in
his accounts to the LLP to which the security or the investment relating
thereto belongs.

### 262. Refund of Income-tax.

\- The Liquidator shall claim such refunds of income-tax as may be due in
respect of any distributable sums or interest received on the securities or
investments and credit the same when realised to the appropriate
account.Filing, Audit and Inspection of the Liquidator's Account

### 263. Yearly Accounts to be filled.

(1)Unless otherwise ordered by the Tribunal the liquidator shall prepare,
every year, a statement of accounts as on 31st March within two months from
31st March and file such accounts with the Registrar not later than 30th
September following.(2)The final accounts of the liquidator shall be filed
with the Tribunal and the Registrar as soon as the affairs of the LLP have
been fully wound up, irrespective of the period prescribed above.Explanation:
- "Year" in relation to the statement means period from first day of April of
the year to the 31st day of March following year.

### 264. Form of accounts.

\- The Account shall be in Form No. 15 and shall be verified by a declaration.
The final account shall be in Form No. 89.

### 265. Nil Account.

\- Where the liquidator has not, during the period of account, received or
paid any sum of money on account of the assets of the LLP, he shall file an
affidavit of no receipt or payment for the period.

### 266. Audit of the Liquidator's accounts.

(1)The accounts shall be audited by a person qualified to act as auditor of
the limited liability partnership and for the purpose of the audit, the
liquidator shall furnish the auditor such information as the auditor may
require:Provided that no such audit is required where the transaction during
the period is for rupees fifty thousand or less.(2)Where the audit of the
accounts is not required under this rule, the statements of accounts shall
contain, a declaration by the liquidator that the books and accounts are
properly maintained and funds have been utilized only for the purpose of
winding up of the affairs of the LLP.

### 267. Auditors certificate to be filed.

\- One copy of the statement of accounts along with the auditor's report shall
be filed with the Tribunal forthwith. The Tribunal may at any time require the
production of, and inspect, any books of accounts kept by the liquidator.
Other copy of the statement along with the auditor's report shall be filed
with the Registrar in Form No. 10 not later than 30th September.

### 268. Audit fees.

\- Audit fees on the gross amount brought to credit, including the unrealized
or unrecovered contribution of the partners on partners interest on
investments and rents from properties, but after deducting (a) the amount
spent out of the money received in carrying on the business of the LLP and (b)
the amounts paid by the Liquidator to secured creditors (other than debenture
holders), shall be paid to the auditor and debited to the account of the
liquidation to which the audit relates according to the following scale:-

(a) |  On the amount brought to credit including the unrealizedor unrecovered contribution,interest on investments and rentsfrom properties, but after, deducting (a) the amount spent outof the money received in carrying on the business of the. LLP,and (b) amounts paid by the Liquidator to secured creditors otherthan debenture holders | .....½ per cent;  
---|---|---  
(b) |  On disbursements, other than payments to secured creditorsnot being debenture holders | .....½ per cent;  
  
Provided that the minimum audit fee for the account of the Liquidator shall be
not less than Rs. 2500/- in respect of one LLP for a period of one year and
the maximum audit fee shall be Rs. 25,000/- for the audit of account of a LLP
for one year subject to variation of 25% of the aforesaid fee at the
discretion of the Member or Tribunal for reasons to be recorded in writing.

### 269. Inspection of the account and certificate of audit.

\- Any creditor or partner shall be entitled to inspect the accounts and the
auditor's certificate in the office of the Tribunal on payment of a fee as
specified in Annexure, and to obtain a copy thereof on payment of the
specified charges.

### 270. Account and auditor's report to be placed before Member.

\- Upon the audit of the account, the Registrar of Tribunal shall place the
statement of account and the auditor's certificate before the Member for his
consideration and orders.

### 271. Assistance for the Liquidator.

\- The Liquidator may, appoint one or more practicing Chartered Accountants or
practicing Company Secretaries or practicing Cost Accountants or legal
practitioners entitled to appear before the Tribunal or such other
professionals or experts or valuer or agency as he considers necessary to
assist him in the performance of his duties and functions under the Act or the
rules, in accordance with the rule 42.

### 272. Employment of additional or special staff where official Liquidator
acts as Liquidator.

\- Where the Liquidator is of opinion that the employment of any special or
additional staff is necessary in any liquidation, he shall apply to the
Tribunal for sanction, and the Tribunal may sanction such staff as it thinks
fit on such salaries and allowances as to the Tribunal may seem appropriate.
The special or additional staff shall be from ex-servicemen and in case of
their non-availability, persons retired from Central Government, State
Government, autonomous bodies of Central or State Governments and public
sector undertakings. They shall be on contractual basis till dissolution of a
particular LLP or for five years whichever is earlier. In case his services
are availed for more than one LLP, contract shall terminate as aforesaid and
fresh contract may be entered into for another LLP.

### 273. Apportionment of expenses of common staff where official Liquidator
acts as Liquidator.

\- Where any staff is employed to attend to the work of more than one
liquidation, or any establishment or other charges are incurred for more than
one liquidation, the expenses incurred on such staff and the common
establishment and other charges, shall be apportioned by the Liquidator
between the several liquidations concerned in such proportions as he may think
fit, subject to the directions of the Member, if any.

### 274. Application for examination.

(1)The Central Government may at any time require any Liquidator of an LLP
which is being wound-up by the Tribunal to answer any inquiry in relation to
any winding up in which he is engaged, and may, if the Central Government
thinks fit, apply to the Tribunal to examine him or any other person on oath
concerning the winding up.(2)If it appears to the liquidator in the course of
a voluntary winding up that any past or present officer, or any member, of the
LLP has been guilty of any offence in relation to the LLP, he shall forthwith
report the matter to the Registrar and shall furnish to him such information
and give to him such access to and facilities for inspecting and, taking
copies of any books and papers, being information or books and papers in the
possession or under the control of the liquidator and relating to the matter
in question, as the Registrar may require.(3)Where any report is made under
sub-rule (2) to the Registrar, he may, if he thinks fit, refer the matter to
the central Government for further inquiry.The Central Government shall
thereupon investigate the matter and may, if it thinks it expedient, apply to
the Tribunal for an order conferring on any person designated by the Central
Government for the purpose, with respect to the LLP concerned, all such powers
of investigating the affairs of the LLP as are provided by this Act in the
case of a winding up, by the Tribunal.Voluntary winding up and winding up
subject to supervision

### 275. Applicability of rules.

(1)Where an application is made to the Tribunal in pursuance of the provisions
relating to the voluntary winding up of a LLP, whether or not an order shall
have been made that the voluntary winding up shall continue, the proceedings
contained in these rules, so far as may be, shall be applied to the subject
matter and mode of such application in a voluntary winding up.(2)Save as
aforesaid, Rules which from their nature and subject-matter, or by the
headlines above the group in which they are contained or by their terms are
made applicable only to proceedings in a winding-up by the Tribunal or only to
such proceedings and to proceedings in a creditors' voluntary winding-up,
shall not apply to proceedings in a voluntary winding up, or, as the case may
be, in a members voluntary winding up, whether any such voluntary winding up
is or is not being continued under the supervision of the Tribunal.

### 276. Declaration of solvency.

\- The declaration of solvency to be made by the partners of a LLP in Form No.
2 with such variations as the circumstances may require.

### 277. Statement to be laid before meeting of creditors.

\- The statement of the assets and liabilities of the LLP to be laid before a
meeting of creditors by a liquidator in a voluntary winding-up shall be in
Form No. 4 with such variations, as may be necessary.LLP liquidator in
voluntary winding-up

### 278. Notice of appointment of LLP liquidator.

\- The notice of his appointment which every LLP liquidator is required to be
published in the newspaper shall be in Form No. 90 and the notice of the
appointment to be delivered to the Registrar shall be in Form No. 7.

### 279. Security by LLP liquidator appointed by Tribunal.

(1)Every LLP Liquidator appointed by the Tribunal shall, before entering upon
his duties as a Liquidator of the LLP for which he is appointed, furnish
security in such sum and in such manner as the Tribunal may direct. The cost
of furnishing the required security shall be borne by the LLP Liquidator and
shall not be charged against the assets of the LLP as an expense incurred in
the winding up.(2)If the Tribunal is of the opinion that the security
furnished by the LLP Liquidator under sub-rule (1) is inadequate, the Tribunal
may require the LLP Liquidator to furnish additional security. Where the
security furnished is excessive, the LLP Liquidator may apply to the Tribunal
for reducing the amount of security, and the Tribunal may make such order
thereon as it thinks fit.

### 280. Limit of remuneration of LLP liquidator appointed by the Tribunal.

\- An LLP liquidator shall not, under any circumstances whatever, make any
arrangement for, or accept from any advocate, auctioneer or any other person
connected with LLP of which he is the liquidator, or employed in or in
connection with the winding-up of the LLP, any gift, remuneration, or
pecuniary or other benefit whatever beyond the remuneration to which under the
Act and the rules he is entitled as liquidator, nor shall he make any
arrangement for giving up, or give up any part of such remuneration to any
such person.

### 281. Restriction on purchase of goods by LLP liquidator.

\- Where the LLP liquidator carries on the business of the LLP, he shall not,
without the express sanction of the Tribunal, purchase goods for the carrying
on of such business from any person whose connection with him is of such a
nature as would result in his obtaining directly or indirectly any benefit.
Out of the transaction, Where the LLP liquidator applies for sanction, he
shall disclose in his application the nature of his interest in the
transaction, and the cost of obtaining sanction of Tribunal shall be borne by
the LLP liquidator personally.

### 282. Office of LLP liquidator vacated by his insolvency.

\- An LLP liquidator against whom an order of adjudication is made, shall
thereby vacate his office, and for the purpose of the application of the Act
and the rules, he shall be deemed to have been removed.

### 283. Resignation of LLP liquidator.

(1)An LLP liquidator who desires to resign his office shall summon separate
meetings of the partners and creditors, if any, of the LLP to decide whether
or not his resignation shall be accepted. If the partners and creditors, if
any, agree, by majority, to accept the resignation of the LLP liquidator, the
resignation shall take effect. In any other case, the LLP liquidator shall
report to the Tribunal the result of the meetings and apply for appropriate
orders of the Tribunal and the Tribunal may, upon such application, determine
whether or not the resignation of the LLP liquidator shall be accepted, and
may give such directions and make such orders as it considers necessary.(2)The
LLP liquidator shall, along with his resignation, submit an account of his
acts and dealings as liquidator and a statement as to the position of the
liquidation, in a form in all respects similar to the statement specified
under rule 56, commencing from the date when the last previous statement, if
any, under the said section terminated, or from the date of his appointment as
liquidator, whichever is later, and brought down to the date of his
resignation.(3)The expenses of summoning meetings under sub-rule (1), and of
the application to be made to the Tribunal, shall be part of the expenses of
the liquidation.

### 284. Duty of LLP liquidator upon resignation.

\- Upon a LLP liquidator resigning or being released or removed from his
office, he shall deliver over to the new LLP liquidator all books kept by him,
and all other books, documents, papers and accounts in his possession relating
to the LLP, or to the office of the liquidator.

### 285. Books to be kept by the LLP liquidator.

(1)The LLP liquidator shall keep proper books of account in the form and
manner specified in this part showing all receipts and payments made by him in
the course of the liquidation.(2)He shall keep such books as the Committee of
Inspection, or if there is no such Committee, as the creditors, if any,
direct, and submit all the books and accounts and documents and papers in his
possession relating to his office as liquidator or to the LLP, to the
Committee of Inspection, or if there is none, to the creditors whenever
required by the Committee or creditors, as the case may be.(3)In addition to
the books of accounts, the LLP liquidator shall keep a record book in which
shall be entered all minutes of proceedings and the resolutions passed at any
meeting of the creditors or partners or of the Committee of Inspection,
particulars of all his transactions and negotiations in relation to the
winding up and all such matters other than matters of account as may be
necessary to furnish a correct view of the administration of the LLP's
affairs. He shall also keep a book showing the dates at which all notices to
creditors and partners were sent out and posted. The person who dispatched the
notices shall initial the entries in the book relating thereto.(4)The accounts
of the liquidator shall be open to the inspection of every creditor or partner
during office hours upon payment of a fee of Rs. 10 for every hour of
inspection or part thereof.

### 286. Banking account of the LLP liquidator.

(1)The liquidator shall open a account of the liquidator called the
"Liquidation Account of .............LLP" in a Scheduled Bank, into which he
shall pay all money received by him as liquidator, and the realization of each
day shall be paid into the said account without deduction not later than the
next working day of the Bank, provided that the remittance of moneys into the
Bank may be deferred until the realization exceeds Rs.1000. The money needed
for meeting the expenses of liquidation or for making any payments by the
liquidator in cash shall be drawn from the Bank by cheques drawn upon the Bank
by the liquidator. All payments by the liquidator above Rs.1000/- shall
ordinarily be made by cheque.(2)Unless the contrary appears, all references in
these rules to that Bank in a voluntary winding-up shall mean references to
the Bank, in which an account has been opened as aforesaid.

### 287. Bills, cheques and securities to be deposited in Bank.

\- All bills, cheques, hundies, notes and other securities of a like nature
payable to the LLP or to the liquidator thereof shall, as soon as they come
into the hands of the liquidator be deposited by him with the Bank for the
purpose of being presented for acceptance and payment or for payment only, as
the case may be, and the proceeds when realised shall be credited by the Bank
to the account of the liquidator.

### 288. Investment of surplus funds.

(1)All such moneys for the time being standing to the credit of the
liquidation account as is not immediately required for the purposes of the
winding up, shall be invested by the LLP liquidator in Government securities
or in interest bearing deposits in a Scheduled Bank.(2)Rules 258 to 262 of
these rules relating to investment shall apply mutatis mutandis to investments
made by the LLP liquidator.

### 289. Liquidator's statements under rule 56.

\- In a voluntary winding-up or a winding up under the supervision of the
Tribunal, the statements required to be filed under Rule 56 with respect to
the proceedings in and position of the liquidation of an LLP the winding up of
which is not concluded within a year after its commencement, shall be filed
with the Registrar twice in every year as follows:-(1)The first statement,
commencing from the date when a liquidator was first appointed and brought
down to the end of twelve months from the commencement of the winding up shall
be filed within one month from the expiration of such twelve months, and
subsequent statements shall be filed at intervals of half a year, each
statement being brought down to the end of the half year for which it is
filed. Where the winding up is concluded before the expiration of a half-
yearly interval, the final statement of account brought down to the close of
the winding-up shall be filed forthwith.(2)Where the time for filing the
statement has expired the Tribunal may on application extend the time, and
unless the Tribunal otherwise orders, the costs of such application shall be
borne by the liquidator personally.(3)The statements shall be in Form No. 15
(with such variations as may be necessary in the case of the final account)
and shall be prepared in accordance with the instructions contained in the
Form and verified by an affidavit.(4)Where the liquidator has not, during any
period for which the statement has to be filed, received or paid any money on
account of the LLP, he shall, at the period, when he is required to file his
statement, file with the Registrar the prescribed statement in the above Form
No. 15, containing the particulars therein required with respect to the
proceedings in and the position of the liquidation together with an affidavit
of no receipt or payments.(5)Every statement shall be filed in duplicate with
the Registrar, and, in a winding up under the supervision of the Tribunal, a
copy of the statement shall also be filed in the Tribunal, within the time
prescribed in clause (1) above.

### 290. Submission of periodical reports to the Tribunal.

(1)The LLP Liquidator shall make periodical reports to the Tribunal and in any
case make a report at the end of each quarter with respect to the progress of
the winding up of the LLP in Form No. 8.

### 291. Notice convening final meeting and the account to be laid before the
meeting.

\- The notice convening the final meeting of the LLP and the creditors in a
voluntary winding up, shall be in Form No. 59. The Accounts of the winding up
to be laid by the LLP Liquidator before the said meeting or meetings shall be
Form No. 9.

### 292. Returns to Register.

\- The returns to be made to the Registrar after final meeting and dissolution
during voluntary winding up shall be in Forms Nos. 10 and 11 respectively.

### 293. Inspection by creditor or partner of statements filed by liquidator.

\- Any partner or creditor, if any, of an LLP which is being wound up shall be
entitled to inspect any of the statements filed with the liquidator on payment
of a fee as prescribed in Annexure and to obtain a copy thereof or extract
therefrom on payment of the prescribed charges as prescribed in Annexure.

### 294. Audit of the liquidators' account.

\- The partners, in a meeting, and the creditors, if any of an LLP may, if and
when they think fit, appoint an auditor to audit the accounts of the
liquidator, and shall fix the fees to be paid to such auditor.

### 295. Applications for stay of proceeding in the winding up.

(1)An application shall be made by a summons, and notice of the application
shall be given to the LLP liquidator where he is not the applicant, to the
respondents, if any, named in the application, and to such other persons and
in such manner as the Tribunal may direct.(2)Where an order is made staying
the proceeding in the winding-up, the order shall direct that the applicant at
whose instance the order for stay was made shall, within seven days of the
making of the order, file a certified copy thereof with the Registrar in Form
No. 11.Explanation. - In computing the period of thirty days from the date of
the order, the requisite time for obtaining a certified copy of the order
shall be excluded.Payment of unclaimed distributable sums and undistributed
assets into the LLPs liquidation account in a winding up

### 296. Statement of payment.

(1)The Statement to be furnished, under rule 60 to the Registrar by the
Liquidator in a winding up by the Tribunal and a LLP Liquidator in a voluntary
winding-up, when making any payment of unclaimed distributable sums or
undistributed assets into the LLPs Liquidation Account in the Reserve Bank of
India or designated Bank under rule 61, shall be in Form No. 91.

### 297. Unclaimed distributable sums or undistributed assets under
investment.

\- For purposes of payment of unclaimed distributable sums and undistributed
assets into the LLPs Liquidation Account, money invested or deposited at
interest by the liquidator shall be deemed to be money in his hand, and when
such money forms part of the unclaimed distributable sums or undistributed
assets of the LLP, the liquidator shall realize the investment or withdraw the
deposit and shall pay the proceeds into the LLPs Liquidation Account.

### 298. Operation and maintenance of the Account.

\- LLP Liquidation account shall be operated by the Registrar. The Registrar
shall cause to be maintained in his office separate accounts in respect of
each LLP whose unpaid distributable sums or undistributed assets are deposited
in the said account.Cost including expenses, charges or fees

### 299. Cost, expenses, charges or fees payable out of the assets in a
winding up by the Tribunal.

(1)The assets of a LLP in a winding up by the Tribunal remaining after payment
of the fees and expenses properly incurred in preserving, realizing or getting
in the assets including, where the LLP has previously commenced to be wound up
voluntarily, such remuneration, cost and expenses as the Tribunal may allow to
the liquidator in such voluntary winding up, shall, subject to any order of
the Tribunal and to the rights of secured creditors if any, be liable to the
following payments which shall be made in the following order of priority,
namely :-First - the costs of the petition including the costs of any person
appearing on the petition, whose costs are allowed by the Tribunal;Next - fees
to the liquidator appointed from the panel;Next - the necessary disbursements
of the Liquidator other than expenses properly incurred in preserving,
realizing or getting in the properties of the LLP;Next - the cost of any
person properly employed by the Liquidators which may in the form of salary,
perks etc and cost incurred in engaging the services of professionals,
advocates, experts etc;Next - the fees to be credited to Government;Next - the
actual out of pocket expenses necessarily incurred by the members of the
Committee of inspection and sanctioned by the Tribunal.(2)Save as otherwise
ordered by the Tribunal no payments in respect of bills of professionals,
advocates, experts etc. shall be allowed out of the assets of the LLP unless
the appointment is made in accordance with the rule and the fees payable is
approved by the Tribunal.(3)Nothing contained in this rule shall apply to or
affect costs which in the course of legal proceeding by or against the LLP
which is being wound up by the Tribunal, are ordered by the Tribunal in which
such proceedings are pending, to be paid by the LLP or the liquidator, or the
rights of the person to whom such costs are payable.Miscellaneous

### 300. Inspection of file.

(1)Every duly authorized officer of the Central Government and save as
otherwise provided by the rules, every person who has been a partner or
creditor of a LLP which is being wound up, shall be entitled, on payment of
charges specified in Annexure, at all reasonable times to inspect the file of
proceeding of the liquidation and to take copies of extracts from any document
therein, and, on payment of prescribed charges, to be furnished with such
copies or extracts.(2)Save as otherwise provided in the rules, every partner
and every creditor whose claim proof has been admitted, shall be entitled, on
payment of the specified charges, at all reasonable time to inspect the file
of proceedings and to be furnished with copies and extracts from any document
therein.

### 301. Appeal from Order of Tribunal to National Company Law appellate
Tribunal.

\- Any aggrieved person may prefer an appal against the order or decision of
the Tribunal to the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal within a period of
forty-five days from the date on which the copy of the order is delivered in
such manner a may be provided by that Appellate Tribunal.No.1[see rule 5]

1.| LLPIN|  
---  
  
2.| Name of the Limited Liability Partnership|  
---  
  
3.| Full address of the registered office of the Limited Liability Partnership  
---  
  
| Line 1|  
---  
  
| Line 2|  
---  
  
| City| | District|  
---  
  
| State| | PIN Code|  
---  
  
| Country| |  
---  
  
4.| Date of Passing resolution|  
---  
  
5.| Number of Partners|  
---  
  
6.| Three-fourths majority of partners consented for voluntary winding up-Yes| |  
---  
  
| | List of attachments  
---  
  
(1) Copy of the resolution.(2) Copy of the Authority.(3)Optional attachment.  
---  
  
VerificationTo the best of our knowledge and belief, the information given in
this form and its attachments is correct and complete.I have gone through the
provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, and the rules
framed there under.I have been authorized to sign and submit this application.

To be digitally signed by designated partner| |  
---  
  
DPINDated _____________Place: ____________Form no. 2[See rules 7 &
276]Voluntary Winding-upDeclaration solvency, embodying a statement assets and
liabilities and valuation reportName of
LLP:...................LLPIN:...................Presented
by:..............Declaration of SolvencyWe, ............ all the / majority of
the designated partners of....... do solemnly affirm and declare that we have
made a full enquiry into the affairs of this LLP, and that having done so, we
have formed the opinion that this LLP has no debts/ will be able to pay its
debts in full from the proceeds of assets sold in voluntary winding up, within
a period of .... months from the commencement of the winding-up, and we append
a statement of the LLP's assets and liabilities as at..........., being the
latest practicable date before the making of this declaration. And we make
this solemn declaration believing the same to be true.Solemnly affirmed and
declared at.......the.......day of........20 ....., before
me.SignaturesCommissioner for Oaths or Notary Public.Statement as at..........
20......, showing assets at book value and as per valuer report and
liabilities.

A. Assets | Book value | Value as per valuation report  
---|---|---  
1\. Balance at Bank |  |   
2\. Cash in hand |  |   
3\. Investments |  |   
4\. Debtors/Trade receivable |  |   
5\. Loans & Advances |  |   
6\. Inventories |  |   
7\. Freehold Property |  |   
8\. Leasehold Property |  |   
9\. Plant & Machinery |  |   
10\. Furniture, fittings etc .. |  |   
11\. Intangible Assets |  |   
12\. Other Assets (to specify) |  |   
13\. Outstanding contribution of the partners |  |   
| Total | ______________________  
B. Liabilities |  |   
1\. Secured creditors (secured on specific assets)includingworkmen dues. |   
2\. Cost of liquidation |  |   
3\. Preferential Creditors |  |   
4\. Creditors secured by floating charge on the assets |  |   
5\. Unsecured creditors |  |   
6\. Contingent liabilities |  |   
| Total | ______________________  
Total value of the assets (as per valuers report) | Rs......  
Total liabilities | Rs......  
Estimated surplus after paying debts in full | Rs......  
C. Remarks |  |   
  
Dated .......SignatureDesignated partners of LLPForm No. 3[See clause (a) of
sub-rule (2) of rule 7]

1.| LLPIN|  
---  
  
2.| Name of the Limited Liability Partnership|  
---  
  
3.| Full address of the registered office of the Limited Liability Partnership  
---  
  
| Line 1|  
---  
  
| Line 2|  
---  
  
| City| | District|  
---  
  
| State| | PIN Code|  
---  
  
| Country| |  
---  
  
4.| Date of Passing resolution|  
---  
  
5.| Date of declaration made on|  
---  
  
6.| Declaration and statement in Form 2 and 4 and valuer report are attached - Yes| |  
---  
  
| | List of attachments  
---  
  
(1) Copy of the declaration, statement & valuation report.(2) Copy of the
Authority.(3)Optional attachment.  
---  
  
VerificationTo the best of our knowledge and belief, the information given in
this form and its attachments is correct and complete.I have gone through the
provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, and the rules
framed there under.I have been authorized to sign and submit this application.

To be digitally signed by designated partner| |  
---  
  
DPINDated _____________Place: ____________Form No. 4(See clause (c) of sub
rule (2) of rule 7 & rule 277)Name of LLP: ..............LLPIN:
.................. .Statement of Assets and Liabilities as at___________(In
Rupees_______)

| Particulars | Figures as at the end of _____ |  Figures as at the end of the last reportingperiod as on.....  
---|---|---|---  
| 1 | 2 | 3  
I.(1)(2) |  CONTRIBUTION AND LIABILITIESPartners' funds(a) Contribution(b) Reserves and Surplus (Surplus being theprofit/loss made during the year)Liabilities(a) Secured Loans(b) Unsecured Loans(c) Short term borrowings(d) Creditors/Trade Payables\- Advance from customers(e) other liabilities (to specify)(f) Provisions(i) for taxation(i) for contingencies(iii) for insurance(iv) other provisions (if any)TOTAL |  |   
II |  ASSETS(a) Fixed Assets(b) Investments(c) Loans and Advances(d) Inventories(e) Debtors/trade Receivables(f) Cash and Cash equivalents(g) other assets (to specify)TOTAL |  |   
  
Notes: (a) Contingent liabilities not provided for.Dated ......
.SignaturesDesignated partners of LLPForm No. 5[See sub-rule (4) of rule 8]

1.| LLPIN|  
---  
  
2.| Name of the Limited Liability Partnership|  
---  
  
3.| Full address of the registered office of the Limited Liability Partnership  
---  
  
| Line 1|  
---  
  
| Line 2|  
---  
  
| City| | District|  
---  
  
| State| | PIN Code|  
---  
  
| Country| |  
---  
  
4.| SRN of delivering of the Declaration of solvency by Designated Partner to
the Registrar|  
---  
  
5.| Date of meeting of partners at which resolution for voluntary winding up
was passed|  
---  
  
6.| Date of forwarding copy of the declaration etc to the creditors|  
---  
  
7.| Date of consent of creditors|  
---  
  
8.| Two third in value of Creditors of the LLP consented - Yes| |  
---  
  
| | List of attachments  
---  
  
(1) Copy of the consent.(2) Copy of the Authority.(3)Optional attachment.  
---  
  
VerificationTo the best of our knowledge and belief, the information given in
this form and its attachments is correct and complete.I have gone through the
provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, and the rules
framed there under.Copy of the consent is attached.I have been authorized to
sign and submit this application.

To be digitally signed by designated partner| |  
---  
  
DPINDated ____________Place: ____________Form No. 6[See sub-rule (8) of rule
10 & sub-rule (7) of rule 29]*[Heading as in form no 16]*LLP Petition
No.......of 20......

### 1\. LLPIN

### 2\. Name of the Limited Liability Partnership

### 3\. Name of LLP Liquidator or Liquidator.

### 4\. Address of LLP Liquidator or Liquidator

### 5\. In pursuance of rule 10(6)/29(7) of the rules I hereby declare that
there is no conflict of interest and not lack of independence in respect of my
appointment

VerificationTo the best of my knowledge and belief, the information given in
the form is correct and complete.I have gone through the provisions of the
Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, the rules framed there
under.Signature.....................Name..........................Capacity......................(LLP
Liquidator or Liquidator)Place _______________Date ________________Note: -
*Delete if not applicable.Form No.7[See rules 12 and 278]

1.| LLPIN|  
---  
  
2.| Name of the Limited Liability Partnership|  
---  
  
3.| Address of the Registered Office of the Limited Liability Partnership  
---  
  
| Line 1|  
---  
  
| Line 2|  
---  
  
| City| | District|  
---  
  
| State| | PIN Code|  
---  
  
| Country| |  
---  
  
4.| Purpose of form  
---  
  
| Appointment of LLP Liquidator|  
---  
  
| Cessation of LLP Liquidator|  
---  
  
## Part A – In case of appointment of LLP Liquidator

5.| (a) Date of appointment of LLP Liquidator by partners| |- | | | (DD/MM/YYYY)  
---|---  
  
| (b) Name of the LLP Liquidator so appointed|  
---  
  
| (c) Majority of the partners of LLP consented:- Yes| |  
---  
  
6.| In case the LLP has creditors, creditors consented under clause (b) or (c)
of sub-rule (3) of rule 7, Date of approval by two third majority of the
creditors in value of LLP  
---  
  
| | |- | | | (DD/MM/YYYY)  
---|---  
  
7.| (a) In case, creditors, creditors do not approve of LLP Liquidator
appointed by partners, date  
---  
  
| of appointment of another LLP Liquidator.| |- | | | (DD/MM/YYYY)  
---|---  
  
| (b) Name of the LLP Liquidator so appointed|  
---  
  
8.| (a) Date of appointment of LLP Liquidator by the Tribunal| | |- | | | (DD/MM/YYYY)  
---|---  
  
| (b) Name of the LLP Liquidator so appointed|  
---  
  
9.| Name of LLP Liquidator Appointed as voluntary liquidator|  
---  
  
10.| Address of the LLP Liquidator  
---  
  
| Line 1|  
---  
  
| Line 2|  
---  
  
| City| | District|  
---  
  
| State| | PIN Code|  
---  
  
| Country| |  
---  
  
Part 'B' In case of change(s) of LLP Liquidator

11.| In case of removal  
---  
  
| (a) Date of notice of Liquidator stating grounds of removal| |- | | | (DD/MM/YYYY)  
---|---  
  
| (b) Reasons for removal|  
---  
  
| (c) Date of passing of resolution deciding the removal of Liquidator by
three-fourth in value  
---  
  
| by partners/creditors| |- | | | (DD/MM/YYYY)  
---|---  
  
| (d) Date of removal by the Tribunal| |- | | | (DD/MM/YYYY)  
---|---  
  
12.| In case of of any other change  
---  
  
| (a) Date of change| | |- | | | (DD/MM/YYYY)|  
---|---  
  
| (b) Nature of change| |  
---  
  
| | List of attachments  
---  
  
(1) Copy of the resolution of the partners/creditors/ order of the
Tribunal.(2) Copy of the Authority.(3)Optional attachment.  
---  
  
VerificationTo the best of our knowledge and belief, the information given in
this form and its attachments is correct and complete.I have gone through the
provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, and the rules
framed there under.

To be digitally signed by designated partner| |  
---  
  
DPINPlace: ____________Date _____________Form no. 8[See rules 17 and
290]Voluntary Winding-upQuarterly progress reportI. Preliminary(1)Name of
LLP___________________(2)LLPIN.(3)Date of Commencement of winding up
_______________(4)Name and address of the LLP Liquidator
_____________(5)Period of the Report ______________II. Asset management(1)Date
of taking the custody of property, assets and books of accounts.(2)Date of
valuation of the property.(3)Value of the property as per the valuation
report.(4)Date of advertisement inviting bids.(5)Date of sale of property,
assets etc.(6)Sale amount.III. Settlement of creditors(1)Date of inviting
claims.(2)Date of adjudication of claims.IV. Declaration of distributable
sum(1)Date of declaration.(2)Rate of distributable sum.(3)Date of
distribution.V. Cost of voluntary winding up(item wise details)VI. Dues from
partners(1)Amount of outstanding contribution.(2)Any other dues.(3)Amount
realized.VII. Settlement of list of partners and distribution(1)Date of
settlement of list.(2)Rate of return.(3)Date of distribution.VIII.
Professionals and experts appointment(1)Name(s) of the
professional/expert(2)Purpose of appointment(3)Amount of feeIX. Investigation
into the affairs of LLPDate of submission of report to Tribunal.X. Legal
proceedings instituted, concluded or pending for and against LLPXI. Expected
date of submission of report for dissolution/ causes for delayXII. Receipts
and payments.

Receipts | Rupees | Payments | Rupees  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
  
XIII. Remarks :-[Sd.]LLP LiquidatorDated this ____ day of 20____Form No. 9[See
rules 19 and 291]LLP Liquidator's final winding up account in voluntary
winding up

### 1\. Name of the LLP .......

### 2\. LLPIN .............

### 3\. Date of commencement of the winding-up

### 4\. Name and address of the LLP Liquidator

Statement showing how the winding-up has been conducted and the property of
the LLP has been disposed ofForm...........(Commencement of winding-up)
to...........(close of winding-up)A. Report of the LLP Liquidator:-B. Final
winding up account:-

Receipts |  Valueas per valuation reportRs. |  ValuerealisedRs. | Payments | Payments  
---|---|---|---|---  
AssetsBalanceat BankCashin handInvestmentsDebtors/TradeReceivableLoans& AdvancesInventoriesFreeholdPropertyLeaseholdPropertyPlant& MachineryFurniture,fittings etc.IntangibleAssetsOtherAssets (to specify)Outstandingcontribution from the partners realizedReceiptper trading account.otherreceiptsTotalLessPaymentsper trading accountNetrealization |  |  |  1.Cost of liquidation(i)LLP Liquidator's remuneration:—(ii)Fees/charges to professionals / experts (individual details)(iii)Other Cost of voluntary winding up (expenses/ charges on eachitem shall be disclosed)2.Distributable sum(i)Secured creditors including workmen dues(ii)Preferential creditors(iii)Creditors having floating charge(iv)Unsecured creditors(v)Others if any[Distributablesum(s) of...np. in the rupee on Rs.]3.Returns to partners:— Return of….. np in the rupeeon Rs…………Addbalance |   
TOTAL |  |  | TOTAL |   
  
(1)The following assets estimated to be of the value of Rs ........ have
proved to be unrealisable:-[Give details of the assets which have proved to be
unrealisable](2)Amount paid into the LLPs Liquidation Account in respect of:-

(a) Unclaimed distributable sums payable tocreditors in the winding-up, | Rs .........  
---|---  
(b) Other unclaimed distributions in thewinding-up, | Rs .........  
(c) Moneys held by the LLP in trust in respectof distributable sums or other sums due before the commencementof the winding-up to any person as a partner of the LLP. | Rs .........  
  
C. Explanations:-Declare that the above statement is true and contains a full
and accurate account of the winding-up from the commencement to the close of
the winding-up.Dated this ...... day of..... 200 ....(Sd.)LLP LiquidatorForm
No.10[See rules 19(3)(a), 56(2)(ii), 121, 267 and 292]

Statement of Account or Final Account|  
---  
  
LLPIN|  
---  
  
Name of the Limited Liability Partnership|  
---  
  
Name and address of the LLP Liquidator or Liquidator  
---  
  
Line 1|  
---  
  
Line 2|  
---  
  
City| | District|  
---  
  
State| | PIN Code|  
---  
  
Country| |  
---  
  
Voluntary winding up or winding up by Tribunal|  
---  
  
Period of Statement of Account or Final Account|  
---  
  
(a) Name of auditor or auditor's firm|  
---  
  
(b) Address of auditor or auditor's firm|  
---  
  
| | List of attachments  
---  
  
(1) Statement of account/ final account.(2)Optional attachment(s).  
---  
  
VerificationTo the best of our knowledge and belief, the information given in
this form and its attachments is correct and complete.I have gone through the
provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, and the rules
framed there under.

To be digitally signed by| |  
---  
  
Particulars of the person signing and submitting the
formName_________________________Capacity_____________________ (LLP Liquidator
or Liquidator)Form No.11[See rules 19(5), 23(4), 64(2), 248, 292 and 295]

1.| LLPIN|  
---  
  
2.| Name of the Limited Liability Partnership|  
---  
  
3.| Name and address of the LLP Liquidator or Liquidator  
---  
  
| Line 1|  
---  
  
| Line 2|  
---  
  
| City| | District|  
---  
  
| State| | PIN Code|  
---  
  
| Country| |  
---  
  
4.| Date of passing Order| |- | | | (DD/MM/YYYY)  
---|---  
  
5.| Date of issue of certified copy of order| |- | | | (DD/MM/YYYY)  
---|---  
  
6.| Reference of the rule|  
---  
  
| | List of attachments  
---  
  
(1) Copy of the order.(2)Optional attachment(s).  
---  
  
VerificationTo the best of our knowledge and belief, the information given in
this form and its attachments is correct and complete.I have gone through the
provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, and the rules
framed there under.

To be digitally signed by| |  
---  
  
Particulars of the person signing and submitting the
formName........................Capacity....................Form No. 12[See
sub-rule (1) of rule 31][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No ......... of
20 ........ToThe Registrar_______ToThe Liquidator_______Order pronounced this
day by the Hon'ble Member Mr. ________ for winding up the under mentioned LLP
under the Act:-

### 1\. Name of the LLP

### 2\. LLPIN

### 3\. Registered office of the LLP

### 4\. Petitioner's authorized representative

### 5\. Date of presentation of petition

### 6\. Name of the Liquidator

Registrar of TribunalDated________Form no. 13[See rule 40][Heading as in form
no 16]LLP Petition No ......... of 20 .....Winding-up by TribunalQuarterly
progress reportI. Preliminary(1)Name of LLP ___________________(2)LLPIN
________________(3)Date of winding up order ________________(4)Date of receipt
of winding up order ________________(5)Date of Commencement of winding up
________________(6)Name and address of Liquidator ________________(7)Period of
the Report ____________________II. Asset management

### 1\. Date of taking the custody of property, assets and books of accounts.

### 2\. Date of valuation of the property and assets.

### 3\. Value of the property as per the valuation report.

### 4\. Date of advertisement inviting bids.

### 5\. Date of sale of property, assets etc.

### 6\. Sale value.

III. Realization of debts.

### 1\. Number of debts not barred by limitation and amount.

### 2\. Number of claim applications filed before the Tribunal and amount.

### 3\. Number of debts barred by limitation and amount.

IV. Settlement of creditors

### 1\. Date of inviting claims.

### 2\. Date of adjudication of claims.

### 3\. Date of submission of list to the Tribunal.

V. Declaration of distributable sum

### 1\. Date of declaration.

### 2\. Rate of distributable sum.

### 3\. Date of distribution.

VI. Professionals and experts appointment

### 1\. Name of the professionals/experts

### 2\. Purpose of appointment

### 3\. Amount of fee

VII. Cost of winding up(item wise details)VIII. Dues from partners.

### 1\. Amount of outstanding contribution.

### 2\. Any other dues,

### 3\. Amount realized.

IX. Settlement of list of partners and distribution

### 1\. Date of settlement of list.

### 2\. Rate of return declared.

### 3\. Date of distribution.

X. Investigation into the affairs of LLP(fraudulent conduct of business,
misfeasance etc.)

### 1\. Name and address of the investigator.

### 2\. Date of appointment.

### 3\. Date of submission of report to the Tribunal.

XI. Legal proceedings instituted, concluded or pending for and against LLPXII.
Expected date of submission of report for dissolution/causes for delay.XIII.
Receipts and payments.

Receipts | Rupees. | Payments | Rupees  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
  
XIV. Remarks :-[Sd.]LiquidatorDated this ____ day of 20______Form No. 14[See
sub-rule (2) of rule 42][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No ......... of
20........

### 1\. LLPIN

### 2\. Name of the Limited Liability Partnership

### 3\. Name and address of the Liquidator

### 4\. Name of the practising professional, experts etc, appointed by
Liquidator to assist him

### 5\. Address of practising professional, experts etc,

### 6\. Date of appointment

### 7\. Purpose of appointment

### 8\. In pursuance to rule 42(2) of the rules. I hereby declare that there
is no conflict of interest and not lack of independence in respect of my
appointment.

VerificationTo the best of my knowledge and belief, the information given in
the form is correct and complete.I have gone through the provisions of the
Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, the rules framed there
under.[Sd.]Name..............Capacity .......(Professional/expert etc.)Form
no. 15[See rules 56, 264 and 289(3)][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No
......... of 20 ........Name of LLP:_________________LLPIN :
_________________Voluntary winding up/winding up by Tribunal: _________Date of
winding up order/resolution: _________Date of commencement of winding-up:
_________Period of the statement of account ___________Name and address of
liquidator/LLP liquidator:____________I ........, Liquidator/LLP Liquidator of
the above-named LLP solemnly state:-That the statement of account made
overleaf and attachments marked I to V contains a full and true account of
receipts and payments in the winding-up of the above-named LLP from the
....... day of....... 20......, to the... day of ..... 20...., inclusive and
that I have not nor has any other person by my order or for my use during such
period, received or paid any moneys on account of the said LLP other than and
except the items mentioned and specified in the said statement of accountI
further say that the particulars in the statement of account and the
attachments thereto, are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.* I
declare that the value of total transactions during the period was Rs. Fifty
thousand or less and that I acknowledge the responsibility for maintaining the
books and records and further declare that the funds were utilized for the
purposes of winding up of affairs of the LLP.[Sd]LLP
Liquidator/LiquidatorDated this ........ day of ....... 200.....Note: (1) *
Delete if not applicable.(2)In case the LLP Liquidator or liquidator has not,
during the period of account, received or paid any sum of money on account of
the assets of the LLP, he shall file an affidavit of no receipts or payments
on the date on which he shall have to file his accounts for the
period.Statement of Account Pursuant to rule 56LLP Liquidator's/Liquidators
Statement of Account from ........ to......

Realisations | Disbursements  
---|---  
Date | of whom received | Nature of assets | Amount | Date | To whom paid | Nature of disbursement | Amount  
Rs. | P. | Rs. | P.  
1 | 2 | 2 | 4 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
  
Brought forward .......... | Brought forward ................  
---|---  
Total carried over......... | Total carried over.............  
  
Note: No balance should be shown on this account, but only the total
realizations and disbursements, which should be carried forward to the next
account.Analysis of Balance

| Rs. | Rs.  
---|---|---  
Total realizations | | _________  
Total disbursements | | _________  
Balance | | _________  
The balance is made up as follows:- |  |   
1. | Cash in the hands of the liquidator | | _________  
2. |  Total payments into Bank, including balance at date ofcommencement of winding-up(as per Bank statement) | _________ |   
| Less total withdrawals from Bank Balance at Bank | _________ |   
*3. | Amounts invested by the Liquidator Less | _________ |   
| Amounts received by realisation of investment | _________ |   
Balance under investment | | _________  
Total balance as shown above | | _________  
  
*Note: Full details of investments made and realisations thereof should be given in a separate statement.Dated .......200 ......SignatureAttachment 1Statement of account as on 31st March ......

### 1\. Assets:(including cash, bank balance, inventory, debtors, investments
etc. Rs.)

(a)Assets specifically mortgaged, pledged or having fixed charge:-

| Book ValueRs. | Value realisedRs. |  Due to Secured creditors andworkmenRs. | Surplus (+) or DeficiencyRs.  
---|---|---|---|---  
1\. Immovable property(a) Freeholdproperty(b) Leasehold property |  |  |  |   
2\. Plant and machinery |  |  |  |   
3\. Furniture, fittings etc. |  |  |  |   
4\. Inventory |  |  |  |   
5\. Other Assets |  |  |  |   
  
(b)Assets not specifically mortgaged/pledged etc:-

(i) |  Total amount of the assets at the date of the commencement ofthe winding-up | ________  
---|---|---  
(ii) | Assets realized | ________  
(iii) | Value of assets still to be realized | _________  
  
### 2\. Liabilities:

|  TotalAmount dueRs. |  AmountPaidRs. |  AmountoutstandingRs.  
---|---|---|---  
1\. Secured creditors including workmen dues.2\. Cost of liquidation3\. Preferential creditors4\. Creditors having floating charge5\. Unsecured creditors6\. Any other liability |  |  |   
  
|  | Rs.  
---|---|---  
3.(a) |  Total amount of partners contribution (with details of natureof contribution): | ____________  
(b) | Outstanding contribution | ____________  
(c) | Outstanding contribution realized | ____________  
  
### 4\. Legal proceedings (if any), instituted, pending or concluded during
the period:

Name of the authority and number ofproceeding | Names of parties | Nature of proceeding | Stage of proceeding |  Nature of decree or order made, ifany | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
### 5\. Causes which delay the termination of the winding-up:

### 6\. Period within which the winding-up may probably be concluded:

Dated ....... 200 .......SignatureAttachment IILLP liquidators/liquidator's
Trading account

Dr | Cr  
---|---  
Date | Receipts particulars Total | Rs. | Date | Payments particulars Total | Rs.  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
SignatureDated......200.......Attachment IIIList of Distributable sums (Paid)

Number on list | Name of creditor | Amount of claim (as admitted) Rs. | Amount of distributable sum  
---|---|---|---  
PaidRs. | UnclaimedRs.  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
Total ______________Dated ....... 200 .......SignatureAttachment IVList of
amounts paid or payable to partners

Number on list | Name of partner | Amount of of contribution | Amount of returned  
---|---|---|---  
PaidRs. | UnclaimedRs.  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
Total ______________SignatureDated ....200......Attachment VStatement of
unclaimed distributable sums and undistributed assets paid into the LLP
Liquidation Account

Serial Number |  Name and address of creditor orpartner |  Amount of distributable sum orundistributed assets payable or refundable |  Date when payable or refundable tocreditor or partner |  Date of payment into LLP LiquidationAccount | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
SignatureDated ....... 200.......Note:- In the case of voluntary winding up
heading as in Form no 16 and LLP petition no is not required.Form No. 16[See
sub-rule (2) of rule 69]General heading for proceedingsBefore the National
Company Law Tribunal* _____________ BenchIn the matter of the Limited
Liability Partnership Act, 2008,andIn the matter of _________ LLP** [Give the
name of the Limited Liability Partnership]LLPIN ___________Notes: * -Until the
Tribunal is constituted under the Companies Act, 1956, the word "Tribunal"
shall be substituted with the words "High Court";** -Where the LLP is being
wound up, the words 'in liquidation' should be inserted in brackets after the
name of the Limited Liability Partnership.Form No. 17[See sub rule (1) of rule
82][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Application No. __________________ of
20______*In LLP Petition No. ________________ of 20______Name and
Description__________Applicant(s)Versus________ Respondent(s)Summons[under**
]Let all parties concerned attend the NCLT ______ Bench on ________ day, the
day of______ 20 _______, at ______ o'clock on the hearing of an application by
the applicant(s) above-named, for an order that ___________________ (here set
out the relief sought)Dated ______ day of 20 __Authorized Representative for
the Applicant (s)Registrar of TribunalThis summon(s) was taken out by Shri
__________ Authorized Representative for the applicant(s) and will be
supported by the affidavit(s)
________________To[Respondent]____________________[or if the summons is not to
be served on any one, then write, it is not intended to serve this summon on
any person]* To be included in the case of an interlocutory application** Here
insert the section of the Act or rule reference number or other provision of
Law under which application is madeNote: A summon which is an interlocutory
application in a proceeding shall be served not less than 3 clear days before
the date of hearing. In order cases, it shall be served not less than 10 days
before the date fixed for hearing.Form No. 18[See rule 84][Heading as in form
no 16]LLP Petition No ........ of 20......Affidavit verifying petitionI,
______son/daughter of ______ aged ______ residing at _________ do solemnly
affirm and say as follows:*1. I am partner/designated partner of ______ LLP
(LLPIN _____), the petitioner in the above matter and am duly authorized by
the said petitioner to make this affidavit on its behalf

### 2\. The statements made in paragraphs ________ of the petition herein now
shown to me and marked with the letter 'A' are true to my knowledge, and the
statements made in paragraphs ________ are based on information, and I believe
them to be true.

Solemnly affirmed, etc............... Signature.............. Deponent* This
point is to be included in cases where the petitioner is the LLP.Form No.
19[See rule 86][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No ........ of 20
...................................PetitionerLLP Application No ........... of
20.....Summons for directionsLet all parties concerned attend the Member in
chambers on ..... day, the ..... day of ...... 20..... at o'clock, on the
hearing of an application by the above named petitioner that a day may be
fixed for the hearing of the petition above-mentioned for ..... (purpose)
presented on the .... day of ...... 20..... and that directions may be given
as to the advertisement of the petition and the persons (if any) on whom the
petition is to be served.Dated this ..... day of ... 20....Authorized
Representative for petitionerRegistrar of TribunalThis summons was taken out
by Shri ........... , Authorized Representative for the petitioner, and will
be supported by the affidavit of .......[Note: it is not intended to serve
this summons on any person.]Form No. 20Form of Advertisement of Petition[See
rule 88][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No ......... of 20
........Notice of petitionA petition under the Limited Liability Partnership
Act, 2008, for....... was presented by ...... on the ......... day of ..... 20
.... and the said petition is fixed for hearing before the NCLT _____ Bench on
......... 20..... Any person desirous of supporting or opposing the said
petition should send to the petitioner or his authorized representative notice
of his intention, signed by him or his authorized representative, with his
name and address, so as to reach the petitioner or his authorized
representative not later than *two days before the date fixed for the hearing
of the petition. Where he seeks to oppose the petition, the grounds of
opposition or a copy of his affidavit shall be furnished with such notice. A
copy of the petition will be furnished by the undersigned to any person
requiring the same on payment of the prescribed charges for the same.Dated
....... (Sd) ...... (Name ).....(Authorized representative for
petitioner).......................Address* Where the petition is for winding
up, substitute 4 days for 2 days.Form No. 21[See rule 90][Heading as in form
no 16]LLP Petition No ......... of 20 .......Notice of
petitionTo.............Take notice that a petition under the Limited Liability
Partnership Act, 2008 for........ presented by...... on the...... day of.....
20..... was admitted on the...... day of..... 20..... and that the said
petition is fixed for hearing before the NCLT ______ Bench on the....... day
of..... 20..... If you desire to support or oppose the petition at the
hearing, you should give me notice thereof in writing so as to reach me not
later than 2 days before the date fixed for the hearing of the petition, and
appear at the hearing in person or by your authorized representative. If you
wish to oppose the petition, the grounds of opposition or a copy of your
affidavit should be furnished with your notice. A copy of the petition will be
furnished to you if you require it on payment of the prescribed charges for
the same/ is enclosed
herewith*.Date....**(Signature)...........................(Authorised
Representative for
petitioner).........................................Address[This notice should
be served on or before the ......day of....20....]Note - *Where the notice is
to a respondent named in the petition, a copy of the petition should be served
on him along with the notice.**The notice should be served not less than 7
days before the date of hearing.Form No. 22[See sub-rule (2) of rule
93][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No ......... of 20 ........Affidavit
of service of petition on LLPIn the matter of a petition, dated .... for
.......... I.... son/daughter of .......... aged ......... residing at
............. do solemnly affirm and say as follows:

### 1\. [In the case of service of petition on a LLP, by leaving it with an
officer or employee of the LLP at the registered office, or, if no registered
office, at the principal or last known principal place of business of the LLP]

That I did on ... day, the... day of.... 20... serve the above named LLP with
the above mentioned petition by delivering to and leaving with [name and
description], an officer or employee of the said LLP, a copy of the above
mentioned, duly sealed with the seal of the NCLT Bench, at [office or place of
business as aforesaid], at. ... o'clock.

### 2\. [In the case of no officer or employee of the LLP being found at the
registered office or place of business]

That I did on ........ day, the ... day of.... 20 ... having after the due
diligence failed to find any officer or employee of the above-named LLP at
[here state registered office or place of business] leave there a copy of the
above-mentioned petition, duly sealed with the seal of the NCLT ______ Bench,
at..... o'clock [add where such sealed copy was left, e.g., affixed to door of
office or placed in letter box or otherwise]

### 3\. [In the case of directions by the Member or Registrar of Tribunal for
substituted service].

That I did on ... day, the .... day of .... 20 .........., serve [name or
names and description] with a copy of the above-named petition, duly sealed
with the seal of the NCLT _______ Bench, by delivering the same together with
a true copy of the order for substituted service dated ....... personally to
the said ....., at [place] at .... o'clock (or as the case may be).

### 4\. [Where the service is by registered post.]

That I did on .... day, the .... Day of..... 20 ........, send by pre-paid
registered post addressed to the said LLP at [here state registered office or
place of business] [or addressed to (name and description) as directed by the
Member or Registrar of Tribunal], a true copy of the above-mentioned petition,
and the postal voucher and the acknowledgement received in respect of the same
are annexed hereto.

### 5\. The copy served is a copy of the said petition now produced and shown
to me marked 'A'.

Solemnly affirmed, etc.Form No. 23[see sub-rule (2) of rule 93][Heading as in
form no 16]LLP Petition No ......... of 20........Affidavit of service of
petition/application on liquidator.In the matter of a petition/application,
dated.... for ..... I...... son/daughter .... of .... aged ....... residing at
........... do solemnly affirm and say as follows:That I did, on ...... day,
the .... day of...... 20 ....., serve [name and description] the Liquidator of
the above named LLP with a copy of the above-mentioned petition/application,
duly sealed with the seal of the NCLT _______ Bench by delivering the same
personally to the said ..... at [place], at ..... o'clock [or by sending the
same by registered post addressed to the said liquidator at..... The postal
receipt and acknowledgement are annexed hereto].The copy served is a copy of
the said petition/application now produced and shown to me marked 'A'.Solemnly
affirmed, etc.Form No. 24[See rule 97][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition
No ......... of 20 ........Notice of intention to appearTo........(Name of
Petitioner or his authorized representative)..........(Address as given in
Advertisement)Take notice that Shri ............ intends to appear at the
hearing of the petition advertised to be heard on the ....... day of........
20....... and to oppose (or support) such petition.** Dated
...........Name..............*Sd/- ..............Address .............[Note:
Grounds of objections or copy of the affidavit, if any, should be served with
the notice].* May be signed by the person or his authorized representative**
It should reach the addressee not later than two days previous to the date of
hearing and four days in case of winding up petition.Form No. 25[See rule
98][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No .......of 20......List of Persons
intending to appearThe following are the names of those who have given notice
of their intention to attend at the hearing of the petition herein on
the......... day of ....... 20 .......

Name | Address |  Name of Authorized Representative ifany | Opposing | Supporting  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
  
Signature ............................Authorized Representative for the
PetitionerForm No. 26[See rule 101][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No
......... of 20........Petition for winding up(General Form)The petition of
(here insert full name, description, occupation and address of petitioner)
Showeth:

### 1\. The address of the petitioner above named for the service of all
notices, processes etc., is that of his authorized representative Shri
................. at ...............

### 2\. The LLP above named, viz. .................. (hereinafter referred to
as 'the LLP')(LLPIN_______) was incorporated in the month of .......... 20
..... under the LLP Act, 2008.

### 3\. The registered office of the LLP is situate at ................

### 4\. The business of the LLP is .....................

### 5\. The names of partners and designated partners are as under:

### 6\.

,7,8. [Here set out in numbered paragraphs, as may be necessary, the facts on
which the petitioner relies in support of the petition. Where the petitioner
is a LLP/partner/creditor/the Registrar/any person authorized by the Central
Government/Central Government, the petition should state whether conditions
stated under sub-rule (2) to (5) of rule 26 are satisfied. Where the LLP is
being wound-up voluntarily, the facts showing that the voluntary winding-up,
cannot be continued with due regard to the interests of the creditors or
partners or both, should be set out. After setting out the facts conclude as
follows ]:The petitioner, therefore, prays as follows:

### 1\. That the..........LLP be wound up by the NCLT_____ Bench under the
provisions of the LLP Act, 2008 and

### 2\. Such other order may be made in the premises as shall be just.

Authorised Representative for the petitionerPetitionerNotes: It is intended to
serve this petition on..........Form No. 27[See rule 101][Heading as in form
no 16]LLP Petition No .......of 20.......Petition by creditorThe petition of
[insert full name, description, occupation and address of petitioner] showeth
as follows:

### 1\. The address of the petitioner above named for the service of all
notices, processes etc., is that of his authorized representative Shri
................. at ................

### 2\. The LLP above named, viz. ................... (hereinafter referred to
as 'the LLP')(LLPIN_______) was incorporated in the month of .......... 20
..... under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008.

### 3\. The registered office of the LLP is situate at .............

### 4\. The business of the LLP is ................

### 5\. The names of partners and designated partners are as under:

### 6\. The LLP is indebted to the petitioner in the sum of Rs ........ for
[state consideration for the debt, with particulars, showing that the debt
claimed is due]*

### 7\. The petitioner applied to the LLP for the payment of his debt by his
notice of demand signed and dated ..... served on LLP by causing it to be
delivered at its registered office, by registered post or otherwise, but the
LLP has failed to pay the sum or to provide adequate security or re-structure
or compound the debt the reasonable satisfaction of the creditor.

### 8\. The two-third in value of creditors of the LLP consented that the LLP
will not be able to pay for its debts in full from the proceeds of assets to
be sold in voluntary winding up and propose that the LLP be wound up under the
supervision of the Tribunal as winding up by the Tribunal.

[Where the LLP is being already wound-up voluntarily, set out the facts
showing that the voluntary winding up cannot be continued with due regard to
the interests of the creditors.]

### 9\. The petitioner, therefore, prays as follows:

### 1\. That the ............. LLP may be wound up by the NCLT _______ Bench
under the provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008.

### 2\. Such other order may be made in the premises as shall be just

Authorised Representative for the petitionerPetitioner*Where the petitioner is
an assignee of a debt due by the LLP, say so, and set out the particulars of
the debt, the date of the assignment, whether notice of the assignment was
given to the LLP and if so, the date of such notice.Form No. 28[See rule
101][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No ......... of 20 ........Petition
by LLP or partner(s) of LLPThe petition of............(name of the
LLP/Partner(s) of LLP), the petitioner herein, showeth as follows:

### 1\. The address of the petitioner above named for the service of all
notices, processes etc. is that of his authorized representative Shri
................. at ................

### 2\. The LLP above named, viz. .................. (hereinafter referred to
as 'the LLP') (LLPIN____) was incorporated in the month of ........ 20.....
under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008.

### 3\. The registered office of the LLP is situate at .............

### 4\. The business of the LLP is ...............

### 5\. The names of partners and designated partners are as under:

### 6\. By a resolution of three fourth majority of partners of the LLP, at a
meeting thereof, held on the ...... day of..... 20 ..... it was resolved
unanimously or by a three fourth majority of ....... votes against ........
votes, as follows:

[here set out the resolution][Here set out in paragraph the facts relating to
the financial position of the LLP and the circumstances that have led to the
passing of the resolution for winding up of LLP]

### 7\. The petitioner therefore prays as following

(1)that the ........... LLP may be wound up by the NCLT ______ Bench under the
provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008(2)Such other order
may be made in the premises as shall be just.Authorised Representative for the
PetitionerPetitioner[Note:- Petition shall be accompanied by the statement of
affairs and copy of the resolution].Form No. 29[See rule 105][Heading as in
form no 16]LLP Petition No ....... of 20 .......Advertisement of
PetitionNotice is hereby given that a petition for the winding up of the above
named LLP by the NCLT _______ Bench was on the ....... day of...... 20 .....
presented to the said Tribunal by the said LLP [or where the petition was not
presented by the LLP, state the name and address of the petitioner and the
capacity in which he presents the petition, e.g, creditor] and that the said
petition is directed to the heard before the NCLT _______ Bench on the .....
day ....... of ...... 20 ......Any creditor or other person desirous of
supporting or opposing the making of an order on the said petition should send
to the petitioner or his authorized representative notice of his intention
signed by him or his authorized representative with his name and address, so
as to reach the petitioner or his authorized representative not later than 2
days before the date fixed for the hearing of the petition, and appear at the
hearing for the purpose in person or by his authorized representative. A copy
of the petition will be furnished by the undersigned to any creditor or
contributory on payment of the prescribed charges for the same. Any affidavit
intended to be used in opposition to the petition should be filed in NCLT
_____ Bench and a copy served on the petitioner or his authorized
representative, not less than 2 days before the date fixed for the
hearing.Authorized Representative for PetitionerForm No. 30[See rule
114][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No ......... of 20 ........LLP
Application No ........ of..... 20.....Before the Hon'ble Member
Mr.............Dated ...............................Order appointing
Provisional LiquidatorUpon the application of .............., and upon hearing
Shri .........., authorized representative for the applicant, and Shri
........... authorized representative for the LLP and upon reading the
petition and affidavit filed the .......... day of ......... 20.... and the
affidavit of the applicant herein filed the ....... day of....... 20......The
NCLT _______ Bench doth appoint the .................. (State the name and
address) to be Provisional Liquidator of the above named LLP.And the NCLT
_______ Bench doth hereby limit and restrict the powers of the said
Provisional Liquidator to the following acts, that is to say,[here describe
the acts which the Provisional Liquidator is authorized to do.]And the NCLT
_______ Bench doth order that the Provisional Liquidator do forthwith take
charge of all the property and effects of the LLP;And that the costs of this
application shall be costs in the petition.(By the NCLT _______
Bench)Registrar of TribunalNote: It will be the duty of such of the persons
named in rule 37 of the rules to attend on the Provisional Liquidator at such
time and place as he may appoint and to give him all information he may
require.Where the NCLT_______ Bench directs that the Provisional Liquidator is
to take possession of any specific properties, the clause should be suitably
modified, and the particulars of such properties should be set out in a
schedule to the order.Form No. 31[See rule 114][Heading as in form no 16]LLP
Petition No ......... of 20....Notification to Liquidator of winding up
orderTo** The Liquidator_______________Order pronounced this day by the
Hon'ble Member Mr ................. for winding up the under mentioned LLP
under the LLP Act, 2008:

### 1\. Name of LLP

### 2\. LLPIN

### 3\. Registered Office of the LLP

### 4\. Petitioner's authorized representative

### 5\. Date of presentation of Petition

### 6\. Name of the Liquidator

A copy of the petition and the affidavit filed in support is herewith
enclosed.Registrar of TribunalDated:** The Registrar shall also be served with
the copy of the order.Note: (1) It will be the duty of such of the persons
named in rule 37 of the rules to attend on the Liquidator at such time and
place as he may appoint to give him all information he may require.(2)Copy of
the statement of affairs submitted to the Tribunal in terms of rule 26(4) or
28(1) shall be enclosed.Form No. 32[See rule 114][Heading as in form no 16]LLP
Petition No ......... of 20 ........LLP Application No______ of
20_____Notification to Liquidator of order appointing him Provisional
LiquidatorTo** The Liquidator_____________Order pronounced this day by the
Hon'ble Member Mr.........., for appointment of the Liquidator as Provisional
Liquidator of the under-mentioned LLP:

### 1\. Name of LLP

### 2\. LLPIN

### 3\. Registered Office of the LLP

### 4\. Petitioner's authorized representative

### 5\. Date of presentation of Petition

### 6\. Name of the provisional liquidator.

A copy of the petition and the affidavit filed in support is herewith
enclosed.Dated .....Registrar of TribunalNote:- (1) It will be the duty of
such of the persons named in rule 37 of the rules to attend on the Liquidator
at such time and place as he may appoint and to give him all information he
may require.(2)Copy of the statement of affairs submitted to the Tribunal in
terms of rule 26(4) or 28(1) shall be enclosed.Form No. 33[See rule
116][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No ...... of 20 .......Before the
Hon'ble Member Mr.............Dated ............Winding up OrderUpon the
petition of ........ presented on the ......... day of ............. 20.....
upon hearing Shri _________ authorised representative for the petitioner, Shri
.......... authorised representative for the creditors supporting the
petition, Shri ............. Authorised representative for the creditors
opposing the petition, and Shri __________ authorized representative for the
LLP or partner(s), upon reading the said petition, the affidavit of Shri
____________ filed the ...... day of..... 20........ verifying the said
petition, the affidavit of Shri.......... filed the ........ day of........
20....... And (here enter the newspapers) dated ..........., containing the
advertisement of the said petition, this NCLT ________ Bench doth
order:(1)That the said LLP be wound up by this NCLT _______ Bench under the
provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008.(2)That the Official
Liquidator or ........ (Panel Liquidator) do, as liquidator of the LLP
aforesaid, forthwith take charge of all the property and effects of the said
LLP;@(3) That the Liquidator shall cause a sealed copy of this order to be
served on the LLP by pre-paid registered post;(4)That the petitioner do
advertise within 14 days from this date a notice in the prescribed form of the
making of this order in one issue (each) of ....... (here enter the newspaper
or newspapers in which the order is to be advertised):(5)That the said
petitioner do serve a certified copy of this order on the Registrar not later
than one month from this date; and(6)That the cost of the said petition be
taxed and paid out of the assets of the said LLP.Dated this .... Day ...... 20
......... Registrar of Tribunal(By the NCLT _______ Bench)@To be inserted only
where the LLP is not the petitioner.Note: It will be the duty of such of the
persons named in rule 37 of the rules to attend on the Liquidator at such time
and place as he may appoint and to give him all information he may
require.Form No. 34[See rule 119][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No
......... of 20 ........Notice of winding up orderBy an order made by the NCLT
________ Bench in the above matter, dated the ............ day of.......... 20
............ it was ordered that the above named LLP be wound up under the
provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008.Dated
........Authorized Representative for the PetitionerForm No. 35[See rule
123][Letterhead of the liquidator or the provisional liquidator as the case
may be]In the matter of M/s............. LLP (in liquidation)LLP Petition
No...... of.... 20......Notice to submit statement of affairs and attend
LiquidatorTo........................................Take notice that a
winding-up order was made on the ......... day of ........... 20 ...... [or by
an order dated the ........ day of ........ 20 ...., I was appointed
Provisional Liquidator of the above-named LLP] and that in pursuance of the
provisions of the LLP Act, 2008, and the rules made thereunder, I as the
Liquidator or Provisional Liquidator of the said LLP, require you to submit to
me, within 21* days from the date of the said winding-up order (or the said
order appointing me as Provisional Liquidator) a statement of affairs in
duplicate of the said LLP.Dated this ..... day of .... 20 ...(Sd.)(Liquidator
or Provisional Liquidator)*Where the time has been extended, the extended time
should be substituted.Form No. 36[See rule 124][Heading as in form no 16]LLP
Petition No ...... of 20 ....LLP Application No ...... of 20 .............,
Liquidator-ApplicantVersus......................... - RespondentsBefore the
Hon'ble Member, Mr. .............Dated .........................Order on
application by Liquidator under rule 28(5)Upon the application of Shri
........, the Liquidator, by summons dated ......, and upon hearing the
applicant, and the respondent not appearing either in person or by authorized
representative, though duly served with the summons, as by affidavit appears
(or upon hearing Shri ......, authorized representative for the respondent),
upon reading the order to wind-up the above mentioned LLP (or the order
appointing Provisional Liquidator) dated......., and the affidavit of .......
filed the..... day of ...... 20 ....This NCLT _________ Bench Doth OrderThat
the said ........, the respondent herein formerly (a partner, designated
partner, etc.) of the said LLP, do within ....... days from this date [or from
the date of service upon him of this order*] submit and verify (or concur in
and verify), a statement of the affairs of the said LLP and/or complete and
audit the accounts pursuant to the provisions of rule 28 of the rules.And that
the said .........., respondent herein, do attend on the Liquidator at his
office, at such times as the Liquidator may appoint and give him all the
information he may require as to the affairs of the LLP.Dated this ...... day
of .....20...(By the NCLT_____ Bench)Registrar of Tribunal*To be included
where the order is not made in the presence of the respondent.Form No. 37[See
rule 126][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No ......... of 20
........Statement of affairs under rule 28Statement of affairs of the above
named LLP as on the ...... day of...... 20...., the date of petition or the
winding up order or the order appointing Provisional Liquidator, as the case
may be.I/We ........ of....... do solemnly affirm and say that the statement
made overleaf and the several lists hereunto annexed marked 'A' to 'G' are to
the best of my/our knowledge and belief a full, true and complete statement as
to the affairs of the above LLP, on the ...... day of ...... 20 ....., the
date of the petition or winding-up order or the order appointing Provisional
Liquidator and that the said LLP carried/carried on the following
business:(Here set out nature of LLP business)..........Signature(s)Solemnly
affirmed at....... This........ day of........ 20 .... Before me.Commissioner
of Oaths or Notary publicStatement of affairs and Lists to be annexedStatement
as to the affairs of....... LLP (LLPIN_______), on the ........ day of.....
20, being the date of the petition or winding up order or order appointing
Provisional Liquidator as the case may be showing assets at estimated
realizable value and liabilities:-(A)Assets

I. Assets specifically mortgaged/ pledged orhaving fixed charge (excluding) floating charge(as per list 'A') | Book value | Estimated relizable value | Due to secured creditors and workmen | Deficiency ranking as unsecured | Estimated Surplus  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Rs. | Rs. | Rs. | Rs. | Rs.  
Freehold PropertyLeasehold Property Plant & Machinery Furniture, fittings etcInventoriesOther assets............................ |  |  |  |  |   
Rs. |  |  |  |  |   
  
II. Assets not specifically mortgaged/ pledged etc. (as perList 'B') | Book Value | Estimate realisable values  
---|---|---  
(Rs.) | (Rs.)  
Balance at BankCash in handInvestmentsDebtors/TradereceivablesLoans & AdvancesInventoriesFreeholdPropertyLeasehold PropertyPlant &MachineryFurniture, fittings etc.Intangible AssetsOtherAssets (to specify)Outstanding contribution of the partners |  |   
  
Gross Assets | Rs.  
---|---  
Gross realizable value of assets specificallymortgaged/pledged/having fixed charge | _________  
Other assets | _________  
Gross Assets | _________  
  
B. Liabilities

Gross Liabilities | ________  
---|---  
Secured creditors including workmen dues. | _________  
Preferential creditors | _________  
Creditors having floating charge | _________  
Unsecured creditor | _________  
and contingent liabilities | _________  
  
|  | Rs.  
---|---|---  
|  Estimated surplus from assets specifically mortgaged/pledged/having fixed charge | ________  
| Assets which are not specifically Mortgaged/pledged etc. | ________  
|  Estimated total assets available for preferential creditors,creditors having floating charge and unsecured creditors | ________  
| Preferential creditors (as per List 'C') | ________  
|  Estimated balance of assets available for creditors havingfloating charge and unsecured creditors | ________  
| Creditors having floating charge (as per list 'D') | ________  
|  Estimated balance of assets available for unsecured creditorsand unsecured balance of creditors partly secured on specificassets. | ________  
| Unsecured Creditors etc. (as per List 'E') | ________  
| Estimated balance available to partners | ________  
| Claim of partners (as per List 'F') | ________  
  
Note:- Positive balance is treated as 'Surplus' and negative balance is
treated as 'Deficiency'SignatureDated ......20......List "A" to the statement
of Affairs:

## I

Assets specifically mortgaged, pledged or having fixed charge (excluding
floating charge) and creditors including workmen, fully or Partly Secured

Particulars of assets specificallymortgaged/pledged etc, | Date when security given | Estimated value of security | Name and address of creditors | Amount of debt of secured creditors | Workmen dues  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1. | 2. | 3. | 4. | 5. | 6.  
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Proportion of amount of secured creditors | Proportion of amount of workmen dues | Balance of debt/workmen dues unsecured carried to List 'D' | Estimated surplus from security  
---|---|---|---  
7. | 8. | 9. | 10.  
  
SignatureDated ............ 20 ..........

## II

Description of Assets Specifically mortgaged/pledged etc

Assets | Location address & description | Area |  Holder of the title & the person who ishaving the custody of the title deeds | Amount  
---|---|---|---|---  
Free hold propertyLeasehold propertyPlant andmachineryFurniture and fittingsInventories etc. |  |  |  |   
  
SignatureDated............ 20 .........List 'B' to the Statement of Affairs

## I

Assets not Specifically mortgaged/pledged etc.

II. Assets not specifically mortgaged/pledged etc. | Book Value | Estimated realisable values  
---|---|---  
(Rs.) | (Rs.)  
Balance at BankCash in handInvestmentsDebtors/TradereceivablesLoans & AdvancesInventoriesFreeholdPropertyLeasehold PropertyPlant &MachineryFurniture, fittings etc.Intangible AssetsOtherAssets (to specify)Outstanding contribution of the partners |  |   
  
SignatureDated........20.........

## II

Balance at Bank

Name and address of the Bank | Bank balanceRs. | Nature of the Account (FD/SB/CA) | Account No./F.D No. | Person in whose custody the F.D. is lying |  Name and address of the officer of the LLP whooperated the account  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
  
SignatureDated.........20........

## III

Cash in Hand

Amount |  Person in whose custody the cash islying |  Person who was handling the cash inthe LLP  
---|---|---  
|  |   
|  |   
  
SignatureDated...........20......

## IV

Investments

Name of the investment |  Name of the body corporate/institutions whereinvested | Date of investment | Amount of investment | Person in whose custody scrip(s) is/are lying  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
  
SignatureDate.....of.....

## V

Debtors/Trade Receivables(Including Bills of Exchange Promissory Notes etc.)

Name and address and whether related todesignated partner | Amount | Good or bad | Within limitation or barred limitation | When Contacted and supporting documents | Legal Proceeding instituted(full details) | Particulars of any securities held | Cr. Bal.  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
SignatureDate...... 20............

## VI

Loans & Advances

Name and address and whether related todesignated partner | Amount | Good or bad | Within limitation or barred limitation | When contacted and supporting documents | Legal proceeding instituted (full details) | Particulars of any securities held  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
SignatureDate...... 20...........

## VII

Inventories

Description | Amount | Quantity | Location address | Since when lying  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
  
SignatureDated ............ 20 .........

## VIII

Description of other Assets

Assets | Location address & description | Area |  Holder of the title & person in whose custodythe title deeds are lying | Amount  
---|---|---|---|---  
Free hold propertyLeasehold propertyPlant andmachineryFurniture and fittings etc. |  |  |  |   
  
SignatureDated......20......

## IX

Outstanding contribution of the partners

Name and address of the partner | Amount outstanding | Nature of the contribution | Since when outstanding | Any obligation  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
  
SignatureDated ............ 20 ..........List 'C' to the statement of Affairs
Preferential Creditors

No. | Name of creditor | Address & occupation | Nature of claim | Period during which claim accrued due | Date when due | Amount of claim | Amount payable in full |  Balance not preferential carried toList 'D'  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
SignatureDated.....20.....List 'D' to the Statement of Affairs Creditors
having Floating Charge

No. | Name of Holder | Address | AmountRs. |  Description of assets over whichsecurity extends  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
  
SignatureDated........20........List 'E' to the Statement of Affairs Unsecured
Creditors etc,

No. | Name | Address | Amount | Date when contacted | Document in support | Consideration  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Unsecured creditors |  |  |  |  |   
| \---- |  | \----- |  |  |   
| \---- |  | \----- |  |  |   
| \---- |  | \----- |  |  |   
| \---- |  | \----- |  |  |   
|  Unsecured balance of creditors partly securedbrought from List 'A' |  |  |  |  |   
|  Balance not preferential creditors brought fromList ‘D’ |  |  |  |  |   
  
SignatureDated......20.......List 'F' to the Statement of AffairsList of
Partners

Name & address | Amount of contribution | Nature of contribution |  Since when the partner & whether designatedpartner | Amount of outstanding contribution  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
  
SignatureDated.....20......List 'G' to Statement of Affairs Debt Due from
Partners

No. | Name | Residential address | Amount of Debts | Details of documents in support | When contracted and whether good or bad | Particulars of any security held for debt  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Note:- Contra entry shall be disclosed with full
details.SignatureDated......20...Form No. 38[See rule 126][Heading as in form
no 16]LLP Petition No....of 20...Affidavit of concurrence in statement of
affairsI/We...... [name(s), description(s) etc. of authorized Partners, in
case LLP is Petitioner and name of Partner in case the petitioner is
partner/(s)] do solemnly affirm and say as follows:-That I/We have perused the
statement of affairs lodged herein by.... and that to the best of my/our
information, knowledge and belief, such statement contains a full and accurate
account of the LLP affairs [except as stated below].[Here state, if necessary,
in what respect, if any, the statement of affairs is not concurred
in.]solemnly affirmed etc.........................Signature of
deponentCommissioner for Oaths or Notary publicForm No. 39[See rule
127][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No....... of 20.......Certificate
extending time for statement of affairsI,....... the Liquidator, do hereby
certify that I have, under the powers given to me by rule 127 extended the
time for submitting the statement of affairs of the LLP required
of............ (here mention the name and description of person who is to
submit the statement), from the............ day of........ 20......, to the
day of...... 20........Dated this............ day of.....
20.....Sd/-LiquidatorForm No. 40[See rule 132][Heading as in form no 16]LLP
Petition No.... of 20.......LLP Application No..... of 20......Report of the
Liquidator under rule 132 read with rule 34The Liquidator, in pursuance of
rule 132 read with rule 34, hereby submit his report to the NCLT ____ Bench as
follows:-(A)Assets

I. Assets specifically mortgaged/pledged orhaving fixed charge (excluding floating charge) | Book Value | Estimated realizable values | Due to secured creditors and workmen | Deficiency ranking as unsecured | Estimated Surplus  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Freehold PropertyLeasehold PropertyPlant &MachineryFurniture, fittings etc.IntangibleOther Assets.................................. | Rs. | Rs. | Rs. | Rs. | Rs.  
Rs. |  |  |  |  |   
  
II. Assets not specifically mortgaged/pledged etc. | Book Value | Estimated realisable values  
---|---|---  
(Rs.) | (Rs.)  
Balance at BankCash in handInvestmentsDebtors/Trade receivablesLoans & AdvancesInventoriesFreehold PropertyLeasehold PropertyPlant & MachineryFurniture, fittings etc.Intangible AssetsOther Assets (to specify)Outstanding contribution of the partners |  |   
  
Gross Assets | Rs.  
---|---  
Gross realizable value of assets specificallymortgaged/pledged/having fixed charge | _________  
Other assets | _________  
Gross Assets | _________  
  
(B)Liabilities

Gross Liabilities | _________  
---|---  
Secured creditors including workmen dues. | _________  
Preferential creditors | _________  
Creditors having floating charge | _________  
Unsecured creditor | _________  
and contingent liabilities | _________  
Gross Liabilities | _________  
  
Description of Assets Specifically mortgaged /pledged etc.

Assets | Location address & description | Area |  Holder of the title & person in whose custodythe title deeds are lying | Amount  
---|---|---|---|---  
Free hold propertyLeasehold propertyPlant and machineryFurniture and fittingsInventories etc. |  |  |  |   
  
Description of other Assets

Assets | Location address & description | Area |  Holder of the title & person in whose custodythe title deeds are lying | Amount  
---|---|---|---|---  
Free hold propertyLeasehold propertyPlant and machineryFurniture and fittingsInventories etc. |  |  |  |   
  
(C)Information and materials to various items provided in clauses (a) to (m)
of sub-rule (1) of rule 34.(D)Details of fraud, if any, committed by persons
provided in sub-rule (2) of rule 34.(E)Material information provided in sub-
rule (3) of rule 34.(F)Any further report or reports, if the Liquidator thinks
so to make, as provided in sub-rule (4) of rule 34.[Sd]LiquidatorDated
this.....day of....20.....Form No. 41[See sub-rule (2) rule 138][Heading as in
form no 16]LLP Petition No.......... of 20...........*Advertisement of notice
to creditors to prove their claimNotice is hereby given to the creditors of
the above-named LLP that they are required to submit to the Liquidator (as the
case may be) of the NCLT proofs of their respective debts or claims against
the above-named LLP by delivering at the office of the Liquidator on or before
the...... day of..... 20...... or sending by post to the Liquidator so as to
reach him not later than the said date, an affidavit proving the debt or claim
in the prescribed form with their respective names, addresses and particulars
of debt or claim, and any title to priority under the Act and the rules. Any
creditor who fails to submit his affidavit of proof within the time limited as
aforesaid will be excluded from the benefit of any distribution of
distributable sum before his debt is proved, or, as the case may be, from
objecting to such distribution.Any creditor who has sent in his proof, if so
required by notice in writing from the Liquidator, shall either in person or
by his authorized representative, attend the investigation of such debt or
claim at such time and place as shall be specified in such notice and shall
produced such further evidence of his debt or claim as may be required.Dated
this....... day of.... 20..............................Liquidator* If the
number of creditors does not exceed 100 individuals, the advertisement in
newspaper may be dispensed with. In such cases, individual notices may be
given.Form No. 42[See sub-rule (4) of rule 138][Heading as in form no 16]LLP
Petition No..... of 20.....Notice to creditor to prove his
debtTo......................You are hereby required to submit proof of your
debt or claim against the said LLP by delivering at the office of the
Liquidator of the NCLT _________ Bench on or before the ...... day of .......
20 or sending to the Liquidator by post so as to reach him no later than the
said date, your affidavit of proof in the prescribed form with your name,
address and particulars of claim and any title to priority you may claim under
Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008. If you fail to submit your affidavit
of proof within the time limited as aforesaid, you will be excluded from the
benefit of any distribution of distributable sum before your debt is proved,
or as the case may be, from objecting to such distribution.If so required by
notice in writing from the Liquidator, you should attend upon the
investigation of your debt or claim at such time and place as shall be
specified in the notice and produce such evidence of your debt or claim as may
be required.Dated this.....day of......20...............LiquidatorForm No.
43Voluntary winding up[See sub-rule (4) of rule 138]Name of LLP..........(in
Liquidation)LLPIN...............Name of the LLP Liquidator...........Address
of the LLP Liquidator.........Date of commencement of winding
up............Notice to creditor to prove his debtI.............., the
Liquidator of the said LLP, do hereby require you to submit proof of your debt
or claim against the said LLP by delivering to me at my office at the above
address on or before the....... day of....... 20.... or by sending to me at
the above address by post so as to reach me not later than the said date, your
affidavit of proof in the prescribed form with your name, address, and
particulars of claim and any title to priority you may claim under LLP Act,
2008. If you fail to submit your affidavit of proof within the time limited as
aforesaid, you will be excluded from the benefit of any distribution of
distributable sum before your debt is admitted, or as the case may be, from
objecting to such distribution.If so required by notice in writing from me,
you should attend upon the investigation of your debt or claim at such time
and place as shall be specified in the notice and produce such evidence of
your debt or claim as may be required.Dated this day
of....20..................LLP LiquidatorForm No. 44[See rule 141][Heading as
in form no 16]LLP Petition No......... of 20.......Affidavit of proof of
debtI,..... of etc. (full name, address and occupation of deponent to be
given) do solemnly affirm and state as follows :-

### 1\. The above-named LLP was at the date of the order winding-up the same,
viz. the day of.... 20.... and still is, justly and truly, indebted to me/us
the sum of Rs...... for (here state consideration), as shown in the schedule
below.

### 2\. In respect of the said sum or any part thereof, I say I have not, nor
have my partners or any of them, nor has any person, by my/our knowledge or
belief, for my/our use, had or received any manner of satisfaction or security
whatsoever, save and except the following:

[here state the particulars of all securities held, and where the securities
are on the property of the LLP, assess the value of the same, and if any bills
or other negotiable securities be held specify them in the schedule.][If the
claim is made as a preferential claim, say so and set out the grounds on which
the preference is claimed.]

## Schedule 12

Date | Nature of the account |  Description(e.g. invoice number, cheques or DDNumber and name and address of the Bank) | Amount | Due Date | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Credit should be given for contra accounts.Details of contra accounts.Solemnly
affirmed at......on.......day........the.........day
of.......20............Before me...................Deponents' SignatureNotes:
1. Where the affidavit, is not by the creditor, but by some person authorized
by him, the deponent should state in a separate paragraph his authority for
making the affidavit and the means of his knowledge, and suitable alternations
should be made.Form No. 45[See rule 142][Heading as in form-no 16]LLP Petition
No.......... of 20......Proof of debt of workmenI,.......... of etc. (fill in
full name, address and occupation of deponent), on behalf of the workmen and
others employed by the above-named LLP, solemnly affirm and say :That the
above-named LLP was, on the day of..... 20...... and still is justly and truly
indebted to the several persons whose names, addresses and descriptions appear
in the schedule below in sums severally set against their names in the seventh
column of such schedule for wages due to them respectively as workmen or
others in the employment of the LLP, in respect of services rendered by them
respectively to the LLP during such periods as are set out against their
respective names in the fifth column of such schedule, and for the accrued
holiday remuneration so due to them in respect of such periods as are so set
out in the sixth column of such schedule, for which said sums or any part
thereof, I say that they have not nor has any of them, had or received any
manner of satisfaction or security whatsoever............Deponent

## Schedule 13

Full name of workmen/other employeesand proof of employment and designation | Address of workman/employee | Whether workman or employee |  Date of birth & date of entry tointo the service of LLP | Scale of pay | Components of wages/salary  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Period over which wages due |  Period over which accrued holidayremuneration due | Total Dues | Remarks  
---|---|---|---  
7 | 8 | 9 | 10  
|  |  |   
  
Solemnly affirmed etc.................Deponent's signatureForm No. 46[See rule
147][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No.... of 20......Notice to a
creditor to attend the investigation or produce further
evidenceTo....................................Take notice that pursuant to
rule 147 you are hereby required to attend before the Liquidator of the NCLT
________ Bench at his office in person or by authorized representative on day,
the day of..... 20........ at.... of o'clock for the investigation of your
debt or claim against the above named LLP and furnish further evidence in
support of your proof against the above-named LLPThe further evidence required
is as
follows_____.........................................................................................................................................................And
take further notice that unless the above evidence is produced to the
Liquidator on or before the said date, your said proof is liable to the
rejected.*Dated this........ day of.......
20.......................Liquidator* The notice should reach not later than 7
days before the date fixed for the creditor to attend/produce evidence of the
debt.Form No. 47[See rule 151][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No......
of 20......Notice of rejection of proof of
debtTo..................................Take notice that as the Liquidator of
the above-named LLP, I have this day rejected your full claim against the LLP
or rejected to the extent of Rs...... on the following grounds
;.....................................................................................................................................................And
take further notice that, subject to the power of the NCLT ________ Bench to
extend the time, no application to reverse or vary my decision in rejecting
your proof will be entertained after the expiration of 21 days from the date
of the service of this notice.Dated this...... day of.....
20.......................LiquidatorNote: In case of workmen/other, employees
it may be drawn in the form of a suitable statement and communicated to the
person who has lodged the claim on behalf of those workmen/other
employees..Form No. 48[See rule 151][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition
No...... of 20.......Notice to admission of
proofTo..............................You are hereby informed that your claim
against the above-named LLP has been allowed at the sum of Rs..........Dated
this....... day of...... 20.....Sd/-.............LiquidatorNote: In case of
workmen/other employees it may be drawn in the form of a suitable statement
and communicated to the person who has lodged the claim on behalf of those
workmen/other employees.Form No. 49[See rule 155][Heading as in form no 16]LLP
Petition No......... of 20.......Certified list of proofs tendered to, and
admitted or rejected by, the LiquidatorI,..... Liquidator of the above-named
LLP, hereby certify that the following is a correct list of all creditors who
submitted their proofs of debts or claims against the said LLP pursuant to
advertisement, dated the day of... 20.... and the notices issued individually
to the creditors. I further certify that in the first part of the said list
are set out debts and claims admitted by me in full or in part, and the
amounts admitted altogether amount to Rs....... In the second part are set out
the claims which have been wholly rejected by me.First PartDebts and Claims
admitted wholly or in Part

Serial No. | Name, address and description of creditor | Amount Claimed | Amount Admitted |  Whether admitted as secured including workmen orpreferential or floating charge or unsecured.  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
  
Second PartClaims which have been wholly rejected

Serial No. |  Name, address and description ofcreditor | Amount of claim  
---|---|---  
|  |   
  
Dated this day of...... 20.....Sd/-............LiquidatorForm No. 50[See rule
160][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No..... of 20.......Provisional
List of Partners

Serial No. | Name and Address | Form/ Nature of contribution | Amount of contribution | Contribution | Outstanding contibution  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  Amount of contribution upto the date ofcommencement of winding up |  Amount contributed after the date of commencementof winding up | Total |  Amount of contribution outstanding upto the dateof commencement of winding up |  Amount of contribution outstanding after the dateof commencement of winding up | Total  
  
Sd/-LiquidatorDate:_________Form No. 51[See rule 161][Heading as in form no
16]LLP Petition No...... of 20.......Notice to Partners of date fixed to
settle list of PartnersTo................................Take notice that
I,..... the Liquidator of the above LLP, have fixed the..... day of....
20...... at.... o'clock at my office to settle the list of Partners of the
above name LLP which has been made out by me, pursuant to the Limited
Liability Partnership Act, 2008 and the rules thereunder, and that you are
included in such list. If no sufficient cause is shown by you to the contrary
at the time and place aforesaid, the list will be settled including you
therein as set forth in the said list.

Serial No. | Name and Address | Form/ Nature of contribution | Amount of contribution | Contribution | Outstanding contibution  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  Amount of contribution upto the date ofcommencement of winding up |  Amount contributed after the date of commencementof winding up | Total |  Amount of contribution outstanding upto the dateof commencement of winding up |  Amount of contribution outstanding after the dateof commencement of winding up | Total  
  
Dated this.......day of....20......Sd/-LiquidatorNotes:- 1. Partners are under
no obligation to attend before the Liquidator if they are satisfied that the
particulars contained in the notice are correct.

### 2\. A change of address may be notified by giving notice by post before
the date fixed for the settlement of the list.

Form No. 52[See rule 163][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No........of
20.......Certificate of final settlement of the list of PartnersPursuant to
the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 and the rules made thereunder,
I....... the undersigned, being the Liquidator of the above-named LLP hereby
certify that the result of the settlement of the list of partners of the
above-named LLP so far as the said list has been settled up to the date of
this certificate is as follows :

Serial No. | Name and Address | Form/ Nature of contribution | Amount of contribution | Contribution | Outstanding contibution  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  Amount of contribution upto the date ofcommencement of winding up |  Amount contributed after the date of commencementof winding up | Total |  Amount of contribution outstanding upto the dateof commencement of winding up |  Amount of contribution outstanding after the dateof commencement of winding up | Total  
  
Dated this.....Day of....20....Sd/-LiquidatorForm No. 53[See rule 164][Heading
as in form no 16]LLP Petition No...... of 20.......Notice to partner of final
settlement of list of partners and that his name is
includedTo............................Take notice that I...... the Liquidator
of the above-named LLP, have, by certificate dated the.... day of.... 20......
under my hand, finally settled the list of contributories of the said LLP, and
that you are included in such list.Any application by you to vary the said
list of partners, or that your name may be excluded therefrom, must be made by
you to the NCLT ______ Bench within 21 days from the date of service on you of
this notice. Any application made after the expiry of the said period will not
be entertained.

Serial No. | Name and Address | Form/ Nature of contribution | Amount of contribution | Contribution | Outstanding contibution  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  Amount of contribution upto the date ofcommencement of winding up |  Amount contributed after the date of commencementof winding up | Total |  Amount of contribution outstanding upto the dateof commencement of winding up |  Amount of contribution outstanding after the dateof commencement of winding up | Total  
  
Dated:......this day of.....200___Sd/-LiquidatorForm No. 54[See rule
166][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No..... of 20......LLP Application
No....... of 20........Order varying list of partnersUpon the application of
Sh..... by summons dated the........ day of.... 20.... for an order that the
list of partners of the LLP and the liquidator's (or NCLT______Bench)
certificate finally settling the same be varied by excluding the name of the
applicant therefrom, and upon hearing etc. and upon reading, etc., It is
Ordered :That the list of partners of the LLP and the Liquidators (or
NCLT_____Bench) certificate finally settling that same be varied by excluding
the name of the said Sh............ from the said list of partners or by
including the name of the said Sh........... as a partner in the said list for
amount of contribution and for _______ amount of outstanding
contribution.Dated this..... day of.... 20.....(by NCLT____ Bench)Registrar of
TribunalForm No. 55Form of advertisement[See sub-rule (4) of rule 170][Heading
as in form no 16]LLP Petition No.... of 20.......Notice of meetings of
creditors and partners under rule 170Notice is hereby given that

### 1\. A meeting of the creditors of the above-named LLP will be held at.....
(place) on..... day, the...... day of.... 20...... at..... o'clock to
determine whether or not a Committee of Inspection shall be appointed to act
with the Liquidator and who are to be the members of the Committee if one is
appointed.

Note: To entitle a creditor to vote at the meeting of creditors aforesaid, his
proof must be lodged with the Liquidator not later than.... o'clock on the day
of..... 20.......(2)A meeting of the partners of the above named LLP will be
held at.... (Place) on... day, the.... day of .... 20...... at..... o'clock to
consider the decision of the said meeting of creditors and to express the
views of the partners whether or not a Committee of Inspection shall be
appointed and who are to be the members of the Committee if one is
appointed.Form of proof and of general and special proxies can be had at the
office of the Liquidator. Proxies should be lodged with the Liquidator not
later than..... o'clock on the day of.... 20.....Dated this.... day of...
20...............LiquidatorNote: The LLP's statement of affairs has not been
lodged (or has been lodged and may be inspected at the office of Liquidator
during office hours on payment of the prescribed fee.)Form No. 55AForm of
individual notice to creditors[See sub-rule (4) of rule 170][Heading as in
form no 16]LLP Petition No....... of 20........Notice of creditors' meeting
under rule 170To..........................Take notice that a meeting of the
creditors of the above-named LLP will be held at....... (place) on...... day
the..... day of..... 20..... at..... o'clock for the purpose mentioned
below:AgendaTo determine whether or not a Committee of Inspection shall be
appointed to act with the liquidator, and who are to be the members of the
Committee if one is appointed.To entitle you to vote thereat your proof must
be lodged with the Liquidator not later than o'clock on the day of.....
20.....The LLP's statement of affairs has not been lodged or has been lodged
and may be inspected at the office of the Liquidator during office hours on
payment of the prescribed fee.Forms of proof and of general and special
proxies are enclosed herewith. Proxies to be used at the meeting must be
lodged with the Liquidator not later than o'clock on the day of....
20......Dated this .... day of... 20...................LiquidatorForm No.
55BIndividual notice to partners[See sub-rule (4) of rule 170][Heading as in
form no 16]LLP Petition No..... of 20......Notice of partners' meeting under
rule 170To..................................Take notice that a meeting of the
partners of the above-named LLP will be held at...... (place) on.... day
the.... day.... of 20..... at..... o'clock for the purpose mentioned below
:AgendaTo consider the decision to be taken at a meeting of the creditors of
the said LLP to be held on the day ..... of .... 20...., for determining
whether or not a Committee of Inspection shall be appointed to act with the
liquidator, and who are to be the members of the Committee if one is
appointed, and to express the views of the partners on the said matters.The
LLP's statement of affairs has not been lodged or has been lodged and may be
inspected at the office of the Liquidator during office hours on payment of
the prescribed fee.Forms of proof and of general and special proxies are
enclosed herewith. Proxies to be used at the meeting must be lodged with the
Liquidator at his office not later than....... o'clock on the day of....
20......Dated this .... day of... 20..................LiquidatorForm No.
55CForm of Individual notice[See sub-rule (4) of rule 170]*|Heading as in form
no 16]*LLP Petition No..... of 20.....Notice of Meeting (General
Form)To...............Creditor or partner...............of the said LLPTake
notice that a meeting of creditors or *partners will be held at....... (place)
on....... day the..... day of 20.... at o'clockAgenda[Here insert the purpose
for which the meeting is called]Forms of general and special proxies are
enclosed herewith. Proxies to be used at the meeting must be lodged with the
Liquidator not later than...... o'clock on the day of.... 20........Dated this
.... day of...... 20..................LiquidatorNote : *Delete if not
applicable.Form No. 55DForm of advertisement[See sub-rule (4) of rule
170]*[Heading as in form no 16]*LLP Petition No........ of 20......Notice of
Meeting (General Form)Notice is hereby given that a meeting of creditors or
*partners in the above matter will be held at....... (place) on the....... day
of 20....... at o'clockAgenda[Here insert the purpose for which the meeting is
called]Forms of general and special proxies can be had at the office of the
Liquidator. Proxies to be used at the meeting must be lodged with the
Liquidator not later than.... o'clock on the day of.... 20....Dated this....
day of...... 20................LiquidatorNote : *Delete if not applicable.Form
No. 56[See sub-rule (2) of rule 172][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition
No....... of 20........Notice to Officers of LLP to attend meeting of
creditors or partnersTo................................Take notice that a
meeting of the creditors or partners will be held on the...... day of....
20.... at o'clock...... at [here insert the place where the meeting is to be
held] and that you are required to attend thereat and give such information as
the meeting may require.Dated this day of.......
20..................LiquidatorForm No. 57[See rule 173][Heading as in form no
16]LLP Petition No....... of 20.....Affidavit as to the posting of notices of
meetingI...... (name and description) of etc., solemnly affirm and say as
follows:

### 1\. That I did on the...... day of.... 20..... send to each creditor or
partner mentioned in the LLP's statement of affairs a notice of the time and
place of the (respective) meeting(s) of creditors or partners.

### 2\. That the notices for creditors were addressed to the said creditors
respectively according to their respective names and addresses appearing
either in their proofs or in the statement of affairs or to the last known
addresses of such creditors and that the notices for partners were addresses
of the partners respectively according to their respective names and addresses
appearing in the statement of affairs or to the last known addresses of such
partners.

### 3\. That I further sent to each of the officers of the LLP as mentioned in
the statement attached, at his respective address a notice of the time and
place of the (respective) meeting(s) of creditors or partners.

### 4\. That I sent the notices by putting the same pre-paid into the post
office at.... on.......

### 5\. That the notice was also advertised in (here set out the newspapers)
dated......

..............DeponentSolemnly affirmedForm No. 58[See rule 175][Heading as in
form no 16]LLP Petition No........ of 20........Nomination of Chairman of
LiquidatorI,..... the Liquidator of the above-named LLP, do hereby
nominate....... (name and description) of....... to be chairman of the meeting
of creditors (or partners) in the above matter appointed to be held at......
on the.... day.... 20...... and I depute him to attend such meeting and use,
on my behalf, any proxy or proxies held by him in this matter.Dated this day
of..... 20..................LiquidatorForm No. 59[See rules 189 & 291][Heading
as in form no 16]LLP Petition No....... of 20.......Report of result of
meeting(s) of creditor or partners held under order of NCLT ____ Bench
dated...... 20....I,..... Name, Liquidator of the NCLT________ Bench and/or
Chairman of the meeting(s) of the creditors/partners held in pursuance of the
order of the NCLT_____ Bench dated...... 20..... do hereby report the result
of the said meetings.

### 1\. In pursuance of the order of this NCLT _____ Bench dated........
20..... a meeting of the creditors or partners of the above LLP was summoned
by advertisement in (here enter the newspaper or newspapers) of the
date(s)....... 20..... and was held on the...... day of..... 20...... at.....
o'clock at...... I was the chairman of the said meeting.

### 2\. The said meeting was attended either personally or by proxy by........
creditors of the said LLP whose proofs of debts against the LLP were admitted
or admitted for voting purposes amounting in the whole (as admitted) to the
value of Rs....... or by..... partners of the said LLP and entitled to
....votes.

### 3\. The question(s) submitted to the said meeting was (were):

[Here set out the question(s) submitted to the meeting]

### 4\. At the said meeting it was resolved unanimously or as a result of the
voting as set out below as follows:

[Here set out the resolution(s) passed at the meeting].Result of voting

Resolutions | Voting on resolutions  
---|---  
| For | Against  
| No. | Amount | No. | Amount  
State the substance of any resolution passed..... |  |  |  |   
Creditors.....Partners... |  |  |  |  |  |   
No. | Amount | Votes | No. | Amount | Votes  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
...............LiquidatorDated this day of...... 20......Note: The report of
the result of meetings is required to be sent to Registrar of Tribunal within
seven days of conclusion of the meeting by the Chairman.Form No. 60[See sub-
rule (2) of rule 190][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No.... of
20.......List of Creditors or Partners present at a meetingMeeting held
at....this day of.....20....

Consecutive Number |  Name of creditor or Partner present orrepresented |  Amount of proof or amount ofcontribution by each partner  
---|---|---  
In person | By proxies  
1 |  |  |   
2 |  |  |   
3 |  |  |   
4 |  |  |   
5 |  |  |   
6 |  |  |   
7 |  |  |   
8 |  Total number of creditors or partners present orrepresented |  |   
  
...............LiquidatorForm No. 61[See rule 192][Heading as in form no
16]LLP Petition No....... of 20.......Form of general proxyI/We.......
of........ a creditor [or partner] of the above-named LLP, hereby
appoint...... of....... as my/our general proxy to vote for me/us and on
my/our behalf at the meeting of creditors [or partner] of the said LLP
summoned to be held in the above matter on the..... day of..... 20..... and at
any adjournment thereof.Dated this.... day of.....
20....Signature:..........Name ................Notes:- 1. It is open to a
creditor or partner to appoint the Liquidator as his proxy

### 2\. If the proxy is given by a firm, sign the firm's trading name and add
'by Shri.......... a partner in the said firm'. If the proxy is given by a
body corporate, the form of proxy must be under its common seal or under the
hand of some officer duly authorized in that behalf and the fact that the
officer is so authorized must be stated.

### 3\. The proxy form when signed must be lodged with the Liquidator within
the time mentioned in the notice convening the meeting at which it is to be
used.

Form No. 61A[See rule 192][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No..... of
20......Form of special proxyI/We......... of........ a creditor [or partner]
hereby appoint as my/our proxy at the meeting of creditors [or partner] to be
held on the....... day of....... 20...... or at any adjournment thereof, to
vote. [Here insert the word 'for' or the word 'against' as the case may
require, and specify the particulars resolution] the resolution numbered....
in the notice convening the meeting.Dated this.... day of
20....Signature:.......Name.............Notes:- 1. It is open to a creditor or
partner to appoint the Liquidator as his proxy.

### 2\. If the proxy is given by a firm, sign the firm's trading name and add
'by Shri.........., a partner in the said firm'. If the proxy is given by a
body corporate, then the form of proxy must be under its common seal or under
the hand of some officer duly authorized in that behalf and the fact that he
is so authorized must be stated.

### 3\. The proxy form when signed must be lodged with the Liquidator within
the time mentioned in the notice convening the meeting at which it is to be
used.

### 4\. Where the person giving proxy wishes to give instructions regarding
voting on any amendments that may be moved or as the case may be, such
instructions may be noted in the proxy if so desired.

Form No. 62[See rule 205][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No..... of
20.......Notice by Liquidator requiring payment of money or delivery of
property books, etc. to the LiquidatorI, the undersigned, the Liquidator of
the above-named LLP, hereby require you, the under-mentioned....... (name of
person to whom notice is addressed) to pay to me (or deliver, convey,
surrender, transfer to or into my hands) at my office the sum of Rs........
being the amount appearing to be due from you on your account with the said
LLP [or any money, property*, books or papers] now in your hands and to which
the said LLP is entitled [or otherwise, as the case may be].Dated this.....
day of....... 20.....Sd/-LiquidatorTo.......................(name and address
of the person to whom the notice is addressed)*Property to be specifically
describedForm No. 63[See rule 207][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition
No....... of 20.......Document making a
demandTo...............................................................I,
Shri........... the Liquidator of the above-named LLP, in pursuance of rule
207 hereby call upon you to make payment of Rs....... the amount due to the
LLP by you in respect of............... which sum is to be paid at the office
of the Liquidator of the NCLT.......... .Bench through bank draft drawn in
favour of Liquidator payable at......, on or before the...... day of.......
20.......Dated this...... day of.... 20.....LiquidatorForm No. 64[See rule
208][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No....... of 20........LLP
Application No...... of 20.......Liquidator---ApplicantSummons to enforce the
demandLet all parties concerned attend the Member in NCLT....... Bench on
the..... day of...... 20.... at...... o'clock on the hearing of an application
made by the Liquidator of the above named LLP for an order that the persons
named in the second column of the schedule to this summons, being respectively
partners of the above LLP be ordered to pay to the said Liquidator at his
office, the sums set opposite their respective names in the fifth column of
the schedule hereto, such sums being the amounts due from the said persons
respectively, made by the applicant, with interest thereon at........ per cent
per annum from the date of the order, and that the said several persons may be
ordered to pay to the applicant the costs of and incidental to this
application.

## Schedule 14

No. | Name and description | Address | Outstanding Amount of contribution | Total Amount due  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
Dated this...Day of ...20...LiquidatorRegistrar of TribunalForm No. 65[See
rule 208][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No...... of 20......LLP
Application No...... of 20.......Liquidator---ApplicantAffidavit in support of
application for paymentI, Shri........ Liquidator of the above-named LLP,
solemnly affirm and say as follows:

### 1\. The partners of the said LLP whose names are set forth in the schedule
to the summons herein marked 'A' have not not paid the sums set opposite their
respective names in the said schedule, which sums are the amounts due from
them.

### 2\. A notice in the prescribed form specifying the amount due from each of
the said partners were duly served by registered post or...... (or as the case
may be) on such partners respectively.

### 3\. The respective amounts, set opposite the names of such partners
respectively in the fifth column of the said schedule are the true amounts due
and owing by them respectively in respect of.......................

Solemnly affirmed etc.LiquidatorForm No. 66[See rule 208][Heading as in form
no 16]LLP Petition No........ of 20......LLP Application No....... of
20.......Liquidator - ApplicantBefore the Hon'ble Member
Mr...............Dated.....Order for payment of amount due from Partner.Upon
the application of the Liquidator of the above-named LLP and, the affidavit
of...... filed the.... day of.... 20.... and the affidavit of the Liquidator
filed the....... Day of..... 20....., it is ordered:That Shri........ of etc.,
(or Shri....... the legal representative of Shri......... late of....... etc.
deceased), one of the partners of the said LLP or, if against several
partners, that the several persons named in the second column of the schedule
to this order, being respectively partners of the said LLP do on or before the
..... day of...... 20.... pay to the Liquidator of the said LLP at his office,
the sum of Rs....... (If against the legal representative add, out of the
assets of the said Shri...... deceased in his hands as such legal
representative as aforesaid), or if against several partners, the several sums
of money set opposite, to their respective names in the fifth column of the
said schedule hereto, being the amount(s) due from the said Shri...... or
Shri......., or the said several persons respectively in respect of........And
it is further ordered that the said Shri..... or Shri........ or the said
several persons do also pay interest at the rate of...... per cent per annum
on the said amount(s) specified in the fifth column of the said schedule from
this date to the date of payment.

## Schedule 15

(to be included where there are two or more partners)

No. | Name and description | Address | Outstanding Amount of contribution | Total Amount due  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
Dated this...... day of...... 20......(By the NCLT....Bench)Registrar of
TribunalNote: The copy for service of the above order must bear the following
endorsement:-"If you, Shri........ neglect to obey this order by the time
mentioned therein you will be liable to process of execution for the purpose
of compelling you to obey the same".Form No. 67[See sub-rule (2) of rule
210][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No....... of 20.....LLP Application
No....... of 20......Liquidator (or as the case may be) --- ApplicantSummons
for leave to examine person(s)Let all parties concerned attend the Member in
Chambers on.... day the..... day of..... 20....., on the hearing of an
application of the Liquidator of the above LLP (or as the case may be) for an
order........ [Here insert the name(s) of the person(s) to be examined] be
examined by the NCLT........ Bench respecting [the property (or books and
papers) of the LLP in his (their) possession or his (their) indebtedness to
the LLP or the promotion, formation, trade dealings, property, books or papers
or affairs of the LLP] [and/or for the production of all books, papers,
writings and documents in his (their) custody or to extend corporation in
discovery and delivery of property, assets, books etc. or power relating to
the said LLP] and that a date be fixed for such examination and summons be
issued to the said person(s) for his (their) appearance on the date fixed and
that all necessary directions may be given in the said matter. (Omit what is
not required).Dated this day of.... 20.........LiquidatorRegistrar of
TribunalForm No. 68[See rule 211][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition
No...... of 20......LLP Application No....... of 20....Liquidator (or as the
case may be) --- ApplicantBefore the Hon'ble Member
Mr...............Dated.........Order for private examinationUpon the
application by summons dated...... 20....... of the Liquidator or of........,
a partner of the above-named LLP and upon hearing, etc., and upon reading the
order to wind-up the said LLP or the order appointing a Provisional Liquidator
dated....... 20...... and the statement of the Liquidator or the affidavit of
the said Mr........, filed on.... 20...., it is ordered:

### 1\. That........ (name and description)* be summoned to attend the
NCLT.... Bench on...... day the...... day of..... 20.... at.... o'clock, for
the purpose of being examined concerning the property or books or papers of
the LLP in his possession or his indebtedness to the LLP or the promotion,
formation, trade, dealings, property, books or papers, or affairs of the
LLP**or to extend cooperation in discovery and delivery of property, assets,
books etc and the said...... be required to bring with him and produce at the
said time and place the documents mentioned in the schedule hereto, and all
other books, papers, deeds, writings and other documents in his custody or
power in any way relating to the above-named LLP** :

### 2\. That the Liquidator do have the conduct of the examination of the said
person(s);

### 3\. That the examination shall be in Chambers or in NCLT _______ Bench;

### 4\. *That....... (name) being a creditor or Partner of the said LLP be at
liberty to attend or take part in the said examination,

## ***

(Of persons to be examined and/or of documents to be produced, as the case may
be)Dated this..... day of..... 20.....(By NCLT_______Bench)Registrar of
Tribunal* Where more than one person is to be examined, say, 'That the persons
mentioned in the schedule hereto be summoned, and give the names and addresses
in a schedule to the order.'** Omit what is not required.*** To be included
where necessary.Form No. 69[See rule 213][Heading as in form no 16]LLP
Petition No..... of 20.......LLP Application No........ of 20......Liquidator
---- ApplicantSummons to witness for
examinationTo................................Whereas by an order of the NCLT
_____ Bench dated the...... day of...... 20...... made herein, it was ordered
that you...... (name and description) be examined touching the affairs of the
above-named LLP (or as the case may be), you are hereby required to attend the
NCLT _______ Bench before the Member in Chambers on...... day the..... day
of...... 20..... at.... o'clock to be examined as aforesaid; And you, the
said...... are hereby required to bring with you and produce at the time and
place aforesaid the (here give the description of the property or document
etc.) and other documents in your custody or information or power in any way
relating or belonging to the LLP.If you fail to attend at the said place and
time, having no lawful impediment to be then made known to the Member and
allowed by him, the Member may by warrant cause you to be apprehended and
brought up for examination.A sum of Rs....... is herewith tendered or sent
separately by Demand Draft for your expenses in connection with the aforesaid
examination.Dated this..... day of..... 20....LiquidatorRegistrar of
TribunalForm No. 70[See sub-rule (1) of rule 216][Heading as in form no 16]LLP
Petition No...... of 20.......LLP Application No........ of 20.......Before
the Hon'ble Member Mr.......Order directing public examinationUpon reading the
report of the Liquidator in the above matter dated the....... day of.......
20...., It is Ordered:

### 1\. That the several persons whose names and addresses are set forth in
the schedule hereto do attend before the NCLT...... Bench on the day and hour
to be appointed for the purpose, and be publicly examined as to the promotion
or formation or the conduct of the business of the LLP, or as to their conduct
and dealings as officers of the LLP.

### 2\. That notice of the date fixed for the examination be advertised in one
issue (each) of (here set out the newspaper or newspapers in which the
advertisement is to be inserted) and such notice be served on the persons to
be examined not less than 7 days before the date of the examination.

### 3\. That the examination shall be held before (here name the officer and
follow up with any further directions that may be given relating to the
conduct of the examination or the matter on which the persons are to be
examined).

The Schedule Referred to

Serial No. | Name | Address | Connection with the LLP  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  |   
  
Dated this..... day of.... 20.....(By the NCLT_______Bench)Registrar of
TribunalForm No. 71[See rule 217][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition
No....... of 20....Notice of public examinationNotice is hereby given that a
public examination will be held in NCLT......... Bench on the....... day
of...... 20..... at o'clock.... before....., of..... a partner (or other
officer) of the above-named LLP.LiquidatorForm No. 72[See rule 217][Heading as
in form no 16]LLP Petition No....... of 20....Notice to attend public
examinationWhereas by an order of this NCLT ______ Bench made on the...... day
of..... 20....., it was ordered that you, the under-mentioned Mr.........,
should attend before the NCLT______ Bench and by publicly examined as to the
promotion or formation of the LLP and/or as to the conduct of the business of
the LLP, and/or as to your conduct, dealings as (here insert, partners,
designated partners or officer, as the case may be);And whereas it has been
directed that the said examination be held before the Member [or the NCLT_____
Bench has directed that the said examination be held before (here mention the
officer) before whom the examination has been directed to be held] and
whereas...... day the..... day of..... 20......., at.... o'clock has been
fixed as the time for holding the said examination before the Member (or
officer as the case may be).Notice is hereby given that you are required to
attend at the said time and place and at any adjournments of the examination
which may be ordered, and to bring with you and produce all books, papers, and
writings and other documents in your custody or power in any way relating to
the above-named LLP.And take further notice that if you fail, without
reasonable excuse, to attend at the said time and place and at any
adjournments of the said public examination, a warrant for your arrest will
issue, and you will be liable to be committed to prison without further
notice.Note: A copy of the report of the Liquidator on which the order for
public examination was made will be furnished to you on payment of the
prescribed charges for the same.Dated this..... day of.....
20......LiquidatorToMr.............(Name)..........(Description and
address)Form No. 73[See rule 219][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition
No..... of 20.....Report to the NCLT_____ Bench where person examined refuses
to answer to satisfaction of the officer of NCLT______ BenchAt the public
examination of..... (name and description of the person examined) held before
me this..... day of..... 20...... the following question(s) was/were put by me
or allowed to be put by me to the said person (hereinafter referred to as 'the
witness').Q. [Here state the question(s).]The witness refused to answer the
said question(s) or the witness answered the said question(s) as
follows:-[Here insert the answer(s), if any.]I thereupon intimated the witness
that I was reporting his refusal to answer or his answer(s) to the Member,
NCLT ______ Bench and that he should attend the Member on the.... day of.....
20..... at..... o'clock when the report will be considered by the
Member.Officer holding the examinationForm No. 74[See rule 225][Heading as in
form no 16]LLP Petition No.... of 20......LLP Application No..... of
20......Liquidator of the LLP ....ApplicantVersus_______________
....RespondentSummons under rule 225Let all parties attend the sitting Member
in Chambers on day..... the day..... of 20...... at.... o'clock on the hearing
of an application under rule 225 on the part of the Liquidator of the LLP
aforesaid or, Sh........., of...... a creditor/partner of the said LLP for the
following declarations and order:-

### 1\. A declaration that business of the said LLP was carried on from
the..... 20.... to the.... 20...... (the date of the commencement of the
winding-up of the LLP), with intent to defraud creditors and for other
fraudulent purposes by reason of the fact that (Here set out the facts showing
the fraudulent purposes, e.g., that the LLP continued to trade and to obtain
goods on credit and to incur other liabilities without any means or prospect
of being able to pay or provide for payment thereof,) and that the respondents
as the...... of the LLP were knowingly parties to the carrying on of the
business of the said LLP in the manner aforesaid.

### 2\. A declaration that the respondents....... (Names)......... shall be
personally responsible, without any limitation of liability, for all the debts
or other liabilities of the LLP.

### 3\. A declaration that the said respondents are jointly and severally
liable to pay to the Liquidator sums amounting to Rs........ being the amount
of debts owing by the LLP in respect of goods supplied to or services rendered
to or other liabilities incurred by the said LLP during the period aforesaid
or such part of the said sums as to the NCLT...... Bench shall seem fit after
due inquiry.

### 4\. An order for payment to the Liquidator by the said respondents of the
said sum of Rs........ or such other sum as to the NCLT _______ Bench shall
seem fit.

### 5\. An order that for the purpose of giving effect to the foregoing
declaration, the liability of the respondent.......... (name) shall constitute
a first charge on (Here set out the debt, mortgage or interest of the
respondent on which the charge is created), and that the liability of the
respondent Sh.........., thereunder shall be and constitute a first charge on
the Sh..... issued by the said LLP to him and the money secured thereby.

### 6\. An order that the respondents do pay to the applicant costs of and
incidental to this application.

### 7\. Such other order in the premises as the NCLT............ Bench shall
think fit to make.

Dated this.... day of..... 20.....Registrar of TribunalThis summons was taken
out by Shri........ authorized representative for the
applicantTo...............(respondents)...............Note: If you do not
attend, either in person or by your authorized representative, at the time and
place above mentioned, such order will be made and proceedings taken as the
Member may think just and expedient.Form No. 74A[See rule 225][Heading as in
form no 16]LLP Petition No....... of 20.....LLP Application No...... of
20.....Liquidator of...... LLP ...ApplicantVersus____________
....RespondentsSummons under rule 225Let all parties attend the Member in
Chambers on...... day the..... day of..... 20...., at... o'clock on the
hearing of an application under rule 225 on the part of the Liquidator of the
LLP aforesaid or Sh......, a creditor or partner of the above LLP for-

### 1\. A declaration that the respondents, the........... (designated
partners, partners, officers, etc. as the case may be) of the above LLP had
misapplied, retained or become liable or accountable for the money or property
of the LLP, or were guilty of misfeasance and breach of trust in relation to
the said LLP in (here set out briefly the ground on which the declaration is
sought, e.g. lending without consideration and without taking any security
Rs..... of the said LLP to..... on.... 20.... whereby the same became wholly
lost to the said LLP on the adjudication of the said..... as insolvent on.....
20... .20...... or as the case may be).

### 2\. An order that all necessary inquiries be made and accounts taken for
ascertaining what sums the respondents are liable to contribute to the assets
of the said LLP by way of compensation for such misfeasance and breach of the
trust as aforesaid.

### 3\. An order that the respondents do jointly and severally contribute to
the assets of the said LLP and do pay to the Liquidator or the said LLP all
such sums as they may be found liable to contribute to such assets together
with interest on such sums at the rate of..... per cent per annum as from the
several dates when the said sums were respectively wrongfully paid away until
the date of replacement.

### 4\. An order that the said respondents do pay the costs of and incidental
to the application.

### 5\. Such other order as in the premises, the NCLT ______ Bench shall think
fit to make.

Dated this.... day of... 20....Registrar of TribunalAuthorized representative
for applicant[This summons was taken out by Shri....... authorised
representative for the
applicant]To................................(Respondent)Note: If you do not
attend, either in person or by your authorized representative, at the time and
place above-mentioned, such order will be made and proceedings taken as the
Registrar may think just and expedient.Form No. 75[See rule 226][Heading as in
form no 16]LLP Petition No..... of 20.....LLP Application No..... of
20.....____________Applicant(s)Versus__________Respondent(s)Points of claim
under rule 226

### 1\. The above-named LLP [hereinafter called 'the LLP'] was incorporated on
the.... 20.... with a contribution of Rs.....

### 2\. By an order made on the..... 20....., the LLP was ordered to be wound
up by the NCLT.............. Bench.

### 3\. The respondent was a designated partner/partner/officer etc. of the
said LLP (state the position occupied by the respondent in the LLP and the
period during which he occupied such position and the salary paid to him).

### 4\. Etc. [set out in separate paragraphs, as may be necessary, the nature
of the business of the LLP, the way in which it was carried on and the facts
showing that the business was conducted fraudulently and that the respondent
was knowingly a party to the same.]

The Liquidator/Sh..........., the applicant claims:

### 1\. A declaration that the respondent is liable without any limitation of
liability for all the debts of the LLP amounting to the sum of Rs.......

### 2\. If necessary, an amount of debts of the LLP.

### 3\. Payment by the respondent of the said sum of Rs....... or other sum
for which he may be found responsible on the taking of accounts.

### 4\. Costs

### 5\. Further or other relief

Delivered the.... day of..... 20..... by........ApplicantAuthorized
Representative for the ApplicantForm No. 75A[See rule 226][Heading as in form
no 16]LLP Petition No........ of 20........LLP Application No...... of
20...................Applicant(s)Versus.........Respondent(s)Points of claim
under rule 226

### 1\. The above named LLP (hereinafter called 'the LLP') was incorporated on
the.... 20.... with a contribution of Rs......

### 2\. By an order dated the.... 20.... the LLP was ordered to be wound-up by
the NCLT.............. Bench [or as the case may be].

### 3\. The respondents were at all material times [state the position
occupied by each of them e.g. designated partner, partner or officer of the
LLP]

### 4\. Etc. [set out in separate paragraphs as may be necessary the main
facts showing the misfeasance or breach of trust committed by each of the
respondents and the amounts which they are jointly and severally liable to
make good to the LLP in consequence of such misfeasance or breach of trust].

And the Liquidator/Sh............., the applicant claims:-(1)A declaration
that the respondents and each of them as past or present partners....... or,
as the case may be, as aforesaid have been guilty of misfeasance and breach of
trust in relation to the LLP as aforesaid.(2)An order that the respondents and
each of them do repay to the Liquidator of the said LLP the said sum, together
with interest at the rate of..... per cent per annum from..... 20.... down to
the date of payment.(3)Costs(4)Further or other reliefApplicantDelivered
the.... day of..... 20...... by......Form No. 76[See sub-rule (2) of rule
228][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No...... of 20......Notice to
Liquidator or LLP Liquidator to elect whether he will disclaimI, the
undersigned give you notice that the above-named LLP was, at the time of the
making of the winding-up order herein [or at the time of the passing of the
resolution for winding-up], the lessee of the property described in the
schedule hereto [or as the case may be], and I, as lessor of the said property
[or as the case may be], hereby require you pursuant to the provisions of rule
228 within 28 days after the receipt of this notice to decide whether you will
disclaim the said lease [or as the case may be], and if you decide to disclaim
as aforesaid, to give me notice within the said 28 days of your intention to
apply to the NCLT............ Bench for leave to disclaim accordingly.**Dated
this...... day of...... 20......(Signature)Address:(Lessor or authorized
representative for the lessor, as the case may be)ToThe Liquidator/LLP
Liquidator of.....................LLP (in Liquidation)

## Schedule 17

Here set out particulars of the property, lease, contract, etc.*Title to be
suitably modified in the case of voluntary winding-up**In the case of a
contract, add at the end "and also disclaim the contract within the said
period".Form No. 76A[See sub-rule (2) of rule 228][Heading as in form no
16]LLP Petition No..... of 20.....Notice by Liquidator or LLP Liquidator of
intention to apply to Tribunal for leave to disclaimTake notice that I intend
to apply to the NCLT...... Bench for leave to disclaim [here specify the
property, lease, contract etc., with short particulars and the interest of the
LLP therein sought to be disclaimed] referred to in the notice given by you to
me as the Liquidator or LLP Liquidator of the above-named
LLP.(Signature)Liquidator or LLP
LiquidatorTo........................................................Form No.
76B[See sub-rule (2) of rule 228][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition
No..... of 20....LLP Application No.... of 20.....Liquidator or LLP Liquidator
of the said LLP - ApplicantSummons for extension of time for giving notice of
intention to apply for leave to disclaimLet all parties concerned attend the
Member in Chambers on the day of 20..... on the hearing of an application by
the applicant herein for an order that the applicant as the Liquidator or LLP
Liquidator of the above-named LLP may be at liberty within...... days of the
order to be made herein to given notice to..... of..... of his intention to
apply to the Tribunal for leave to disclaim [here specify the property, lease
or contract etc., and the interest of the LLP therein to be disclaimed, with
short particulars thereof].Dated this..... day of....... 20.......,Liquidator
or LLP LiquidatorRegistrar of TribunalThis summons as taken out by the
Liquidator or LLP Liquidator of the above-named LLP.To(Insert names of persons
to be served, if any)Form No. 76C[See sub-rule (2) of rule 228][Heading as in
form no 16]LLP Petition No..... of 20....Before the Hon'ble Member Mr.....(or
as the case may be)Order extending time for disclaimerUpon the application of
etc.It is ordered that the applicant, as such Liquidator or LLP Liquidator, be
and is hereby allowed a further period of.... days from the.... 20...., within
which he may give notice to...... of his intention to apply to the Tribunal
for leave to disclaim the [here specify the property, lease, contract etc.,
with short particulars and the interest of the LLP therein-which is to be
disclaimed].Dated this..... day of...... 20......(By the
Tribunal)RegistrarForm No. 76D[See sub-rule (2) of rule 228][Heading as in
form no 16]LLP Petition No.... of 20.......Notice of interest in property
sought to be disclaimedToThe Liquidator or LLP Liquidator etc.,Take notice
that I, the undersigned, claim to be interested in [specify the property,
lease, contract etc., with short particulars] which is sought to be disclaimed
by you, and that the nature of my interest therein is as
follows:.....................................................................................................................................................................................................(Signature)(Address)Form
No. 76E[See sub-rule (2) of rule 228][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition
No......of 20.........LLP Application No.....of 20.......Liquidator or LLP
Liquidator of the said LLP - ApplicantSummons for leave to disclaimLet all
parties concerned attend the sitting Mernber in Chambers on the ....day
of....20....at....o'clock, on the hearing of an application df the Liquidator
or LLP Liquidator of the above-named LLP for an order pursuant to rule 228
that the said Liquidator or LLP Liquidator may be at liberty to disclaim (here
specify property, lease, contract, etc. with short particulars and the
interest of the LLP therein sought to be disclaimed) and that the costs of the
application may be provided for.Dated this......day
of....20......RegistrarLiquidator or LLP Liquidator of the said LLPNote: On
the hearing, the summons will be adjourned for notice to interested
parties.Form No. 76F[See sub - rule (2) of rule 228][Heading as in form no
16]LLP Petition No...of 20.......LLP Application No.....of 20......Liquidator
or LLP Liquidator of the said LLP - ApplicantAffidavit in support of summons
for leave to disclaim a leaseI, the Liquidator or LLP Liquidator of the said
LLP, do solemnly affirm and say as follows:-

### 1\. The above-named LLP [hereinafter referred to as the LLP) was ordered
to be wound up by this NCLT...Bench by order dated.........20...., or the
above-named LLP resolved by a resolution passed on that it should be wound-up
voluntarily, and I was appointed Liquidator or LLP Liquidator for the purpose
of the winding-up.

### 2\. By a lease dated the.......day of.....20...,made between....of the one
part Wd the LLP of the other part, the said demised unto the LLP all that
(Specify shortly the premises leased and the rent, mentioning any special
covenants). The said lease* is now produced and shown to me marked 'A'.

### 3\. The premises so demised to the LLP were used by them for the purposes
of (specify what) but have not been occupied or used by the LLP since the
month of ....20....., (etc., as the case may be) nor are there any goods and
chattels of the LLP thereon.

### 4\. I have/have not endeavored to sell the said lease. Having regard to
the rent payable and th6 terms thereof, the lease is not a profitable one. I
have/have not entered into possession of the premises thereby demised or
exercised any act of ownership in relation thereto (or as the case may be).

### 5\. The said lease is of no benefit to the LLP, its creditors or partners,
and to the best of my knowledge, information and belief there are no persons
interested in the said lease except the LLP and the lessors as aforesaid (or,
as the case may be, and state any advantages sought to be attained by the
disclaimer, how it would affect other people, etc.)...

### 6\. (If the 'disclaimer' is out of time, facts in explanation on which the
Tribunal may be properly asked to extend the time should be stated).

### 7\. [On the 20......., I received a notice from of requiring me to say
whether or not it was my intention to disclaim the said contract. The notice
is hereto annexed, marked on the day of 20...., within 28 days of the receipt
of the said notice (or if the Tribunal has extended the time, add, by leave of
the Tribunal notwithstanding that 28 days had elapsed since the receipt by me
of the said notice) I gave notice to the said of my intention to make this
application to the Tribunal. A copy of the said notice is hereto annexed and
marked),

### 8\. The assets of the LLP are insufficient to meet the claims of the
creditors (or as the case may be).

### 9\. In these circumstances, I ask for leave to disclaim the said lease,
and the said should be allowed to prove for the loss suffered by reason of the
said disclaimer along with the other creditors.

Solemnly affirmed etc.Liquidator/ LLP Liquidator*Note : The original or a
certified copy of the lease to be produced.Form No. 77[See rule 231][Heading
as in form no 16]LLP Petition No.....of 20....Notice to parties interested in
the property in respect of which the application to disclaim is madeNotice is
herby given that on an application to the Tribunal by me as Liquidator or LLP
Liquidator of the above-named LLP for leave to disclaim a lease to the above-
named LLP dated....20......., etc., (or as'the case may be). the Tribunal
adjourned the matter until the day of....20 for notice to be given to you.If
you desired to be heard on the said application, you should attend the
adjourned hearing before the NCLT.......Bench on......day, the.......day
of....20 at....o'clock either in person or by authorized representative.Any
affidavit that you intent to use in opposition should be filed in NCLT Bench
and a copy thereof served on me not-later than 2 days before the date of the
adjourned hearing.A copy of the summons and a copy of my affidavit filed in
support thereof are sent herewith.(Signature).........Liquidator/ LLP
LiquidatorTo......................Form No. 78[See rule 232][Heading as in form
no 16]LLP Petition No......of 20.......LLP Application No....of
20.....Liquidator or LLP Liquidator of the said LLP - ApplicantBefore the
Hon'ble Member Shri.....Order giving leave to disclaimUpon the application by
summons dated 20..... of the Liquidator or LLP Liquidator of the above-named
LLP and upon hearing the applicant in person (or Shri........authorized
representative for the applicant and the authorized representative for (party
interested) or no one appearing for or on behalf of.....a party interested
although he has been duly served with notice of the said application pursuant
to the directions of the Tribunal as appears by the affidavit of.....filed
on.....20....., and upon reading the order to wind-up the said LLP dated
the.....20 ,or on pursuing the resolution of the LLP for voluntary winding-up
dated....20........the affidavit of.....filed the.....20.....,and the
affidavit of filed the 20.......and the exhibits in the said affidavits
respectively. referred to (Exhibit.....to the first mentioned affidavit being
the contract or lease or as the case may be)*It is ordered that the Liquidator
or LLP Liquidator of the said LLP, the applicant, be at liberty, on or before
....20....., to disclaim the contract (or the lease, or other property as the
case may be) dated...20... made between of the one part and the said LLP of
the other part, whereby (set out in brief the nature of the contract or the
lease or other property as the case may be) particulars of which are set out
in the schedule hereto, upon the following terms, namely[Here set out the
terms and conditions, if any subject to which leave to disclaim has been
granted].

## above referred to

[Here set out the particulars of the property disclaimed e.g. contract or
lease dated 20 made between etc. (or as the case may be)].Dated this.....day
of....20......(By....NCLT......Bench)Registrar of Tribunal*Note : Where the
NCLT.... Bench had made an order extending the time, that order should also be
mentioned in the preamble to this order.Form No. 79[See rule 233][Heading as
in form no 16]LLP Petition No......... of 20......Disclaimer of Lease*Pursuant
to an order of the NCLT........ Bench dated the..... day of.... 20......I, the
undersigned, the Liquidator or LLP Liquidator of the above-named LLP, hereby
disclaim all interest in the lease dated...... 20..., whereby the premises
(here insert description of the property disclaimed) were demised to..... at a
rent of Rs......per annum (or per mensem) for a term of...... years.Notice of
this disclaimer has been given
to.........................................................Dated this day
of......... 20........Liquidator/LLP Liquidator*The form to be suitably
altered in the case of property other than lease.Form No. 80[See rule
233][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No....... of 20........Notice of
disclaimer of lease*Take notice that pursuant to an order of the NCLT......
Bench, dated the...... day of...... 20....., I, the undersigned , the
Liquidator or LLP Liquidator of the above-named LLP, by writing under my hand
bearing date the........ day of........ 20........, disclaimed all interest in
the lease dated the....... day of....... 20....... whereby the premises (here
insert description of property disclaimed) were demised to...... at a rent of
Rs....... per annum (or per mensem) for a term of...... years.The above-
mentioned disclaimer was filed in NCLT........ Bench on the...... day
of....... 20.....Liquidator/ LLP Liquidator*Form to be suitably altered in the
case of property other than lease.Form No. 81[See rule 234][Heading as in form
no 16]LLP Petition No...... of 20.....LLP Application No...... of
20.....Sh........ ----- ApplicantSh....... ----- RespondentOrder requiring
parties interested in disclaimed lease to apply for vesting order or to be
excluded from all interest in the leasehold premises

### 1\. Whereas it appears by the affidavit of..... and the affidavit of.....
filed respectively in the above matter on.... 20....., and.... 20..... that:-

(a)By a lease dated the...... 20....., and made between Sh....... the
applicant herein of the one part and the above-named LLP (hereinafter called
'the LLP') of the other part, the premises comprising....... (give
particulars) were demised unto the LLP for a term of...... years from.....
20..... at a rental of Rs.... per annum (or per mensem);(b)By a sub-lease
dated the ....... 20.......made between the LLP of the one part and Sh.......,
the respondent of the other part, in consideration of the payment therein made
and the covenants and conditions therein named, the LLP demised (part* of) the
said premises to the said Sh....., the respondent [or by a mortgage or charge
dated....... 20......., and the LLP charged the said premises to secure the
repayment of a sum of Rs..... together with interest at...... per cent per
annum in favour of the said Sh...... the respondent].

### 2\. And whereas on the..... 20...., an order was made for the winding-up
of the LLP by NCLT...... Bench or the LLP resolved to be wound-up voluntarily
and Shri....... was appointed liquidator for purposes of winding-up;

### 3\. And whereas the Liquidator or LLP Liquidator of the said LLP was by
order dated...... 20...... given leave to disclaim the said lease;

### 4\. And whereas the said Liquidator or LLP Liquidator of the above-named
LLP on the..... 20..... gave notice of his intention to disclaim the said
lease, and by writing under his hand dated....... 20......, disclaimed the
said lease, and filed such disclaimer in these proceedings on the.... 20....
and served notice thereof on or about the .... 20.... on the said
Sh.........., the applicant;

Now upon the application by summons dated.... 20...., of the said Sh.......,
the applicant, of.... for an order that the respondent, Sh........, do elect
whether he will or will not take a vesting order of the disclaimer property
comprised in the said lease, being....... (give particulars of the
property);This NCLT ............. Bench doth order that unless the said
respondent Sh......... within 14 days after the service of this order on him
applies for a vesting order of the said lease subject to the same liabilities
and obligations as those to which the LLP was subject under the lease in
respect of the property on..... 20......, the date of the commencement of the
winding-up (or subject to the same liabilities and obligations as if the said
lease had been assigned to him on.... 20.......the date of the commencement of
the winding-up of the said LLP), the said Sh......., the respondent be
excluded from all interest in and security upon the said premises.That this
summons do stand adjourned for further orders to 20...., for service of this
order on the said Sh......., the respondent.Dated this..... day of......
20......(By the NCLT......Bench)Registrar of Tribunal*If different parts have
been sub-leased to different persons, repeat the provision to cover all such
sub-leases.Form No. 81A[See rule 234][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition
No....... of 20......LLP Application No....... of 20.....Sh....----
ApplicantSh....----RespondentBefore the Hon'ble Member Mr.
................Dated.....................Order vesting lease and excluding
persons who have not elected (1) to (4) as in Form No. 81

### 5\. And whereas upon the hearing of this application by summons of the
said Sh........., the applicant, for an order that the respondent Sh........
do elect whether or not he will take a vesting order of the disclaimed
property comprised in the said lease, the NCLT....... Bench on..... 20......,
ordered that unless the said respondent Sh...... within 14 days after the
service of the said order on him applied for a vesting order of the said lease
subject to the conditions mentioned in the said order, the said respondent,
Sh........., be excluded from all interest in and security upon said premises.

### 6\. And whereas the said order was duly served on the said respondent
Sh......., as appears from the affidavit of....... filed..... 20.....

### 7\. And whereas the said respondent Sh........, has not applied or
intimated his, intention to apply for a vesting order within the time limited
by the said order [*or the said respondent Sh........, has applied for a
vesting order of the said lease.].

Upon hearing, etc., and upon reading etc., this NCLT........ Bench doth order:

### 1\. That the said respondent Sh........, be and is hereby excluded from
all interest in and security upon the premises aforesaid [and that the
property do vest in......].

[or That the LLP's interest in the premises...... more particularly described
in the lease deed dated..... 20..... do vest in Sh........ in respondent
herein; for the residue of the term of....... years demised by the said lease,
subject to the same liabilities and obligations as those to which the LLP was
subject under the lease in respect of the property at the commencement of the
winding-up (or subject only to the same liabilities and obligations as if the
lease had been assigned to that person on.... 20..., the date of the
commencement of the winding-up].Dated this..... day of..... 20....(By NCLT
Bench)Registrar of Tribunal*Where such an application for a vesting order is
made, the application should be included in the cause-title.Form No. 82[See
rule 241][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No..... of
20......Advertisement as to declaration of distributable sumNotice is hereby
given that a *........ distributable sum of...... (in rupees) has been
declared and that the same will be payable on the..... day of..... 20......
and on the subsequent working days upto the..... day of..... 20..... at the
office of the Liquidator.Every person entitled to participate in this
distributable sum will receive a notice to that effect and no payment will be
made except upon production of such notice.Liquidator*Insert here 'first' or
'second' or 'final' as the case may be.Note: This notice of declaration of
distributable sum by way of advertisement should be given atleast one month
prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.Form No. 83[See rule
241][Heading as in form no 16]LLP Petition No.... of 20.....Notice of
distributable sum(Please bring this distributable sum notice with
you)Distributable sum of........ (in
rupees)To...............(Name)...............(Address)Take notice that a
*........ distributable sum of..... (in rupees) has been declared. The amount
payable to you is Rs....... and the same will be payable at my office on
the...... day of...... 20......., and on the subsequent working days up to
the...... day of...... 20..... between the hours of......If you desire the
distributable sum to be paid to some other person, you may sign and lodge with
the Liquidator an authority in the prescribed form (Form No. 84). If you do
not attend personally you must fill up and sign the enclosed form of Receipt
and Authority.Dated at this..... day of...... 20......Liquidator*Insert here
'first' or 'second' or 'final' as the case may be.Enclosures:Receipt[Heading
as in form no 16]Address:Date:Received from the Liquidator of the above LLP
the sum of Rs........ being the amount payable to me/us in respect of
the...... distributable sum of....... (in the rupee).Rs.........Payee's
signature*Authority for delivery[Heading as in form no
16]Address:Date:Sir,Please deliver to the bearer........ (name of bearer) [or
send to me by cheques or Demand Draft by post, at my expense and risk] the
**........... distributable sum of Rs...... payable to me.Rs......./Payee's
signatureToThe Liquidator of.....(LLP),....................Note: This is an
authority only to deliver the distributable sum (the cheque or the Demand
Draft amount as the case may be), and not to make it payable to another
person, for which Form No. 84 should be used.** Insert here 'first' or
'second' or 'final' as the case may be.Form No. 84[See rule 242][Heading as in
form no 16]LLP Petition No....... of 20......Authority to Liquidator to pay
distributable sum to another personAddress:Date:Sir,I hereby authorize and
request you to pay the distributable sum referred to in the enclosed notice
to..... of...... (a specimen of whose signature is given below) whose receipt
shall be a sufficient discharge.SignatureWitnesses to the signature
of..............(Signature)........(Occupation)........(Address)Specimen
signature of person appointed as above.....................(Specimen
signature)Witness to specimen
signature:........(Signature)........(Occupation)........(Address)Dated
the..... day of.... 20......Form No. 85[See rule 244][Heading as in form no
16]

## of partners to whom return is to be paid

Number as in settled list | Name of partner as in settled list | Address |  Amount of contribution by each person as per thesettled list |  Amount of Money payable to each person as persettled list |  Amount of outstanding contribution not yetrealized from each | Amount of debt due not yet recovered from each | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form No. 86[See rule 244][Heading as in form no. 16]LLP Petition No...of
20...Notice of return to
partnersTo..................................................Notice is hereby
given that a return of Rs....... per...... Rupees of contribution by partner
has been declared. The amount payable to you is Rs...... and the same will be
payable at my office on the...... day of.... 20.... and the subsequent working
days upto the...... day of..... 20.... between the hours of.........If you do
not attend personally you must forward this notice and fill up and sign the
enclosed forms of receipt and authority for
delivery.LiquidatorDated................Note: The receipt should be signed by
the partner personally, and in the case of a body corporate by an officer of
LLP so described.Enclosures:(1)Receipt[Heading as in form no 16]Received from
the Liquidator of the above LLP the sum of Rs......... being the amount
payable to me/us in respect of the return of Rs....... per.......... rupees of
contributions by partners in the above
LLP.Rs.................Dated.................(Signature/Signatures).......................Address
:(2)Authority for Delivery[Heading as in form no
16]Address........Date...........Sir,Please deliver to the bearer........
(name of bearer) or send to me/us by cheques or Demand Draft by post, at
my/our expense and risk the return of Rs......... payable to
me/us.Rs.............Payee's SignatureToThe Liquidator of.......(LLP)Note:
This is an authority only to deliver, and not to make the return payable to
another person.Form No. 87[See sub-rule (1) of rule 251]Register of LLP
LiquidationsLLP Petition No..... of 20......Name of the LLP..... (in
Liquidation)LLPIN .............................

Date of presentation of petition forwinding up |  Date of order if any appointingprovisional liquidator | Date of winding up order |  Date of receipt of communicationbyLiquidator/ provisional Liquidator of the order |  Date of sending notice to the LLP,secured creditors, partners etc |  Date(s) of taking possession of theassets, books and papers of the LLP |  Date when notice, if any, was issuedto partners/ officers of the LLP for submission of statement ofaffairs |  Date of submission of statement ofaffairs.  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Date of filing of report byLiquidator under rule 34 | Date of order under rule 34 |  Date of valuation of theproperty/ assets |  Date of report to the Tribunal forpermission for sale |  Dates of advertisement, receipt ofbid and submission of report to the Tribunal |  Date of confirmation of sale andsales value |  Date of inviting claims and datefixed for filing proofs of claims  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Date of filing of list of creditorsbefore the Tribunal |  Date of distribution ofdistributable sum |  Date of settlement of final list ofpartners |  Date of distribution of return topartners |  Date of appointment of investigator,if any, for reporting misfeasance etc |  Date of submission of reportrelating to misfeasance etc to the Tribunal | Date of order on misfeasance etc.  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
16 | 17 | 18 | 19 | 20 | 21 | 22  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Dates of deposits of unclaimeddistributable sums or undistributed assets into LLP LiquidationAccount |  Date of submission of report fordissolution and Date of order |  Date of filing the order ofdissolution with the Registrar |  Date of deposit into the generalrevenue account of central government of unclaimed distributablesums or undistributed assets | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---  
23 | 24 | 25 | 26 | 27  
|  |  |  |   
  
Form No. 87A[See sub-rule (1) of rule 251]Central Cash Book(Cash book of the
Liquidator)

Receipts  
---  
Date | Name of the LLP | Particulars | Number of Receipts | Amount  
|  |  |  | Cash | Bank  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
  
Payments  
---  
Date | Name of the LLP | Particulars | Number of voucher or challan | Amount | Number of cheque  
|  |  |  | Cash | Bank |   
7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13  
  
Instructions

### 1\. This register is common to all the liquidations administered by the
Liquidator, and the day to day transactions of the Liquidator should be
entered in this Register chronologically. Sufficient details should be entered
under the column 'particulars' to show clearly the nature of the transaction,
the person by whom or to whom the payment was made, and on what account it was
made.

### 2\. The Cash Book should be balanced at the end of each day and Cash and
Bank Balance carried over to the following day. A certificate of verification
of Cash by actual count should be recorded in the Cash book by the Officer
verifying the Cash. The Cash Book should be closed monthly under the personal
attestation of the Liquidator. The Bank balances should be reconciled with the
Bank Statement at the end of each month, after taking into account factors
arising out of cheques drawn but not cashed, or remittances made but adjusted
in the Bank's Books in the accounts of a different month.

Form No. 87B[See sub-rule (1) of rule 251]LLP's Cash BookLLP Petition No.....
of 20.....Name of LLP........(In
Liquidation)LLPIN......................................

Date | Particulars | Ledger Folio | Receipts  
---|---|---|---  
Receipt Number | Cash | Bank | Total  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Payments | Balance  
---|---  
Voucher Number | Cash | Bank | Total | Cash | Bank | Total  
8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
InstructionsThere should be a separate Cash Book for each LLP.Form No. 87C[See
sub-rule (1) of rule 251]General LedgerLLP Petition No...... of 20.....Name of
the LLP.....(in
Liquidation)LLPIN....................................................(Head of
account)

Date | Particulars | Amount received | Amount Paid | Balance  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
Instructions:A General Ledger should be maintained for each LLP with such
heads of account as the Liquidator may think necessary and appropriate, like
property account, investment account, books debts, debtors etc.Form No.
87D[See sub-rule (1) of rule 251]Cashier's Cash Book

Date | Particulars | Amount received | Amount paid | Balance  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  Opening BalanceClosingBalance |  |  |   
  
Instructions

### 1\. The opening and closing balances should be struck for each day.

### 2\. Under 'Particulars' it should be shown by whom or to whom and on what
account the payment is made.

Form No. 87E[See sub-rule (1) of rule 251]Bank LedgerLiquidator's account with
Bank

Date | Particulars | Deposits | Withdrawals | Balance  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  | Cheque/DD/ cash | Rs. | Cheque Number | Rs. | Rs.  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form No. 87F[See sub-rule (1) of rule 251]Register of assetsLLP Petition
No....... of 20......Name of LLP..... (in
Liquidation)LLP1N...................................

Serial Number | Description of Assets | Date of taking possession | Serial number of Sales Register | Date of sale | Details of realisation | Amount | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Instructions:All the property of the LLP except the Liquidator's investments
and outstandings to be realized should be entered in this Register.Form No.
87G[See sub-rule (1) of rule 251]Investment Register

Serial Number | Name of the LLP | Date of Investment |  Nature and particulars of securityin which investment is made | Amount invested | Rate of interest etc. | Date of realization of investment | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form No. 87H[See sub-rule (1) of rule 251]Register of book-debts and
outstandings(Not barred by limitation)LLP Petition No..... of 20.....Name of
LLP.....(in Liquidation)LLPIN.................................

Serial Number | Name and address of debtor |  Particulars of debt (Trade/ Bills/Loans/ Advance etc.) | Amount due  
---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
|  |  |   
  
Action taken | Amount realized | Date of realization | Reference to Suits Register | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---  
5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9  
|  |  |  |   
  
Instructions:Time barred debts may be considered for the purpose of
realization in accordance with the Law.Form No. 87I[See sub-rule (1) of rule
251]Tenants LedgerLLP Petition No.... of 20.......Name of LLP.......(in
Liquidation)LLPIN......................................

### 1\. Description of property :

### 2\. Name and address of tenant:

### 3\. Date of tenancy :

### 4\. Period of tenancy:

### 5\. Rent (monthly or annual):

### 6\. Special terms, if any :

### 7\. Arrears on date of taking charge of property :

### 8\. Advance received, if any :

20....Month …. | Demand | Realization | Balance | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---  
Amount | Date | Amount | Amount  
Rs. | P |  | Rs. | P. | Rs. | P |   
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
JanuaryFebruaryEtc. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form No. 87J[See sub-rule (1) of rule 251]Suits RegisterLLP Petition No.... of
20...........Name of LLP...... (in Liquidation
)LLPIN...................................

Serial Number | Name and address of party | Amount of Claim | Date of filing  
---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
|  |  |   
  
Date of decree or final order | Nature of relief granted | Amount decreed | Remark  
---|---|---|---  
5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
|  |  |   
  
Instructions:

### 1\. A single register may be maintained for all the LLPs in Liquidation,
but the register should be maintained LLP-wise, sufficient number of pages
being allotted to each LLP.

### 2\. Applications made by or against the LLP which are in the nature of
suits should also be entered in this Register.

Form No. 87K[See sub-rule (1) of rule 251]Decree Register

Name of LLP | Name and address of judgment debtor | Amount decreed | Date of decree | Action taken | Amount realized | Date of realization | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
InstructionsThis Register is common to all the liquidations, the purpose of
the Register being to enable the Liquidator to keep watch on the progress of
the realization of decrees in favour of the LLP in his charge.Form No. 87L[See
sub-rule (1) of rule 251]Sales Register

SI. No. | Name of LLP | Description of Property | Date of Sale | Method of sale | Name and address of purchaser | Date of confirmation and sale value  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Amount of E.M.D./Advance receivedwith date | Balance realized | Remarks  
---|---|---  
Date | Rs.  
7 | 8 | 9  
|  |   
  
Instructions:

### 1\. This Register is common to all the liquidations administered by the
Liquidator, and entries in this Register should be made as and when sales of
property are held.

### 2\. The any amount either by way of E.M.D or advance or consideration
shall be received only by way of demand draft or cash.

Form No. 87M[See sub-rule(1) of rule 251]Register of Claims and Distributable
sumsLLP Petition No........ of..... 20Name of LLP.....(in
liquidation)LLPIN..........................................

Claims  
---  
Serial Number | Name and address of Creditor | Amount claimed | Amount admitted |  Whether secured (including workmen)or preferential or floating charge or unsecured creditors  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
Distributable sum declared and paid  
---  
Rate | Amount | Date of payment | Mode of payment | Remarks  
6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10  
  
Instructions:

### 1\. Only claims admitted either wholly or in part should be entered in
this Register.

### 2\. The table on top should be reserved for claims and the page on the
bottom for Distributable sums.

Form No. 87N[See sub-rule (1) of rule 251]Partners' Ledger/ Return of assets
to partnerLLP Petition No.... of... 20.....Name of LLP..... (in
liquidation)LLPIN.......................................

Serial Number | Name of partner | Amount of contribution | Amount of outstanding contribution  
---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
  
Returns of asset  
---  
Rate of return | Date of Payment | Amount paid | Mode of payment of amount | Remarks  
5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9  
  
Instructions:Only partners settled on the list should be entered in this
Register and they should be entered in the same order as in the list.Form No.
87O[See sub-rule (1) of rule 251]Distributable sums paid register

Name of the LLP | Date of payment of distributable sum | Amount of distributable sum | Remarks  
---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
|  |  |   
  
Instructions: This Register is common to all the liquidations.Form No. 87P[See
sub-rule (1) rule 251]Commission RegisterRegister of fees credited to
government

Name of the LLP | For the year ending 31stMarch, Payable before 30thOctober  
---|---  
| Commission due for the period ended 31stMarch of | Amount of Commission | Date of deposit into Central Government Account | Remarks  
2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |   
  
Instructions: An entry should be made in this Register of every LLP that is
wound-up, in which the Liquidator becomes or acts as Liquidator.Form No.
87Q[See sub-rule (1) rule 251]Suspense RegisterLLP Petition No.... of......
20....Name of LLP......(in
liquidation)LLPIN....................................

Date | Particulars | Debit | Credit | Balance  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
Instructions:

### 1\. This Register should be kept LLP-wise

### 2\. Advances made by the Liquidator to any person or made to the
Liquidator by any person should be entered in this Register.

Form No. 87R[See sub-rule (1) rule 251]Documents RegisterLLP Petition No....
of...... 20....Name of LLP......(in
liquidation)LLPIN....................................

Serial Number | Description of document | Date of receipt | From whom received | How disposed of | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Instruction: All documents of title like title-deeds etc. should be entered in
this Register.Form No. 87S[See sub-rule (1) rule 251]Books RegisterLLP
Petition No.... of...... 20....Name of LLP......(in
liquidation)LLPIN....................................

Date | From whom received | Description of books including files | How disposed of | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
Instruction: In this Register there should be entered all books and files of
the LLP which come into the hands of the Liquidator. In case a detail
inventory of the books and records is prepared, no such entries are required
in the register. However, an endorsement to the effect should be made in the
register.Form No. 87T[See sub-rule (1)rule 251]Register of Unpaid Liquidation
Distributable sum & Undistributed Assets Deposited into the LLP Liquidation
AccountLLP Petition No.... of...... 20....Name of LLP......(in
liquidation)LLPIN....................................

Serial Number |  Name of person entitled to the distributable sumor return | Whether Creditor or Partner |  Serial Number in the list of Creditors orPartners |  Date of declaration of distributable sum orreturn | Total Amount payable | Date of payment into the LLP liquidation account  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form No. 88[See sub-rule (6) of 251]Form of ReceiptDated.... 20.......Receipt
No.....Office of the Liquidator, NCLT........BenchIn the matter of...........
LLP. (in liquidation)LLP Petition No.......... of 20....Received
from........................ of.............................. the sum of
rupees................................ on account
of/being...............................LiquidatorForm No. 89[See rules 246 and
264][Heading as in form no 16]Liquidator's Final Account

### 1\. Name of LLP:

### 2\. LLPIN:

### 3\. Date of winding-up order :

### 4\. Date of commencement of winding-up :

### 5\. Period of the account:

A: ReportB: Final Account(i)Statement of Realisations and Disbursements

Realisations | Disbursements  
---|---  
Date | From whom received | Nature of Assets or form of receipt etc. | AmountRs. | Date | To whom paid | Nature of disbursement | AmountRs.  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
Total |  |  | _____ | Total |  |  | _____  
  
Analysis of Balance

| Rs. | P.  
---|---|---  
Total realizations | ____________  
Total disbursements | ____________  
Balance | ____________  
The balance is made up as follows:-  
1\. Cash in hand of the Liquidator | ____________  
2\. Total payments into Bank (including balance at date ofcommencement of winding-up) | ____________  
Less |   
Total withdrawals from Bank | ____________  
Balance at Bank | ____________  
(Trading account for the period, if any, to be attached)  
  
Subject to the directions of the Tribunal, it is proposed to pay the balance
shown as above into the LLPs' Liquidation Account.(ii)Assets Realized

Assets on the date of winding up order | Estimated Amount to be realized | Amount realized | Remarks  
---|---|---|---  
Balance at BankCash in handInvestmentsDebtors/TradereceivablesLoans & AdvancesInventoriesFreehold PropertyLeasehold PropertyPlant & MachineryFurniture, fittings etc.Intangible AssetsOther Assets (to specify)Outstandingcontribution of the partners |  |  |   
  
(iii)Assets which are unrealizable and should be written off: (Give
particulars and state reasons why they could not be realised)

Assets at the commencement of winding-up | Estimated value |  Reasons why they could not be realised and should be writtenoff  
---|---|---  
Balance at BankCash in handInvestmentsDebtors/TradereceivablesLoans & AdvancesInventoriesFreehold PropertyLeasehold PropertyPlant & MachineryFurniture, fittings etc.Intangible AssetsOther Assets (to specify)Outstandingcontribution of the partners |  |   
  
(iv)Liabilities

| Amount dueRs. | Total amount paid by way of distributable sum or otherwiseRs.  
---|---|---  
1\. Secured creditors including workmen dues2.Preferential creditors3. Creditors having floating charge4.Unsecured creditors5. Return to partners |  |   
  
(v) Expenses of winding-up | Rs............  
---|---  
  
(vi) Amount of unclaimed distributable sums or undistributed assets etc. paid into the LLP Liquidation amount | Rs............  
---|---  
  
(a) Amount of unclaimed money/profit of partners at thebeginning transferred to LLP Liquidation Account | Rs............  
---|---  
(b) Amount of unclaimed distributable sum and undistributedassets paid into the LLP Liquidation amount | Rs............  
TOTAL of (a) and (b)..............  
  
(vii)Particulars of unclaimed distributable sums and undistributed assets paid
into the LLP Liquidation account:

Date of deposit | Whether distributable sum or return | Amount | Remarks  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  |   
  
(viii)Particulars of unclaimed distributable sums or undistributed assets
pending payment into the said account.

Whether distributable sum or return | Amount | Remarks  
---|---|---  
|  |   
  
(viii)Any proceeding including misfeasance proceedings pending.C:
Explanations.Dated.........LiquidatorForm No. 90[See rule 278]Limited
Liability Partnership Act, 2008Voluntary Winding-upNotice of appointment of
LLP liquidatorName of LLP:LLPIN:Nature of business:Address of Registered
Office:Date of passing of resolution of partners:Date of consent of
creditors:Name and address of LLP Liquidator:Date of appointment:By whom
appointed:[Sd/-]Name............LLP Liquidator..............Form No. 91[See
rule 296]Name of the LLPLLPINNature of the proceedingDate of commencement of
winding-upDate of payment into the LLPs Liquidation AccountI. Particulars of
the unclaimed distributable sums paid into the LLPs Liquidation Account.

Number on list of creditors | Name of the creditor to whom the distributable sum is due | Last known address of creditor | Date of declaration and rate of distributable sum | Total amount of distributable sum payable | Last date when payable | Amount paid into LLPs Liquidation Account | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Date | Rate  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Total _________II. Particulars of undistributed assets paid into the LLPs
Liquidation Account.

Number on list of partners | Name of the partner | Last known address of partner | Date of declaration and rate of return | Total amount of return payable | Last date when payable | Amount paid into LLPs Liquidation Account | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Date | Rate  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Total _________

Total amount of unclaimed distributable sums paid into theLLPs Liquidation Account | Rs._______  
---|---  
Total amount of undistributed assets paid into the LLPsLiquidation Account | Rs._______  
Total amount paid under both heads | _________  
  
Dated this...... day of... 20....(Sd.)Liquidator orLLP LiquidatorAnnexureFees
and charges

SN. | NATURE OF ACTIVITY | FEES PAYABLE  
---|---|---  
I | Fees for filing documents, forms etc., with Registrar | \- As per Limited Liability Partnership Rules 2009  
II | Inspection | \- Rs.100/-  
III | Copy or certified copy | \- Rs.5/- per Page or fractional part thereof  
IV | Fees for filing application or petition :- |   
| (i) Under sections 60 to 62 of the Act | \- Rs. 5,000/-  
| (ii) For winding up of an LLP | \- Rs. 2,500/-  
|  (iii) For declaration of liability for fraudulent conduct ofbusiness | \- Rs. 2,500/-  
| (iv) For accessing damages against delinquent partners etc. | \- Rs. 2,500/-  
| (v) For declaring the dissolution of an LLP void. | \- Rs. 2,500/-  
| (vi) Other than above | \- Rs. 2,500/-  
  
Provided that no fee shall be payable on application or petition made by the
Registrar or Central Government or State Government or Liquidator.

