## Union of India - Act

## The Levy Sugar Supply (Control) Order 1979

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Levy Sugar Supply (Control) Order 1979

## Rule THE-LEVY-SUGAR-SUPPLY-CONTROL-ORDER-1979 of 1979

  * Published on 17 December 1979 
  * Commenced on 17 December 1979 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 December 1979.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Levy Sugar Supply (Control) Order 1979Published vide Gazette of India,
Extraordinary, 1979, Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 17-12-1979 at page 1430Last
Updated 15th August, 2018(As amended by GSR 420(E) dated 31-5-1984 and GSR
135(E) dated 17-2-2000)GSR 696(E) dated 17-12-1979. - In exercise of the
powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act 1955 (10 of
1955) the Central Government hereby makes the following Order namely.-

### 1. Short title extent and commencement.

(1)This Order may be called the Levy Sugar Supply (Control) Order 1979.(2)It
extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force at once.

### 2. Powers to issue directions to supply levy sugar.

(1)The Central Government may from time to time by order issue directions to
any [producer or importer] [Substituted for the word 'producer' by GSR 135(E),
dated 17-2-2000, w.e.f. 17-2-2000.] or recognised dealer to supply levy sugar
of such type [or grade in such quantities and from such place of manufacture
or storage] [Substituted by GSR 420(E), dated 31-5-1984.].-(a)to such persons
or organisations in such areas or markets; or(b)[ to such State
Government/Union Territory Administration as may be specified in the order.]
[Item (b) substituted by GSR 135(E), dated 17-2-2000, w.e.f.
17-2-2000.]Explanation. - "Levy sugar" means the sugar requisitioned by the
Central Government under clause (f) of sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the
Essential Commodities Act 1955.[(1-A) The domestic producer shall supply levy
sugar at a price not exceeding the price determined under sub-section (3-C) of
Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act 1955 and the importer of sugar
shall supply at a price not exceeding the controlled price fixed under clause
(b) of sub-section (3) of Section 3 of that Act.] [Sub-clause (1-A) inserted
by GSR 135(E), dated 17-2-2000, w.e.f. 17-2-2000.](2)The Central Government
may by notified Order direct that the power to issue any direction under sub-
clause (1) shall be exercisable also by any or more of the following officers
in the Directorate of Sugar [Ministry of Consumer Affairs and Public
Distribution Department of Sugar and Edible Oils] [Substituted for the words
'Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, Department of Food' by GSR 135(E),
dated 17-2-2000, w.e.f. 17-2-2000.] New Delhi:

### 1\. The Chief Director (Sugar).

### 2\. The Additional Chief Director.

### 3. A Director.

### 4. A Deputy Director.

### 3\. [ (1) Where any producer or importer or recognised dealer who has an
obligation under clause 2 to deliver levy sugar has failed to fulfil its
obligation in respect of any sugar season, it shall have an option to fulfil
the obligation by making payment of money in lieu of actual delivery of levy
sugar as provided in sub-clause (2).

(2)The money to be paid under sub-clause (1) shall be derived from the
differential of actual realization from sale of sugar from the open market and
the notified levy sugar price for any particular sugar season to which any
levy obligation pertains.][Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R.
780(E)Ess.Com./Sugar, dated 14.8.2018 (w.e.f. 17.12.1979).]

