## Union of India - Act

## The Mines And Minerals (Development And Regulation) Act, 1957

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Mines And Minerals (Development And Regulation) Act, 1957

## MINISTRYOFLAWANDJUSTICE 67 of 1957

  * Published on 28 December 1957 
  * Commenced on 28 December 1957 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 August 2023.] 

  1. [Amended by The Mines (Amendment) Act, 1983 (Act 42 of 1983) on 25 December 1983] 
  2. [Amended by The Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2010 (Act 34 of 2010) on 8 September 2010] 
  3. [Amended by THE MINES AND MINERALS (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) AMENDMENT ACT, 2015 (Act 10 of 2015) on 26 March 2015] 
  4. [Amended by THE MINES AND MINERALS (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) AMENDMENT ACT, 2016 (Act 25 of 2016) on 6 May 2016] 
  5. [Amended by THE MINERAL LAWS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2020 (MINISTRYOFLAWANDJUSTICE 02 of 2020) on 13 March 2020] 
  6. [Amended by THE MINES AND MINERALS (DEVELOPMENTAND REGULATION) AMENDMENT ACT, 2021 (Act 16 of 2021) on 28 March 2021] 
  7. [Amended by The Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2023 (Act 16 of 2023) on 9 August 2023] 

The Mines And Minerals (Development And Regulation) Act, 1957(67 of 1957)Last
Updated 11th April, 2022[ Financial Express gave an Understanding to Mines and
Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2021.][ Mondaq to explain
Noteworthy Changes to The New Mines And Minerals (Development And Regulation)
Amendment Act, 2021.].[28th December, 1957]An Act to provide for the
[development and regulation of mines and minerals] [ Substituted by Act 38 of
1999, Section 2, for " regulation of mines and development of minerals"
(w.e.f. 18.12.1999).] under the control of the Union.Be it enacted by
Parliament in the Eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-The Act has
been extended to the Union territories of -(1) Goa, Daman and Diu by
Regulation 12 of 1962; Goa is now a State, see Act 18 of 1987, Section 3
(w.e.f. 30.5.1987); (2) Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regulation 6 of 1963, and
(3) Pondicherry by Regulation 7 of 1963. Enforced in State of Sikkim on
7.1.1980 vide G.S.R. 2(E), dated 5.1.1980.Brought into force on 1.6.1958 vide
G.S.R. 432, dated 29.5.1958, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary,
Part II, Section 3(i), p. 225.

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 2. Declaration as to the expediency of Union control. -

It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the
Union should take under its control the regulation of mines and the
development of minerals to the extent hereinafter provided.

### 3. Definitions. - In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)[ "leased area" means the area specified in the mining lease within which
mining operations can be undertaken and includes the non-mineralized area
required and approved for the activities falling under the definition of mine
as referred to in clause (i);(a)“composite licence” means the prospecting
licence-cum-mining lease which is a two stage concession granted for the
purpose of undertaking prospecting operations followed by mining operations in
a seamless manner;(aa)“dispatch” means the removal of minerals or mineral
products from the leased area and includes the consumption of minerals and
mineral products(aaa)"exploration licence" means a licence granted for
undertaking reconnaissance operations or prospecting operations or both in
respect of minerals specified in the Seventh Schedule; [Inserted by act 16 of
2023](ab)“Government company” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
clause (45) of section 2 of the CompaniesAct, 2013;(ac)“leased area” means the
area specified in the mining lease within which the mining operations can be
undertaken and includes the non-mineralised area required and approved for the
activities falling under the definition of “mine” as referred to in clause
(i);(ad)“minerals” includes all minerals except mineral oils;(ae)“mineral
concession” means either a reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence, mining
lease, exploration licence or a combination of any of these and the expression
“concession” shall be construed accordingly;(b)"mineral oils" includes natural
gas and petroleum;(c)"mining lease" means a lease granted for the purpose of
undertaking mining operations, and includes a sub-lease granted for such
purpose;(d)"mining operations" means any operations undertaken for the purpose
of winning any mineral;(e)"minor minerals" means building stones, gravel,
ordinary clay, ordinary sand other than sand used for prescribed purposes, and
any other mineral which the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, declare to be a minor mineral;(ea)[ "notified minerals"
means any mineral specified in the Fourth Schedule;] [Inserted by Act No. 10
of 2015.](f)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(fa)“production” or any derivative of the word “production” means the
winning or raising of mineral within the leased area for the purpose of
processing or dispatch;’;(g)"prospecting license" means a license granted for
the purpose of undertaking prospecting operations;(h)"prospecting operations"
means any operations undertaken for the purpose of exploring, locating or
proving mineral deposits; [*] [The words " and" omitted by Act 38 of 1999,
Section 4 (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).](ha)"reconnaissance operations" means any
operations undertaken for preliminary prospecting of a mineral through
regional, aerial, geophysical or geochemical surveys and geological mapping,
and include pitting, trenching, drilling and sub-surface
excavation;(hb)"mineral concession" means a permit granted for the purpose of
undertaking reconnaissance operations; [* * *]](hba)“Schedule” means the
Schedules appended to the Act;’;(hc)[ "Special Court" means a Court of Session
designated as Special Court under sub-section (1) of section 30B; and]
[Inserted by Act No. 10 of 2015.](i)the expressions, "mine" and "owner", have
the meanings assigned to them in the “the Occupational Safety, Health
andWorking Conditions Code, 2020.”“Explanation.—For the purposes of this
clause,—(i)a mine continues to be a mine till exhaustion of its mineable
mineral reserve and a mine may have different owners during different times
from the grant of first mining lease till exhaustion of such mineable mineral
reserve;(ii)the expression "mineral reserve" means the economically mineable
part of a measured and indicated mineral resource."

## Chapter II  
General Restrictions On Undertaking Prospecting And Mining Operations

### 4. Prospecting or mining operations to be under license or lease. -

(1)No person shall undertake any reconnaissance, prospecting or mining
operations in any area, except under and in accordance with the terms and
conditions of a mineral concession or of a or of a exploration licence or, as
the case may be, of a mining lease, granted under this Act and the rules made
thereunder:Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall affect any
prospecting or mining operations undertaken in any area in accordance with the
terms and conditions of a prospecting license or mining lease granted before
the commencement of this Act which is in force at such commencement:[Provided
further that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to any prospecting
operations undertaken by the Geological Survey of India, the Indian Bureau of
Mines, ] [ Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 2 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987).][the
Atomic Minerals Directorate for Exploration and Research] [ Substituted by Act
38 of 1999, Section 5, for " the Atomic Minerals Division" (w.e.f.
18.12.1999).][of the Department of Atomic Energy of the Central Government,
the Directorates of Mining and Geology of any State Government (by whatever
name called), and the Mineral Exploration Corporation Limited, a Government
company within the meaning of [clause (45) of section 2 of the Companies Act,
2013, and any other entities including private entities that may be notified
for this purpose, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the
Central Government”] [ Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 2 (w.e.f.
10.2.1987).]:][Provided also that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to
any mining lease (whether called mining lease, mining concession or by any
other name) in force immediately before the commencement of this Act in the
Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu.] [ Inserted by Act 16 of 1987, Section
14 (w.r.e.f. 1.10.1963).](1A)No person shall transport or store or cause to be
transported or stored any mineral otherwise than in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder.] [ Inserted by Act 38 of
1999, Section 5 (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).](2)[No mineral concession, prospecting
license or mining lease] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 5, for " No
prospecting license or mining lease" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).] shall be granted
otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules
made thereunder.(3)[ Any State Government may, after prior consultation with
the Central Government and in accordance with the rules made under section 18,
] [Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 2 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987). ][undertake
reconnaissance, prospecting or mining operations with respect to any mineral
specified in the First Schedule in any area within that State which is not
already held under any mineral concession, prospecting license or mining
lease] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 5, for certain words (w.e.f.
18.12.1999).].

### 4A. Termination of prospecting licences, exploration licences or mining
leases.

(1)Where the Central Government, after consultation with the State Government
is of opinion that it is expedient in the interest of regulation of mines and
mineral development, preservation of natural environment, control of floods,
prevention of pollution, or to avoid danger to public health or communications
or to ensure safety of buildings, monuments or other structures or for
conservation of mineral resources or for maintaining safety in the mines or
for such other purposes, as the Central Government may deem fit, it may
request the State Government to make a premature termination of a prospecting
license or mining lease in respect of any mineral other than a minor mineral
in any area or part thereof, and, on receipt of such request, the State
Government shall make an order making a premature termination of such
prospecting licence or exploration licence or mining lease with respect to the
area or any part thereof.(2)Where the State Government ] [* * *] [ The words "
, after consultation with the Central Government" omitted by Act 25 of 1994,
Section 2 (w.r.e.f. 25.1.1994).][is of opinion that it is expedient in the
interest of regulation of mines and mineral development, preservation of
natural environment, control of floods, prevention of pollution or to avoid
danger to public health or communications or to ensure safety of buildings,
monuments or other structures or for such other purposes, as the State
Government may deem fit, it may, by an order, in respect of any minor mineral,
make premature termination of a prospecting license or mining lease with
respect to the area or any part thereof covered by such license or lease.]
[Substituted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 3 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987). Earlier, it was
inserted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 2 (w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ][* * *] [ Proviso
omitted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 6 (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).](3)No order making a
premature termination of a or exploration licence or mining lease shall be
made except after giving the holder of the license or lease a reasonable
opportunity of being heard.(4)Where the holder of a mining lease fails to
undertake production and dispatch for a period of ] [Substituted by Act 37 of
1986, Section 3 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987). Earlier, it was inserted by Act 56 of
1972, Section 2 (w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ] [two years] [ Substituted by Act 25 of
1994, Section 2, for " one year" (w.r.e.f. 25.1.1994).][after the date of
execution of the lease or, having commenced production and dispatch, has
discontinued the same for a period of ] [Substituted by Act 37 of 1986,
Section 3 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987). Earlier, it was inserted by Act 56 of 1972,
Section 2 (w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ][two year] [ Substituted by Act 25 of 1994,
Section 2, for " one year" (w.r.e.f. 25.1.1994).][, the lease shall lapse on
the expiry of the period of ] [Substituted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 3
(w.e.f. 10.2.1987). Earlier, it was inserted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 2
(w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ][two years] [ Substituted by Act 25 of 1994, Section 2,
for " one year" (w.r.e.f. 25.1.1994).][from the date of execution of the lease
or, as the case may be, discontinuance of the production and dispatch:Provided
that the State Government may, on an application made by the holder of such
lease before it lapses and on being satisfied that it shall not be possible
for the holder of the lease to undertake production and dispatch or to
continue such production and dispatch for reasons beyond his control, make an
order, within a period of three months from the date of receipt of such
application, to extend the period of two years by a further period not
exceeding one year and such extension shall not be granted for more than once
during the entire period of lease:Provided further that such lease shall lapse
on failure to undertake production and dispatch or having commenced the
production and dispatch fails to continue the same before the end of such
extended period.

### 5. Restrictions on the grant of mineral concession.

[(1) A State Government shall not grant a] [Substituted by Act 25 of 1994,
Section 3, for sub-Section (1) (w.r.e.f. 25.1.1994). ] [mineral concession,
prospecting license or mining lease] [Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section
7, for "prospecting license or mining lease"(w.e.f. 18.12.1999).] [to any
person unless such person-(a)is an Indian national, or a company as defined in
[clause (20) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)];
and(b)satisfies such conditions as may be prescribed:[Provided that in respect
of any mineral specified in Part A and Part B of the First Schedule, no
mineral concession, prospecting licence or mining lease shall be granted
except with the previous approval of the Central Government.] [Substituted for
the existing proviso by Act No. 10 of 2015.][[Provided also that the composite
licence or mining lease shall not be granted for an area to any person other
than the Government, Government company or corporation, in respect of any
minerals specified in Part B of the First Schedule where the grade of such
mineral in such area is equal to or above such threshold value as may be
notified by the Central Government.]]Explanation. - For the purposes of this
sub-section, a person shall be deemed to be an Indian national,-(a)in the case
of a firm or other association of individuals, only if all the members of the
firm or members of the association are citizens of India; and(b)in the case of
an individual, only if he is a citizen of India.](2)[ No mining lease shall be
granted by the State Government unless it is satisfied that-] [Substituted by
Act 37 of 1986, Section 4, for Section 5 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987).](a)[ there is
evidence to show the existence of mineral contents in the area for which the
application for a mining lease has been made in accordance with such
parameters as may be prescribed for this purpose by the Central Government;]
[Substituted by Act No. 10 of 2015.](b)[ there is a mining plan duly approved
by the Central Government, or by the State Government, in respect of such
category of mines as may be specified by the Central Government, for the
development of mineral deposits in the area concerned.] [ Substituted by Act
38 of 1999, Section 7, for Clauses (a) and (b) (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).][Provided
that a mining lease may be granted upon the filing of a mining plan in
accordance with a system established by the State Government for preparation,
certification, and monitoring of such plan, with the approval of the Central
Government.] [Inserted by Act No. 10 of 2015.]

### 6. Maximum area for which mineral concession may be granted

(1)No person shall acquire ] [Substituted by Act 25 of 1994, Section 3, for
sub-Section (1) (w.r.e.f. 25.1.1994).] [* *] [ The words " in any one State"
omitted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 5 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987).] [in respect of any
mineral or prescribed group of associated minerals ] [Substituted by Act 56 of
1972, Section 3, for sub-Section (1) (w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ] [in a State] [
Inserted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 8 (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).]-(a)[ one or more
prospecting licenses covering a total area of more than twenty-five square
kilometres; or] [Substituted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 3, for sub-Section (1)
(w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ](aa)[ one or more mineral concession covering a total
area of ten thousand square kilometres: [Inserted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 8
(w.e.f. 18.12.1999). ]Provided that the area granted under a single mineral
concession shall not exceed five thousand square kilometres; or](ab)one or
more exploration licences covering a total area of more than five thousand
square kilometres:Provided that the area granted under a single exploration
licence shall not exceed one thousand square kilometres;ITEM (b)[ one or more
mining leases covering a total area of more than ten square kilometres:
[Substituted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 3, for sub-Section (1) (w.e.f.
12.9.1972). ][Provided that if the Central Government is of the opinion that
in the interest of the development of any mineral or industry, it is necessary
so to do, it may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, increase the
aforesaid area limits in respect of prospecting licence or mining lease, in so
far as it pertains to any particular mineral, or to any specified category of
deposits of such mineral, or to any particular mineral located in any
particular area.](c)[ any mineral concession in respect of any area which is
not compact or contiguous: [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 8, for
Clause (c) (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).]Provided that if the State Government is of
opinion that in the interests of the development of any mineral, it is
necessary so to do, it may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, permit any
person to acquire a mineral concession, prospecting license or mining lease in
relation to any area which is not compact or contiguous.](2)For the purposes
of this section, a person acquiring by or in the name of, another person a
[mineral concession, prospecting license or mining lease] [ Substituted by Act
38 of 1999, Section 8, for " prospecting license or mining lease" (w.e.f.
18.12.1999).] which is intended for himself shall be deemed to be acquiring it
himself.(3)[ For the purposes of determining the total area referred to in
sub-section (1), the area held under a ] [Inserted by Act 56 of 1972, Section
3 (w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ][mineral concession, prospecting license or mining
lease] [Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 8, for " prospecting license or
mining lease" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999). ][by a person as a member of a co-operative
society, company or other corporation, or a Hindu undivided family or a
partner of a firm, shall be deducted from the area referred to in sub-section
(1) so that the sum total of the area held by such person, under a ] [Inserted
by Act 56 of 1972, Section 3 (w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ][mineral concession,
prospecting license or mining lease] [Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section
8, for " prospecting license or mining lease" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999). ][, whether
as such member or partner, or individually may not, in any case, exceed the
total area specified in sub-section (1).] [Inserted by Act 56 of 1972, Section
3 (w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ]

### 7. Periods for which prospecting licenses may be granted or renewed.

(1)The period for which ][a mineral concession or prospecting license] [
Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 9, for " a prospecting license" (w.e.f.
18.12.1999).] may be granted shall not exceed three years.(2)A prospecting
license shall, if the State Government is satisfied that a longer period is
required to enable the licensee to complete prospecting operations, be renewed
for such period or periods as that Government may specify:Provided that the
total period for which a prospecting license is granted does not exceed five
years:Provided further that no prospecting license granted in respect of [a
mineral included in Part A and Part B to] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999,
Section 9, for " a mineral included in" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).] the First
Schedule shall be renewed except with the previous approval of the Central
Government.

### 8. [Periods for which mining leases may be granted or renewed.
[Substituted by Act No. 10 of 2015.]

(1)The provisions of this section shall apply to minerals specified in Part A
of the First Schedule.(2)The maximum period for which a mining lease may be
granted shall not exceed thirty years:Provided that the minimum period for
which any such mining lease may be granted shall not be less than twenty
years.(3)A mining lease may be renewed for a period not exceeding twenty years
with the previous approval of the Central Government.](4)Notwithstanding
anything contained in this section, in case of Government companies or
corporations, the period of mining leases including the existing mining
leases, shall be such as may be prescribed by the Central Government:Provided
that the period of mining leases, other than the mining leases granted through
auction, shall be extended on payment of such additional amount as specified
in the Fifth Schedule:Provided further that the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette and for reasons to be recorded in
writing, amend the Fifth Schedule so as to modify the entries mentioned
therein in the said Schedule with effect from such date as may be specified in
the said notification.(5)Any lessee may, where coal or lignite is used for
captive purpose, sell such coal or lignite up to fifty per cent. of the total
coal or lignite produced in a year after meeting the requirement of the end
use plant linked with the mine in such manner as may be prescribed by the
Central Government and on payment of such additional amount as specified in
the Sixth Schedule:Provided that the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette and for the reasons to be recorded in writing,
increase the said percentage of coal or lignite that may be sold by a
Government company or corporation:Provided further that the sale of coal shall
not be allowed from the coal mines allotted to a company or corporation that
has been awarded a power project on the basis of competitive bid for tariff
(including Ultra Mega Power Projects):Provided also that the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette and for reasons to be
recorded in writing, amend the Sixth Schedule so as to modify the entries
mentioned therein with effect from such date as may be specified in the said
notification.”.

### 8A. [ Period of grant of a mining lease for minerals other than coal,
lignite and atomic minerals. [Inserted by Act No. 10 of 2015.]

(1)The provisions of this section shall apply to minerals other than those
specified in Part A and Part B of the First Schedule.(2)On and from the date
of the commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation)
Amendment Act, 2015, all mining leases shall be granted for the period of
fifty years.(3)All mining leases granted before the commencement of the Mines
and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2015 shall be deemed
to have been granted for a period of fifty years.(4)On the expiry of the lease
period, the lease shall be put up for auction as per the procedure specified
in this Act.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (2), (3) and
sub-section (4), the period of lease granted before the date of commencement
of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2015,
where mineral is used for captive purpose, shall be extended and be deemed to
have been extended up to a period ending on the 31st March, 2030 with effect
from the date of expiry of the period of renewal last made or till the
completion of renewal period, if any, or a period of fifty years from the date
of grant of such lease, whichever is later, subject to the condition that all
the terms and conditions of the lease have been complied
with.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (2), (3) and sub-
section (4), the period of lease granted before the date of commencement of
the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2015, where
mineral is used for other than captive purpose, shall be extended and be
deemed to have been extended up to a period ending on the 31st March, 2020
with effect from the date of expiry of the period of renewal last made or till
the completion of renewal period, if any, or a period of fifty years from the
date of grant of such lease, whichever is later, subject to the condition that
all the terms and conditions of the lease have been complied with.(7)Any
holder of a lease granted, where mineral is used for captive purpose, shall
have the right of first refusal at the time of auction held for such lease
after the expiry of the lease period.(7A)Any lessee may , where mineral is
used for captive purpose, sell mineral up to fifty per cent. of the total
mineral produced in a year after meetingthe requirement of the end use plant
linked with the mine in such manner as may be prescribed by the Central
Government and on payment of such additional amount as specified in the Sixth
Schedule:Provided that the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette and for the reasons to be recorded in writing, increase the
said percentage of mineral that may be sold by a Government company or
corporation:Provided further that the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette and for reasons to be recorded in writing, amend the
Sixth Schedule so as to modify the entries mentioned therein with effect from
such date as may be specified in the said notification.”;(8)Notwithstanding
anything contained in this section, the period of mining leases, including
existing mining leases, of Government companies or corporations shall be such
as may be prescribed by the Central Government.Provided that the period of
mining leases, other than the mining leases granted through auction, shall be
extended on payment of such additional amount as specified in the Fifth
Schedule:Provided further that the Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette and for reasons to be recorded in writing, amend the
Fifth Schedule so as to modify the entries mentioned therein with effect from
such date as may be specified in the said notification.Explanation.—For the
removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that all such Government companies
or corporations whose mining lease has been extended after the commencement of
the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2015, shall
also pay such additional amount as specified in the Fifth Schedule for the
mineral produced after the commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Development
and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2021.”.(9)The provisions of this section,
notwithstanding anything contained therein, shall not apply to a mining lease
granted before the date of commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Development
and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2015, for which renewal has been rejected, or
which has been determined, or lapsed.]

### 8B. Provisions for period and transfer of statutory clearances.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in thisAct or any other law for the time
being in force, all valid rights, approvals, clearances, licences and the like
granted to a lessee in respect of a mine (other than those granted under the
provisions of the Atomic Energy Act, 1962 and the rules made thereunder) shall
continue to be valid even after expiry or termination of lease and such
rights, approvals, clearances, licences and the like shall be transferred to,
and vested; subject to the conditions provided under such laws; in the
successful bidder of the mining lease selected through auction under this
Act:Provided that where on the expiry of such lease period, mining lease has
not been executed pursuant to an auction under provisions of sub-section ( 4)
of section 8A, or lease executed pursuant to such auction has been terminated
within a period of one year from such auction, the S tate Government may, with
the previous approval of the Central Government, grant lease to a Government
company or corporation for a period not exceeding ten years or till selection
of new lessee through auction, whichever is earlier and such Government
company or corporation shall be deemed to have acquired all valid rights,
approvals, clearances, licences and the like vested with the previous
lessee:Provided further that the provisions of sub-section ( 1) of section 6
shall not apply where such mining lease is granted to a Government company or
corporation under the first proviso:Provided also that in case of atomic
minerals having grade equal to or above the threshold value, all valid rights,
approvals, clearances, licences and the like in respect of expired or
terminated mining leases shall be deemed to have been transferred to, and
vested in the Government company or corporation that has been subsequently
granted the mining lease for the said mine.(2)Notwithstanding anything
contained in any other law for the time being in force, it shall be lawful for
the new lessee to continue mining operations on the landtill expiry or
termination of mining lease granted to it, in which mining operations were
being carried out by the previous lessee.

### 9. Royalties in respect of mining leases.

(1)The holder of a mining lease granted before the commencement of this Act
shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the instrument of lease or in any
law in force at such commencement, pay royalty in respect of any [mineral
removed or consumed by him or by his agent, manager, employee, contractor or
sub-lessee] from the leased area after such commencement, at the rate for the
time being specified in the Second Schedule in respect of that mineral.(2)The
holder of a mining lease granted on or after the commencement of this Act
shall pay royalty in respect of any [mineral removed or consumed by him or by
his agent, manager, employee, contractor or sub-lessee] [ Inserted by Act 56
of 1972, Section 4 (w.e.f. 12.9.1972).] from the leased area at the rate for
the time being specified in the Second Schedule in respect of that
mineral.[(2-A) The holder of a mining lease, whether granted before or after
the commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)
Amendment Act, 1972, shall not be liable to pay any royalty in respect of any
coal consumed by a workman engaged in a colliery provided that such
consumption by the workman does not exceed one-third of a tonne per month.]
[Inserted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 4 (w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ](3)The Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the Second
Schedule so as to enhance or reduce the rate at which royalty shall be payable
in respect of any mineral with effect from such date as may be specified in
the notification:[Provided that the Central Government shall not enhance the
rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of
] [ Substituted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 4, for the proviso (w.e.f.
12.9.1972).][three years] [ Substituted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 8, for "
four years" (w.e.f. 10.2.1987).].]

### 9A. [Dead rent to be paid by the lessee.]

(1)The holder of a mining lease, whether granted before or after the
commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Amendment
Act, 1972, shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the instrument of
lease or in any other law for the time being in force, pay to the State
Government, every year, dead rent at such rate as may be specified, for the
time being, in the Third Schedule, for all the areas included in the
instrument of lease:Provided that where the holder of such mining lease
becomes liable, under section 9, to pay royalty for any mineral removed or
consumed by him or by his agent, manager, employee, contractor or sub-lessee
from the leased area, he shall be liable to pay either such royalty or the
dead rent in respect of that area, whichever is greater.(2)The Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the Third
Schedule so as to enhance or reduce the rate at which the dead rent shall be
payable in respect of any area covered by a mining lease and such enhancement
or reduction shall take effect from such date as may be specified in the
notification:Provided that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate
of the dead rent in respect of any such area more than once during any period
of ][three years] [ Substituted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 9, for " four
years" (w.e.f. 10.2.1987).].

### 9B. [ District Mineral Foundation. [Inserted by Act No. 10 of 2015.]

(1)In any district affected by mining related operations, the State Government
shall, by notification, establish a trust, as a non-profit body, to be called
the District Mineral Foundation.(2)The object of the District Mineral
Foundation shall be to work for the interest and benefit of persons, and areas
affected by mining related operations in such manner as may be prescribed by
the State Government.(3)The composition and functions of the District Mineral
Foundation shall be such as may be prescribed by the State Government.Provided
that the Central Government may give directions regarding composition and
utilisation of fund by the District Mineral Foundation.“Provided that the
Central Government may give directions regarding composition and utilisation
of fund by the District Mineral Foundation.”(4)The State Government while
making rules under sub-sections (2) and (3) shall be guided by the provisions
contained in article 244 read with Fifth and Sixth Schedules to the
Constitution relating to administration of the Scheduled Areas and Tribal
Areas and the Provisions of the Panchayats (Extension to the Scheduled Areas)
Act, 1996 and the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers
(Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006.(5)The holder of a mining lease or a
composite licence granted on or after the date of commencement of the Mines
and Minerals (Development and Regulation) other than those covered under the
provisions of sub-section (2) of section 10A”, shall, in addition to the
royalty, pay to the District Mineral Foundation of the district in which the
mining operations are carried on, an amount which is equivalent to such
percentage of the royalty paid in terms of the Second Schedule, not exceeding
one-third of such royalty, as may be prescribed by the Central
Government.(6)The holder of a mining lease granted before the date of
commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) other
those covered under the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 10A”, shall,
in addition to the royalty, pay to the District Mineral Foundation of the
district in which the mining operations are carried on, an amount not
exceeding the royalty paid in terms of the Second Schedule in such manner and
subject to the categorisation of the mining leases and the amounts payable by
the various categories of lease holders, as may be prescribed by the Central
Government.

### 9C. National Mineral Exploration Trust.

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification, establish a Trust, as a on-
profit autonomous body, to be called the National Mineral Exploration
Trust.(2)The object of the Trust shall be to use the funds accrued to the
Trust for the purposes of regional and detailed exploration in such manner as
may be prescribed by the Central Government.(3)The composition and functions
of the Trust shall be such as may be prescribed by the Central
Government.(4)The holder of a mining lease or a composite licence shall pay to
the Trust, a sum equivalent to two per cent. of the royalty paid in terms of
the Second Schedule, in such manner as may be prescribed by the Central
Government.](5)The entities specified and notified under sub-section (1) of
section 4 shall be eligible for funding under the National Mineral Exploration
Trust.

## Chapter III  
PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING MINERAL CONCESSION IN RESPECT OF LAND IN WHICH THE
MINERALS VEST IN THE G OVERNMENT

### 10. Application for mineral concession

(1)An application for [a mineral concession, prospecting license or a mining
lease] in respect of any land in which the minerals vest in the Government
shall be made to the State Government concerned in the prescribed form and
shall be accompanied by the prescribed fee.(2)Where an application is received
under sub-section (1), there shall be sent to the applicant an acknowledgement
of its receipt within the prescribed time and in the prescribed form.(3)On
receipt of an application under this section, the State Government may, having
regard to the provisions of this Act and any rules made thereunder, grant or
refuse to grant the [permit, license or lease] [ Substituted by Act 38 of
1999, Section 11, for " license or lease" (w.e.f.
18.12.1999).].(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, no person
shall be eligible to make an application under this section unless-—(a)he has
been selected in accordance with the procedure specified under sections
sections 10B, 10BA, 11, 11A, 11B or 11D;(b)he has been selected under the Coal
Mines (Special) Provisions Act, 2015; or(c)an area has been reserved in his
favour under section 17A.

### 10A. [ Rights of existing concession holders and applicants. [Inserted by
Act No. 10 of 2015.]

(1)All applications received prior to the date of commencement of the Mines
and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2015, shall become
ineligible.(2)Without prejudice to sub-section (1), the following shall remain
eligible on and from the date of commencement of the Mines and Minerals
(Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2015:-(a)applications received
under section 11A of this Act;(b)where before the commencement of the Mines
and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2015 a mineral
concession or prospecting licence has been granted in respect of any land for
any mineral, the permit holder or the licensee shall have a right for
obtaining a prospecting licence followed by a mining lease, or a mining lease,
as the case may be, in respect of that mineral in that land, if the State
Government is satisfied that the permit holder or the licensee, as the case
may be,-Provided that for the cases covered under this clause including the
pending cases, the right to obtain a prospecting licence followed by a mining
lease or a mining lease, as the case may be, shall lapse on the date of
commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment
Act, 2021:Provided further that the holder of a reconnaissance permit or
prospecting licence whose rights lapsed under the first proviso, shall be
reimbursed the expenditure incurred towards reconnaissance or prospecting
operations in such manner as may be prescribed by the Central
Government.(i)has undertaken reconnaissance operations or prospecting
operations, as the case may be, to establish the existence of mineral contents
in such land in accordance with such parameters as may be prescribed by the
Central Government;(ii)has not committed any breach of the terms and
conditions of the mineral concession or the prospecting licence;(iii)has not
become ineligible under the provisions of this Act; and(iv)has not failed to
apply for grant of prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be,
within a period of three months after the expiry of mineral concession or
prospecting licence, as the case may be, or within such further period not
exceeding six months as may be extended by the State Government;(c)where the
Central Government has communicated previous approval as required under sub-
section (1) of section 5 for grant of a mining lease, or if a letter of intent
(by whatever name called) has been issued by the State Government to grant a
mining lease, before the commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Development
and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2015, the mining lease shall be granted subject
to fulfilment of the conditions of the previous approval or of the letter of
intent within a period of two years from the date of commencement of the said
Act:Provided that in respect of any mineral specified in the First Schedule,
no prospecting licence or mining lease shall be granted under clause (b) of
this subsection except with the previous approval of the Central
Government.(d)in cases where right to obtain licence or lease has lapsed
under,clauses (b) and (c), such areas shall be put up for auction as per the
provisions of this Act:Provided that in respect of the minerals specified in
Part B of the First Schedule where the grade of atomic mineral is equal to or
greater than the threshold,value, the mineral concession for such areas shall
be granted in accordance with the rules made under section 11B.

### 10B. Grant of mining lease in respect of notified minerals through
auction.

(1)The provisions of this section shall not apply to the,—(a)cases falling
under section 17A;(b)minerals specified in PartA of the First
Schedule;(c)minerals specified in Part B of the First Schedule where the grade
of atomic mineral is equal to or greater than such threshold value as may be
notified by the Central Government from time to time; or(d)land in respect of
which the minerals do not vest in the Government.”;(2)Where there is
inadequate evidence to show the existence of mineral contents of any notified
mineral in respect of any area, a State Government may, after obtaining the
previous approval of the Central Government, grant a composite licence for the
said notified mineral in such area in accordance with the procedure laid down
in section 11.(3)In areas where the existence of mineral contents of any
notified mineral is established in the manner prescribed by the Central
Government, the State Government shall notify such areas for grant of mining
leases for such notified mineral, the terms and conditions subject to which
such mining leases shall be granted, and any other relevant conditions, in
such manner as may be prescribed by the Central Government.“Provided that
where the State Government has not notified such area for grant of mining
lease after establishment of existence of mineral contents of any mineral
(whether notified mineral or otherwise), the Central Government may require
the State Government to notify such area within a period to be fixed in
consultation with the State Government and in cases where the notification is
not issued within such period, the Central Government may notify such area for
grant of mining lease after the expiry of the period so specified.”;(4)For the
purpose of granting a mining lease in respect of any notified mineral in such
notified area, the State Government shall select, through auction by a method
of competitive bidding, including e-auction, an applicant who fulfils the
eligibility conditions as specified in this Act.“Provided that-—(a)where the
State Government has not successfully completed auction for the purpose of
granting a mining lease in respect of any mineral (whether notified mineral or
otherwise) in such notified area; or(b)upon completion of such auction, the
mining lease or letter of intent for grant of mining lease has been terminated
or lapsed for anyreason whatsoever,the Central Government may require the
State Government to conduct and complete the auction or re-auction process, as
the case may be, within a period to be fixed in consultation with the State
Government and in cases where such auction or re-auction process is not
completed within such period, the Central Government may conduct auction for
grant of mining lease for such area after the expiry of the period so
specified:Provided further that upon successful completion of the auction, the
Central Government shall intimate the details of the preferred bidder in the
auction to the State Government and the State Government shall grant mining
lease for such area to such preferred bidder in such manner as may be
prescribed by the Central Government.”;(5)The Central Government shall
prescribe the terms and conditions, and procedure, subject to which the
auction shall be conducted, including the bidding parameters for the
selection, which may include a share in the production of the mineral, or any
payment linked to the royalty payable, or any other relevant parameter, or any
combination or modification of them.(6)Without prejudice to the generality of
sub-section (5), the Central Government shall, if it is of the opinion that it
is necessary and expedient to do so, prescribe terms and conditions, procedure
and bidding parameters in respect of categories of minerals, size and area of
mineral deposits and a State or States, subject to which the auction shall be
conducted:Provided that the terms and conditions may include the reservation
of any particular mine or mines for a particular end-use and subject to such
condition which allow only such eligible end users to participate in the
auction.“Provided that no mine shall be reserved for captive purpose in the
auction.”.(7)The State Government shall grant a mining lease to an applicant
selected in accordance with the procedure laid down in this section in respect
of such notified mineral in any notified area.

### 10BA. Grant of exploration licence for minerals specified in Seventh
Schedule through auction.

(1)The provisions of this section shall not apply to—(a)the areas covered
under section 17A;(b)the minerals specified in Part A of the First
Schedule;(c)the minerals specified in Part B of the First Schedule where the
grade of atomic mineral is equal to or greater than such threshold value as
may be notified by the Central Government from time to time;(d)any land in
respect of which the minerals do not vest in the Government.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sections 10B and 11, an exploration licence may be
granted in any area by the State Government for the purpose of undertaking
reconnaissance or prospecting operations or both in respect of any mineral
specified in the Seventh Schedule.(3)The Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, and for reasons to be recorded in
writing, amend the Seventh Schedule so as to modify the entries therein with
effect from such date as may be specified in the said notification.(4)The
State Government shall, after obtaining the previous approval of the Central
Government, and in such manner as may be prescribed by the Central Government,
notify the areas in which exploration licence shall be granted, subject to
such terms and conditions as may be specified in the notification.(5)The
Central Government may require the State Government to notify the area for
grant of exploration licence within such period as may be fixed in
consultation with the State Government, and in case the State Government does
not notify the area within such period, the Central Government may, after the
expiry of the period so fixed, notify the area for grant of exploration
licence.(6)The State Government shall, for the purpose of granting exploration
licence through auction by method of competitive bidding, including e-auction,
select an applicant who fulfils the eligibility conditions as specified in
this Act and grant exploration licence to such applicant.(7)Where—(a)the State
Government has not successfully completed auction for the grant of exploration
licence; or(b)after completion of auction, the exploration licence or letter
of intent for grant of exploration licence has been terminated or lapsed for
any reason whatsoever, the Central Government may require the State Government
to conduct and complete the auction or re-auction process, as the case may be,
within such period as may be fixed in consultation with the State Government,
and in cases where such auction or re-auction process is not completed within
such period, the Central Government may, after the expiry of the period so
fixed, conduct auction for the grant of exploration licence for such
area:Provided that upon successful completion of the auction, the Central
Government shall intimate the details of the preferred bidder in the auction
to the State Government and the State Government shall grant exploration
licence for such area to such preferred bidder in such manner as may be
prescribed by the Central Government.(8)The holder of exploration licence
shall be entitled to a share of applicable amount quoted in the auction of
mining leases payable by the lessee to the State Government in respect of the
area granted in mining lease pursuant to the prospecting operations undertaken
by the holder of such exploration licence:Provided that the share in
applicable amount payable to the holder of exploration licence by the lessee
of such area shall be allowed only in respect of the minerals specified in the
Seventh Schedule.(9)The Central Government shall by rules provide for the
manner of conducting auction for grant of exploration licence, including its
terms and conditions, the bidding parameters for selection, share payable to
the holder of exploration licence from out of the applicable amount quoted in
auction of mining leases payable by the lessee of such area, the period for
such payment and such other conditions as may be necessary.(10)Notwithstanding
anything contained in section 7,—(a)the exploration licence shall be granted
for a period of five years from the date of execution of the exploration
licence;(b)if, after three years from the date of execution of exploration
licence, but before the date of its expiry, the holder of the exploration
licence makes an application for the extension of the period of that licence,
the State Government may, on being satisfied that within the period of five
years, it shall not be possible for the holder of such licence to complete the
reconnaissance or prospecting operations for reasons beyond his control,
extend the said period to a further period not exceeding two years.(11)After
three years from the date of execution of the exploration licence, the holder
of such licence may retain an area not exceeding twenty-five per cent. of the
total area covered under that licence for the purpose of continuing
reconnaissance or prospecting operations and shall surrender the remaining
area after submitting a report to the State Government stating the reasons for
retention of the area proposed to be retained by him and the boundaries of
that area.(12)The holder of the exploration licence shall, within three months
of the completion of the operations for which licence has been granted, or of
the date of expiry of the exploration licence, whichever is earlier, submit a
geological report to the State Government explaining the result of the
reconnaissance and prospecting operations, in such manner as may be
prescribed.(13)If the holder of the exploration licence fails to complete the
reconnaissance and prospecting operations before expiry of the exploration
licence, or fails to submit the geological report within the period specified
in sub-section (12), the State Government may take such action as it deems
fit, including imposition of penalty.(14)Within six months from the date of
receipt of the geological report from the holder of the exploration licence,
the Central Government or the State Government shall initiate the auction
process for grant of one or more separate mining leases under section 10B or
section 11 or section 11D, as the case may be, in respect of the area where
existence of mineral content is established and shall select the preferred
bidder for grant of such mining leases within one year from the date of
receipt of the geological report:Provided that in case the preferred bidder is
not selected within the period so specified, the State Government shall pay to
the person who was the holder of exploration licence such amount, and in such
manner, as may be prescribed.".

### 11\. Grant of composite licence through auction in respect of minerals
other than notified minerals. [Substituted by Act No. 10 of 2015.]

(1)The provisions of this section shall not apply to the,-—(a)cases falling
under section 17A;(b)minerals specified in PartA of the First
Schedule;(c)minerals specified in Part B of the First Schedule where the grade
of atomic mineral is equal to or greater than such threshold value as may be
notified by the Central Government from time to time; or(d)land in respect of
which the minerals do not vest in the Government.”;(2)In areas where there is
evidence to show the existence of mineral contents as required by clause (a)
of sub-section (2) of section 5, the State Government shall grant a mining
lease for minerals other than notified minerals following the procedure laid
down in section 10B.(3)In areas where there is inadequate evidence to show the
existence of mineral contents as required under clause (a) of sub-section (2)
of section 5, the State Government shall grant a composite licence for
minerals other than notified minerals in accordance with the procedure laid
down in this section.(4)The State Government shall notify the areas in which
composite licences shall be granted for any minerals other than notified
minerals, the terms and conditions subject to which such composite licences
shall be granted, and any other relevant conditions, in such manner as may be
prescribed by the Central Government.“Provided that where the State Government
has not notified such area for grant of composite licence of any mineral
(whether notified mineral or otherwise),the Central Government may require the
State Government to notify such area within a period to be fixed in
consultation with the State Government and in cases where the notification is
not issued within such period, the Central Government may notify such area for
grant of composite licence after the expiry of the period so
specified.”;(5)For the purpose of granting composite licences, the State
Government shall select, through auction by method of competitive bidding,
including e-auction, an applicant who fulfils the eligibility conditions as
specified in this Act.“Provided that—(a)where the State Government has not
successfully completed auction for the purpose of granting a composite licence
in respect of any mineral (whether notified mineral or otherwise) in such
notified area; or(b)upon completion of such auction, the composite licence or
letter of intent for grant of composite licence has been terminated or lapsed
forany reason whatsoever, the Central Government may require the State
Government to conduct and complete the auction or re-auction process, as the
case may be, within a period to be fixed in consultation with the State
Government and in cases where such auction or re-auction process is not
completed within such period, the Central Government may conduct auction for
grant of composite licence for such area after the expiry of the period so
specified:Provided further that upon successful completion of the auction, the
Central Government shall intimate the details of the preferred bidder in the
auction to the State Government and the State Government shall grant composite
licence for such area to such preferred bidder in such manner as may be
prescribed by the Central Government.”;(6)The Central Government shall
prescribe the terms and conditions, and procedure, subject to which the
auction shall be conducted, including the bidding parameters for the
selection, which may include a share in the production of the mineral, or any
payment linked to the royalty payable, or any other relevant parameter, or any
combination or modification of them.(7)Without prejudice to the generality of
sub-section (6), the Central Government shall, if it is of the opinion that it
is necessary and expedient to do so, prescribe terms and conditions, procedure
and bidding parameters in respect of categories of minerals, size and area of
mineral deposits and a State or States, subject to which the auction shall be
conducted.(8)The State Government shall grant a composite licence to an
applicant selected in accordance with the procedure laid down in this
section.(9)The holder of a composite licence shall be required to complete,
within the period laid down in section 7, the prospecting operations
satisfactorily as specified in the notice inviting applications.(10)On
completion of the prospecting operations, the holder of the composite licence
shall submit the result of the prospecting operations in the form of a
geological report to the State Government specifying the area require for
mining lease and the State Government shall grant mining lease for such area,
to the holder of the composite licence in such manner as may be prescribed by
the Central Government.’’.

### 11A. [ Procedure in respect of coal or lignite. [Inserted by Mines And
Minerals (Development And Regulation) Amendment Act, 2010 (No. 34 Of 2010) ]

\- The Central Government may, for the purpose of granting mineral concession,
prospecting licence or mining lease in respect of an area containing coal or
lignite, select, through auction by competitive bidding on such terms and
conditions as may be prescribed, a company engaged in,-(i)production of iron
and steel;(ii)generation of power;(iii)washing of coal obtained from a mine;
or(iv)such other end use as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify, and the State Government shall grant such mineral
concession, prospecting licence or mining lease in respect of coal or lignite
to such company as selected through auction by competitive bidding under this
section:Provided that the auction by competitive bidding shall not be
applicable to an area containing coal or lignite,-(a)where such area is
considered for allocation to a Government company or corporation for mining or
such other specified end use;(b)where such area is considered for allocation
to a company or corporation that has been awarded a power project on the basis
of competitive bids for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power
Projects).Explanation.-For the purposes of this section, "company" means a
company as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956 and includes a
foreign company within the meaning of section 591 of that Act.]

### 11B. [ Power of Central Government to make rules for regulating atomic
minerals specified under Part B of First Schedule. [Inserted by Act No. 10 of
2015.]

The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for regulating the grant of mining leases or other mineral concessions
in respect of minerals specified in Part B of the First Schedule and for
purposes connected therewith, and the State Government shall grant a mineral
concession, prospecting licence or mining lease in respect of any such mineral
in accordance with such rules.

### 11C. Power of Central Government to amend First Schedule and Fourth
Schedule.

The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the
First Schedule and the Fourth Schedule so as to add or delete any mineral as
may be specified in the notification.]

### 11D. Central Government to conduct auction for grant of mining lease or
composite licence in respect of minerals specified in Part D of First
Schedule.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in thisAct, the Central Government
shall, for the purpose of granting mining lease or composite licence in any
area in respect of any mineral specified in the Part D of the First Schedule,
select, through auction by method of competitive bidding, including e-auction,
a preferred bidder who fulfils the eligibility conditions as specified in
section 5, on such terms and conditions, and in such manner, as may be
prescribed.(2)Upon successful completion of the auction, the Central
Government shall intimate the details of the preferred bidder in the auction
to the State Government and the State Government shall grant mining lease or
composite licence for such area, to such preferred bidder, in such manner, as
may be prescribed by the Central Government.(3)The royalty, dead rent,
applicable amount quoted in the auction and any other statutory payment in
relation to the mining lease or composite licence auctioned by the Central
Government shall accrue to the State Government or concerned authorities, as
the case may be, as if the auction has been conducted by the State
Government.".

### 12\. Registers of mineral concession.

(1)The State Government shall cause to be maintained in the prescribed
form-(a)a register of applications for prospecting licenses;(b)a register of
prospecting licenses;(c)[ a register of applications for mining leases;(d)a
register of mining leases;(e)a register of applications for mineral
concessions;(f)a register of mineral concessions,](g)a register of
applications for exploration licences; and(h)a register of exploration
licences,in each of which shall be entered such particulars as may be
prescribed.SUBSEC (2)Every such register shall be open to inspection by any
person on payment of such fee as the State Government may fix.

### 12A. [ Transfer of mineral concessions. [Inserted by Act No. 10 of 2015.]

(1)The provisions of this section shall not apply to minerals specified in
Part A or Part B of the First Schedule.(2)A holder of a mining lease or a
composite licence granted in accordance with the procedure laid down in
section 10B or section 11 may, with the previous approval of the State
Government, transfer his mining lease or composite licence, as the case may
be, in such manner as may be prescribed by the Central Government, to any
person eligible to hold such mining lease or exploration licence in accordance
with the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder.(a)for the
words, figures and letter, “section 10B or section 11”, the words “this Act”
shall be substituted;(b)the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:-—
“Provided that the transferee of mining lease shall not be required to pay the
amount or transfer charges referred to in sub-section (6), as it stood prior
to the commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation)Amendment Act, 2021, after such commencement but no refund shall be
made of the charges already paid.”;(3)If the State Government does not convey
its previous approval for transfer of such mining lease or composite licence,
as the case may be, within a period of ninety days from the date of receiving
such notice, it shall be construed that the State Government has no objection
to such transfer:Provided that the holder of the original mining lease or
composite licence shall intimate to the State Government the consideration
payable by the successor-in-interest for the transfer, including the
consideration in respect of the prospecting operations already undertaken and
the reports and data generated during the operations.(4)No such transfer of a
mining lease or composite licence, referred to in sub-section (2), shall take
place if the State Government, within the notice period and for reasons to be
communicated in writing, disapproves the transfer on the ground that the
transferee is not eligible as per the provisions of this Act:Provided that no
such transfer of a mining lease or of a composite licence, shall be made in
contravention of any condition subject to which the mining lease or the
composite licence was granted.(5)All transfers effected under this section
shall be subject to the condition that the transferee has accepted all the
conditions and liabilities under any law for the time being in force which the
transferor was subject to in respect of such a mining lease or composite
licence, as the case may be.

## Chapter IV  
RULES FOR REGULATING THE GRANT OF MINERAL CONCESSIONS

### 13\. Power of Central Government to make rules in respect of minerals.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for regulating the grant of [mineral concessions] in respect of minerals
and for purposes connected therewith.(2)In particular, and without prejudice
to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or
any of the following matters, namely:-(a)the person by whom, and the manner in
which, applications for [mineral concessions, prospecting licenses or mining
leases] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 14, for " prospecting
licenses or mining leases" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).] in respect of land in which
the minerals vest in the Government may be made and the fees to be paid
therefor;(aa)the conditions as may be necessary for commencement and
continuation of production by the holders of mining leases, under section
4B;(ab)the conditions to be fulfilled by the new lessee for obtaining all
necessary rights, approvals, clearances, licences and the like under the
proviso to sub-section (2) of section 8B;(ac)the level of exploration in
respect of deep seated minerals or such minerals and the procedure, including
the bidding parameters for selection of the holders under the proviso to sub-
section (2) of section 10C; [Omitted](b)the time within which, and the form in
which, acknowledgment of the receipt of any such application may be
sent;(c)the matters which may be considered where applications in respect of
the same land are received on the same day;(d)[ the terms and conditions of
auction by competitive bidding for selection of the company under section
11A;] [Inserted by Mines And Minerals (Development And Regulation) Amendment
Act, 2010 (No. 34 Of 2010) ].(e)the authority by which [mineral concessions,
prospecting licenses or mining leases] [Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section
14, for " prospecting licenses or mining leases" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999). ] in
respect of land in which the minerals vest in the Government may be
granted;(f)the procedure for obtaining a [mineral concession, a prospecting
licenses or a mining lease] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 14, for "
prospecting licenses or mining leases" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).] in respect of any
land in which the minerals vest in a person other than the Government and the
terms on which, and the conditions subject to which, such [a permit, license
or lease] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 14, for " a prospecting
license or a mining lease" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).] may be granted or
renewed;(g)the terms on which, and the conditions subject to which, any other
[mineral concession, prospecting license or mining lease] [ Substituted by Act
38 of 1999, Section 14, for " prospecting license or mining lease" (w.e.f.
18.12.1999).] may be granted or renewed;(h)the facilities to be afforded by
holders of mining leases to persons deputed by the Government for the purpose
of undertaking research or training in matters relating to mining
operations;(i)[ the fixing and collection of fees for ] [Substituted by Act 37
of 1986, Section 11, for Clause (i) (w.e.f. 10.2.1987). ] [mineral
concessions, prospecting licenses or mining leases] [ Substituted by Act 38 of
1999, Section 14, for " prospecting licenses or mining leases" (w.e.f.
18.12.1999).][ surface rent, security deposit, fines, other fees or charges
and the time within which and the manner in which the dead rent or royalty
shall be payable;] [Substituted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 11, for Clause (i)
(w.e.f. 10.2.1987). ](j)the manner in which rights of third parties may be
protected (whether by payment of compensation or otherwise) in cases where any
such party may be prejudicially affected by reason of any [reconnaissance,
prospecting or mining operations] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 14,
for " prospecting or mining operations" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).];(jj)[ parameters
of existence of mineral contents under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of
section 5;] [Inserted by Act No. 10 of 2015.](k)the grouping of associated
minerals for the purposes of section 6;(l)the manner in which, and the
conditions subject to which, [a reconnaissance, permit, a prospecting license
or a mining lease] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 14, for " a
prospecting license or a mining lease" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).] may be
transferred;(m)the construction, maintenance and use of roads, power
transmission lines, tramways, railways, aerial ropeways, pipelines and the
making of passages for water for mining purposes on any land comprised in a
mining lease;(n)the form of registers to be maintained under this Act;[* * *]
[ Clause (o) omitted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 11 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987).](p)the
reports and statements to be submitted by holders of [mineral concessions or
prospecting licenses] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 14, for "
prospecting licenses" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).] or owners of mines and the
authority to which such reports and statements shall be submitted;(q)the
period within which applications for revision of any order passed by a State
Government or other authority in exercise of any power conferred by or under
this Act, may be made [the fees to be paid therefor and the documents which
shall accompany such applications] [ Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 11
(w.e.f. 10.2.1987).] and the manner in which such applications shall be
disposed of; [*] [By Act 37 of 1986, Section 11, after clause (q), clause (qq)
has been inserted w.e.f. 10.2.1987 but the word " and" at the end of clause
(q) has not been omitted nor the word " and" has been added/inserted at the
end of clause (qq), which ought to have been done by the said Act. To put the
matter in right prospective corrections have been made accordingly-(Ed).](qq)[
the manner in which rehabilitation of flora and other vegetation such as
trees, shrubs and the like destroyed by reason of any prospecting or mining
operations shall be made in the same area or in any other area selected by the
Central Government (whether by way of reimbursement of the cost of
rehabilitation or otherwise) by the person holding the prospecting license or
mining lease;] [ Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 11 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987).]
[* * *] [Omitted for the word 'and' by Act No. 10 of 2015.](qqa)[ the amount
of payment to be made to the District Mineral Foundation under sub-sections
(5) and (6) of section 9B; [Inserted by Act No. 10 of 2015.](qqb)the manner of
usage of funds accrued to the National Mineral Exploration Trust under sub-
section (2) of section 9C;(qqc)the composition and functions of the National
Mineral Exploration Trust under sub-section (3) of section 9C;(qqd)the manner
of payment of amount to the National Mineral Exploration Trust under sub-
section (4) of section 9C;(qqe)the terms and conditions subject to which
mining leases shall be granted under sub-section (3) of section 10B;(qqf)the
terms and conditions, and procedure, subject to which the auction shall be
conducted including the bidding parameters for the selection under sub-section
(5) of section 10B;(qqg)the time limits for various stages in processing
applications for grant of mineral concession under section 10B, 10BA, 11, 11A,
11B, 11D, and section 17A, and their renewals;(qqi)the terms and conditions
for grant of prospecting license-cum-mining leases under sub-section (4) of
section 11;(qqj)the terms and conditions, and procedure, including the bidding
parameters for the selection under sub-section (6) of section 11;(qqja)[ the
terms and conditions and amount or transfer charges under the proviso to sub-
section (6) of section 12A;](r)the period of mining lease under sub-section
(4) of section 8;(s)the manner of sale of mineral by the holder of a mining
lease under sub-section (5) of section 8;(t)the manner of sale of mineral
under sub-section (7A) of section 8A;(u)the manner for reimbursement of
expenditure towards reconnaissance permits or prospecting operations under the
second proviso to clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 10A;(v)the manner
of granting mining lease to the preferred bidder under the second proviso to
sub-section (4) of section 10B;(va)the manner of notifying the areas for grant
of exploration licence under sub-section (4) of section 10BA;(vb)the manner of
granting exploration licence to the preferred bidder under the proviso to sub-
section (7) of section 10BA;(vc)the manner of conducting auction for grant of
exploration licence, the terms and conditions thereof, the bidding parameters
for selection, the sharepayable to the holder, the period for payment and
other conditions under sub-section (9) of section 10BA;(vd)the manner of
submitting geological report under sub-section (12) of section 10BA;(ve)the
amount to be paid and the manner of payment under the proviso to sub-section
(14) of section 10BA(w)the manner of granting composite licence to the
preferred bidder under the second proviso to sub-section ( 5) of section
11;(x)the manner of granting mining lease by the State Government to the
holder of the composite licence under sub-section (10) of section 11;(xa)the
terms and conditions and the manner of selecting a preferred bidder under sub-
section (1) of section 11D;(xb)the manner of granting a mining lease or
composite licence to a preferred bidder under sub-section (2) of section
11D;(y)any other matter which is to be, or may be prescribed, under this
Act.”.

### 13\. A. Power of Central Government to make rules for the grant of
prospecting licenses or mining leases in respect of territorial waters or
continental shelf of India.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for the grant of prospecting licenses or mining leases in respect of any
minerals underlying the ocean within the territorial waters or the continental
shelf of India.(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-(a)the
conditions, limitations and restrictions subject to which such prospecting
licenses or mining leases may be granted;(b)regulation of exploration and
exploitation of minerals within the territorial waters or the continental
shelf of India;(c)ensuring that such exploration or exploitation does not
interfere with navigation; and(d)any other matter which is required to be, or
may be, prescribed.]

### 14\. [Sections 5 to 13] not to apply to minor minerals.

\- The provisions of [sections 5 to 13 ] [Substituted by Act 37 of 1986,
Section 12, for " Sections 4 to 13" (w.e.f. 10.2.1987). ](inclusive) shall not
apply to [quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions] [
Substituted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 7, for " prospecting licences and
mining leases" (w.e.f. 12.9.1972).] in respect of minor minerals.

### 15. Power of State Governments to make rules in respect of minor minerals.
- (1) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for regulating the grant of [quarry leases, mining leases or other
mineral concessions] in respect of minor minerals and for purposes connected
therewith.

[(1-A) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the person by whom and the manner in which, applications for quarry
leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions may be made and the fees to
be paid therefor;(b)the time within which, and the form in which,
acknowledgment of the receipt of any such applications may be sent;(c)the
matters which may be considered where applications in respect of the same land
are received within the same day;(d)the terms on which, and the conditions
subject to which and the authority by which quarry leases, mining leases or
other mineral concessions may be granted or renewed;(e)the procedure for
obtaining quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions;(f)the
facilities to be afforded by holders of quarry leases, mining leases or other
mineral concessions to persons deputed by the Government for the purpose of
undertaking research or training in matters relating to mining
operations;(g)the fixing and collection of rent, royalty, fees, dead rent,
fines or other charges and the time within which and the manner in which these
shall be payable;(h)the manner in which rights of third parties may be
protected (whether by way of payment of compensation or otherwise) in cases
where any such party is prejudicially affected by reason of any prospecting or
mining operations;(i)the manner in which rehabilitation of flora and other
vegetation such as trees, shrubs and the like destroyed by reason of any
quarrying or mining operations shall be made in the same area or in any other
area selected by the State Government (whether by way of reimbursement of the
cost of rehabilitation or otherwise) by the person holding the quarrying or
mining lease;(j)the manner in which and the conditions subject to which, a
quarry lease, mining lease or other mineral concession may be
transferred;(k)the construction, maintenance and use of roads, power
transmission lines, tramways, railways, aerial ropeways, pipelines and the
making of passage for water for mining purposes on any land comprised in a
quarry or mining lease or other mineral concession;(l)the form of registers to
be maintained under this Act;(m)the reports and statements to be submitted by
holders of quarry or mining leases or other mineral concessions and the
authority to which such reports and statements shall be submitted;(n)the
period within which and the manner in which and the authority to which
applications for revision of any order passed by any authority under these
rules may be made, the fees to be paid therefor, and the powers of the
revisional authority; and(o)any other matter which is to be, or may be,
prescribed.](2)Until rules are made under sub-section (1), any rules made by a
State Government regulating the grant of [quarry leases, mining leases or
other mineral concessions] [ Substituted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 8, for "
prospecting licenses and mining leases" (w.e.f. 12.9.1972).] in respect of
minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this
Act shall continue in force.(3)[ The holder of a mining lease or any other
mineral concession granted under any rule made under sub-section (1) shall pay
] [Inserted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 8 (w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ][royalty or dead
rent, whichever is more] [ Substituted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 13, for "
royalty" (w.e.f. 10.2.1987).], in respect of minor minerals removed or
consumed by him or by his agent, manager, employee, contractor or sub-lessee
at the rate prescribed for the time being in the rules framed by the State
Government in respect of minor minerals:Provided that the State Government
shall not enhance the rate of [royalty or dead rent] [Substituted by Act 37 of
1986, Section 13, for " royalty" (w.e.f. 10.2.1987). ] in respect of any minor
mineral for more than once during any period of [three years] [ Substituted by
Act 37 of 1986, Section 13, for " four years" (w.e.f. 10.2.1987).].(4)[
Without prejudice to sub-sections (1), (2) and sub-section (3), the State
Government may, by notification, make rules for regulating the provisions of
this Act for the following, namely:-(a)the manner in which the District
Mineral Foundation shall work for the interest and benefit of persons and
areas affected by mining under sub-section (2) of section 9B;(b)the
composition and functions of the District Mineral Foundation under sub-section
(3) of section 9B; and(c)the amount of payment to be made to the District
Mineral Foundation by concession holders of minor minerals under section 15A.]

### 15A. [ Power of State Government to collect funds for District Mineral
Foundation in case of minor minerals. [Inserted by Act No. 10 of 2015.]

\- The State Government may prescribe the payment by all holders of
concessions related to minor minerals of amounts to the District Mineral
Foundation of the district in which the mining operations are carried on.]
[Inserted by Act No. 10 of 2015.]

### 16. Power to modify mining leases granted before 25th October, 1949.

(1)(a)All mining leases granted before the commencement of the Mines and
Minerals (Regulation and Development) Amendment Act, 1972, [Inserted by Act 37
of 1986, Section 13 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987). ][if in force at the date of
commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Amendment
Act, 1994, shall be brought in conformity with the provisions of this Act and
the rules made thereunder within two years from the date of the commencement
of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Amendment Act, 1994] [
Substituted by Act 25 of 1994, Section 6, for certain words (w.r.e.f.
25.1.1994).][, or such further time as the Central Government may, by general
or special order, specify in this behalf.(b)Where the rights under any mining
lease, granted by the proprietor of an estate or tenure before the
commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Amendment
Act, 1972, have vested, on or after the 25th day of October, 1949, in the
State Government in pursuance of the provisions of any Act of any Provincial
or State Legislature which provides for the acquisition of estates or tenures
or provides for agrarian reform, such mining lease shall be brought into
conformity with the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder
within ][two years from the commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation
and Development) Amendment Act, 1994] [Substituted by Act 25 of 1994, Section
6, for certain words (w.r.e.f. 25.1.1994). ][, or within such further time as
the Central Government may, by general or special order, specify in this
behalf.] [Substituted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 9, for sub-Section (1)
(w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ]

### 1A. Where any action is taken under clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-
section (1) to bring the period of any lease in conformity with the provisions
of this Act and the rules made thereunder, then, notwithstanding anything
contained in section 8, the period of such lease shall continue to operate for
a period of two years from the date of bringing such lease in conformity with
the provisions of this Act.] [ Inserted by Act 25 of 1994, Section 6 (w.r.e.f.
25.1.1994).]

(2)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
[rules] [ See the Mining Leases (Modification of Terms) Rules, 1956.] for the
purpose of giving effect to the provisions of sub-section (1) and in
particular such rules shall provide-(a)for giving previous notice of the
modification or alteration proposed to be made in any existing mining lease to
the lessee and where the lessor is not the Central Government, also to the
lessor and for affording him an opportunity of showing cause against the
proposal;(b)for the payment of compensation to the lessee in respect of the
reduction of any area covered by the existing mining lease; and(c)for the
principles on which, the manner in which, and the authority by which, the said
compensation shall be determined.

## Chapter V  
Special Powers Of Central Government To Undertake Prospecting Or Mining
Operations In Certain Cases

### 17. Special powers of Central Government to undertake prospecting or
mining operations in certain lands. - (1) The provisions of this section shall
apply [* * *] [Substituted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 9, for sub-Section (1)
(w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ] in respect of land in which the minerals vest in the
Government of a State [or any other person] [ Inserted by Act 56 of 1972,
Section 10 (w.e.f. 12.9.1972).].

(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Central Government,
after consultation with the State Government, may undertake [reconnaissance,
prospecting or mining operations] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 15,
for " prospecting or mining operations" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).] in any area not
already held under any [mineral concession, prospecting license or mining
lease] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 15, for " prospecting license
or mining lease" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).] and where it proposes to do so, it
shall, by notification in the Official Gazette-(a)specify the boundaries of
such area;(b)state whether [reconnaissance, prospecting or mining operations]
[ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 15, for " prospecting or mining
operations" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).] will be carried out in the area;
and(c)specify the mineral or minerals in respect of which such operations will
be carried out.(3)Where, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section
(2), the Central Government undertakes [reconnaissance, prospecting or mining
operations] [Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 15, for " prospecting or
mining operations" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999). ] in any area, the Central Government
shall be liable to pay [mineral concession fee or prospecting fee] [
Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 15, for " prospecting fee" (w.e.f.
18.12.1999).] royalty, surface rent or dead rent, as the case may be, at the
same rate at which it would have been payable under this Act, if such
[reconnaissance, prospecting or mining operations] [Substituted by Act 38 of
1999, Section 15, for " prospecting or mining operations" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).
] had been undertaken by a private person under a [mineral concession,
prospecting license or mining lease.] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section
15, for " prospecting license or mining lease" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).](4)The
Central Government, with a view to enabling it to exercise the powers
conferred on it by sub-section (2) may, after consultation with the State
Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that no [mineral
concession, prospecting license, or mining lease] [Substituted by Act 38 of
1999, Section 15, for " prospecting license or mining lease" (w.e.f.
18.12.1999). ] shall be granted in respect of any land specified in the
notification.

### 17A. Reservation of area for purposes of conservation.

(1)The Central Government, with a view to conserving any mineral and after
consultation with the State Government, may reserve any area not already held
under any prospecting license or mining lease and, where it proposes to do so,
it shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify the boundaries of
such area and the mineral or minerals in respect of which such area will be
reserved.](1A)The Central Government may, in consultation with the State
Government, reserve any area not already held under any prospecting license or
exploration licence or mining lease, for undertaking prospecting or mining
operations through a Government company or corporation owned or controlled by
it, and where it proposes to do so, it shall, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify the boundaries of such area and the mineral or minerals in
respect of which such area will be reserved.] [ Inserted by Act 25 of 1994,
Section 7 (w.r.e.f. 25.1.1994).](2)[ The State Government may, with the
approval of the Central Government, reserve any area not already held under
any prospecting license or exploration licence or mining lease, for
undertaking prospecting or mining operations through a Government company or
corporation owned or controlled by it ] [Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section
14 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987). ][* * *] [ The words " or by the Central Government"
omitted by Act 25 of 1994, Section 7 (w.r.e.f. 25.1.1994).][and where it
proposes to do so, it shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify
the boundaries of such area and the mineral or minerals in respect of which
such areas will be reserved.] [Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 14 (w.e.f.
10.2.1987). ](2A)Where in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (
1A) or sub-section (2), the Central Government or the State Government, as the
case may be, reserves any area for undertaking prospecting or mining
operations or prospecting operations followed by mining operations, the State
Government shall grant prospecting licence, mining lease or composite licence,
as the case may be, in respect of such area to such Government company or
corporation within the period specified in this section:Provided that in
respect of any mineral specified in Part B of the First Schedule, the State
Government shall grant the prospecting licence, mining lease or composite
licence, as the case may be, only after obtaining the previous, approval of
the Central Government.”(2B)Where the Government company or corporation is
desirous of carrying out the prospecting operations or mining operations in a
joint venture with other persons, the joint venture partner shall be selected
through a competitive process, and such Government company or corporation
shall hold more than seventy-four per cent. of the paid up share capital in
such joint venture.(2C)A mining lease granted to a Government company or
corporation, or a joint venture, referred to in sub-sections (2A) and (2B),
shall be granted on payment of such amount as may be prescribed by the Central
Government.] [Inserted by Act No. 10 of 2015.](i)for the words, “may be
prescribed by the Central Government.”, the words “specified in the Fifth
Schedule” shall be substituted;(ii)the following shall be inserted, namely:—
“Provided that the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette and for reasons to be recorded in writing, amend the Fifth Schedule so
as to modify the entries mentioned therein in the said Schedule with effect
from such date as may be specified in the said notification.Explanation.—For
the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that all such Government
companies or corporations whose mining lease has been granted after the
commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation)Amendment
Act, 2015, shall also pay such additional amount as specified in the Fifth
Schedule for the mineral produced after the commencement of the Mines and
Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2021.”(3)[Where, in
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1-A) or sub-section (2), the
Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be,] [ Substituted
by Act 25 of 1994, Section 7, for " Where, in exercise of the powers conferred
by sub-Section (2), the State Government" (w.r.e.f. 25.1.1994).][undertakes
prospecting or mining operations in any area in which the minerals vest in a
private person, it shall be liable to pay prospecting fee, royalty, surface
rent or dead rent, as the case may be, from time to time at the same rate at
which it would have been payable under this Act if such prospecting or mining
operations had been undertaken by a private person under prospecting license
or mining lease.] [Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 14 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987).
](4)The reservation made under this section shall lapse in case no mining
lease is granted within a period of five years from the date of such
reservation:Provided that where the period of five years from the date of
reservation has expired before the date of commencement of the Mines and
Minerals (Development and Regulation)Amendment Act, 2021 or expires within a
period of one year from the date of commencement of the saidAct, the
reservation shall lapse in case no mining lease is granted within a period of
one year from the date of commencement of the said Act:Provided further that
the State Government may, on an application made by such Government company or
corporation or on its own motion, and on being satisfied that it shall not be
possible to grant the mining lease within the said period, make an order with
reasons in writing, within a period of three months from the date of receipt
of such application, to relax such period by a further period not exceeding
one year:Provided also that where the Government company or corporation in
whose favour an area has been reserved under this section before the
commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment
Act, 2015, has commenced production from the reserved area without execution
of mining lease, such Government company or corporation shall be deemed to
have become lessee of the State Government from the date of commencement of
mining operations and such deemed lease shall lapse upon execution of the
mining lease in accordance with this sub-section or expiry of period of one
year from the date of commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Amendment Act, 2021, whichever is earlier.(5)The termination or
lapse of mining lease shall result in the lapse of the reservation under this
section.”.

## Chapter VI  
Development of Minerals

### 18. Mineral development. - (1) It shall be the duty of the Central
Government to take all such steps as may be necessary [for the conservation
and systematic development of minerals in India and for the protection of
environment by preventing or controlling any pollution which may be caused by
prospecting or mining operations] and [for such purposes] [Substituted by Act
37 of 1986, Section 15, for certain words (w.e.f. 10.2.1987). ] the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make such [rules] [
See the Minerals Conservation and Development Rules, 1958 made in supersession
of the Minerals Conservation and Development Rules, 1955.] as it thinks fit.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the opening of new mines and the regulation of mining operations in
any area;(b)the regulation of the excavation or collection of minerals from
any mine;(c)the measures to be taken by owners of mines for the purpose of
beneficiation of ores, including the provision of suitable contrivances for
such purpose;(d)the development of mineral resources in any area;(e)the
notification of all new borings and shaft sinkings and the preservation of
bore-hole records, and specimens of cores of all new bore-holes;(f)the
regulation of the arrangements for the storage of minerals and the stocks
thereof that may be kept by any person;(g)the submission of samples of
minerals from any mine by the owner thereof and the manner in which and the
authority to which such samples shall be submitted; and the taking of samples
of any minerals from any mine by the State Government or any other authority
specified by it in that behalf;(h)the submission by owners of mines of such
special or periodical returns and reports as may be specified, and the form in
which and the authority to which such returns and reports shall be
submitted;(i)[ the regulation of prospecting operations; [ Inserted by Act 37
of 1986, Section 15 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987).](j)the employment of qualified
geologists or mining engineers to supervise prospecting or mining
operations;(k)the disposal or discharge of waste slime or tailings arising
from any mining or metallurgical operations carried out in a mine;(l)the
manner in which and the authority by which directions may be issued to the
owners of any mine to do or refrain from doing certain things in the interest
of conservation or systematic development of minerals or for the protection of
environment by preventing or controlling pollution which may be caused by
prospecting or mining operations;(m)the maintenance and submission of such
plans, registers of records as may be specified by the Government;(n)the
submission of records or reports by persons carrying on prospecting or mining
operations regarding any research in mining or geology carried out by
them;(o)the facilities to be afforded by persons carrying out prospecting or
mining operations to persons authorised by the Central Government for the
purpose of undertaking research or training in matters relating to mining or
geology;(p)the procedure for and the manner of imposition of fines for the
contravention of any of the rules framed under this section and the authority
who may impose such fines; and(q)the authority to which, the period within
which, the form and the manner in which applications for revision of any order
passed by any authority under this Act and the rules made thereunder may be
made, the fee to be paid and the documents which should accompany such
applications.](3)All rules made under this section shall be binding on the
Government.[18-A. Power to authorise Geological Survey of India, etc., to make
investigation.(1)Where the Central Government is of opinion that for the
conservation and development of minerals in India, it is necessary to collect
as precise information as possible with regard to any mineral available in or
under any land in relation to which any prospecting license or mining lease
has been granted, whether by the State Government or by any other person, the
Central Government may authorise the Geological Survey of India, or such other
authority or agency as it may specify in this behalf, to carry out such
detailed investigations for the purpose of obtaining such information as may
be necessary:Provided that in the cases of prospecting licenses or mining
leases granted by a State Government, no such authorisation shall be made
except after consultation with the State Government.(2)On the issue of any
authorisation under sub-section (1), it shall be lawful for the Geological
Survey of India or the specified authority or agency, and its servants and
workmen-(a)to enter upon such land,(b)to dig or bore into the sub-soil,(c)to
do all other acts necessary to determine the extent of any mineral available
in or under such land,(d)to set out boundaries of the land in which any
mineral is expected to be found,(e)to mark such boundaries and line by placing
marks,(f)where otherwise the survey cannot be completed on the boundaries and
line marked, to cut down and clear away any part of any standing crop, fence
or jungle:Provided that no such authority or agency shall enter into any
building or upon any enclosed Court or garden attached to a dwelling-house
(except with the consent of the occupier thereof) without previously giving
such occupier at least seven days' notice in writing of its intention to do
so.(3)Whenever any action of the nature specified in sub-section (2) is to be
taken, the Central Government shall, before or at the time when such action is
taken, pay or tender payment for all necessary damage which is likely to be
caused, and in case of dispute as to the sufficiency of the amount so paid or
tendered or as to the person to whom it should be paid or tendered, the
Central Government shall refer the dispute to the principal Civil Court of
original jurisdiction having jurisdiction over the land in question.(4)The
fact that there exists any such dispute as is referred to in sub-section (3)
shall not be a bar to the taking of any action under sub-section (2).(5)After
the completion of the investigation, the Geological Survey of India or the
specified authority or agency by which the investigation was made shall submit
to the Central Government a detailed report indicating therein the extent and
nature of any mineral which lies deposited in or under the land.(6)The costs
of the investigation made under this section shall be borne by the Central
Government:Provided that where the State Government or other person in whom
the minerals are vested or the holder of any prospecting license or mining
lease applies to the Central Government to furnish to it or him a copy of the
report submitted under sub-section (5), that State Government or other person
or the holder of a prospecting license or mining lease, as the case may be,
shall bear such reasonable part of the costs of investigation as the Central
Government may specify in this behalf and shall, on payment of such part of
the costs of investigation, be entitled to receive from the Central Government
a true copy of the report submitted to it under sub-section (5).]

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 19. Mineral concession to be void if in contravention of Act.

Any [mineral concession, prospecting license or mining lease] granted, renewed
or acquired in contravention of the provisions of this Act or any rules or
orders made thereunder shall be void and of no effect.Explanation. - Where a
person has acquired more than one [mineral concession, prospecting license or
mining lease] [Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 16, for " prospecting
license or mining lease" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999). ] [* * *] [ The words " in any
State" omitted by Act 25 of 1994, Section 8 (w.r.e.f. 25.1.1994).] and the
aggregate area covered by such [permits, licenses or leases] [ Substituted by
Act 38 of 1999, Section 16, for " licenses or leases" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).],
as the case may be, exceeds the maximum area permissible under section 6, only
that [mineral concession, prospecting license or mining lease] [ The words "
in any State" omitted by Act 25 of 1994, Section 8 (w.r.e.f. 25.1.1994).] the
acquisition of which has resulted in such maximum area being exceeded shall be
deemed to be void.

### 20. Act and rules to apply to all renewals of prospecting licenses and
mining leases. - The provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder
shall apply in relation to the renewal after the commencement of this Act of
any prospecting license or mining lease granted before such commencement as
they apply in relation to the renewal of a prospecting license or mining lease
granted after such commencement.

### 20A. [ Power of Central Government to issue directions. [Inserted by Act
No. 10 of 2015.]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Central Government may
issue such directions to the State Governments, as may be required for the
conservation of mineral resources, or on any policy matter in the national
interest, and for the scientific and sustainable development and exploitation
of mineral resources.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality
of the foregoing powers, the Central Government may also issue directions in
respect of the following matters, namely:-(i)improvement in procedure for
grant of mineral concessions and to ensure co-ordination among agencies
entrusted with according statutory clearances;(ii)maintenance of internet-
based databases including development and operation of a mining tenement
system;(iii)implementation and evaluation of sustainable development
frameworks;(iv)reduction in waste generation and related waste management
practices and promotion of recycling of materials;(v)minimising and mitigating
adverse environmental impacts particularly in respect of ground water, air,
ambient noise and land;(vi)ensuring minimal ecological disturbance, in terms
of bio-diversity, flora, fauna and habitat;(vii)promoting restoration and
reclamation activities so as to make optimal use of mined out land for the
benefit of the local communities; and(viii)such other matters as may be
necessary for the purposes of implementation of this Act.]

### 21. Penalties. - [(1) Whoever contravenes the provisions of sub-section
(1) or sub-section (1A) of section 4 shall be punishable with imprisonment for
a term which may extend to five years and with fine which may extend to five
lakh rupees per hectare of the area.

(2)Any rule made under any provision of this Act may provide that any
contravention thereof shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to two years or with fine which may extend to five lakh rupees, or
with both, and in the case of a continuing contravention, with additional fine
which may extend to fifty thousand rupees for every day during which such
contravention continues after conviction for the first such
contravention.](3)[ Where any person trespasses into any land in contravention
of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 4, such trespasser may be
served with an order of eviction by the State Government or any authority
authorised in this behalf by that Government and the State Government or such
authorised authority may, if necessary, obtain the help of the police to evict
the trespasser from the land.] [Inserted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 12 (w.e.f.
12.9.1972). ](4)[ Whenever any person raises, transports or causes to be
raised or transported, without any lawful authority, any mineral from any
land, and, for that purpose, uses any tool, equipment, vehicle or any other
thing, such mineral, tool, equipment, vehicle or any other thing shall be
liable to be seized by an officer of authority specially empowered in this
behalf.(4A)Any mineral, tool, equipment, vehicle or any other thing seized
under sub-section (4), shall be liable to be confiscated by an order of the
Court competent to take cognizance of the offense under sub-section (1) and
shall be disposed of in accordance with the directions of such Court.] [
Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 17, for sub-Section (4) (w.e.f.
18.12.1999).](5)[ Whenever any person raises, without any lawful authority,
any mineral from any land, the State Government may recover from such person
the mineral so raised, or where such mineral has already been disposed of, the
price thereof, and may also recover from such person, rent, royalty or tax, as
the case may be, for the period during which the land was occupied by such
person without any lawful authority.] [Inserted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 12
(w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ](6)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), an offense under sub-section (1) shall
be cognizable.] [ Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 16 (w.e.f.
10.2.1987).]Explanation.—On and from the date of commencement of the Mines and
Minerals (Development and Regulation)Amendment Act, 2021, the expression
“raising, transporting or causing to raise or transport any mineral without
any lawful authority” occurring in this section, shall mean raising,
transporting or causing to raise or transport any mineral by a person without
prospecting licence, mining lease or composite licence, exploration licence or
in contravention of the rules made under section 23C.’

### 22. Cognizance of offenses. - No Court shall take cognizance of any
offense punishable under this Act or any rules made thereunder except upon
complaint in writing made by a person authorized in this behalf by the Central
Government or the State Government.

### 23. Offenses by companies. - (1) If the persons committing an offense
under this Act or any rules made thereunder is a company, every person who at
the time the offense was committed was in charge of, and was responsible to
the company for the conduct of the business of the company, shall be deemed to
be guilty of the offense and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly:

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such
person liable to any punishment, if he proves that the offense was committed
without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of such offense.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), where an offense under this Act has been committed with the
consent or connivance of any director, manager, secretary or other officer of
the company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall be
deemed to be guilty of that offense and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For the purposes of this
section,-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other
association of individuals;(b)"director" in relation to a firm means a partner
in the firm.[23-A. Compounding of offenses.(1)Any offense punishable under
this Act or any rule made thereunder may, either before or after the
institution of the prosecution, be compounded by the person authorised under
section 22 to make a complaint to the Court with respect to that offense, on
payment to that person, for credit to the Government, of such sum as that
person may specify:Provided that in the case of an offense punishable with
fine only, no such sum shall exceed the maximum amount of fine which may be
imposed for that offense.(2)Where an offense is compounded under sub-section
(1), no proceeding or further proceeding, as the case may be, shall be taken
against the offender in respect of the offense so compounded, and the
offender, if in custody, shall be released forthwith.]

### 23B. Power to search. - If any Gazetted Officer of the Central or a State
Government authorised by the Central Government ][or a State Government, as
the case may be,] [ Inserted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 18 (w.e.f.
18.12.1999).][in this behalf by general or special order has reason to believe
that any mineral has been raised in contravention of the provisions of this
Act or rules made thereunder or any document or thing in relation to such
mineral is secreted in any place ] [Inserted by Act 25 of 1994, Section 9
(w.r.e.f. 25.1.1994). ][or vehicle] [Inserted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 18
(w.e.f. 18.12.1999). ][, he may search for such mineral, document or thing and
the provisions of section 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974) shall apply to every such search.] [Inserted by Act 25 of 1994, Section
9 (w.r.e.f. 25.1.1994). ]

[23-C. Power of State Government to make rules for preventing illegal mining,
transportation and storage of minerals.(1)The State Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for preventing illegal
mining, transportation and storage of minerals and for the purposes connected
therewith.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely:-(a)establishment of check-posts for checking of minerals
under transit;(b)establishment of weigh-bridges to measure the quantity of
mineral being transported;(c)regulation of mineral being transported from the
area granted under a prospecting license or a mining lease or a quarrying
license or a permit, in whatever name the permission to excavate minerals, has
been given;(d)inspection, checking and search of minerals at the place of
excavation or storage or during transit;(e)maintenance of registers and forms
for the purposes of these rules;(f)the period within which and the authority
to which applications for revision of any order passed by any authority be
preferred under any rule made under this section and the fees to be paid
therefor and powers of such authority for disposing of such applications;
and(g)any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed for the
purpose of prevention of illegal mining, transportation and storage of
minerals.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 30, the Central
Government shall have no power to revise any order passed by a State
Government or any of its authorised officers or any authority under the rules
made under sub-sections (1) and (2).]

### 24. Power of entry and inspection. - (1) For the purpose of ascertaining
the position of the working, actual or prospective, of any mine or abandoned
mine or for any other purpose connected with this Act or the rules made
thereunder, any person authorised by the [Central Government or a State
Government] in this behalf, by general [* * *] [ The words " or special"
omitted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 20 (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).] order, may-

(a)enter and inspect any mine;(b)survey and take measurements in any such
mine;(c)weigh, measure or take measurements of the stocks of minerals lying at
any mine;(d)examine any document, book, register, or record in the possession
or power of any person having the control of, or connected with, any mine and
place marks of identification thereon, and take extracts from or make copies
of such document, book, register or record;(e)order the production of any such
document, book, register, record, as is referred to in clause (d);
and(f)examine any person having the control of, or connected with, any
mine.(2)Every person authorised by the [Central Government or a State
Government] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 20, for " Central
Government" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).] under sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be
a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45
of 1860), and every person to whom an order or summons is issued by virtue of
the powers conferred by clause (e) or clause (f) of that sub-section shall be
legally bound to comply with such order or summons, as the case may be.

### 24A. Rights and liabilities of a holder of mineral concession.

(1)On the issue of a ][mineral concession, prospecting license or mining
lease] [ Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 21, for " prospecting license
or mining lease" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).][under this Act and the rules made
thereunder, it shall be lawful for the ] [Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section
17 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987). ] [holder of such permit, license or lease] [
Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 21, for " holder of such license or
lease" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).][, his agents or his servants or workmen to enter
the lands over which ] [Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 17 (w.e.f.
10.2.1987). ][such permit, lease or license had been granted] [ Substituted by
Act 38 of 1999, Section 21, for " such lease or licence had been granted"
(w.e.f. 18.12.1999).][at all times during its currency and carry out all such
] [Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 17 (w.e.f. 10.2.1987). ]
[reconnaissance, prospecting or mining operations] [ Substituted by Act 38 of
1999, Section 16, for " prospecting or mining operations" (w.e.f.
18.12.1999).][as may be prescribed:Provided that no person shall enter into
any building or upon an enclosed Court or garden attached to a dwelling-house
(except with the consent of the occupier thereof) without previously giving
such occupier at least seven days' notice in writing of his intention to do
so.(2)The holder of a ] [Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 17 (w.e.f.
10.2.1987). ] [mineral concession, prospecting license or mining lease] [
Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 21, for " prospecting license or mining
lease" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).][referred to in sub-section (1) shall be liable to
pay compensation in such manner as may be prescribed to the occupier of the
surface of the land granted under ] [Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 17
(w.e.f. 10.2.1987). ] [such permit, license or lease] [ Substituted by Act 38
of 1999, Section 21, for " such lease or licence had been granted" (w.e.f.
18.12.1999).][for any loss or damage which is likely to arise or has arisen
from or in consequence of the ] [Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 17
(w.e.f. 10.2.1987). ][reconnaissance, mining or prospecting operations] [
Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 16, for " prospecting or mining
operations" (w.e.f. 18.12.1999).].(3)[ The amount of compensation payable
under sub-section (2) shall be determined by the State Government in the
manner prescribed.] [Inserted by Act 37 of 1986, Section 17 (w.e.f.
10.2.1987). ]

### 25. Recovery of certain sums as arrears of land revenue. - [(1)] Any rent,
royalty, tax, fee or other sum due to the Government under this Act or the
rules made thereunder or under the terms and conditions of any [mineral
concession, prospecting license or mining lease] [ Substituted by Act 38 of
1999, Section 21, for " prospecting license or mining lease" (w.e.f.
18.12.1999).] may, on a certificate of such officer as may be specified by the
State Government in this behalf by general or special order, be recovered in
the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.

(2)[ Any rent, royalty, tax, fee or other sum due to the Government either
under this Act or any rule made thereunder or under the terms and conditions
of any ] [Inserted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 14 (w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ][mineral
concession, prospecting license or mining lease] [Substituted by Act 38 of
1999, Section 21, for " prospecting license or mining lease" (w.e.f.
18.12.1999). ][may, on a certificate of such officer as may be specified by
the State Government in this behalf by general or special order, be recovered
in the same manner as if it were an arrear of land revenue and every such sum
which becomes due to the Government after the commencement of the Mines and
Minerals (Regulation and Development) Amendment Act, 1972, together with the
interest due thereon, shall be a first charge on the assets of the holder of
the] [Inserted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 14 (w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ] [mineral
concession, prospecting license or mining lease] [Substituted by Act 38 of
1999, Section 21, for " prospecting license or mining lease" (w.e.f.
18.12.1999). ][, as the case may be.] [Inserted by Act 56 of 1972, Section 14
(w.e.f. 12.9.1972). ]

### 26. Delegation of powers. - (1) The Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, direct that any power exercisable by it
under this Act may, in relation to such matters and subject to such
conditions, if any, as may be specified in the notification be exercisable
also by-

(a)such officer or authority subordinate to the Central Government; or(b)such
State Government or such officer or authority subordinate to a State
Government;as may be specified in the notification.(2)The State Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that any power
exercisable by it under this Act may, in relation to such matters and subject
to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the notification, be
exercisable also by such officer or authority subordinate to the State
Government as may be specified in the notification.(3)Any rules made by the
Central Government under this Act may confer powers and impose duties or
authorise the conferring of powers and imposition of duties upon any State
Government or any officer or authority subordinate thereto.

### 27. Protection of action taken in good faith. - No suit, prosecution or
other legal proceeding shall lie against any person for anything which is in
good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.

### 28. Rules and notifications to be laid before Parliament and certain rules
to be approved by Parliament. - [(1) Every rule and every notification made by
the Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after
it is made, before each House of Parliament while it is in session for a total
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree
in making any modification in the rule or notification or both Houses agree
that the rule or notification should not be made, the rule or notification
shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as
the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule
or notification.]

(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the rule-making power vested in the
Central Government, no rules made with reference to clause (c) of sub-section
(2) of section 16 shall come into force until they have been approved, whether
with or without modifications, by each House of Parliament.(3)[ Every rule and
every notification made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid,
as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of the State Legislature
where it consists of two Houses, or where such Legislature consists of one
House, before that House.] [ Inserted by Act 25 of 1994, Section 10 (w.r.e.f.
25.1.1994).]

### 29. Existing rules to continue. - All rules made or purporting to have
been made under the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948,
shall, insofar as they relate to matters for which provision is made in this
Act and are not inconsistent therewith, be deemed to have been made under this
Act as if this Act had been in force on the date on which such rules were made
and shall continue in force unless and until they are superseded by any rules
made under this Act.

### 30. [ Power of revision by Central Government. [Substituted by Act No. 10
of 2015.]

\- The Central Government may, of its own motion or on an application made
within the prescribed time by an aggrieved party, -(a)revise any order made by
a State Government or other authority in exercise of the powers conferred on
it by or under this Act with respect to any mineral other than a minor
mineral; or(b)where no such order has been made by the State Government or
other authority in exercise of the powers conferred on it by or under this Act
with respect to any mineral other than a minor mineral within the time
prescribed therefor, pass such order as it may think fit and appropriate in
the circumstances:Provided that in cases covered by clause (b) the Central
Government shall, before passing any order under this clause, give an
opportunity of being heard or to represent in the matter.][30-A. Special
provisions relating to mining leases for coal granted before 25th October,
1949.-Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the provisions of sub-
section (1) of section 9 and of sub-section (1) of section 16 shall not apply
to or in relation to mining leases granted before the 25th day of October,
1949, in respect of coal, but the Central Government, if it is satisfied that
it is expedient so to do, may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct
that all or any of the said provisions (including any rules made under
sections 13 and 18) shall apply to or in relation to such leases subject to
such exceptions and modifications, if any, as may be specified in that or in
any subsequent notification.]

### 30B. [ Constitution of Special Courts. [Inserted by Act No. 10 of 2015.]

(1)The State Government may, for the purposes of providing speedy trial of
offenses for contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section
(1A) of section 4, constitute, by notification, as many Special Courts as may
be necessary for such area or areas, as may be specified in the
notification.(2)A Special Court shall consist of a Judge who shall be
appointed by the State Government with the concurrence of the High Court.(3)A
person shall not be qualified for appointment as a judge of a Special Court
unless he is or has been a District and Sessions Judge.(4)Any person aggrieved
by the order of the Special Court may prefer an appeal to the High Court
within a period of sixty days from the date of such order.

### 30C. Special Courts to have powers of Court of Session.

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973, shall apply to the proceedings before the Special Court and for the
purpose of the provisions of this Act, the Special Court shall be deemed to be
a Court of Session and shall have all powers of a Court of Session and the
person conducting a prosecution before the Special Court shall be deemed to be
a public prosecutor.]

### 31. Relaxation of rules in special cases. - The Central Government may, if
it is of opinion that in the interests of mineral development it is necessary
so to do, by order in writing and for reasons to be recorded, authorise in any
case the grant, renewal or transfer of any [mineral concession, prospecting
license or mining lease], or the working of any mine for the purpose of
searching for or winning any mineral, on terms and conditions different from
those laid down in the rules made under section 13.

### 32. Amendments to Act 53 of 1948.-[ Repealed by the Repealing and Amending
Act, 1960 (58 of 1960), section 2 and Schedule I (w.e.f.26-12-1960).]

### 33. Validation of certain acts and indemnity. - All acts of executive
authority done, proceedings taken and sentences passed under the Mines and
Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948, with respect to the
regulation of mines and the development of minerals during the period
commencing on the 26th day of January, 1950, and ending with the date of
commencement of this Act by the Government or by any officer of the Government
or by any other authority, in the belief or purported belief that the acts,
proceedings or sentences were being done, taken or passed under the said Act,
shall be as valid and operative as if they had been done, taken or passed in
accordance with law, and no suit or other legal proceeding shall be maintained
or continued against any person whatsoever, on the ground that any such acts,
proceedings or sentences were not done, taken or passed in accordance with
law.

[THE FIRST SCHEDULE][See sections 4(3), 5(1), 7(2) and [8(1), 8A(1), 10A,
10B(1), 10C(1), 11(1), 11B, 11C, 12A(1),and 17A(2A)] [Substituted for the
figures and brackets '8(2)' by Act No. 10 of 2015.]]SPECIFIED MINERALS

## Part A

HYDRO CARBONS/ENERGY MINERALS

### 1\. Coal and Lignite.

## Part B

ATOMIC MINERALS

### 1\. Beryl and other beryllium-bearing minerals.

### 2\. Lithium-bearing minerals.

### 3\. Minerals of the "rare earths" group containing Uranium and Thorium.

### 4\. Niobium-bearing minerals.

### 5\. Phosphorites and other phosphatic ores containing Uranium.

### 6\. Pitchblende and other Uranium ores.

### 7\. [ Titanium bearing minerals and ores (ilmenite, rutile and
leucoxene)]. [Substituted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 24, for items 7 and 11
(w.e.f. 18-12-1999).]

### 8\. Tantallium-bearing minerals.

### 9\. Uraniferous allanite, monazite and other thorium minerals.

### 10\. Uranium bearing tailings left over from ores after extraction of
copper and gold, ilmenite and other titanium ores.

### 11\. [ Zirconium bearing minerals and ores including Zircon]. [Substituted
by Act 38 of 1999, Section 24 for items 7 and 11 (w.e.f. 18-12-1999).]

## Part C

METALLIC AND NON-METALLIC MINERALS

### 1\. Asbestos.

### 2\. Bauxite.

### 3\. Chrome ore.

### 4\. Copper ore.

### 5\. Gold.

### 6\. Iron ore.

### 7\. Lead.

### 8\. [***] [ Item 8 omitted by Act 38 of 1999, Section 24 (w.e.f.
18-12-1999).]

### 9\. Manganese ore.

### 10\. Precious stones.

### 11\. Zinc.

[Second Schedule] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 621 (E), dated
2.9.2019.](See section 9)Rates of Royalty In Respect of Minerals

Sl. No. | Name of mineral with grade |  In Rs. per tonne (where applicable for auctionedmines) |  Advalorem in percentage of average sale priceexcept where otherwise stated (for auctioned mines) |  In Rs. per tonne (where applicable for minesallotted without auction) |  Advalorem in percentage of average sale priceexcept where otherwise stated (for mines allotted withoutauction)  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
1 |  Apatite and RockPhosphate(i) Apatite(ii) Rock Phosphate(a) Above 25% P2O5(b) Upto 25% P2O5 |  |  4.5%11.5%5.5% |  |  5%12.5%6%  
2 |  Asbestos(a) Chrysotile(b) Amphibole | Rs. 786/- per tonne | 13.5% | Rs. 880/- per tonne | 15%  
3 |  Bauxite(i) Bauxitedispatched for use in alumina and aluminium metal extraction(ii) Bauxite dispatched for use other thanalumina and aluminium metal extraction |  |  0.54% of London MetalExchange Aluminium metal price chargeable on the containedaluminium metal in ore22.5% |  |  0.60% of London MetalExchange Aluminium metal price chargeable on the containedaluminium metal in ore25%  
4 |  Brown Ilmenite (Leucoxene) Ilmenite, Rutile andZircon |  | 2.0% |  | 2.0%  
5 | Cadmium |  | 13.5% |  | 15%  
6 | Chromite |  | 13.5% |  | 15%  
7 | Columbite-tantalite |  | 9.0% |  | 10%  
8 | Copper |  |  4.13% of London Metal Exchange Copper metalprice chargeable on the contained copper metal in ore produced |  |  4.62% of London Metal Exchange Copper metalprice chargeable on the contained copper metal in ore produced  
9 |  Diamond(a) Gem variety(b) Industrial Variety |  |  10.5% of Average saleprice on ad valorem basis10.5% of the average sale price on ad valorembasis |  |  11.5% of Average saleprice on ad valorem basis11.5% of the average sale price on ad valorembasis  
10 | Fluorspar (also called fluorite) |  | 7.5% |  | 8%  
11 |  Garnet(a) Abrasive(b) Gem |  |  4%9.0% |  |  4%10%  
12 |  Gold(a)Primary(b) By-product gold |  |  3.58 % of LondonBullion Market Association Price (commonly referred to as LondonPrice) chargeable on the gold metal in ore produced.2.95% of London Bullion Market Association Price(commonly referred to as London Price) chargeable on theby-product gold metal actually produced |  |  4% of London BullionMarket Association Price (commonly referred to as London Price)chargeable on the gold metal in ore produced.3.3% of London Bullion Market Association Price(commonly referred to as London Price) chargeable on thebyproduct gold metal actually produced.  
13 |  Graphite(a) With 80% or morefixed carbon(b) With 40% or morefixed carbon but less than 80% fixed carbon(c) With 20% or morefixed carbon but less than 40% fixed carbon(d) With less than 20% fixed carbon |  Rs. 201/- per tonneRs. 134/- per tonneRs. 59/- per tonneRs. 23/- per tonne |  |  Rs. 225/- per tonneRs. 150/- per tonneRs. 65/- per tonneRs. 25/- per tonne |   
14 |  Iron Ore(a) Hametite Ore-45%Fe (Min.)(b) HematiteSiliceous Ore- 35% Fe (Min.)(c) Magnetite Ore –15% Fe (Min.)(d) Concentrate prepared by beneficiation and/or concentration of low grade ore containing 40% Fe or less |  |  13.5%9 %9 %3% |  |  15%9 %9%3%  
15 | Kyanite |  | 11% |  | 12%  
16 |  Lead:(a) Contained leadmetal in ore produced(b) Contained lead metal in concentrate produced |  |  7.59% of London MetalExchange Lead metal price chargeable on the contained lead metalin ore produced12.95% of London Metal Exchange Lead metal pricechargeable on the contained lead metal in ore produced |  |  8.5% of London MetalExchange Lead metal price chargeable on the contained lead metalin ore produced14.5% of London Metal Exchange Lead metal pricechargeable on the contained lead metal in ore produced  
17 |  Limestone(a) L.D. Grade (lessthan 1.5 percent silica content)(b) Others |  Rs. 81/- per tonneRs.72/- per tonne |  |  Rs. 90/- per tonneRs.80/- per tonne |   
18 | Limeshell | Rs. 72/- per tonne |  | Rs. 80/- per tonne |   
19 | Magnesite |  | 3% |  | 3%  
20 |  Manganese Ore(a) Ore of all grade(b) Concentrates |  |  4.5%1.55% |  |  5.0%1.7%  
21 | Marl | Rs. 54/- per tonne |  | Rs. 60/- per tonne |   
22 | Monazite | Rs. 112/- per tonne |  | Rs. 125/- per tonne |   
23 | Nickel |  |  0.11 % of London Metal Exchange Nickel metalprice chargeable on the contained nickel metal in ore produced |  |  0.12 % of London Metal Exchange Nickel metalprice chargeable on the contained nickel metal in ore produced  
24 | Perlite |  | 11 % |  | 12%  
25 | Pyrites |  | 2% |  | 2%  
26 | Ruby |  | 9% |  | 10%  
27 | Selenite |  | 11% |  | 12%  
28 | Sillimanite |  | 2.5% |  | 2.5%  
29 |  Silver:(a) By-product(b) Primary Silver |  |  6.5% of London MetalExchange price chargeable on by-product silver metal actuallyproduced.4.5% of London Metal Exchange Silver metalprice chargeable on the contained silver metal in ore produced. |  |  7% of London MetalExchange price chargeable on byproduct silver metal actuallyproduced.5.0% of London Metal Exchange Silver metal pricechargeable on the contained silver metal in ore produced  
30 | Tin |  |  6.7% of London Metal Exchange Tin metal pricechargeable on the contained tin metal in ore produced |  |  7.5% of London Metal Exchange Tin metal pricechargeable on the contained tin metal in ore produced  
31 | Tungsten |  Rs.18/- per unit percent of contained WO3 pertonne of ore and on pro rata basis. |  |  Rs.20/- per unit percent of contained WO3 pertonne of ore and on pro rata basis. |   
32 | Uranium |  |  1.8% of annual compensation amount received byM/s. Uranium Corporation of India Limited, to be apportionedamong the States on the basis of data provided by the Departmentof Atomic Energy |  |  2.0% of annual compensation amount received byM/s. Uranium Corporation of India Limited, to be apportionedamong the States on the basis of data provided by the Departmentof Atomic  
33 | Vanadium |  | 18% |  | 20%  
34 | Vermiculite |  | 4.5% |  | 5%  
35 | Wollastonite |  | 13.5% |  | 15%  
36 | Zinc |  |  8.49% of London MetalExchange Zinc metal price on ad valorem basis chargeable oncontained zinc metal in ore produced8.93 % of London Metal Exchange Zinc metal priceon ad valorem basis chargeable on contained zinc metal inconcentrate produced |  |  9.5% of London MetalExchange Zinc metal price on ad valorem basis chargeable oncontained zinc metal in ore produced10% of London Metal Exchange Zinc metal price onad valorem basis chargeable on contained zinc metal inconcentrate produced  
37 | All other minerals not herein before specified |  | 11% of the sale price on ad valorem basis |  | 12% of the sale price on ad valorem basis  
38 | Coal including lignite | * | * | * | *  
39 | Sand for stowing | ** | ** | ** | **  
  
### 1\. *Rates of royalty in respect of item at Sl. No. 38 relating to coal
including lignite as revised vide notification number G.S.R. 349(E), dated the
10th May, 2012 read with vide corrigendum number G.S.R. 525(E), dated the 14th
June, 2012 of the Government of India in the Ministry of Coal shall remain in
force until revised through a separate notification by the Ministry of Coal.

### 2\. **Rates of royalty in respect of item at Sl. No.39 relating to Sand
for stowing revised vide notification number G.S.R. 214(E), dated the 11th
April, 1997, shall remain in force until revised through a separate
notification by the Ministry of Coal.

[Third Schedule] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 622 (E), dated
2.9.2019.](See section 9A)Rate of Dead Rent

Concept of charging of dead rent shall not beapplicable in cases of mines
which are granted through auctionmechanism. The following rates and structure
for dead rent shallbe applicable for the mines which are granted other than
auctionroute, namely:-  
---  
1\. Low value minerals: | (In Rs. Per Hectare Per Annum)  
  
From 4th Year of Lease | 5th and 6th Year of Lease | 7th Year of lease  
---|---|---  
400 | 1000 | 2000  
  
### 2\. Two times the rate specified in paragraph 1 above in case of medium
value minerals.

### 3\. Three times the rate specified in paragraph 1 above in case of lease
granted for high value minerals.

### 4\. Four times the rate specified in paragraph 1 above in case of lease
granted for precious metals and stone.

Note. - For the purpose of this notification: -(a)"precious metals and stones"
means gold, silver, diamond, ruby, sapphire and emerald;(b)"high value
minerals" means semi-precious stones (agate, gem garnet), corundum, copper,
lead, zinc, and asbestos (chrysotile variety);(c)"medium value minerals" means
chromite, manganese ore, kyanite, sillimanite, vermiculite, magnesite,
wollastonite, perlite, diaspore, apatite, rock phosphate, fluorite
(fluorspar), barytes, and iron ore;(d)"low value minerals" means the minerals
other than precious metals and stones, high value minerals and medium value
minerals[The Fourth Schedule] [Inserted by Act No. 10 of 2015.][See clause
(ea) of section 3]Notified Minerals

### 1\. Bauxite.

### 2\. Iron ore.

### 3\. Limestone.

### 4\. Manganese ore.

[THE FIFTH SCHEDULE][See sections 8(4), 8A(8) and 17A(2C)]

S.No. | Mineral | Additional amount on grant or extension of mining lease  
---|---|---  
1. | Iron ore and chromite |  Equivalent to one hundred and fifty per cent. of theroyalty payable  
2. | Copper | Equivalent to fifty per cent. of the royalty payable  
3. | Coal and lignite | Equivalent to the royalty payable  
4. |  Other minerals (otherthan coal and lignite) | Equivalent to the royalty payable  
  
Explanation.—For the purposes of this Schedule, the additional amount shall be
in addition to royalty or payment to the District Mineral Foundation and
National Mineral Exploration Trust or any other statutory payment.THE SIXTH
SCHEDULE[See sections 8(5) and 8A(7A)](i)For non-auctioned captive mines
(other than coal and lignite):

S.No. | Mineral | Additional Amount  
---|---|---  
1. |  Bauxite(i) Metallurgical Grade(ii)Non-Metallurgical Grade |  Equivalent to one hundred and fifty per cent. of the royalty payableEquivalent to the royalty payable  
2. |  Chromite(i)Up to forty per cent. of Cr2O3(ii)forty per cent. and more of of the Cr2O3 and concentrates |  Equivalent to the royalty payableEquivalent to two hundred per cent royalty payable  
3. |  Iron ore(i)Lumps, ROM and concentrates(ii)Fines |  Equivalent to two hundred and fifty per cent. of the royalty payableEquivalent to one hundred and fifty per cent. of the royalty payable  
4. |  Limestone(i) L.D. Grade (less than 1.5 per cent.(ii) Other grades |  Equivalent to two hundred per cent. of thesilica content) royalty payableEquivalent to the royalty payable  
5. |  Manganese(i) Less than thirty-five per cent.(ii) Thirty-five per cent. and above of manganese content |  Equivalent to the royalty payable of manganese contentEquivalent to five hundred per cent. of the royalty payable  
6. | Other minerals | Equivalent to the royalty payable  
(ii) For auctioned captive mines (other than coal and lignite):  
S.No. | Quantity of sale | Additional Amount  
1. | Sale of mineral up to twenty-five per cent. of annual production | Nil  
2. | Sale of mineral more than twenty-five per cent. and up to fifty per cent. of annual production | Equivalent to fifty per cent. of the royalty payable  
(iii) For coal and lignite:  
S.No. | Type of mine | Additional Amount  
|  (i) Captive coal and lignite mines, auctioned for power sector through reverse bidding under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015)(ii) Captive coal and lignite mines allocated through allotment route[other than mines covered under item no. (iv)](iii) Captive coal and lignite mines allocated through auction route[other than mines covered under item nos. (i) and (iv)](iv) For captive coal and lignitemines that were auctioned andallotted with condition allowingsale of coal up to twenty-fiveper cent. of annual production—(a) for sale of coal up to twenty per cent. of annual production(b) for sale of coal more than twenty-five per cent. and up to fifty per cent. of annual production |  Equivalent to two hundred per cent. of the royalty payableEquivalent to the royalty payableEquivalent to the royalty payableAdditional amount payable as per the condition mentioned in the tender document or allotment documentFifty per cent. of the royalty payable  
  
Explanation.—For the purposes of this Schedule, it is hereby clarified
that—(i)the additional amount shall be in addition to royalty or payment to
the District Mineral Foundation and National Mineral Exploration Trust or any
other statutory payment or payment specified in the tender document or the
auction premium (wherever applicable)(ii)Ad valorem royalty for the purpose of
calculating the additional amount for coal and lignite shall be based on
National Coal Index and Representative Price of coal excluding the taxes,
levies and other charges.”.

