## Union of India - Act

## The Madhya Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2000

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Madhya Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2000

## Act 28 of 2000

  * Published in Gazette of India on 25 August 2000 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 August 2000.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act to provide for the reorganisation of the existing State of Madhya
Pradesh and for matters connected therewith.BE it enacted by Parliament in the
Fifty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Part I – Preliminary

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Madhya Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2000.

### 2. Definitions.- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"appointed day" means the day1 which the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint;(b)"article" means an article of
the Constitution;(c)"assembly constituency", "council constituency" and
"parliamentary constituency" have the same meanings as in the Representation
of the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950);(d)"Election Commission" means the
Election Commission appointed by the President under article 324;(e)"existing
State of Madhya Pradesh" means the State of Madhya Pradesh as existing
immediately before the appointed day;(f)"law" includes any enactment,
ordinance, regulation, order, bye-law, rule, scheme, notification or other
instrument having, immediately before the appointed day, the force of law in
the whole or in any part of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh;(g)"notified
order" means an order published in the Official Gazette;(h)"population ratio"
in relation to the States of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh means the ratio
of 485.7 : 176.2;(i)"sitting member", in relation to either House of
Parliament or of the Legislature of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh means
a person who immediately before the appointed day, is a member of that
House;(j)"successor State", in relation to the existing State of Madhya
Pradesh, means the State of Madhya Pradesh or Chhattisgarh;(k)"transferred
territory" means the territory which on the appointed day is transferred from
the existing State of Madhya Pradesh to the State of
Chhattisgarh;(l)"treasury" includes a sub-treasury; and(m)any reference to a
district, tehsil or other territorial division of the existing State of Madhya
Pradesh shall be construed as a reference to the area comprised within that
territorial division on the appointed day.

## Part II – Reorganisation of The State of Madhya Pradesh

The Council of States

### 3. Formation of Chhattisgarh State.-

On and from the appointed day, there shall be formed a new State to be known
as the State of Chhattisgarh comprising the following territories of the
existing State of Madhya Pradesh, namely:- Bastar, laspur, Dantewada,
Dhamtari, Durg, Janjgir-Champa, Jashpur, Kanker, Kawardha, Korba, Koria,
Mahasamund, Raigarh, Raipur, Rajnandgaon and Surguja districts, and thereupon
the said territories shall cease to form part of the existing State of Madhya
Pradesh.

### 4. State of Madhya Pradesh and territorial divisions thereof.-

On and from the appointed day, the State of Madhya Pradesh shall comprise the
territories of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh other than those specified
in section 3.

### 5. Amendment of the First Schedule to the Constitution.-

On and from the appointed day, in the First Schedule to the Constitution,
under the heading "I. THE STATES",- (a) in the paragraph relating to the
territories of the State of Madhya Pradesh, after the words, brackets and
figures, "the Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (Transfer of Territories) Act, 1959
(47 of 1959)", the following shall be added, namely:- "but excluding the
territories specified in section 3 of the Madhya Pradesh Reorganisation Act,
2000."; (b) after entry 25, the following entry shall be inserted, namely:-
"26. Chhattisgarh: The territories specified in section 3 of the Madhya
Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2000.".

### 6. Saving powers of the State Government.-

Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this Part shall be deemed to affect the
power of the Government of Madhya Pradesh or Chhattisgarh to alter, after the
appointed day, the name, area or boundaries of any district or other
territorial division in the State.

## Part III – Representation in the Legislatures

### 7. Amendment of the Fourth Schedule to the Constitution.-

On and from the appointed day, in the Fourth Schedule to the Constitution, in
the Table,-(a)entries 9 to 27 shall be renumbered as entries 10 to 28
respectively;(b)in entry 8, for the figures "16", the figures "11 " shall be
substituted;(c)after entry 8, the following entry shall be inserted,
namely:-"9. Chhattisgarh ........................5.".

### 8. Allocation of sitting members.-

(1)On and from the appointed day, the sixteen sitting members of the Council
of States representing the existing State of Madhya Pradesh, shall be deemed
to have been elected to fill the seats allotted to the States of Madhya
Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, as specified in the First Schedule to this Act. (2)
The term of office of such sitting members shall remain unaltered.The House of
the People

### 9. Representation in the House of the People.-

On and from the appointed day, there shall be allocated 29 seats to the
successor State of Madhya Pradesh, and 11 to the successor State of
Chhattisgarh, in the House of the People, and the First Schedule to the
Representation of the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950) shall be deemed to be
amended accordingly.

### 10. Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly constituencies.-

On and from the appointed day, the Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly
Constituencies Order, 1976, shall stand amended as directed in the Second
Schedule to this Act.

### 11. Provision as to sitting members.-

(1)Every sitting member of the House of the People representing a constituency
which, on the appointed day by virtue of the provisions of section 10, stands
allotted, with or without alteration of boundaries, to the successor States of
Madhya Pradesh or Chhattisgarh, shall be deemed to have been elected to the
House of the People by that constituency as so allotted.(2)The term of office
of such sitting members shall remain unaltered.The Legislative Assembly

### 12. Provisions as to Legislative Assemblies.-

(1)The number of seats as on the appointed day in the Legislative Assemblies
of the States of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh shall be two hundred and
thirty and ninety respectively.(2)In the Second Schedule to the Representation
of the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950), under heading "I. States",-(a)entries 5
to 25 shall be renumbered as entries 6 to 26 respectively;(b)after entry 4,
the following entry shall be inserted, namely :-"1 5 5.
Chhattisgarh...........................................................................90.";(c)in
entry 13, as so renumbered, for the figures "320", the figures "230" shall be
substituted.

### 13. Allocation of sitting members.-

(1)Every sitting member of the Legislative Assembly of the existing State of
Madhya Pradesh elected to fill a seat in that Assembly from a constituency
which on the appointed day by virtue of the provisions of section 10 stands
allotted, with or without alteration of boundaries, to the State of
Chhattisgarh shall, on and from that day, cease to be a member of the
Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh and shall be deemed to have been
elected to fill a seat in the Legislative Assembly of Chhattisgarh from that
constituency so allotted.(2)All other sitting members of the Legislative
Assembly of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh shall continue to be members
of the Legislative Assembly of that State and any such sitting member
representing a constituency the extent, or the name and extent of which are
altered by virtue of the provisions of section 9 shall be deemed to have been
elected to the Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh by that constituency as
so altered.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time
being in force, the Legislative Assemblies of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh
shall be deemed to be duly constituted on the appointed day.(4)The sitting
member of the Legislative Assembly of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh
nominated to that Assembly under Article 333 to represent the Anglo-Indian
community shall be deemed to have been nominated to represent the said
community in the Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh under that Article.

### 14. Duration of Legislative Assemblies.-

The period of five years referred to in clause (1) of article 172, shall, in
the case of Legislative Assembly of the State of Madhya Pradesh and the State
of Chhattisgarh be deemed to have commenced on the date on which it actually
commenced in the case of Legislative Assembly of the existing State of Madhya
Pradesh.

### 15. Speakers and Deputy Speakers.-

(1)The persons who immediately before the appointed day are the Speaker and
Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of the existing State of Madhya
Pradesh shall continue to be the Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively of
that Assembly on and from that day.(2)As soon as may be after the appointed
day, the Legislative Assembly of the successor State of Chhattisgarh shall
choose two members of that Assembly to be respectively Speaker and Deputy
Speaker thereof and until they are so chosen, the duties of the office of the
Speaker shall be performed by such member of the Assembly as the Governor may
appoint for the purpose.

### 16. Rules of procedure.-

The rules of procedure and conduct of business of the Legislative Assembly of
Madhya Pradesh as in force immediately before the appointed day shall, until
rules are made under clause (1) of article 208, be the rules of procedure and
conduct of business of the Legislative Assembly of the State of Chhattisgarh,
subject to such modifications and adaptations as may be made therein by the
Speaker thereof.Delimitation of constituencies

### 17. Delimitation of constituencies.-

(1)For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of section 12, the
Election Commission shall determine in the manner hereinafter provided- (a)
the number of seats to be reserved for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
Tribes in the Legislative Assemblies of the States of Madhya Pradesh and
Chhattisgarh, respectively having regard to the relevant provisions of the
Constitution;(b)the assembly constituencies into which each State referred to
in clause (a) shall be divided, the extent of each of such constituencies and
in which of them seats shall be reserved for the Scheduled Castes or for the
Scheduled Tribes; and(c)the adjustments in the boundaries and description of
the extent of the parliamentary constituencies in each State referred to in
clause (a) that may be necessary or expedient.(2)In determining the matters
referred to in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (1), the Election Commission
shall have regard to the following provisions, namely:-(a)all the
constituencies shall be single-member constituencies;(b)all constituencies
shall, as far as practicable, be geographically compact areas, and in
delimiting them, regard shall be had to physical features, existing boundaries
of administrative units, facilities of communication and conveniences to the
public; and(c)constituencies in which seats are reserved for the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall, as far as practicable, be located in
areas where the proportion of their population to the total population is the
largest.(3)The Election Commission shall, for the purpose of assisting it in
the performance of its functions under sub-section (1), associate with itself
as associate members, five persons as the Central Government may, by order
specify, being persons who are members of the Legislative Assembly of the
State or of the House of the People representing the State: Provided that none
of the associate members shall have a right to vote or to sign any decision of
the Election Commission.(4)If, owing to death or resignation, the office of an
associate member falls vacant, it shall be filled as far as practicable, in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3).(5)The Election Commission
shall-(a)publish its proposals for the delimitation of constituencies together
with the dissenting proposals, if any, of any associate member who desires
publication thereof in the Official Gazette and in such other manner as the
Commission may consider fit, together with a notice inviting objections and
suggestions in relation to the proposals and specifying a date on or after
which the proposals will be further considered by it;(b)consider all
objections and suggestions which may have been received by it before the date
so specified; and(c)after considering all objections and suggestions which may
have been received by it before the date so specified, determine by one or
more orders the delimitation of constituencies and cause such order or orders
to be published in the Official Gazette; and upon such publication, the order
or orders shall have the full force of law and shall not be called in question
in any court.(6)As soon as may be after such publication, every such order
relating to assembly constituencies shall be laid before the Legislative
Assembly of the concerned State.(7)The delimitation of constituencies in the
States of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh shall be determined on the basis of
the published figures of the census taken in the year 1971.

### 18. Power of the Election Commission to maintain Delimitation Orders up-
to-date.-

(1)The Election Commission may, from time to time, by notification in the
Official Gazette,-(a)correct any printing mistakes in any order made under
section 17 or any error arising therein from inadvertent slip or omission;
and(b)where the boundaries or name of any territorial division mentioned in
any such order or orders is or are altered, make such amendments as appear to
it to be necessary or expedient for bringing such order up-to-date.(2)Every
notification under this section relating to an assembly constituency shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is issued, before the concerned Legislative
Assembly.

## d Castes and Schedule d Tribes

### 19. Amendment of the Scheduled Castes Order.-

On and from the appointed day, the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order,
1950, shall stand amended as directed in the Third Schedule.

### 20. Amendment of the Scheduled Tribes Order.-

On and from the appointed day, the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order,
1950, shall stand amended as directed in the Fourth Schedule.

## Part IV – High Court

### 21. High Court of Chhattisgarh.-

(1)As from the appointed day, there shall be a separate High Court for the
State of Chhattisgarh (hereinafter referred to as "the High Court of
Chhattisgarh") and the High Court of Madhya Pradesh shall become the High
Court for the State of Madhya Pradesh (hereinafter referred to as the High
Court of Madhya Pradesh).(2)The principal seat of High Court of Chhattisgarh
shall be at such place as the President may, by notified order,
appoint.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), the Judges
and Division Courts of the High Court of Chhattisgarh may sit at such other
place or places in the State of Chhattisgarh other than its principal seat as
the Chief Justice may, with the approval of the Governor of Chhattisgarh,
appoint.

### 22. Judges of Chhattisgarh High Court.-

(1)Such of the Judges of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh holding office
immediately before the appointed day as may be determined by the President
shall on that day cease to be Judges of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh and
become Judges of the High Court of Chhattisgarh.(2)The persons who by virtue
of sub-section (1) become Judges of the High Court of Chhattisgarh shall,
except in the case where any such person is appointed to be the Chief Justice
of that High Court, rank in that Court according to the priority of their
respective appointments as Judges of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh.

### 23. Jurisdiction of Chhattisgarh High Court.-

The High Court of Chhattisgarh shall have, in respect of any part of the
territories included in the State of Chhattisgarh, all such jurisdiction,
powers and authority as, under the law in force immediately before the
appointed day, are exercisable in respect to that part of the said territories
by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh.

### 24. Special provision relating to Bar Council and advocates.-

On and from the appointed day, in the Advocates Act, 1961 (25 of 1961) in
section 3, in sub-section (1), in clause (a), for the words "and Madhya
Pradesh", the words "Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh" shall be
substituted.(2)Any person who immediately before the appointed day is an
Advocate on the roll of the Bar Council of the existing State of Madhya
Pradesh may give his option in writing, within one year from the appointed day
to the Bar Council of such existing State, to transfer his name on the roll of
the Bar Council of Chhattisgarh and notwithstanding anything contained in the
Advocates Act, 1961 (25 of 1961) and the rules made thereunder, on such option
so given his name shall be deemed to have been transferred on the roll of the
Bar Council of Chhattisgarh with effect from the date of the option so given
for the purposes of the said Act and the rules made thereunder.(3)The persons
other than the Advocates who are entitled immediately before the appointed
day, to practise in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh or any subordinate court
thereof shall, on and after the appointed day, be recognised as such persons
entitled also to practise in the High Court of Chhattisgarh or any subordinate
court thereof, as the case may be.(4)The right of audience in the High Court
of Chhattisgarh shall be regulated in accordance with the like principles as
immediately before the appointed day are in force with respect to the right of
audience in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh.

### 25. Practice and procedure in Chhattisgarh High Court.-

Subject to the provisions of this Part, the law in force immediately before
the appointed day with respect to practice and procedure in the High Court of
Madhya Pradesh shall, with the necessary modifications, apply in relation to
the High Court of Chhattisgarh, and accordingly, the High Court of
Chhattisgarh shall have all such powers to make rules and orders with respect
to practice and procedure as are immediately before the appointed day
exercisable by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh:Provided that any rules or
orders which are in force immediately before the appointed day with respect to
practice and procedure in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh shall, until varied
or revoked by rules or orders made by the High Court of Chhattisgarh, apply
with the necessary modifications in relation to practice and procedure in the
High Court of Chhattisgarh as if made by that Court.

### 26. Custody of seal of Chhattisgarh High Court.-

The law in force immediately before the appointed day with respect to the
custody of the seal of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh shall, with the
necessary modifications, apply with respect to the custody of the seal of the
High Court of Chhattisgarh.

### 27. Form of writs and other processes.-

The law in force immediately before the appointed day with respect to the form
of writs and other processes used, issued or awarded by the High Court of
Madhya Pradesh shall, with the necessary modifications, apply with respect to
the form of writs and other processes used, issued or awarded by the High
Court of Chhattisgarh.

### 28. Powers of Judges.-

The law in force immediately before the appointed day relating to the powers
of the Chief Justice, Single Judge and Division Courts of the High Court of
Madhya Pradesh and with respect to all matters ancillary to the exercise of
those powers shall, with the necessary modifications, apply in relation to the
High Court of Chhattisgarh.

### 29. Procedure as to appeals to Supreme Court.-

The law in force immediately before the appointed day relating to appeals to
the Supreme Court from the High Court of Madhya Pradesh and the Judges and
division courts thereof shall, with the necessary modifications, apply in
relation to the High Court of Chhattisgarh.

### 30. Transfer of proceedings from Madhya Pradesh High Court to Chhattisgarh
High Court.-

(1)Except as hereinafter provided, the High Court of Madhya Pradesh shall, as
from the appointed day, have no jurisdiction in respect of the transferred
territory.(2)Such proceedings pending in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh
immediately before the appointed day as are certified, whether before or after
that day, by the Chief Justice of that High Court, having regard to the place
of accrual of the cause of action and other circumstances, to be proceedings
which ought to be heard and decided by the High Court of Chhattisgarh shall,
as soon as may be after such certification, be transferred to the High Court
of Chhattisgarh.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) and
(2) of this section or in section 23, but save as hereinafter provided, the
High Court of Madhya Pradesh shall have, and the High Court of Chhattisgarh
shall not have, jurisdiction to entertain, hear or dispose of appeals,
applications for leave to the Supreme Court, applications for review and other
proceedings where any such proceedings seek any relief in respect of any order
passed by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh before the appointed day:Provided
that if after any such proceedings have been entertained by the High Court of
Madhya Pradesh, it appears to the Chief Justice of that High Court that they
ought to be transferred to the High Court of Chhattisgarh, he shall order that
they shall be so transferred, and such proceedings shall thereupon be
transferred accordingly.(4)Any order made by the High Court of Madhya
Pradesh-(a)before the appointed day, in any proceedings transferred to the
High Court of Chhattisgarh by virtue of sub-section (2); or(b)in any
proceedings with respect to which the High Court of Madhya Pradesh retains
jurisdiction by virtue of sub-section (3), shall for all purposes have effect,
not only as an order of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, but also as an order
made by the High Court of Chhattisgarh.

### 31. Right to appear or to act in proceedings transferred to Chhattisgarh
High Court.-

Any person, who, immediately before the appointed day, is an Advocate entitled
to practise or any other persons entitled to practise in the High Court of
Madhya Pradesh and was authorised to appear in any proceedings transferred
from that High Court to the High Court of Chhattisgarh under section 30, shall
have the right to appear in the High Court of Chhattisgarh in relation to
those proceedings.

### 32. Interpretation.-

For the purposes of section 30-(a)proceedings shall be deemed to be pending in
a Court until that Court has disposed of all issues between the parties,
including any issues with respect to the taxation of the costs of the
proceedings and shall include appeals, applications for leave to the Supreme
Court, applications for review, petitions for revision and petitions for
writs; and(b)references to a High Court shall be construed as including
references to a Judge or division court thereof, and references to an order
made by a Court or a Judge shall be construed as including references to a
sentence, judgment or decree passed or made by that Court or Judge.

### 33. Saving.-

Nothing in this Part shall affect the application to the High Court of
Chhattisgarh of any provisions of the Constitution, and this Part shall have
effect subject to any provision that may be made on or after the appointed day
with respect to that High Court by any Legislature or other authority having
power to make such provision.

## Part V – Authorisation of Expenditure and Distribution of Revenues

### 34. Authorisation of expenditure of Chhattisgarh State.-

The Governor of Madhya Pradesh may, at any time before the appointed day,
authorise such expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of the State of
Chhattisgarh as he deems necessary for any period not more than six months
beginning with the appointed day pending the sanction of such expenditure by
the Legislative Assembly of the State of Chhattisgarh: Provided that the
Governor of Chhattisgarh may, after the appointed day, authorise such further
expenditure as he deems necessary from the Consolidated Fund of the State of
Chhattisgarh for any period not extending beyond the said period of six
months.

### 35. Reports relating to accounts of Madhya Pradesh State.-

(1)The reports of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India referred to in
clause (2) of article 151 relating to the accounts of the State of Madhya
Pradesh in respect of any period prior to the appointed day shall be submitted
to the Governor of each of the successor States of Madhya Pradesh and
Chhattisgarh who shall cause them to be laid before the Legislature of that
State.(2)The President may by order-(a)declare any expenditure incurred out of
the Consolidated Fund of Madhya Pradesh on any service in respect of any
period prior to the appointed day during the financial year or in respect of
any earlier financial year in excess of the amount granted for that service
and for that year as disclosed in the reports referred to in sub-section (1)
to have been duly authorised; and(b)provide for any action to be taken on any
matter arising out of the said reports.

### 36. Distribution of revenue.-

The President shall, by order, determine the share of the States of Madhya
Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in the total amount payable to the existing State of
Madhya Pradesh on the recommendation of the Finance Commission constituted
under article 280 of the Constitution, in such manner as he thinks fit.

## Part VI – Apportionment of Assets and Liabilities

### 37. Application of Part.-

(1)The provisions of this Part shall apply in relation to the apportionment of
the assets and liabilities of the State of Madhya Pradesh immediately before
the appointed day.(2)The successor State shall be entitled to receive benefits
arising out of the decisions taken by the predecessor State and the successor
States shall be liable to bear the financial liabilities arising out of the
decision taken by the existing State of Madhya Pradesh.(3)The apportionment of
assets and liabilities would be subject to such financial adjustment as may be
necessary to secure just, reasonable and equitable apportionment of the assets
and liabilities amongst the successor States.(4)Any dispute regarding the
amount of financial assets and liabilities shall be settled through mutual
agreement, failing which by order by the Central Government on the advice of
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.

### 38. Land and goods.-

(1)Subject to the other provisions of this Part, all land and all stores,
articles and other goods belonging to the existing State of Madhya Pradesh
shall,-(a)if within the transferred territory, pass to the State of
Chhattisgarh; or(b)in any other case, remain the property of the State of
Madhya Pradesh: Provided that any land, stores, articles or other goods may be
distributed otherwise than in accordance with the situation of such land,
stores, articles or goods by mutual agreement between the successor States,
failing which the Central Government may, on the request of any of the
Governments of the successor States and after consulting both the Governments
of the successor States, issue directions for the just and equitable
distribution of such land, stores, articles or goods between the successor
States and the land, articles or goods shall accordingly pass to the successor
States:Provided further that in case of the distribution, of any land, stores,
articles and goods or class of goods under this sub-section located outside
the existing State of Madhya Pradesh, such distribution shall be made through
mutual agreement arrived at between the Governments of the successor States
for that purpose, failing which the Central Government may, on request by any
of the Governments of the successor States, after consulting both the
Governments of the successor States, issue such direction as it may deem fit
for the distribution of such land, stores, articles and goods or class of
goods, as the case may be, under this sub-section.(2)Stores held for specific
purposes, such as use or utilisation in particular institutions, workshops or
undertakings or on particular works under construction, shall pass to the
successor States in whose territories such institutions, workshops,
undertakings or works are located.(3)Stores relating to the Secretariat and
offices of Heads of Departments having jurisdiction over the whole of the
existing State of Madhya Pradesh shall be divided between the successor States
in accordance with the mutual agreement arrived at between the Government of
the successor States for that purpose, failing which the Central Government
may, on request by any of the Governments of the successor States, after
consulting both the Governments of the successor States, issue such direction
as it may deem fit for the distribution of such stores or any part of such
stores, as the case may be.(4)Any other unissued stores of any class in the
existing State of Madhya Pradesh shall be divided between the successor States
in proportion to the total stores of that class purchased in the period of
three years prior to the appointed day, for the territories of the existing
State of Madhya Pradesh included respectively in each of the successor States:
Provided that where such proportion cannot be ascertained in respect of any
class of stores or where the value of any class of such stores does not exceed
rupees ten thousand, that class of stores shall be divided between the
successor States according to the population ratio.(5)In this section, the
expression "land" includes immovable property of every kind and any rights in
or over such property, and the expression "goods" does not include coins, bank
notes and currency notes.

### 39. Treasury and bank balances.-

The total of the cash balances in all treasuries of the State of Madhya
Pradesh and the credit balances of the State with Reserve Bank of India, the
State Bank of India or any other bank immediately before the appointed day
shall be divided between the States of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh
according to the population ratio:Provided that for the purposes of such
division, there shall be no transfer of cash balances from any treasury to any
other treasury and the apportionments shall be effected by adjusting the
credit balances of the two States in the books of the Reserve Bank of India on
the appointed day:Provided further that if the State of Chhattisgarh has no
account on the appointed day with the Reserve Bank of India, the adjustment
shall be made in such manner as the Central Government may, by order, direct.

### 40. Arrears of taxes.-

The right to recover arrears of any tax or duty on property, including arrears
of land revenue, shall belong to the successor State in which the property is
situated, and the right to recover arrears of any other tax or duty shall
belong to the successor State in whose territories the place of assessment of
that tax or duty is included on the appointed day.

### 41. Right to recover loans and advances.-

(1)The right of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh to recover any loans or
advances made before the appointed day to any local body, society,
agriculturist or other person in an area within that State shall belong to the
successor State in which that area is included on that day.(2)The right of the
existing State of Madhya Pradesh to recover any loans or advances made before
the appointed day to any person or institution outside that State shall belong
to the State of Madhya Pradesh: Provided that any sum recovered in respect of
any such loan or advance shall be divided between the States of Madhya Pradesh
and Chhattisgarh according to the population ratio.

### 42. Investments and credits in certain funds.-

(1)The securities held in respect of the investments made from Cash Balances
Investment Account or from any Fund in the Public Account of the existing
State of Madhya Pradesh as specified in the Fifth Schedule to this Act shall
be apportioned in the ratio of population of the successor States: Provided
that the securities held in investments made from the Calamity Relief Fund of
the existing State of Madhya Pradesh shall be divided in the ratio of the area
of the territories occupied by the successor States:Provided further that the
balance in the Reserve Funds in the Public Account of Madhya Pradesh created
wholly out of appropriations from the Consolidated Fund of the existing State
of Madhya Pradesh, to the extent the balances have not been invested outside
Government account, shall not be carried forward to similar Reserve Funds in
the Public Account of, successor States: Provided also that the balances in
any other Reserve Funds, excluding those specified in sub-section (2), shall
be allocated between the States of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in the
ratio of population of those States.(2)The investments of the existing State
of Madhya Pradesh immediately before the appointed day in any special fund the
objects of which are confined to a local area shall belong to the State in
which that area is included on the appointed day.(3)The investments of the
existing State of Madhya Pradesh immediately before the appointed day in any
private, commercial or industrial undertaking, in so far as such investments
have not been made or are deemed not to have been made from the cash balance
investment account, shall pass to the State in which the principal seat of
business of the undertaking is located.(4)Where any body corporate constituted
under a Central Act, State Act or Provincial Act for the existing State of
Madhya Pradesh or any part thereof has, by virtue of the provisions of Part II
of this Act, become an inter-State body corporate, the investments in, or
loans or advances to, any such body corporate by the existing State of Madhya
Pradesh made before the appointed day shall, save as otherwise expressly
provided by or under this Act, be divided between the States of Madhya Pradesh
and Chhattisgarh in the same proportion in which the assets of the body
corporate are divided under the provisions of this Part.

### 43. Assets and liabilities of State undertaking.-

(1)The assets and liabilities relating to any undertaking of the existing
State of Madhya Pradesh whether directly owned or through a body corporate
constituted or incorporated or registered under any Central, State or
Provincial Act, shall,-(a)if exclusively located in a successor State, pass to
the successor State, and where a depreciation reserve is maintained by the
existing State of Madhya Pradesh for such undertaking, the securities held in
respect of investment made from that fund shall also pass to such successor
State;(b)where any such undertaking or part thereof is located, in more than
one successor State, the assets, liabilities and securities shall be divided
in such manner as may be agreed upon between the successor States within a
period of two years from the appointed day or in failure of such agreement as
the Central Government may by order direct.(2)An agreement entered into
between the successor States, or order made by the Central Government under
sub-section (1) may provide for the dissolution of the undertaking or transfer
or re-employment of any employee of the undertaking to or by the successor
States, subject to the provisions of section 62.(3)An agreement entered into
between the successor States, or order made by the Central Government under
sub-section (1) may also provide for the transfer of the assets and
liabilities which would otherwise have passed to a successor State to any
other undertaking of that successor State; and any employee of the undertaking
referred to in sub-section (1), who would otherwise have been transferred to
or re-employed by a successor State, may be transferred to or be re-employed
by such undertaking instead of that successor State.

### 44. Public Debt.-

(1)All liabilities on account of Public Debt and Public Account of the
existing State of Madhya Pradesh outstanding immediately before the appointed
day shall be apportioned in the ratio of population of the successor States
unless a different mode of apportionment is provided under the provisions of
this Act.(2)The individual items of liabilities to be allocated to the
successor States and the amount of contribution required to be made by one
successor State to another shall be such as may be ordered by the Central
Government in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India:
Provided that till such orders are issued, the liabilities on account of
Public Debt and Public Account of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh shall
continue to be the liabilities of the successor State of Madhya Pradesh.(3)The
liability on account of loans raised from any source and re-lent by the
existing State of Madhya Pradesh to such entities as may be specified by the
Central Government and whose area of operation is confined to either of the
successor States shall devolve on the respective States as specified in sub-
section (4).(4)The Public Debt of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh
attributable to loan taken from any source for the express purpose of re-
lending the same to a specific institution and outstanding immediately before
the appointed day shall-(a)if re-lent to any local body, body corporate or
other institution in any local area, be the debt of the State in which the
local area is included on the appointed day; or(b)if re-lent to the Madhya
Pradesh State Electricity Board, the Madhya Pradesh State Road Transport
Corporation, or the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board or any other institution
which becomes an inter-State institution on the appointed day, be divided
between the States of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in the same proportion
in which the assets of such body corporate or institution are divided under
the provisions of Part VII of this Act.(5)Where a sinking fund or a
depreciation fund is maintained by the existing State of Madhya Pradesh for
repayment of any loan raised by it, the securities held in respect of
investments made from that fund shall be divided between the successor States
of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in the same proportion in which the total
public debt is divided between the two States under this section.(6)In this
section, the expression "Government security" means a security, created and
issued by a State Government for the purpose of raising a public loan and
having any of the forms specified in, or prescribed under clause (2) of
section 2 of the Public Debt Act, 1944 (18 of 1944).

### 45. Floating loans.-

All liabilities of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh of any floating loan
to provide short term finance to any local body, body corporate or other
institution shall be determined by mutual agreement between the successor
States, failing which the Central Government shall determine such liability
between the successor States in consultation with such States.

### 46. Refund of taxes collected in excess.-

The liability of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh to refund any tax or
duty on property, including land revenue, collected in excess shall be the
liability of the successor State in whose territories the property is
situated, and the liability of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh to refund
any other tax or duty collected in excess shall be the liability of the
successor State in whose territories the place of assessment of that tax or
duty is included.

### 47. Deposits, etc.-

(1)The liability of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh in respect of any
civil deposit or local fund deposit shall, as from the appointed day, be the
liability of the State in whose area the deposit has been made.(2)The
liability of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh in respect of any charitable
or other endowment shall, as from the appointed day, be the liability of the
State in whose area the institution entitled to the benefit of the endowment
is located or of the State to which the objects of the endowment, under the
terms thereof, are confined.

### 48. Provident fund.-

The liability of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh in respect of the
provident fund account of a Government servant in service on the appointed day
shall, as from that day, be the liability of the State to which that
Government servant is permanently allotted.

### 49. Pensions.-

The liability of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh in respect of pensions
shall pass to, or be apportioned between the successor States of Madhya
Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in accordance with the provisions contained in the
Sixth Schedule to this Act.

### 50. Contracts.-

(1)Where, before the appointed day, the existing State of Madhya Pradesh has
made any contract in the exercise of its executive power for any purposes of
the State, that contract shall be deemed to have been made in the exercise of
the executive power-(a)if the purposes of the contract are, on and from the
appointed day, exclusive purposes of either of the successor States of Madhya
Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, then, of that State; or(b)in any other case, of the
State of Madhya Pradesh, all rights and liabilities which have accrued, or may
accrue under any such contract shall, to the extent to which they would have
been rights or liabilities of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh, be rights
or liabilities of the State of Chhattisgarh or the State of Madhya Pradesh, as
the case may be:Provided that in any such case as is referred to in clause
(b), the initial allocation of rights and liabilities made by this sub-section
shall be subject to such financial adjustment as may be agreed upon between
the successor States of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh or in default of such
agreement, as the Central Government may, by order, direct.(2)For the purposes
of this section, there shall be deemed to be included in the liabilities which
have accured or may accrue under any contract-(a)any liability to satisfy an
order or award made by any court or other tribunal in proceedings relating to
the contract; and(b)any liability in respect of expenses incurred in or in
connection with any such proceedings.(3)This section shall have effect subject
to the other provisions of this Part relating to the apportionment of
liabilities in respect of loans, guarantees and other financial obligations;
and bank balances and securities shall, notwithstanding that they partake of
the nature of contractual rights, be dealt with under those provisions.

### 51. Liability in respect of actionable wrong.-

Where, immediately before the appointed day, the existing State of Madhya
Pradesh is subject to any liability in respect of any actionable wrong other
than breach of contract, that liability shall,-(a)if the cause of action arose
wholly within the territories which, as from that day, are the territories of
either of the successor States of Madhya Pradesh or Chhattisgarh, be a
liability of that successor State; and(b)in any other case, be initially a
liability of the State of Madhya Pradesh, but subject to such financial
adjustment as may be agreed upon between the States of Madhya Pradesh and
Chhattisgarh or, in default of such agreement, as the Central Government may,
by order, direct.

### 52. Liability as guarantor.-

Where, immediately before the appointed day, the existing State of Madhya
Pradesh is liable as guarantor in respect of any liability of a registered co-
operative society or other person, that liability of the existing State of
Madhya Pradesh shall-(a)if the area of operations of such society or persons
is limited to the territories which, as from that day, are the territories of
either of the States of Madhya Pradesh or Chhattisgarh, be a liability of that
successor State; and(b)in any other case, be initially a liability of the
State of Madhya Pradesh, subject to such financial adjustment as may be agreed
upon between the States of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh or, in default of
such agreements, as the Central Government may, by order, direct.

### 53. Items in suspense.-

If any item in suspense is ultimately found to affect an asset or liability of
the nature referred to in any of the foregoing provisions of this Part, it
shall be dealt with in accordance with that provision.

### 54. Residuary provision.-

The benefit or burden of any asset or liability of the existing State of
Madhya Pradesh not dealt with in the foregoing provisions of this Part shall
pass to the State of Madhya Pradesh in the first instance, subject to such
financial adjustment as may be agreed upon between the States of Madhya
Pradesh and Chhattisgarh or, in default of such agreement, as the Central
Government may, by order, direct.

### 55. Apportionment of assets or liabilities by agreement.-

Where the successor States of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh agree that the
asset, liability or benefit or burden of any particular asset or liability
should be apportioned between them in a manner other than that provided for in
the foregoing provisions of this Part then, notwithstanding anything contained
therein, the assets, liability or benefit or burden of that asset or liability
shall be apportioned in the manner agreed upon.

### 56. Power of Central Government to order allocation or adjustment in
certain cases.-

Where, by virtue of any of the provisions of this Part, any of the successor
States of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh becomes entitled to any property or
obtains any benefits or becomes subject to any liability, and the Central
Government is of opinion, on a reference made within a period of three years
from the appointed day by either of the States, that it is just and equitable
that property or those benefits should be transferred to, or shared with, the
other successor State, or that a contribution towards that liability should be
made by the other successor State, the said property or benefits shall be
allocated in such manner between the two States, or the other State shall make
to the State subject to the liability such contribution in respect thereof, as
the Central Government may, after consultation with the two State Governments,
by order determine.

### 57. Certain expenditure to be charged on Consolidated Fund.-

All sums payable either by the State of Madhya Pradesh or by the State of
Chhattisgarh to the other States or by the Central Government to either of
those States, by virtue of the provisions of this Act, shall be charged on the
Consolidated Fund of the State by which such sums are payable or, as the case
may be, the Consolidated Fund of India.

## Part VII – Provisions as to Certain Corporations

### 58. Provisions as to Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board, State Road
Transport Corporation and State Warehousing Corporation, etc.-

(1)The following bodies corporate constituted for the existing State of Madhya
Pradesh, namely:-(a)the State Electricity Board constituted under the
Electricity Supply Act, 1948 (54 of 1948);(b)the State Road Transport
Corporation established under the Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950 (64 of
1950); and(c)the State Warehousing Corporation established under the
Warehousing Corporations Act, 1962 (58 of 1962), shall, on and from the
appointed day, continue to function in those areas in respect of which they
were functioning immediately before that day, subject to the provisions of
this section and arrangements for the functioning of such body corporates as
may be mutually agreed upon between the successor States failing which to such
directions as may, from time to time, be issued by the Central
Government.(2)Any directions issued by the Central Government under sub-
section (1) in respect of the Board or the Corporation shall include a
direction that the Act under which the Board or the Corporation was
constituted shall, in its application to that Board or Corporation, have
effect subject to such exceptions and modifications as the Central Government
thinks fit.(3)The Board or the Corporation referred to in sub-section (1)
shall cease to function as from, and shall be deemed to be dissolved on such
date as the Central Government may, by order, appoint; and upon such
dissolution, its assets, rights and liabilities shall be apportioned between
the successor States of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in such manner as may
be agreed upon between them within one year of the dissolution of the Board or
the Corporation, as the case may be, or if no agreement is reached, in such
manner as the Central Government may, by order, determine:Provided that any
liabilities of the said Board relating to the unpaid dues of the coal supplied
to the Board by any public sector coal company shall be provisionally
apportioned between the successor organisations constituted respectively in
the successor States of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh or after the date
appointed for the dissolution of the Board under this sub-section in such
manner as may be agreed upon between the Governments of the successor States
within one month of such dissolution or if no agreement is reached, in such
manner as the Central Government may, by order, determine subject to
reconciliation and finalisation of the liabilities which shall be completed
within three months from the date of such dissolution by the mutual agreement
between the successor States or failing such agreement by the direction of the
Central Government:Provided further that an interest at the rate of two per
cent. higher than the Cash Credit interest shall be paid on outstanding unpaid
dues of the coal supplied to the Board by the public sector coal company till
the liquidation of such dues by the concerned successor organisations
constituted in the successor States on or after the date appointed for the
dissolution of the Board under this sub-section.(4)Nothing in the preceding
provisions of this section shall be construed as preventing the Government of
the State of Madhya Pradesh or, as the case may be, the Government of the
State of Chhattisgarh from constituting, at any time on or after the appointed
day, a State Electricity Board or a State Road Transport Corporation or a
State Warehousing Corporation for the State under the provisions of the Act
relating to such Board or Corporation; and if such a Board or Corporation is
so constituted in either of the States before the dissolution of the Board or
the Corporation referred to in sub-section (1),-(a)provision may be made by
order of the Central Government enabling the new Board or the new Corporation
to take over form the existing Board or Corporation all or any of its
undertakings, assets, rights and liabilities in that State, and(b)upon the
dissolution of existing Board or Corporation,-(i)any assets, rights and
liabilities which would otherwise have passed to that State by or under the
provisions of sub-section (3) shall pass to the new Board or the new
Corporation instead of to that State;(ii)any employee who would otherwise have
been transferred to or re-employed by that State under sub-section (3), read
with clause (i) of sub-section (5), shall be transferred to or re-employed by
the new Board or the new Corporation instead of to or by that State.(5)An
agreement entered into between the successor States under sub-section (3) and
an order made by the Central Government under that sub-section or under clause
(a) of sub-section (4) may provide for the transfer or re-employment of any
employee of the Board or the Corporation referred to in sub-section (1),-(i)to
or by the successor States, in the case of an agreement under sub-section (4)
or an order made under that sub-section;(ii)to or by the new Board or the new
Corporation constituted, under sub-section (4), in the case of an order made
under clause (a) of that sub-section, and subject to the provisions of section
64, also for the terms and conditions of service applicable to such employees
after such transfer or re-employment.

### 59. Provisions as to Madhya Pradesh State Financial Corporation.-

(1)The Madhya Pradesh State Financial Corporation established under the State
Financial Corporation Act, 1951 (63 of 1951) shall, on and from the appointed
day, continue to function in those areas in respect of which it was
functioning immediately before that day, subject to the provisions of this
section and to such directions as may from time to time, be issued by the
Central Government after consultation with the Governments of the successor
States.(2)Any directions issued by the Central Government under sub-section
(1) in respect of the Corporation may include a direction that the said Act,
in its application to the Corporation, shall have effect subject to such
exceptions and modifications as may be specified in the
direction.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2), the Board of Directors of the Corporation may, with the previous
approval of the Central Government and shall, if so required by the Central
Government, convene at any time after the appointed day a meeting for the
consideration of a scheme for the reconstitution or reorganisation or
dissolution, as the case may be, of the Corporation, including proposals
regarding the formation of new Corporations, and the transfer thereto of the
assets, rights and liabilities of the existing Corporation, and if such a
scheme is approved at the general meeting by a resolution passed by a majority
of the shareholders present and voting, the scheme shall be submitted to the
Central Government for its sanction.(4)If the scheme is sanctioned by the
Central Government either without modifications or with modifications which
are approved at a general meeting, the Central Government shall certify the
scheme, and upon such certification, the scheme shall, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in any law for the time being in force, be
binding on the corporations affected by the scheme as well as the shareholders
and creditors thereof.(5)If the scheme is not so approved or sanctioned, the
Central Government may refer the scheme to such Judge of the High Court of
Madhya Pradesh as may be nominated in this behalf by the Chief Justice
thereof, and the decision of the Judge in regard to the scheme shall be final
and shall be binding on the corporations affected by the scheme as well as the
shareholders and creditors thereof.(6)Nothing in the preceding provisions of
this section shall be construed as preventing the Government of the State of
Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh from constituting, at any time on or after the
appointed day, a State Financial Corporation for that State under the State
Financial Corporation Act, 1951 (63 of 1951).

### 60. Provisions as to certain companies.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this
Part, each of the companies specified in the Seventh Schedule to this Act
shall, on and from the appointed day and until otherwise provided for in any
law, or in any agreement among the successor States, or in any direction
issued by the Central Government, continue to function in the areas in which
it was functioning immediately before that day; and the Central Government
may, after consultation with the Governments of the successor States, from
time to time issue such directions in relation to such functioning as it may
deem fit, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Companies
Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or in any other law.(2)Any directions issued under sub-
section (1), in respect of a company referred to in that subsection, may
include directions-(a)regarding the division of the interests and shares of
existing State of Madhya Pradesh in the company among the successor
States;(b)requiring the reconstitution of the Board of Directors of the
company so as to give adequate representation to both the successor States.

### 61. Functioning of organisation, registered society or trust incorporated
on behest of State Government.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Part
or any other law for the time being in force, any organisation, registered
society or trust, incorporated at the behest of the State Government, shall,
on and from the appointed day, and until otherwise provided for in any law for
the time being in force, or in any agreement between the successor States, or
in any direction issued by the Central Government in consultation with the
successor States, continue to function in the areas in which it was
functioning immediately before that day, and the Central Government may, after
consulting the Governments of successor States, issue directions in relation
to such functioning.(2)Any directions issued under sub-section (1) may include
directions regarding the-(i)reconstitution of the Board of Directors of the
organisation, society or trust by whatever name it may be called;
or(ii)appointment of the Chief Executive by whatever name it may be called;
or(iii)regulations or bye-laws, by whatever name they may be called;
or(iv)assessment and apportionment of financial support, if any, provided by
the existing State of Madhya Pradesh for meeting fixed charges.

### 62. General provisions as to statutory corporations.-

(1)Save as otherwise expressly provided by the foregoing provisions of this
Part, where any body corporate constituted under a Central Act, State Act or
Provincia1 Act for the existing State of Madhya Pradesh or any part thereof
has, by virtue of the provisions of Part II of this Act, become an inter-State
body corporate, then, the body corporate shall, on and from the appointed day,
continue to function and operate in those areas in respect of which it was
functioning and operating immediately before that day, subject to such
directions as may from time to time be issued by the Central Government, after
consultation with the Governments of the successor States, until other
provision is made by law in respect of the said body corporate.(2)Any
directions issued by the Central Government under sub-section (1) in respect
of any such body corporate shall include a direction that any law by which the
said body corporate is governed shall, in its application to that body
corporate, have effect subject to such exceptions and modifications as may be
specified in the direction.

### 63. Temporary provisions as to continuance of certain existing road
transport permits.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 88 of the Motor Vehicles Act,
1988 (59 of 1988), a permit granted by the State Transport Authority of the
existing State of Madhya Pradesh or any Regional Transport Authority in that
State shall, if such permit was, immediately before the appointed day, valid
and effective in any area in the transferred territory, be deemed to continue
to be valid and effective in that area after that day subject to the
provisions of that Act as for the time being in force in that area; and it
shall not be necessary for any such permit to be countersigned by the State
Transport Authority of Chhattisgarh or any Regional Transport Authority
therein for the purpose of validating it for use in such area:Provided that
the Central Government may, after consultation with the successor State
Government or Governments concerned add to, amend or vary the conditions
attached to the permit by the Authority by which the permit was granted.(2)No
tolls, entrance fees or other charges of a like nature shall be levied after
the appointed day in respect any transport vehicle for its operations in any
of the successor States under any such permit, if such vehicle was,
immediately before that day, exempt from the payment of any such toll,
entrance fees or other charges for its operations in the transferred
territory:Provided that the Central Government may, after consultation with
the State Government or Governments concerned, authorise the levy of any such
toll, entrance fees or other charges, as the case may be.

### 64. Special provisions relating to retrenchment compensation in certain
cases.-

Where on account of the reorganisation of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh
under this Act, any body corporate constituted under a Central Act, State Act
or Provincial Act, any co-operative society registered under any law relating
to co-operative societies or any commercial or industrial undertaking of that
State is reconstituted or reorganised in any manner whatsoever or is
amalgamated with any other body corporate, co-operative society or
undertaking, or is dissolved, and in consequence of such reconstitution,
reorganisation, amalgamation or dissolution, any workman employed by such body
corporate or in any such co-operative society or undertaking, is transferred
to, or re-employed by any other body corporate, or in any other co-operative
society or undertaking, then notwithstanding anything contained in section
25F, section 25FF or section 25FFF of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of
1947), such transfer or re-employment shall not entitle him to any
compensation under that section:Provided that- (a) the terms and conditions of
service applicable to the workman after such transfer or re-employment are not
less favourable to the workman than those applicable to him immediately before
the transfer or re-employment;(b)the employer in relation to the body
corporate, the co-operative society or the undertaking where the workman is
transferred or re-employed is, by agreement or otherwise, legally liable to
pay to the workman, in the event of his retrenchment, compensation under
section 25F, section 25FF or section 25FFF of the Industrial Disputes Act,
1947 (14 of 1947) on the basis that his service has been continuous and has
not been interrupted by the transfer or re-employment.

### 65. Special provisions as to income-tax.-

Where the assets, rights and liabilities of any body corporate carrying on any
business are, under the provisions of this Part, transferred to any other
bodies corporate which after the transfer carry on the same business, the
losses or profits or gains sustained by the body corporate first mentioned
which, but for such transfer, would have been allowed to be carried forward
and set off in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI of the Income-tax
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), shall be apportioned amongst the transferee bodies
corporate in accordance with the rules to be made by the Central Government in
this behalf and, upon such apportionment, the share of loss allotted to each
transferee body corporate shall be dealt with in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter VI of the said Act, as if the transferee body corporate
had itself sustained such loss in a business carried on by it in the years in
which these losses were sustained.

### 66. Continuance of facilities in certain State institutions.-

(1)The Government of State of Madhya Pradesh or Chhattisgarh, as the case may
be, shall, in respect of the institutions specified in the Eighth Schedule to
this Act, located in that State, continue to provide facilities to the people
of the other State which shall not, in any respect, be less favourable to such
people than what were being provided to them before the appointed day, for
such period and upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon between
the two State Governments within a period of one year from the appointed day
or if no agreement is reached within the said period of one year, then, as may
be fixed by order of the Central Government.(2)The Central Government may, at
any time within a period of one year from the appointed day, by notification
in the Official Gazette, specify in the Eighth Schedule any other institution
existing on the appointed day in the States of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh
and on the issue of such notification, the Schedule shall be deemed to be
amended by the inclusion of the said institution therein.

## Part VIII – Provisions as to Services

### 67. Provisions relating to All India Services.-

(1)In this section, the expression "State cadre",-(a)in relation to the Indian
Administrative Service, has the meaning assigned to it in the Indian
Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954;(b)in relation to the Indian Police
Service, has the meaning assigned to it in the Indian Police Service (Cadre)
Rules, 1954;(c)in relation to the Indian Forest Service, has the meaning
assigned to it in the Indian Forest Service (Cadre) Rules, 1966.(2)In place of
the cadres of the Indian Administrative Service, Indian Police Service and
Indian Forest Service for the existing State of Madhya Pradesh, there shall,
on and from the appointed day, be two separate cadres, one for the State of
Madhya Pradesh and the other for the State of Chhattisgarh in respect of each
of these services.(3)The initial strength and composition of the State cadres
referred to in sub-section (2) shall be such as the Central Government may, by
order, determine before the appointed day.(4)The members of each of the said
service borne on the Madhya Pradesh cadre thereof immediately before the
appointed day shall be allocated to the State cadres of the same service
constituted under sub-section (2) in such manner and with effect from such
date or dates as the Central Government may, by order, specify.(5)Nothing in
this section shall be deemed to affect the operation, on or after the
appointed day, of the All-India Service Act, 1951 (61 of 1951) or the rules
made thereunder.

### 68. Provisions relating to services in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.-

(1)Every person who immediately before the appointed day is serving in
connection with the affairs of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh shall, on
and from that day provisionally continue to serve in connection with the
affairs of the State of Madhya Pradesh unless he is required, by general or
special order of the Central Government to serve provisionally in connection
with the affairs of the State of Chhattisgarh: Provided that no direction
shall be issued under this section after the expiry of a period of one year
from the appointed day.(2)As soon as may be after the appointed day, the
Central Government shall, by general or special order, determine the successor
State to which every person referred to in sub-section (1) shall be finally
allotted for service and the date with effect from which such allotment shall
take effect or be deemed to have taken effect.(3)Every person who is finally
allotted under the provisions of sub-section (2) to a successor State shall,
if he is not already serving therein be made available for serving in the
successor State from such date as may be agreed upon between the Governments
concerned or in default of such agreement, as may be determined by the Central
Government.

### 69. Provisions relating to other services.-

(1)Nothing in this section or section 68 shall be deemed to affect on or after
the appointed day the operation of the provisions of Chapter I of Part XIV of
the Constitution in relation to determination of the conditions of service of
persons serving in connection with the affairs of the Union or any
State:Provided that the conditions of service applicable immediately before
the appointed day in the case of any person deemed to have been allocated to
the State of Madhya Pradesh or to the State of Chhattisgarh under section 68
shall not be varied to his disadvantage except with the previous approval of
the Central Government.(2)All services prior to the appointed day rendered by
a person-(a)if he is deemed to have been allocated to any State under section
68, shall be deemed to have been rendered in connection with the affairs of
that State;(b)if he is deemed to have been allocated to the Union in
connection with the administration of the Chhattisgarh shall be deemed to have
been rendered in connection with the affairs of the Union, for the purposes of
the rules regulating his conditions of service.(3)The provisions of section
68, shall not apply in relation to members of any All-India Service.

### 70. Provisions as to continuance of officers in same post.-

(1)Every person who, immediately before the appointed day is holding or
discharging duties of any post or office in connection with the affairs of the
existing State of Madhya Pradesh in any area which on that day falls within
any of the successor States shall continue to hold the same post or office in
that successor State, and shall be deemed, on and from that day, to have been
duly appointed to the post or office by the Government of, or any other
appropriate authority in, that successor State:Provided that nothing in this
section shall be deemed to prevent a competent authority, on and from the
appointed day, from passing in relation to such person any order affecting the
continuance in such post or office.

### 71. Advisory Committees.-

The Central Government may, by order establish one or more Advisory Committees
for the purpose of assisting it in regard to- (a) the discharge of any of its
functions under this Part; and (b) the ensuring of fair and equitable
treatment to all persons affected by the provisions of this Part and the
proper consideration of any representations made by such persons.

### 72. Power of Central Government to give directions.-

The Central Government may, give such directions to the State Government of
Madhya Pradesh and the State Government of Chhattisgarh as may appear to it to
be necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the foregoing provisions of
this Part and the State Governments shall comply with such directions.

### 73. Provisions as to State Public Service Commission.-

(1)The Public Service Commission for the existing State of Madhya Pradesh
shall, on and from the appointed day, be the Public Service Commission for the
State of Madhya Pradesh.(2)The persons holding office immediately before the
appointed day as Chairman or other member of the Public Service Commission for
the existing State of Madhya Pradesh shall, as from the appointed day, be the
Chairman or, as the case may be, the other member of the Public Service
Commission for the State of Madhya Pradesh.(3)Every person who becomes
Chairman or other member of the Public Service Commission for the State of
Madhya Pradesh on the appointed day under sub-section (2), shall-(a)be
entitled to receive from the Government of the State of Madhya Pradesh
conditions of service not less favourable than those to which he was entitled
under the provisions applicable to him;(b)subject to the proviso to clause (2)
of article 316, hold office or continue to hold office until the expiration of
his term of office as determined under the provisions applicable to him
immediately before the appointed day.(4)The report of the Madhya Pradesh
Public Service Commission as to the work done by the Commission in respect of
any period prior to the appointed day shall be presented under clause (2) of
article 323 to the Governors of the States of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh,
and the Governor of the State of Madhya Pradesh shall, on receipt of such
report, cause a copy thereof together with a memorandum explaining as far as
possible, as respects the cases, if any, where the advice of the Commission
was not accepted, the reasons for such non-acceptance to be laid before the
Legislature of the State of Madhya Pradesh and it shall not be necessary to
cause such report or any such memorandum to be laid before the Legislative
Assembly of the State of Chhattisgarh.

### 74. Jurisdiction of the Commissions, Authorities and Tribunals.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force,
every Commission, Authority, Tribunal, University, Board or any other body
constituted under a Central Act, State Act or Provincial Act and having
jurisdiction over the existing State of Madhya Pradesh shall on and from the
appointed day continue to function in the successor State of Madhya Pradesh
and also exercise jurisdiction as existed before the appointed day over the
State of Chhattisgarh for a maximum period of two years from the appointed day
or till such period as is decided by mutual agreement between the successor
States-(i)to continue such body as a joint body for the successor States; or
(ii) to abolish it, on the expiry of that period, for either of the successor
States; or (iii) to constitute a separate Commission, Authority, Tribunal,
University, Board or any other body, as the case may be, for the State of
Chhattisgarh, whichever is earlier. (2) No suit or other legal proceeding
shall be instituted, in case such body is abolished under clause(ii)of sub-
section (1), by any employee of such body against the termination of his
appointment or for the enforcement of any service conditions or for securing
absorption in alternative public employment against the Central Government or
any of the successor States.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in any law
for the time being in force or in any judgment, decree or order of any court
or Tribunal or contract or agreement, any Chairman or member of any body
abolished under clause (ii) of sub-section (1) shall not be entitled to any
compensation for the unexpired period of his tenure.(4)Notwithstanding
anything contained in this section or any law for the time being in force, the
Central Government, shall, in accordance with any mutual agreement between the
successor States or if there is no such agreement, after consultation with the
Governments of the successor States, issue directions for the resolution of
any matter relating to any body referred to in sub-section (1) and falling
within the jurisdiction of any of the successor States within any period
referred to in sub-section (1).

## Part IX – Management and Development of Power and Water Resources

### 75. Management of power and water supply in certain cases.-

(1)Where it appears to the Central Government that the arrangement in regard
to the generation or supply of electric power or the supply of water for any
area or in regard to the execution of any project for such generation or
supply has been or is likely to be, modified to the disadvantage of that area
by reason of the formation of successor States, the Central Government may,
after consultation with the successor States, give such directions to the
State Government or other authority responsible for the maintenance, so far as
practicable, of such arrangement before the appointed day.(2)The Central
Government shall within a period of three months from the appointed day, by
order, also determine the share of the successor States in the entitlement of
the existing State of Madhya Pradesh to power produced by the Central
Government undertakings having due regard to the likely disadvantage which
might have been occasioned to any successor State as a result of modified
arrangements for generation and supply of electric power.

### 76. Inter-State River Water Board.-

(1)The Central Government may, as and when it considers necessary, constitute
an inter-State River Water Board, after consultation with the successor
States, for the planning and development of inter-State rivers and river
valleys.(2)The Inter-State River Board constituted under sub-section (1) may
be entrusted with the following functions, namely:-(a)to examine the
requirement of funds for various projects according to the programmes laid
down for such projects and to advise regarding the apportionment of the
expenditure to the State participating to implement such programmes keeping in
view the agreement on the sharing of costs;(b)to decide the sharing and
withdrawal of water from the reservoirs for irrigation, power and other
purposes with a view to securing better use of available water;(c)to determine
the programmes of re-settlement of displaced persons as a result of the
projects; and(d)to approve and supervise the planning, survey and
investigation, preparation of project reports and construction of joint inter-
State Projects and their subsequent operation and maintenance.

## Part X – Legal and Miscellaneous Provisions

### 77. Amendment of Act 37 of 1956.-

On and from the appointed day, in section 15 of the States Reorganisation Act,
1956, in clause (b), for the words "Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh", the
words "Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh" shall be substituted.

### 78. Territorial extent of laws.-

The provisions of Part II of this Act shall not be deemed to have effected any
change in the territories to which any law in force immediately before the
appointed day extends or applies, and territorial references in any such law
to the State of Madhya Pradesh shall, until otherwise provided by a competent
Legislature or other competent authority be constituted as meaning the
territories within the existing State of Madhya Pradesh before the appointed
day.

### 79. Power to adapt laws.-

For the purpose of facilitating the application in relation to the State of
Madhya Pradesh or Chhattisgarh of any law made before the appointed day, the
appropriate Government may, before the expiration of two years from that day,
by order, make such adaptations and modifications of the law, whether by way
of repeal or amendment, as may be necessary or expedient, and thereupon every
such law shall have effect subject to the adaptations and modifications so
made until altered, repealed or amended by a competent legislature or other
competent authority.Explanation.-In this Section, the expression "appropriate
Government" means as respects any law relating to a matter enumerated in the
Union List, the Central Government, and as respects any other law in its
application to a State, the State Government.

### 80. Power to construe laws.-

Notwithstanding that no provision or insufficient provision has been made
under section 79 for the adaptation of a law made before the appointed day,
any court, tribunal or authority, required or empowered to enforce such law
may, for the purpose of facilitating its application in relation to the State
of Madhya Pradesh or Chhattisgarh, construe the law in such manner, without
affecting the substance, as may be necessary or proper in regard to the matter
before the court, tribunal or authority.

### 81. Power to name authorities, etc., for exercising statutory functions.-

The Government of the State of Chhattisgarh, as respects the transferred
territory may, by notification in the Officia1 Gazette, specify the authority,
officer or person who, on or after the appointed day, shall be competent to
exercise such functions exercisable under any law in force on that day as may
be mentioned in that notification and such law shall have effect accordingly.

### 82. Legal proceedings.-

Where immediately before the appointed day, the existing State of Madhya
Pradesh is a party to any legal proceedings with respect to any property,
rights or liabilities subject to apportionment between the States of Madhya
Pradesh and Chhattisgarh under this Act, the State of Madhya Pradesh or
Chhattisgarh which succeeds to, or acquires a share in, that property or those
rights or liabilities by virtue of any provision of this Act shall be deemed
to be substituted for the existing State of Madhya Pradesh or added as a party
to those proceedings, and the proceedings may continue accordingly.

### 83. Transfer of pending proceedings.-

(1)Every proceeding pending immediately before the appointed day before a
court (including High Court), tribunal, authority or officer in any area which
on that day falls within the State of Madhya Pradesh shall, if it is a
proceeding relating exclusively to the territory, which as from that day are
the territories of Chhattisgarh State, stand transferred to the corresponding
court, tribunal, authority or officer of the State of Chhattisgarh.(2)If any
question arises as to whether any proceeding should stand transferred under
sub-section (1), it shall be referred to the High Court of Madhya Pradesh and
the decision of that High Court shall be final.(3)In this
Section-(a)"proceeding" includes any suit, case or appeal;
and(b)"corresponding court, tribunal, authority or officer" in the State of
Chhattisgarh means-(i)the court, tribunal, authority or officer in which, or
before whom, the proceeding would have laid if it had been instituted after
the appointed day; or(ii)in case of doubt, such court, tribunal, authority or
officer in the State of Chhattisgarh, as may be determined after the appointed
day by the Government of that State or the Central Government, as the case may
be, or before the appointed day by the Government of the existing State of
Madhya Pradesh to be the corresponding court, tribunal, authority or officer.

### 84. Right of pleaders to practise in certain cases.-

Any person who, immediately before the appointed day, is enrolled as a pleader
entitled to practise in any subordinate courts in the existing State of Madhya
Pradesh shall, for a period of one year from that day, continue to be entitled
to practise in those courts, notwithstanding that the whole or any part of the
territories within the jurisdiction of those courts has been transferred to
the State of Chhattisgarh.

### 85. Effect of provisions of the Act inconsistent with other laws.-T

The provision of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything in
consistent therewith contained in any other law.

### 86. Power to remove difficulties.-

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the President may, by order, do anything not in consistent with such
provisions which appears to him to be necessary or expedient for the purpose
of removing the difficulty: Provided that no such order shall be made after
the expiry of a period of three years from the appointed day.(2)Every order
made under this section shall be laid, before each House of Parliament.***The
First Schedule** *(See Section 8)(1)Of the five sitting members whose term of
office will expire on the 9th day of April, 2002, namely Shri 1[Lakkhiram],
Shri Surendra Kumar Singh, Shri Sikandar Bakht, Shri 1[Suresh Pachauri] and
Shri 1[Abdul Gaiyur Qureshi]; Shri 1[Lakkhiram] and Shri Surendra Kumar Singh
shall be deemed to have been elected to fill two of the seats allotted to the
State of Chhattisgarh and other three sitting members shall be deemed to have
been elected to fill three of the seats allotted to the State of Madhya
Pradesh.(2)Of the five sitting members whose term of office will expire on the
1[ the 29th day of June, 2000], namely Shri 1[O. Rajgopal], Shri 1[Dilip
Kumar], Shri 1[Jhumuklal], Shri 1[Balkavi] and 1[Sushri Mobal Ribelo]; Shri
1[Dilip Kumar] and Shri 1[Jhumuklal] both shall be deemed to have been elected
to fill two of the seats allotted to the State of Chhattisgarh and other three
sitting members shall be deemed to have been elected to fill three of the
seats allotted to the State of Madhya Pradesh.(3)Of the six members whose term
of office will expire on the 2nd day of April, 2006, namely, Shri Arjun Singh,
Shri 1[Kailash Chandra], Shri 1[Bhagatram], Shri Hansraj Bhardwaj, Shri P.K.
Maheshwari and Shri 1[Vikram Singh], Shri 1[Bhagatram], shall be deemed to
have been elected to fill the one of the seats allotted to the State of
Chhattisgarh and other five members shall be deemed to have been elected to
fill the five seats allotted to the State of Madhya Pradesh.The Second
Schedule(See Section10)

### 1\. Amendments to the Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly
Constituencies Order, 1976

In the Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies Order, 1976,-

### 1\. in Schedule XII,-

(i)In PART A-Parliamentary Constituencies-(a)serial numbers 12 to 22 (both
inclusive) and entries relating thereto shall be omitted;(b)in serial number
10, the following figures, words, brackets and letters shall be omitted,
namely:-"87-Manendragarh (ST)" and "88-Baikunthpur".(ii)In PART B-Assembly
Constituencies, serial numbers 87 to 176 (both inclusive) and entries relating
thereto shall be omitted.

### 2\. after Schedule XIl, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely:-
"

## XIIA

Chhattisgarh

## Part A – .-Parliamentary Constituencies

**Serial No.** | **Name and extent of constituency**  
---|---  
**(1)** | **(2)**  
1. |  **Surguja (ST)-** 2.Baikunthpur, 3. Premnagar (ST), 4. Surajpur (ST), 5. Pal (ST), 6. Samri(ST), 7. Lundra (ST), 8. Pilkha (ST) 9. Ambikapur (ST) and 10. Sitapur(ST).  
2. |  **Raigarh (ST**)-11.Bagicha (ST).12. Jashpur (ST), 13. Tapkar (ST), 14. Pathalgaon (ST),15\. Dharamjaigarh (ST), 16. Lailunga (ST), 17. Raigarh and 18. Kharsia.  
3. | **Janjgir-** 21\. Rampur (ST), 22. Katghora, 23. Tanakhar (ST), 1[32-Masturi (SC)], 33. Sipat, 34. Akaltara, 36. Champa and 37. Sakti.  
4. |  **Bilaspur (SC)-** 1.Manendragarh (ST), 24. Marwahi (ST), 25. Kota, 26. Lormi, 27. Mungeli(SC), 28. Jarhagaon (SC), 29 Takhatpur, 30. Bilaspur and 31. Bilha.  
5. |  **Sarangarh (SC)-** 19.Saria, 20. Sarangarh (SC), 35. Pamgarh, 38. Malkharoda (SC), 39.Chandrapur, 48. Pallari (SC), 49. Kasdol and 50. Bhatgaon (SC).  
6. |  **Raipur-** 40-RaipurTown, 41. Raipur Rural, 42. Abhanpur, 43. Mandirhasod, 44. Arang (SC),45\. Dharsiwa, 46. Bhatapara and 47. Baloda Bazar.  
7. | **Mahasamund-** 53\. Saraipali, 54. Basna, 55. Khallari, 56. Mahasamund, 51. Rajim, 52. Bindranawagarh (ST), 58. Kurud and 59. Dhamtari.  
8. |  **Kanker (ST)-** 57.Sihawa (ST), 60. Bhanupratappur (ST), 61. Kanker (ST), 63. Keskala(ST), 62. Narayanpur (ST), 79. Gunderdehi, 81. Balod and 82. DondiLohara (ST).  
9. |  **Bastar (ST)-** 64.Kondagaon (ST), 65. Bhanpuri (ST), 66. Jagdalpur (ST), 67. Keslur (ST),68\. Chitrakote (ST), 69. Dantewara (ST), 70. Konta (ST) and 71. Bijapur(ST).  
10. | **Durg-** 72\. Maro (SC), 73. Bemetara, 74. Saja, 75. Dhamdha, 76. Durg, 77. Bhilai, 78. Patan and 80. Khertha.  
11. |  **Rajnandgaon-** 83.Chowki(ST), 84. Khujji, 85. Dongargaon, 86. Rajnandgaon, 87. Dongargarh (SC),88\. Khairagarh, 89. Birendranagar and 90. Kawardha.  
  
## Part B

Assembly Consntituencies

**Serial No.** | **Name and extent of constituency**  
---|---  
**(1)** | **(2)**  
1. | **Manendragarh**(ST)-Bharatpur tahsil and Manendragarh tahsil (excluding P.C. 15 in Khadgawan RIC) and the forest villages in the area.  
2. | **Baikunthpur-** Baikunthpur tahsil and the forest villages in the area and P.C. 15 in Khadgawan RIC in Manendragarh tahsil.  
**Surguja District**  
3. |  **Premnagar (ST).-** PremnagarRIC and Ramanujnagar RIC (excluding P.Cs. 73 to 80) in Surajpur tahsiland Udaipur RIC and P.Cs. 55, 57, 58 and 65 in Lakhanpur RIC inAmbikapur tehsil and the forest villages in the area.  
4. |  **Surajpur (ST)-** Surajpurand Bhaiyathan RICs and P.Cs. 73 to 80 in Ramanujnagar RIC andChandramedha RIC (excluding P.Cs. 17 to 26) in Surajpur tahsil.  
5. | **Pal (ST)-** Basantpur, Ramchandrapur and Chailgali RICs and Ramanujganj Town and P.Cs. 32 to 34A and 34B in Balrampur RIC in Pal tahsil.  
6. |  **Samri (ST)-** Samritahsil and the forest villages in the area and Balrampur RIC(excludingRamanujganj Town and P.Cs. 32 to 34A and 34B) in Pal tahsil.  
7. |  **Lundra (ST)-** Lundraand Raipur RICs in Arnbikapur tahsil and the forest villages in thearea and P.Cs. 39 to 42 in Pratappur RIC in Surajpur tahsil.  
8. |  **Pilkha (ST)-** PilkhaRIC, Pratappur (excluding P.Cs. 39 to 42), and P.Cs. 17 to 26 inChandramedha RIC in Surajpur tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
9. |  **Ambikapur (ST)-** Ambikapur-Iand Ambikapur-Il RICs. and Lakhanpur RIC (excluding P.Cs. 55, 57, 58and 65) in Ambikapur tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
10. | **Sitapur (ST)-** Sitapur and Batauli RICs in Ambikapur tahsil.  
**Jashpur District**  
11. | **Bagicha (ST)-** Bagicha and Sanna RICs in Jashpur tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
12. | **Jashpur (ST)-** Jashpur and Kastura RICs and P.Cs. 78 to 82 and 98 in Kunkuri RIC in Jashpur tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
13. | **Tapkara (ST)-** Tapkara RIC and Kunkuri RIC (excluding P.Cs. 78 to 82 and 98) in Jashpur tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
14. | **Pathalgaon (ST)-** Pathalgaon RIC and Kapu RIC (excluding P.Cs. 1 to 6 and 36) in Udaipur (Dharamjaigarh) tahsil.  
**Raigarh District**  
15. |  **Dhramjaigarh (ST)-** DharamjaigarhRIC and P.Cs. 1 to 6 and 36 in Kapu RIC in Udaipur (Dharamjaigarh)tahsil and Gharghoda RIC in Gharghoda tahsil and the forest villages inthe area.  
16. | **Lailunga (ST)-** Lailunga and Tamnar RICs in Gharghoda tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
17. | **Raigarh-** Raigarh-I and Raigarh- II RICs and P.Cs. 44 to 52 in pussour RIC in Raigarh tahsil.  
18. | **Kharsia-** Kharsia and Bhupdeopur RICs in Raigarh tahsil.  
19. |  **Saria-** PussourRIC (excluding P.Cs. 44 to 52) in Raigarh tahsil and Saria andBaramkela RICs in Sarangarh tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
20. | 1[20. **Sarangarh (SC)**]-Sarangarh and Hardi RICs in Sarangarh tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
**Korba District**  
21. |  **Rampur (ST)-** KorbaRIC (excluding Korba Town and P.C. 21) Rampur RIC (excluding P.Cs. 73to 80) and P.Cs. 14, 20, 22 and 30 in Tanakhar RIC in Katghora tahsil.  
22. | **Katghora-** Korba Town and P.C 21 in Korba RIC, Katghora RIC and Pali RIC (excluding P.Cs. 34 and 36 to 46) in Katghora tahsil.  
23. | **Tanakhar (ST)-** Pasan RIC, Tanakhar RIC (excluding P.Cs. 14, 20, 22 and 30) and P.Cs. 34 and 36 to 46 in Pali RIC in Katghora tahsil.  
. **Bilaspur District**  
24. | **Marwahi (ST)-** Marwahi RIC, Gaurella RIC (excluding P.Cs. of 26 to 28) and P.Cs. 31 to 33 and 37 in Kota RIC in Bilaspur tahsil.  
25. |  **Kota-** P.Cs.26 to 28 in Gaurella RIC, Kota RIC (excluding P.Cs. 31 to 33 and 37)and P.Cs. 64 to 67 in Ghutku-I RIC in Bilaspur tahsil and the forestvillages in the area.  
26. | **Lormi-** Lormi RIC (excluding P.Cs. 12 to 14, 17, 35 and 36) and Pandaria RIC in Mungeli tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
27. | **1**[**Mungeli (SC)**]-Mungeli and Kunda RICs and P.Cs. 17, 35 and 36 in Lormi RIC in Mungeli tahsil.  
28. | **Jarhagaon (SC)-** P.Cs. 12 to 14 in Lormi RIC, and Jarhagaon RIC and Patharia RIC (excluding P.Cs. 84 to 91) in Mungeli tahsil.  
29. |  **Takhatpur-** TakhatpurRIC, Ghutku-II RIC (excluding P.C. 96) and Ghutku-I RIC (excludingP.Cs. 64 to 67, 78 to 80, 97 and 98) in Bilaspur tahsil.  
30. | **Bilaspur-** Bilaspur Town including Railway Colony and P.Cs. 109, 110-A and 110-B in Bilaspur RIC in Bilaspur tahsil.  
31. | **Bilha-** Bilha RIC and P.Cs. 94, 95, 112 and 117 in Bilaspur RIC in Bilaspur tahsil and P.Cs. 81 to 91 in Patharia RIC in Mungeli tahsil.  
32. | **Masturi (SC)-** Masturi RIC, P.Cs. 111, 130 and 131 in Bilaspur RIC and P.Cs. 133, 135 and 136 in Sipat (Nargoda) RIC in Bilaspur tahsil.  
33. |  **Sipat-** Sipat(Nargoda) RIC (excluding P.Cs. 133, 135 and 136), P.Cs. 107, 108 and132 in Bilaspur RIC, P.Cs. 78 to 80, 97 and 98 in Ghutku-I RIC and P.C96 in Ghuktu-II RIC in Bilaspur tahsil and the forest villages in thearea.  
**Janjgir-Champa District**  
34. | **Akaltara-** Baloda RIC and Akaltara RIC (excluding P.Cs. 58 and 60) in Janjgir tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
35. | **Pamgarh-** Pamgarh and Nawagarh RICs, P.Cs. 58 and 60 in Akaltara RIC and P.Cs. 50, 52 and 53 in Janjgir RIC in Janjgir tehsil.  
36. | **Champa-** Champa RIC and Janjgir RIC (excluding P.Cs. 50, 52 and 53) in Janjgir tahsil.  
37. | **Sakti-** Sakti RIC in Sakti tahsil and P.Cs. 73 to 80 in Rampur RIC in Katghora tahsil.  
38. | **Malkharoda (SC)-** Jaijaipur RIC and Malkharoda RIC (excluding P.Cs. 51, 52, 57, 59 and 60) in Sakti tahsil.  
39. | **Chandrapur-** Chandrapur RIC and P.Cs. 51, 52, 57, 59 and 60 in Malkharoda RIC in Sakti tahsil.  
**Raipur District**  
40. | **Raipur Town-** Raipur town (excluding wards 20 to 24, 29, 30, 34 and 35 and non-ward municipal area).  
41. |  **Raipur Rural-** Wards20 to 24, 29, 30, 34 and 35 in Raipur town including non-ward municipalarea. Raipur-II RIC and Raipur-I RIC (excluding P.Cs.111, 112 and 115)in Raipur tahsil.  
42. | **Abhanpur-** Abhanpur and Nawapara RICs in Raipur tahsil.  
43. | **Mandirhasod-** Mandirhasod RIC and P.Cs. 111, 112 and 115 in Raipur-I RIC in Raipur tahsil.  
44. | **Arang (SC)-** Arang and Kharora RICs in Raipur tahsil.  
45. | **Dharsiwa-** Dharsiwa-I, Pharsiwa-II and Tilda RICs in Raipur tahsil.  
46. | **Bhatapara-** Simga RIC and Bhatapara RIC (excluding P.Cs. 34 to 38) in Baloda Bazar tahsil.  
47. | **Baloda Bazar-** P.Cs. 34 to 38 in Bhatapara RIC and Baloda Bazar and Jarod RICs in Baloda Bazar tahsil.  
48. | **Pallari (SC)-** Pallari and Lawan RICs in Baloda Bazar tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
49. | **Kasdol-** Kasdol and Bilaigarh RICs in Baloda Bazar tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
50. | **Bhatgaon (SC)-** Bhatgaon RIC in Baloda Bazar tahsil and the forest villages in the area and Bhanwarpur RIC in Mahasamund tahsil.  
51. | **Rajim-** Rajim RIC, Chhura RIC (excluding P.Cs. 31 to 35) and P.Cs. 36 to 39, 41 and 42 in Gariaband RIC in Bindranawagarh tahsil.  
52. |  **Bindranawagarh (ST)-** DeobhogRIC, Gariaband RIC (excluding P.Cs. 36 to 39,41 and 42) and P.Cs. 31 to35 in Chhura RIC in Bindranawagarh tehsil and the forest villages inthe area.  
**Mahasamund District**  
53. | **Saraipali-** Saraipali and Khamharpali RICs Mahasamund tahsil.  
54. | **Basna-** Basna RIC and Pithora RIC (excluding P.Cs. 25 to 28) in Mahasamund tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
55. | **Khallari-** Khallari and Komakhan RICs and P.Cs. 25 to 28 in Pithora RIC in Mahasamund tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
56. | **Mahasamund-** Mahasamund and Patewa RICs in Mahasamund tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
**Dhamtari District**  
57. | **Sihawa (ST)-** Sihawa RIC and Dhamtari RIC (excluding Dhamtari town and P.Cs. 50 to 52) in Dhamtari tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
58. | **Kurud-** Kurud and Magarlod RICs in Dhamtari tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
59. | **Dhamtari-** Bhothali RIC, Dhamtari town and P.Cs. 50 to 52 in Dhamtari RIC in Dhamtari tahsil.  
**Kanker District**  
60. | **Bhanupratappur (ST)-** Bhanupratappur tahsil and Charama RIC (excluding P.Cs. 2 and 13 to 16) and P.Cs. 20 to 24 and 26 in Kanker RIC in Kanker tahsil.  
61. | **Kanker (ST)-** Narharpur RIC, P.Cs. 2 and 13 to 16 in Charama RIC and Kanker RIC (excluding P.Cs. 20 to 24 and 26) in Kanker tahsil.  
62. | **Narayanpur (ST)-** Koilibeda and Antagarh RICs and P.Cs. 23 to 25 in Narayanpur RIC in Narayanpur tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
**Bastar District**  
63. | **Keskal (ST)-** Keskal RIC and P.Cs. 19 to 26 in Pharasgaon RIC in Kondagaon tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
64. |  **Kondagaon (ST)-** PharasgaonRIC (excluding P.Cs. 19 to 26) and Kondagaon RIC (excluding P.Cs. 35and 37 to 43) in Kondagaon tahsil and the forest villages in the areaand Narayanpur RIC (excluding P.Cs. 23 to 25) in Narayanpur tahsil.  
65. |  **Bhanpuri (ST)-** BhanpnriRIC and P.C 38 in Bakawand RIC in Jagdalpur tahsil and P.Cs. 35 and 37to 43 in Kondagaon RIC in Kondagaon tahsil and the forest villages inthe area.  
66. |  **Jagdalpur (ST)-** BakawandRIC (excluding P.C 38), Jagdalpur (B) RIC and Jagdalpur (A) RIC(excluding P.Cs. 54 to 59) in Jagdalpur tahsil and the forest villagesin the area.  
67. |  **Keslur (ST)-** P.Cs.54 to 59 in Jagdalpur (A) RIC and Keslur in Jagdalpur tahsil and theforest villages in the area and P.Cs. 7 to 9 in Chindgarh RIC in Kontatahsil.  
68. | **Chitrakote (ST)-** Chitiakote RIC in Jagdalpur tahsil and P.Cs. 1 to 9 in Dantewara RIC in Dantewara tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
**Dantewara District**  
69. | **Dantewara (ST)-** Dantewara tahsil (excluding P.Cs. 1 to 9 in Dantewara RIC) and the forest villages in the area.  
70. | **Konta (ST)-** Konta tahsil (excluding P.Cs. 7 to 9 in Chindgarh RIC) and the forest villages in the area.  
71. | **Bijapur (ST)-** Bijapur tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
**Durg District**  
72. | **Maro (SC)-** Maro and Nawagarh RICs and P.Cs. 46, 51, 52 and 55 to 57 in Khandsara RIC in Bemetara tahsil.  
73. | **Bemetara-** Bemetara and Anandgaon RICs and P.Cs. 47 to 50, 53 and 54 in Khandsara RIC in Bemetara tahsil.  
74. | **Saja-** Saja and Deokar RICs and Khandsara RIC (excluding P.Cs. 46 to 57) 10 Bemetara tahsil.  
75. | **Dhamdha-** Dhamdha and Nankathi RICs and P.Cs. 46 to 48 and 50 to 52 in Bhilai RIC in Durg tahsil.  
76. |  **Durg-** Durg-Iand Durg-II RICs and S.A.F. Colony, Kosa Nala, Supela Bazar West,Supela Bazar, Supela Bazar East and Supela Camp West in Bhilainagar andex-revenue village Chhaoni lying on the periphery of Bhilainagar inBhilai RIC in Durg tahsil.  
77. |  **Bhilai-** Bhilainagar(excluding S.A.F. Colony, Kosa Nala, Supela Bazar West, Supela Bazar,Supela Bazar East, Supela, Camp West and ex-revenue village Chhaonilying on the periphery of Bhilainagar) in Bhilai RIC in Durg tahsil.  
78. | **Patan-** Bhilai RIC (excluding P.Cs. 46 to 48 and 50 to 52 and Bhilainagar) and Patan RIC (excluding P.Cs. 95 to 98) in Durg tahsil.  
79. | **Gunderdehi-** Bhatagaon and Gunderdehi RICs and P.Cs. 95 to 98 in Patan RIC in Durg tahsil.  
80. | **Khertha-** Anda RIC in Durg tahsil and Khertha RIC in Balod tahsil.  
81. | **Balod-** Gurur and Balod RICs in Balod tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
82. | **Dondi Lohara (ST)-** Kusumkasa and Dondi Lohara RICs in Balod tehsil and the forest villages in the area.  
**Rajnandgaon District**  
83. | **Chowki (ST)-** Manpur and Mohala RICs and Chowki RIC (excluding P.Cs. 99 to 105) in Rajnandgaon tahsil.  
84. | **Khuiji-** Chhuria and Khujji RICs and P.Cs. 99 to 105 in Chowki RIC in Rajnandgaon tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
85. |  **Dongargaon-** DongargaonRIC in Rajnandgaon tahsil and Lal Bahadur Nagar RIC (excluding P.C 88)in Khairagarh tahsil and the forest villages in the area.  
86. | **Rajnandgaon-** Rajnandgaon RIC in Rajnandgaon tahsil.  
87. |  **Dongargarh (SC)-** GhumkaRIC in Rajnandgaon tahsil, P.C 88 in Lal Bahadur Nagar RIC andDongargarh RIC and P.Cs. 52 and 55 to 61 in Pandadah RIC in Khairagarhtahsil.  
88. |  **Khairagarh-** Khairagarhand Chhuikhadan RICs, Pandadah RIC (excluding P.Cs. 52 and 55 to 61)and Gandai RIC (excluding P.Cs. 6 and 8 to 14) in Khairagarh tahsil andthe forest villages in the area.  
**Kawardha District**  
89. |  **Birendranagar-** P.Cs.6 and 8 to 14 in Gandai RIC in Khairagarh tahsil and Birendranagar andSahaspur Lohara RICs and Kawardha RIC (excluding P.Cs. 28, 29, 34 and 35and Kawardha Town) in Kawardha tahsil and the forest villages in thearea.  
90. |  **Kawardha-** Pasrangpurand Bodla RICs and Kawardha Town and P.Cs. 28, 29, 34 and 35 inKawardha RIC in Kawardha tahsil and the forest villages in the area."  
  
The Third Schedule(See Section 19)Amendment of the Constitution (Scheduled
Castes) Order, 1950In the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950,-(a)in
Paragraph 2, for the figures "XXII", the figures "XXIII" shall be
substituted;(b)in the Schedule, after Part XXII, the following shall be
inserted, namely:-"Part XXIII.-Chhattisgarh

### 1\. Audhelia

### 2\. Bagri, Bagdi

### 3\. Bahna, Bajana

### 4\. Balahi, Balai

### 5\. Banchada

### 6\. Barabar, Basod

### 7\. Bargunda

### 8\. Basor, Burud, Bansor, Bansodi, Bansphor, Basar

### 9\. Bedia

### 10\. Beldar, Sunkar

### 11\. Bhangi, Mehtar, Balmiki, Lalbegi, Dharkar

### 12\. Bhanumati

### 13\. Chadar

### 14\. Chamar, Chamari, Bairwa, Bhambhi, Jatav, Mochi, Regar, Nona, Rohidas,
Ramnami, Satnami, Surjyabanshi, Surjyaramnami, Ahirwar, Chamar, Mangan, Raidas

### 15\. Chidar

### 16\. Chikwa, Chikvi

### 17\. Chitar

### 18\. Dahait, Dahayat, Dahat

### 19\. Dewar

### 20\. Dhanuk

### 21\. Dhed, Dher

### 22\. Dohor

### 23\. Dom, Dumar, Dome, Domar, Doris

### 24\. Ganda, Gandi

### 25\. Ghasi, Ghasia

### 26\. Holiya

### 27\. Kanjar

### 28\. Katia, Patharia

### 29\. Khatik

### 30\. Koli, Kori

### 31\. Khangar, Kanera, Mirdha

### 32\. Kuchbandhia

### 33\. Mahar, Mehra, Mehar

### 34\. Mang, Mang Garodi, Mang Garudi, Dankhani Mang, Mang Mahasi, Madari,
Garudi, Radhe Mang

### 35\. Meghwal

### 36\. Moghia

### 37\. Muskhan

### 38\. Nat, Kalbelia, Sapera, Navdigar, Kubutar

### 39\. Pasi

### 40\. Rujihar

### 41\. Sansi, Sansia

### 42\. Silawat

### 43\. Zamral.".

The Fourth Schedule(See Section 20)Amendment of The Constitution (Scheduled
Tribes) Order, 1950In the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950,-(a)in
Paragraph 2, for the figures "XIX", the figures "XX" shall be
substituted;(b)in the Schedule, (i) for Part VIII, the following Part shall be
substituted, namely:-"Part VIII.-Madhya Pradesh

### 1\. Agariya

### 2\. Andh

### 3\. Baiga

### 4\. Bhaina

### 5\. Bharia Bhumia, Bhuinhar Bhumia, Bhumiya, Bharia, Paliha, Pando

### 6\. Bhattra

### 7\. Bhil, Bhilala, Barela, Patelia

### 8\. Bhil Mina

### 9\. Bhunjia

### 10\. Biar, Biyar

### 11\. Binjhwar

### 12\. Birhul, Birhor

### 13\. Damor, Damaria

### 14\. Dhanwar

### 15\. Gadaba, Gadba

### 16\. Gond, Arakh, Arrakh, Agaria, Asur, Badi Maria, Bada Maria, Bhatola,
Bhimma, Bhuta, Koilabhuta, Koliabhuti, Bhar, Bisonhorn Maria, Chota Maria,
Dandami Maria, Dhuru, Dhurwa, Dhoba, Dhulia, Dorla, Gaiki, Gatta, Gatti,
Gaita, 1[Gond Gowari], Hill Maria, Kandra, Kalanga, Khatola, Koitar, Koya,
Khirwar, Khirwara, Kucha Maria, 1[Kuchaki Maria], Madia, Maria, Mana,
Mannewar, Moghya, Mogia, Monghya, Mudia, Muria, Nagarchi, Nagwanshi, Ojha,
1[Raj], Sonjhari, Jhareka, Thatia, Thotya, Wade Maria, Vade Maria, Daroi 17.
Halba, Halbi

### 18\. Kamar

### 19\. Karku

### 20\. Kawar, Kanwar, Kaur, Cherwa, Rathia, Tanwar, Chattri

### 21\. Keer (in Bhopal, Raisen and Sehore Districts)

### 22\. Khairwar, Kondar

### 23\. Kharia

### 24\. Kondh, Khond, 1[Kandh]

### 25\. Kol

### 26\. Kolam

### 27\. Korku, BoP.Chi, Mouasi, 1[Nihal], Nahul, 1[Bondhi] Bondeya

### 28\. Korwa, Kodaku

### 29\. Majhi

### 30\. Majhwar

### 31\. Mawasi

### 32\. Mina (in Sironj Sub-Division of Vidisha District)

### 33\. Munda

### 34\. Nagesia, Nagasia

### 35\. Oraon, Dhanka, Dhangad

### 36\. Panika [in (i) Chhattarpur, Panna, Rewa, Satna, Shahdol, Umaria,
Sidhi and Tikamgarh districts, and (ii) Sevda and Datia tahsils of Datia
district)]

### 37\. Pao

### 38\. Pardhan, Pathari, Saroti

### 39\. Pardhi (in Bhopal, Raisen and Sehore Districts)

### 40\. Pardhi, Bahelia, Bahellia, Chita Pardhi, Langoli Pardhi, Phans
Pardhi, Shikari, Takankar, Takia [in (i) Chhindwara, Mandla, Dindori and Seoni
Districts, (ii) Baihar tahsil of Balaghat District, (iii) Betul, Bhainsdehi
and Shahpur tahsils of Betul District, (iv) Patan tahsil and Sihora and
Majholi blocks of Jabalpur District, (v) Katni (Murwara) and Vijaya Raghogarh
tahsils and Bahoribandh and Dhemerkheda blocks of Katni District, (vi)
Hoshangabad, Babai, Sohagpur,

Pipariy and Bankhedi tahsils and Kesla block of Hoshangabad District, (vii)
Narsinghpur District, and (viii) Harsud tahsil of Khandwa District]

### 41\. Parja

### 42\. Sahariya, Saharia, Seharia, Sehria, Sosia, Sor

### 43\. Saonta, Saunta

### 44\. Saur

### 45\. Sawar, Sawara,

### 46\. Sonr.";

(ii)after Part XIV, the following shall be added, namely:-"Part
XX.-Chhattisgarh

### 1\. Agariya

### 2\. Andh

### 3\. Baiga

### 4\. Bhaina

### 5\. Bharia Bhumia, Bhuinhar Bhumia, Bhumiya, Bharia, Paliha, Pando

### 6\. Bhattra

### 7\. Bhil, Bhilala, Barela, Patelia

### 8\. Bhil Mina

### 9\. Bhunjia

### 10\. Biar, Biyar

### 11\. Binjhwar

### 12\. Birhul, Birhor

### 13\. Damor, Damaria

### 14\. Dhanwar

### 15\. Gadaba, Gadba

### 16\. Gond, Arakh, Arrakh, Agaria, Asur, Badi Maria, Bada Maria, Bhatola,
Bhimma, Bhuta, Koilabhuta, 1[Koliabhuti], Bhar, Bisonhorn Maria, Chota Maria,
Dandami Maria, Dhuru, Dhurwa, Dhoba, Dhulia, Dorla, Gaiki, Gatta, Gatti,
Gaita, 1[Gond Gowari], 1[Hill Maria], Kandra, Kalanga, Khatola, Koitar, Koya,
Khirwar, Khirwara, Kucha Maria, Kuchaki Maria, Madia, Maria, Mana, Mannewar,
Moghya, Mogia, Monghya, Mudia, Muria, Nagarchi, Nagwanshi, Ojha, 1[Raj],
Sonjhari, Jhareka, Thatia, Thotya, Wade Maria, Vade Maria, Daroi

### 17\. Halba, Halbi

### 18\. Kamar

### 19\. Karku

### 20\. Kawar, Kanwar, Kaur, Cherwa, Rathia, Tanwar, Chattri

### 21\. Khairwar, Kondar

### 22\. Kharia

### 23\. Kondh, Khond, Kandh,

### 24\. Kol

### 25\. Kolam

### 26\. Korku, BoP.Chi, Mouasi, 1[Nihal], Nahul, Bondhi, Bondeya

### 27\. Korwa, Kadaku

### 28\. Majhi

### 29\. Majhwar

### 30\. Mawasi

### 31\. Munda

### 32\. Nagesia, Nagasia

### 33\. Oraon, Dhanka, Dhangad

### 34\. Pao

### 35\. Pardhan, Pathari, Saroti

### 36\. Pardhi, Bahelia, Bahellia, Chita Pardhi, Langoli Pardhi, Phans
Pardhi, Shikari, Takankar, Takia [in (i) Bastar, Dantewara, Kanker, Raigarh,
Jashpurnagar, Surguja and Koria district, (ii) Katghora, Pali, Kartala and
Korba tahsils of Korba district, (iii) Bilaspur, Pendra, Kota and Takhatpur
tahsils of Bilaspur district, (iv) Durg, Patan, Gunderdehi, Dhamdha, Balod,
Gurur and Dondilohara tahsils of Durg district, (v) Chowki, Manpur and Mohala
Revenue Inspector Circles of Rajnandgaon district, (vi) Mahasamund, Saraipali
and Basna tahsils of Mahasamund district, (vii) Bindra Navagarh Rajim and
Deobhog tahsils of Raipur district, and (viii) Dhamtari, Kurud and Sihava
tahsils of Dhamtari district]

### 37\. Parja

### 38\. Sahariya, Saharia, Seharia, Sehria, Sosia, Sor

### 39\. Saonta, Saunta

### 40\. Saur

### 41\. Sawar, Sawara

### 42\. Sonr.".

The Fifth Schedule(See Section 42)

### 1\. Famine Relief Fund

### 2\. Guarantee Reserve Fund Investment Account

### 3\. Revenue Reserve Fund Investment Account

### 4\. State Agriculture Credit (Relief and Guarantee) Fund

### 5\. Cash Balance Investment Account

### 6\. Land Revenue and Stamp Fund

### 7\. Rural Development Fund

### 8\. Energy Development Cess Fund

### 9\. Compensatory Afforestation Fund

### 10\. Forest Development Cess Fund

### 11\. Road Safety Fund

### 12\. Depreciation/Renewal Reserve Fund 13. Madhya Pradesh Calamity Relief
Fund

### 14\. World Food Programme Project Fund. .

### 15\. Madhya Pradesh State Employees Family Benefit Fund

### 16\. School Building Fund

### 17\. Pensioners Welfare Fund

### 18\. Crop Insurance Fund.

The Sixth Schedule(See Section 49)Apportionment of Liability In Respect of
Pensions

### 1\. Subject to the adjustments mentioned in Paragraph 3, each of the
successor State shall in respect to pensions granted before the appointed day
by the existing State of Madhya Pradesh, pay the pensions drawn in its
treasuries.

### 2\. Subject to the adjustments, the liability in respect of pensions of
officers serving in connection with the affairs of the existing State of
Madhya Pradesh who retire or proceed on leave preparatory to retirement before
the appointed day, but whose claims for pensions are outstanding immediately
before that day, shall be the liability of the State of Madhya Pradesh.

### 3\. There shall be computed, in respect of the period commencing on the
appointed day and ending on the 31st day of March of that financial year and
in respect of each subsequent financial year, the total payment made in all
the successor State in respect of pension referred to in Paragraphs 1 and 2.
The total representing the liability of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh
in respect of pension shall be apportioned between the successor State on the
population ratio and any successor State paying more than its due share shall
be reimbursed the excess amount by the successor State or State paying less.

### 4\. The liability of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh in respect of
Pension granted before the appointed day and drawn in any area outside the
territories of the existing State shall be the liability of the State of
Madhya Pradesh subject to adjustments to be made in accordance with Paragraph
3 as if such pensions had been drawn in any treasury in the State of Madhya
Pradesh under Paragraph 1.

### 5\.

(1)The liability in respect of the pensions of any officer serving immediately
before the appointed day in connection with the affairs of the existing State
of Madhya Pradesh and retiring on or after that day, shall be that of the
successor State granting him the pension, but the portion of the pension
attributable to the service of any such officer before the appointed day in
connection with the affairs of the existing State of Madhya Pradesh shall be
allocated between the successor State in the population ratio, and the
Government granting the pension shall be entitled to receive from each of the
successor State its share or this liability.(2)If any such officer was serving
after the appointed day in connection with the affairs of more than one
successor State, the State Government other than the one granting the pension
shall reimburse to the Government by which pension is granted an amount which
bears to the portion of the pension attributable to his service after the
appointed day the same ratio as the period of his qualifying service after the
appointed day under the reimbursing State bears to total qualifying service of
such officer after the appointed day reckoned for the purposes of pension.

### 6\. Any reference in this schedule to a pension shall be construed as
including a reference value of the pension.

The Seventh Schedule(See Section 60)List of Government Companies

1. | Madhya Pradesh State Industries Corporation Limited | Bhopal  
---|---|---  
2. | Madhya Pradesh Laghu Udyog Nigam Limited | Bhopal  
3. | Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Limited | Bhopal  
4. | Madhya Pradesh State Industrial Development Corporation Limited | Bhopal  
5. | Madhya Pradesh State Agro Industries Development Corporation Limited | Bhopal  
6. | Madhya Pradesh State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited | Bhopal  
7. | Madhya Pradesh State Textile Corporation Limited | Bhopal  
8. | Madhya Pradesh Rajya Van Vikas Nigam Limited | Bhopal  
9. | Madhya Pradesh State Tourism Development Corporation Limited | Bhopal  
10. | Madhya Pradesh Police Housing Corporation Limited | Bhopal  
11. | Madhya Pradesh Leather Development Corporation Limited | Bhopal  
12. | Madhya Pradesh Hastshilp Avam Hathkargha Vikas Nigam Limited | Bhopal  
13. | Madhya Pradesh Urja Vikas Nigam Limited | Bhopal  
14. | Madhya Pradesh State Electronics Development Corporation Limited | Bhopal  
15. | Madhya Pradesh Pichhra Varg Tatha Alpsankhyak Vitta Avam Vikas Nigam | Bhopal  
16. | Madhya Pradesh Adivasi Vitta Avam Vikas Nigam | Bhopal  
17. | Madhya Pradesh Export Corporation Limited | Bhopal  
18. | The Provident Investment Company Limited | Mumbai  
19. | Madhya Pradesh Film Development Corporation Limited | Bhopal  
20. | Optel Telecommunications Limited | Bhopal  
21. | Madhya Pradesh Audyogik Kendra Vikas Nigam (Bhopal) Limited | Bhopal  
22. | Madhya Pradesh Audyogik Kendra Vikas Nigam (Indore) Limited | Indore  
23. | Madhya Pradesh Audyogik Kendra Vikas Nigam (Raipur) Limited | Raipur  
24. | Madhya Pradesh Audyogik Kendra Vikas Nigam (Jabalpur) Limited | Jabalpur  
25. | Madhya Pradesh Audyogik Kendra Vikas Nigam (Gwalior) Limited | Gwalior  
26. | Madhya Pradesh Audyogik Kendra Vikas Nigam (Rewa) Limited | Rewa  
27. | Madhya Pradesh Agro Pesticides Limited | Bhopal  
28. | Madhya Pradesh Agro Oils and Cattlefeed Limited | Bhopal.  
  
The Eighth Schedule(See Section 66)Continuance of Facilities in Certain State
Institution List of Training Institutions/Centres

### 1\. Prevention of Food Adulteration Organisation State Laboratory
Controller, Lal Ghati, Bhopal.

### 2\. State Institute of Health Management and Communication, Gwalior.

### 3\. Madhya Pradesh State Seed Certification Agency, Officer Complex, B-2,
Gautam Nagar, Bhopal.

### 4\. Madhya Pradesh State Forest Research Institute, Polipathar, Narmada
Road, Jabalpur.

### 5\. Pandit Kunjilal Dubey Rashtriya Sansadiya Vidyapeeth, Old Vidhan Sabha
Campus, Bhopal.

### 6\. Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Rural Development and Training,
Adhartal, Jabalpur.

### 7\. Madhy Pradesh State Employment and Training Institution, Rajiv Gandhi
Bhawan, Shyamla Hills, Bhopal.

### 8\. State Academy of Administration, Hitkarni Nagar, 1100 Quarters,
Bhopal.

### 9\. Medico Legal Institute, Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal.

### 10\. Ranger Training College, Balaghat.

### 11\. Agriculture Cooperative Staff Training Institute of Apex Bank, Kotra
Sultanabad, Bhopal.

### 12\. Jawaharlal Nehru Police Academy, Sagar.

### 13\. Tribal Research and Training Institute, Shyamla Hills, Bhopal.

### 14\. Jail Training Centre, Sagar.

### 15\. Armed Police College, Indore.

### 16\. Police Radio Training School, Indore.

### 17\. Central Training Institute, Home Guards and Civil Defence, Khamaria,
Jabalpur.

### 18\. Forensic Science Laboratory, Sagar.

### 19\. Madhya Pradesh Water and Land Management Institute, Walmi Hills, Near
Kaliasot Dam, Kolar Road, Bhopal.

### 20\. Judicial Officers Training Institute, High Court Campus, Jabalpur.

### 21\. Sanjay Gandhi Youth Leadership and Rural Development Training
Institute, Pachmarhi, District Hoshangabad.

### 22\. State level Training Institute, Mahalgaon, Gwalior.

### 23\. Artificial Insemination Training Institute, Bhopal/Mandla.

### 24\. Assistant Veterinary Field Officers Training Centre, Mahasamund,
Shivpuri.

### 25\. Poultry Training Centre, Rewa.

### 26\. Food Analysis Unit, Bhopal.

### 27\. Fisheries Training Institute, Raipur and Naogaon.

### 28\. Central Semen Station, Bhopal.

### 29\. Poultry Research Centre, Bhopal.

### 30\. Soil Conservation Training Centre, Gwalior and Betul.

### 31\. Plant Protection Training Centre, Obedullaganj (Raisen).

### 32\. Officers Training Centre, Horticulture, Pachmarhi.

### 33\. Sister Tutor Training Institute, Ujjain.

### 34\. Central Research Laboratory Centre, Shyamla Hills, Bhopal.

### 35\. Bureau of Design for Hydel and Irrigation Project, Bhopal.

### 36\. Pre-Examination Training Centre for Backward Classes, Bhopal.

### 37\. State Institute of Education Management and Training, Bhopal.

### 38\. All India Services Pre-Examination Training Centre, Ravishankar
University Campus, Raipur.

### 39\. Excise Training Institute, Birlanagar.

### 40\. Aviation Workshop, State Hangar, Bhopal.

