## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Madurai City Municipal Corporation (Duty on Transfer of Property)
Rules, 1988

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Madurai City Municipal Corporation (Duty on Transfer of Property) Rules,
1988

## Rule THE-MADURAI-CITY-MUNICIPAL-CORPORATION-DUTY-ON-TRANSFER-OF-PROPERTY-
RULES-1988 of 1988

  * Published on 11 March 1988 
  * Commenced on 11 March 1988 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 March 1988.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Madurai City Municipal Corporation (Duty on Transfer of Property) Rules,
1988Published vide Notification G.O. Ms. No. 233, Municipal Administration and
Water Supply, dated 11th March 1988No. SRO A-83/88. - In exercise of the
powers conferred by section 166 and 431 of the Madurai City Municipal
Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971), and in supersession of the
rules published with the erstwhile Local Administration Department
Notification No. 1534, dated the 10th August 1948, the Governor of Tamil Nadu
hereby makes the following rules for regulating the collection of duty on
certain transfers of property levied under section 164 of the said Act, for
the payment thereof to the Municipal Corporation of Madurai and for the
deduction of expenses incurred by the Government of Tamil Nadu in the
collection thereof.

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Madurai City Municipal Corporation (Duty on
Transfer of Property) Rules, 1988.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,-(i)"Government" means the Government of Tamil Nadu;(ii)"instrument"
means an instrument of sale, exchange, gift, mortgage with possession within
Madurai City or lease in perpetuity of immovable property on which transfer
duty is leviable under section 16-4 of the Madurai City Municipal Act, 1971
(Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971);(iii)"local authority" means the City Municipal
Corporation of Madurai;(iv)"Stamp Act" means the Indian Stamp Act, 1899
(Central Act II of 1899) as in force in the State of Tamil Nadu;(v)"transfer
duty" means the duty on transfer of property leviable under section 164 of the
Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971);
and(vi)all words and expressions not defined in these rules shall have the
meaning respectively assigned to them by the Stamp Act and the rules made
thereunder.

### 3. Provisions of the Stamp Act to apply to transfer duty.

(1)All the provisions of the Stamp Act and the rules made thereunder shall, so
far as may be, apply in relation to the transfer duty as may be applied in
relation to the duty chargeable under that Act.(2)Where the transfer duty or
any portion thereof is less than a rupee, such duty shall not be collected.

### 4. Duties of registering officers in regard to particulars to be set forth
in instruments.

(1)Whenever an instrument is presented for registration to any registering
officer, he shall see whether the particulars referred to in section 27 of the
Stamp Act are set forth in the instruments separately as required by the said
section 27 read with section 165 (a) of the Madurai City Municipal Corporation
Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971) and shall also ensure that the local
authority within whose jurisdiction the property concerned is situated, is set
forth clearly in the instrument.(2)If the said particulars be not so
separately set forth in the instrument, the Registering Officer shall keep the
instrument, pending for want of those particulars instead of impounding it.
Such particulars may be obtained subsequently and the instrument be impounded
if deficiently stamped and forwarded to the District Collector calling his
attention to section 64 of the Stamp Act read with section 165 of the Madurai
City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971).(3)The duty
leviable on an instrument of exchange shall be regulated as follows:-(a)if the
values of the properties exchanged are unequal, the duty shall be levied on
the value of the property of the greater value; and(b)if the values of the
properties exchanged are equal, the duty shall be levied on the value of
anyone of the properties.

### 5. Maintenance and consolidation of accounts in respect of transfer duty.

(1)(a)The Registering Officer having jurisdiction within the Corporation
limits of Madurai shall alone account the credit directly under the head
"Madurai City Municipal Corporation". All other officers shall show the
collection under outside the sub-district and send separate intimation to the
registering officers concerned to allocate surcharge duty to the Corporation
of Madurai;(b)the duty levied on an instrument of exchange shall be
distributed among local authorities concerned in proportion to the amount of
duty leviable on the properties in the' respective local areas;(c)the said
account shall be consolidated quarterly for each such local authorities by the
District Registrar at the head quarters of the revenue district
concerned;(d)the Inspector-General of Registration may issue executive
instructions regarding the maintenance of accounts by registering officers in
this behalf and the form in which the consolidated accounts for each quarter
are to be forwarded to the Accountant-General, Tamil Nadu, [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).].(2)In the case of instruments which do
not come into the hands of Registering Officers owing to the fact that they
are not compulsorily registrable under section 17 of the [Indian Registration
Act, 1908 (Central Act XVI of 1908)] [Now, short title changed as the
Registration Act, 1908 (Central Act XVI of 1908).], the District Collector
before whom any such instrument is produced under section 31 or 41 of the
Stamp Act or who impounds any such instrument is produced under section 33 of
the said Act, or receives a certificate of the duty and penalty paid in
respect of any such instrument or the original of any such instrument under
section 38 of the Act, shall keep an account of the duty paid in respect of
each such instrument showing separately the duty imposed by the Stamp Act and
the transfer duty and forward to the District Registrar of Assurances
concerned within a period of one month after the close of each quarter, a
quarterly consolidated account with the particulars in the case of each such
instrument regarding the names of the executant and claimant, the date of
execution, the nature of the transaction, the amount of consideration, the
value of the property, or the amount secured by the mortgage, as the case may
be, and description of the property situated within the limits of the City of
Madurai.(3)If in any case it is impossible to recover the full duty payable on
any instrument, then, only such portion of the duty realised on such
instrument as in excess of the duty imposed by the Stamp Act shall be treated
in the accounts referred to in this rule as transfer duty.

### 6. Collector to forward quarterly statement of refunds of transfer duty to
the District Registrar concerned.

\- Every District Collector who sanctions a refund of the transfer duty paid
on any instrument shall forward to the District Registrar of Assurances
concerned within a period of the month after the close of each quarter, a
statement of instruments in respect of which such refunds were sanctioned
during the quarter noting therein the amount of the transfer duty refunded and
the particulars referred to in sub-rule (2) of rule 5 in respect of each such
instrument.

### 7. District Registrar to send intimation to Collector in respect of the
amount payable to local authorities quarterly.

(1)Intimation regarding the amount payable quarterly to the Madurai City
Municipal Corporation in respect of the instrument referred to in sub-rules
(1) and (2) of rule 5 shall be sent by the District Registrar of Madurai to
the Collector of Madurai and the Inspector-General of Registration, [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] within one month after the close of
each quarter.(2)Intimation regarding the amount of deduction on account of the
collection of the transfer duty to be credited to the Government shall, at the
same time, be sent by the District Registrar, Madurai to the Inspector-General
of Registration, [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]. The
intimation sent by the District Registrar shall contain the particulars of the
amount payable to each local authority and that to be adjusted to the
Registration Department distinctly and separately.(3)The amount payable to the
local authority concerned shall represent the transfer duty paid less a
deduction of ten per cent thereon account of the charges for the collection of
transfer duty and the amount of refunds referred to in rule 6, if any.(4)In
calculating the net amount payable to each local authority, the net amount
should be rounded to the nearest rupee.

### 8. Payment to local authorities by Collectors.

(1)The Inspector-General of Registration shall check the arithmetic accuracy
of the figures sent by the District Registrar, Madurai with reference to rule
7 and prepare a consolidated bill with full details as to the amount due to
the Corporation of Madurai as transfer duty as furnished by the District
Registrar and send it to the Treasury Officer for issue of a cheque in favour
of the Commissioner, Corporation of Madurai. The Inspector-General of
Registration shall obtain the cheque from the Treasury Officer and send it to
the Commissioner, Corporation of Madurai, for being credited to the
Corporation funds. The Inspector-General of Registration shall also send an
intimation to the Commissioner, Corporation of Madurai about the full details
of the amount due to the Corporation of Madurai as paid by means of Treasury
Cheque issued by the Treasury Officer, Madurai.(2)The Treasury Officer
concerned shall send an intimation to the Inspector-General of Registration of
such adjustment of the amount payable.(3)The District Registrar of Madurai
shall like-wise prepare a consolidated bill for the amount of collection
charges forming ten per cent of the gross collection as arrived at by him with
reference to the rule 7 to be credited to the Government and send to the
Treasury Officer who shall credit the amount to the head of Registration
Department that may be specified-from time to time.

