## Union of India - Act

## The Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2023

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2023

## Act 16 of 2023

  * Published in Gazette of India : Extraordinary 19 on 9 August 2023 
  * Commenced on 9 August 2023 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 August 2023.] 

[9th August, 2023.]An Act further to amend the Mines and Minerals (Development
and Regulation)Act,1957.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Seventy-fourth Year
of the Republic of India as follows:—

## Chapter I  
PRELIMINARY

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation)
Amendment Act, 2023.(2)It shall come into force on such date as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Amendment of section 3.

In section 3 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act,
1957(hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in section 3,—(i) after
clause (aa), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—'(aaa)
"exploration licence" means a licence granted for undertaking reconnaissance
operations or prospecting operations or both in respect of minerals specified
in the Seventh Schedule;';(ii)in clause (ae), after the words "composite
licence", the words ", exploration licence" shall be inserted;(iii)for clause
(ha), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—ITEMS'(ha)
"reconnaissance operations" means any operations undertaken for preliminary
prospecting of a mineral through regional, aerial, geophysical or geochemical
surveys and geological mapping, and include pitting, trenching, drilling and
sub-surface excavation;'.

### 3. Amendment of section 4.

In section 4 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), after the words
"prospecting licence", the words "or of a exploration licence" shall be
inserted.

### 4. Amendment to section 4A

In section 4A of the principal Act,—ITEM (i)for the marginal heading, the
following marginal heading shall be substituted, namely:—"Termination of
prospecting licences, exploration licences or mining leases.";(ii)in sub-
section (1), for the words "prospecting licence", at both the places where
they occur, the words "prospecting licence or exploration licence" shall be
substituted;(iii)in sub-section (3), after the words "prospecting licence",
the words "or exploration licence" shall be inserted.

### 5. Amendment of Section 5

In section 5 of the principal Act, for the marginal heading, the following
marginal heading shall be substituted, namely:—"Restrictions on the grant of
mineral concession."

### 6. Amendment of section 6

In section 6 of the principal Act,—(a)for the marginal heading, the following
marginal heading shall be substituted, namely:—"Maximum area for which mineral
concession may be granted.";(b)in sub-section (1),—(i)after clause (aa), the
following clause shall be inserted, namely:—"(ab) one or more exploration
licences covering a total area of more than five thousand square
kilometres:Provided that the area granted under a single exploration licence
shall not exceed one thousand square kilometres;";(ii)in clause (c), for the
words "reconnaissance permit, mining lease or prospecting licence", the words
"mineral concession" shall be substituted.

### 7. Substitution of Chapter heading of Chapter III

In Chapter III of the principal Act, for Chapter heading, the following
Chapter heading shall be substituted, namely:—"PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING MINERAL
CONCESSION IN RESPECT OF LAND IN WHICH THE MINERALS VEST IN THE GOVERNMENT"

### 8. Amendment of section 10

In section 10 of the principal Act,—(i)for the marginal heading, the following
marginal heading shall be substituted, namely:—"Application for mineral
concession.";(ii)in sub-section (4), in clause (a), for the words, figures and
letters "sections 10B, 11, 11A or the rules made under section 11B", the
words, figures and letters "sections 10B, 10BA, 11, 11A, 11B or 11D" shall be
substituted

### 9. Insertion of new section 10BA.

After section 10B of the principal Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:—"10BA. - Grant of exploration licence for minerals specified
in Seventh Schedule through auction.(1)The provisions of this section shall
not apply to—(a)the areas covered under section 17A;(b)the minerals specified
in Part A of the First Schedule;(c)the minerals specified in Part B of the
First Schedule where the grade of atomic mineral is equal to or greater than
such threshold value as may be notified by the Central Government from time to
time;(d)any land in respect of which the minerals do not vest in the
Government.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 10B and 11, an
exploration licence may be granted in any area by the State Government for the
purpose of undertaking reconnaissance or prospecting operations or both in
respect of any mineral specified in the Seventh Schedule.(3)The Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, and for reasons to be
recorded in writing, amend the Seventh Schedule so as to modify the entries
therein with effect from such date as may be specified in the said
notification.(4)The State Government shall, after obtaining the previous
approval of the Central Government, and in such manner as may be prescribed by
the Central Government, notify the areas in which exploration licence shall be
granted, subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified in the
notification.(5)The Central Government may require the State Government to
notify the area for grant of exploration licence within such period as may be
fixed in consultation with the State Government, and in case the State
Government does not notify the area within such period, the Central Government
may, after the expiry of the period so fixed, notify the area for grant of
exploration licence.(6)The State Government shall, for the purpose of granting
exploration licence through auction by method of competitive bidding,
including e-auction, select an applicant who fulfils the eligibility
conditions as specified in this Act and grant exploration licence to such
applicant.(7)Where—(a)the State Government has not successfully completed
auction for the grant of exploration licence; or(b)after completion of
auction, the exploration licence or letter of intent for grant of exploration
licence has been terminated or lapsed for any reason whatsoever, the Central
Government may require the State Government to conduct and complete the
auction or re-auction process, as the case may be, within such period as may
be fixed in consultation with the State Government, and in cases where such
auction or re-auction process is not completed within such period, the Central
Government may, after the expiry of the period so fixed, conduct auction for
the grant of exploration licence for such area:Provided that upon successful
completion of the auction, the Central Government shall intimate the details
of the preferred bidder in the auction to the State Government and the State
Government shall grant exploration licence for such area to such preferred
bidder in such manner as may be prescribed by the Central Government.(8)The
holder of exploration licence shall be entitled to a share of applicable
amount quoted in the auction of mining leases payable by the lessee to the
State Government in respect of the area granted in mining lease pursuant to
the prospecting operations undertaken by the holder of such exploration
licence:Provided that the share in applicable amount payable to the holder of
exploration licence by the lessee of such area shall be allowed only in
respect of the minerals specified in the Seventh Schedule.(9)The Central
Government shall by rules provide for the manner of conducting auction for
grant of exploration licence, including its terms and conditions, the bidding
parameters for selection, share payable to the holder of exploration licence
from out of the applicable amount quoted in auction of mining leases payable
by the lessee of such area, the period for such payment and such other
conditions as may be necessary.(10)Notwithstanding anything contained in
section 7,—(a)the exploration licence shall be granted for a period of five
years from the date of execution of the exploration licence;(b)if, after three
years from the date of execution of exploration licence, but before the date
of its expiry, the holder of the exploration licence makes an application for
the extension of the period of that licence, the State Government may, on
being satisfied that within the period of five years, it shall not be possible
for the holder of such licence to complete the reconnaissance or prospecting
operations for reasons beyond his control, extend the said period to a further
period not exceeding two years.(11)After three years from the date of
execution of the exploration licence, the holder of such licence may retain an
area not exceeding twenty-five per cent. of the total area covered under that
licence for the purpose of continuing reconnaissance or prospecting operations
and shall surrender the remaining area after submitting a report to the State
Government stating the reasons for retention of the area proposed to be
retained by him and the boundaries of that area.(12)The holder of the
exploration licence shall, within three months of the completion of the
operations for which licence has been granted, or of the date of expiry of the
exploration licence, whichever is earlier, submit a geological report to the
State Government explaining the result of the reconnaissance and prospecting
operations, in such manner as may be prescribed.(13)If the holder of the
exploration licence fails to complete the reconnaissance and prospecting
operations before expiry of the exploration licence, or fails to submit the
geological report within the period specified in sub-section (12), the State
Government may take such action as it deems fit, including imposition of
penalty.(14)Within six months from the date of receipt of the geological
report from the holder of the exploration licence, the Central Government or
the State Government shall initiate the auction process for grant of one or
more separate mining leases under section 10B or section 11 or section 11D, as
the case may be, in respect of the area where existence of mineral content is
established and shall select the preferred bidder for grant of such mining
leases within one year from the date of receipt of the geological
report:Provided that in case the preferred bidder is not selected within the
period so specified, the State Government shall pay to the person who was the
holder of exploration licence such amount, and in such manner, as may be
prescribed.".

### 10\. Insertion of new section 11D.

After section 11C, the following section shall be inserted, namely:—"11D. -
Central Government to conduct auction for grant of mining lease or composite
licence in respect of minerals specified in Part D of First
Schedule.(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in thisAct, the Central
Government shall, for the purpose of granting mining lease or composite
licence in any area in respect of any mineral specified in the Part D of the
First Schedule, select, through auction by method of competitive bidding,
including e-auction, a preferred bidder who fulfils the eligibility conditions
as specified in section 5, on such terms and conditions, and in such manner,
as may be prescribed.(2)Upon successful completion of the auction, the Central
Government shall intimate the details of the preferred bidder in the auction
to the State Government and the State Government shall grant mining lease or
composite licence for such area, to such preferred bidder, in such manner, as
may be prescribed by the Central Government.(3)The royalty, dead rent,
applicable amount quoted in the auction and any other statutory payment in
relation to the mining lease or composite licence auctioned by the Central
Government shall accrue to the State Government or concerned authorities, as
the case may be, as if the auction has been conducted by the State
Government.".

### 11\. Amendment of section 12.

In section 12 of the principal Act,—(a)for the marginal heading, the following
marginal heading shall be substituted, namely:—"Registers of mineral
concession.";(b)in sub-section (1),—(i)in clause (e), the word "and" shall be
omitted;(ii)after clause (f), the following clauses shall be inserted,
namely:—"(g) a register of applications for exploration licences; and (h)a
register of exploration licences,"

### 12. Amendment of section 12A

In section 12A of the principal Act,—(i)after the words "composite licence",
wherever they occur, the words "or exploration licence" shall be
inserted;(ii)in sub-section (4), in the proviso, for the words "or of a
composite licence", the words "or composite licence" shall be substituted.

### 13. Substitution of Chapter heading of Chapter IV.

In Chapter IV of the principal Act, for Chapter heading, the following Chapter
heading shall be substituted, namely:—"RULES FOR REGULATING THE GRANT OF
MINERAL CONCESSIONS"

### 14. Amendment of section 13.

In section 13 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2),—(i)clause (ac) shall
be omitted;(ii)in clause (qqg), for the words, figures and letters "mining
lease or composite licence under section 10B, 11, 11A, 11B", the words,
figures and letters "mineral concession under section 10B, 10BA, 11, 11A, 11B,
11D" shall be substituted;(iii)after clause (v), the following clauses shall
be inserted, namely:—"(va) the manner of notifying the areas for grant of
exploration licence under sub-section (4) of section 10BA;(vb)the manner of
granting exploration licence to the preferred bidder under the proviso to sub-
section (7) of section 10BA;(vc)the manner of conducting auction for grant of
exploration licence, the terms and conditions thereof, the bidding parameters
for selection, the share payable to the holder, the period for payment and
other conditions under sub-section (9) of section 10BA;(vd)the manner of
submitting geological report under sub-section (12) of section 10BA;(ve)the
amount to be paid and the manner of payment under the proviso to sub-section
(14) of section 10BA;";(iv)after clause (x), the following clauses shall be
inserted, namely:—"(xa) the terms and conditions and the manner of selecting a
preferred bidder under sub-section (1) of section 11D;(xb)the manner of
granting a mining lease or composite licence to a preferred bidder under sub-
section (2) of section 11D;".

### 15. Amendment of section 17A.

In section 17Aof the principalAct, in sub-sections (1), (1A) and (2), after
the words "prospecting licence", the words "or exploration licence" shall be
inserted

### 16. Amendment of section 18A.

In section 18A of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), after the words
"prospecting licence", at both the places where they occur, the words "or
exploration licence" shall be inserted.

### 17. Amendment of section 19

In section 19 of the principal Act, for the marginal heading, the following
marginal heading shall be substituted, namely:—"Mineral concession to be void
if in contravention of Act."

### 18. Amendment of section 21

In section 21 of the principal Act, in the Explanation, after the words
"composite licence", the words ", exploration licence" shall be inserted.

### 19. Amendment of section 24A

In section 24A of the principal Act, for the marginal heading, the following
marginal heading shall be substituted, namely:—"Rights and liabilities of a
holder of mineral concession."

### 20. Amendment of First Schedule.

In the principal Act, in the First Schedule,—(i)after the figures and letter
“11C”, the figures and letter “11D” shall be inserted;(ii)for Part B, the
following Part shall be substituted, namely:—"PART BAtomic minerals1.Minerals
of the "rare earths" group containing Uranium and Thorium.2.Phosphorites and
other phosphatic ores containing Uranium.3.Pitchblende and other Uranium
ores.4.Uraniferous allanite, monazite and other thorium minerals5.Uranium
bearing tailings left over from ores after extraction of copper and gold,
ilmenite and other titanium ores.6.Beach sand minerals, that is, economic
heavy minerals found in the teri or beach sands, which include ilmenite,
rutile, leucoxene, garnet, monazite, zircon and sillimanite.";(iii)after Part
C, the following Part shall be inserted, namely:—"PART DCritical and Strategic
Minerals1.Beryl and other beryllium bearing minerals.2.Cadmium bearing
minerals.3.Cobalt bearing minerals.4.Gallium bearing
minerals.5.Glauconite.6.Graphite.7.Indium bearing minerals.8.Lithium bearing
minerals.9.Molybdenum bearing minerals.10.Nickel bearing minerals.11.Niobium
bearing minerals.12.Phosphate (without uranium).13.Platinum group of elements
bearing minerals.14.Potash.15.Minerals of the "rare earths" group not
containing Uranium and Thorium.16.Rhenium bearing minerals.17.Selenium bearing
minerals.18.Tantalum bearing minerals.19.Tellurium bearing minerals.20.Tin
bearing minerals.21.Titanium bearing minerals and ores (ilmenite, rutile and
leucoxene).22.Tungsten bearing minerals.23.Vanadium bearing
minerals.24.Zirconium bearing minerals and ores including zircon."

### 21\. Insertion of new Seventh Schedule.

In the principal Act, after Sixth Schedule, the following shall be inserted,
namely:—"THE SEVENTH SCHEDULE[ See sections 3 (aaa), 10BA(2) and
10BA(3)]Minerals1.Apatite.2.Beryl and other beryllium bearing
minerals.3.Cadmium bearing minerals.4.Cobalt bearing minerals.5.Copper bearing
minerals.

### 6\. Diamond

7.Gold.8.Graphite.9.Indium bearing minerals.10.Lead bearing
minerals.11.Lithium bearing minerals.12.Molybdenum bearing minerals.13.Niobium
bearing minerals.14.Nickel bearing minerals.15.Potash.16.Platinum group of
elements bearing minerals.17.Minerals of 'rare earths' group.18.Rhenium
bearing minerals.19.Rock Phosphate.

### 20\. Selenium

21.Silver.

### 22. Tantalum bearing minerals

23.Tellurium bearing minerals.24.Tin bearing minerals.25.Titanium bearing
minerals and ores (ilmenite, rutile and leucoxene).26.Tungsten bearing
minerals.27.Vanadium bearing minerals.28.Zinc bearing minerals.

### 29. Zirconium bearing minerals and ores including zircon."

————

