## Union of India - Act

## The Maternity Benefit Act, 1961

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Maternity Benefit Act, 1961

## Act 53 of 1961

  * Published in Gazette 53 on 12 December 1961 
  * Assented to on 12 December 1961 
  * Commenced on 12 December 1961 
  * [This is the version of this document from 27 March 2017.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE MATERNITY BENEFIT (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2008 (Act 15 of 2008) on 1 April 2008] 
  2. [Amended by THE MATERNITY BENEFIT (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2017 (Act 06 of 2017) on 27 March 2017] 

The Maternity Benefit Act, 1961[12th December, 1961.]Act No. 53 of 1961An Act
to regulate the employment of women in certain establishments for certain
periods before and after child-birth and to provide for maternity benefit and
certain other benefits.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twelfth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:--

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.—

(1)This Act may be called the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961.(2)It extends to the
whole of India ***.(3)It shall come into force on such date as may be notified
in this behalf in the Official Gazette,—(a)in relation to mines and to any
other establishment wherein persons are employed for the exhibition of
equestrian, acrobatic and other performances, by the Central Government;
and(b)in relation to other establishments in a State, by the State Government.

### 2. Application of Act.—

(1)It applies, in the first instance,—(a)to every establishment being a
factory, mine or plantation including any such establishment belonging to
Government and to every establishment wherein persons are employed for the
exhibition of equestrian, acrobatic and other performances;(b)to every shop or
establishment within the meaning of any law for the time being in force in
relation to shops and establishments in a State, in which ten or more persons
are employed, or were employed, on any day of the preceding twelve
months:Provided that the State Government may, with the approval of the
Central Government, after giving not less than two month’s notice of its
intention of so doing, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that
all or any of the provisions of this Act shall apply also to any other
establishment or class of establishments, industrial, commercial, agricultural
or otherwise.(2)Save as otherwise provided in sections 5A and 5B nothing
contained in this Act shall apply to any factory or other establishment to
which the provisions of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948),
apply for the time being.

### 3. Definitions.—

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)“appropriate
Government” means, in relation to an establishment being a mine or an
establishment wherein persons are employed for the exhibition of equestrian,
acrobatic and other performances the Central Government and in relation to any
other establishment, the State Government;(b)“child” includes a still-born
child;(ba)“commissioning mother” means a biological mother who uses her egg to
create an embryo implanted in any other woman;’.(c)“delivery” means the birth
of a child;(d)“employer” means—(i)in relation to an establishment which is
under the control of the Government a person or authority appointed by the
Government for the supervision and control of employees or where no person or
authority is so appointed, the head of the department;(ii)in relation to an
establishment under any local authority, the person appointed by such
authority for the supervision and control of employees or where no person is
so appointed, the chief executive officer of the local authority;(iii)in any
other case, the person who, or the authority which, has the ultimate control
over the affairs of the establishment and where the said affairs are entrusted
to any other person whether called a manager, managing director, managing
agent, or by any other name, such person;(e)“establishment” means—(i)a
factory;(ii)a mine;(iii)a plantation;(iv)an establishment wherein persons are
employed for the exhibition of equestrian, acrobatic and other performances;
***(iva)a shop or establishment; or(v)an establishment to which the provisions
of this Act have been declared under sub-section (1) of section 2 to be
applicable;(f)“factory” means a factory as defined in clause (m) of section 2
of the Factories Act, 1948 (63 of 1948);(g)“Inspector” means an Inspector
appointed under section 14;(h)“maternity benefit” means the payment referred
to in sub-section (1) of section 5;(ha)“medical termination of pregnancy”
means the termination of pregnancy permissible under the provisions of Medical
Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971.;(i)“mine” means a mine as defined in
clause (j) of section 2 of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952);(j)“miscarriage”
means expulsion of the contents of a pregnant uterus at any period prior to or
during the twenty-sixth week of pregnancy but does not include any
miscarriage, the causing of which is punishable under the Indian Penal Code
(45 of 1860);(k)“plantation” means a plantation as defined in clause (f) of
section 2 of the Plantations Labour Act, 1951 (69 of 1951);(l)“prescribed”
means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(m)“State Government”, in
relation to a Union territory, means the Administrator thereof;(n)“wages”
means all remuneration paid or payable in cash to a woman, if the terms of the
contract of employment, express or implied, were fulfilled and
includes—(1)such cash allowances (including dearness allowance and house rent
allowance) as a woman is for the time being entitled to,(2)incentive bonus,
and(3)the money value of the concessional supply of foodgrains and other
articles, but does not include—(i)any bonus other than incentive
bonus;(ii)over-time earnings and any deduction or payment made on account of
fines;(iii)any contribution paid or payable by the employer to any pension
fund or provident fund or for the benefit of the woman under any law for the
time being in force; and(iv)any gratuity payable on the termination of
service;(o)“woman” means a woman employed, whether directly or through any
agency, for wages in any establishment.

### 4. Employment of or work by, women prohibited during certain periods.—

(1)No employer shall knowingly employ a woman in any establishment during the
six weeks immediately following the day of her delivery, miscarriage or
medical termination of pregnancy.(2)No women shall work in any establishment
during the six weeks immediately following the day of her delivery miscarriage
or medical termination of pregnancy.(3)Without prejudice to the provisions of
section 6, no pregnant women shall, on a request being made by her in this
behalf, be required by her employer to do during the period specified in sub-
section (4) any work which is of an arduous nature or which involves long
hours of standing, or which in any way is likely to interfere with her
pregnancy or the normal development of the foetus, or is likely to cause her
miscarriage or otherwise to adversely affect her health.(4)The period referred
to in sub-section (3) shall be—(a)the period of one month immediately
preceding the period of six weeks, before the date of her expected
delivery;(b)any period during the said period of six weeks for which the
pregnant woman does not avail of leave of absence under section 6.

### 5. Right to payment of maternity benefits.—

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act, every woman shall be entitled to,
and her employer shall be liable for, the payment of maternity benefit at the
rate of the average daily wage for the period of her actual absence, that is
to say, the period immediately preceding the day of her delivery, the actual
day of her delivery and any period immediately following that
day.Explanation.—For the purpose of this sub-section, the average daily wage
means the average of the woman’s wages payable to her for the days on which
she has worked during the period of three calendar months immediately
preceding the date from which she absents herself on account of maternity, the
minimum rate of wage fixed or revised under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of
1948) or ten rupees, whichever is the highest.(2)No woman shall be entitled to
maternity benefit unless she has actually worked in an establishment of the
employer from whom she claims maternity benefit, for a period of not less than
eighty days in the twelve months immediately preceding the date of her
expected delivery:Provided that the qualifying period of eighty days aforesaid
shall not apply to a woman who has immigrated into the State of Assam and was
pregnant at the time of the immigration.Explanation.—For the purpose of
calculating under the sub-section the days on which a woman has actually
worked in the establishment the days for which she has been laid off or was on
holidays declared under any law for the time being in force to be holidays
with wages during the period of twelve months immediately preceding the date
of her expected delivery shall be taken into account.(3)The maximum period for
which any woman shall be entitled to maternity benefit shall be twenty-six
weeks of which not more than eight weeks shall precede the date of her
expected delivery:Provided further that the maximum period entitled to
maternity benefit by a woman having two or more than two surviving children
shall be twelve weeks of which not more than six weeks shall precede the date
of her expected delivery;Provided further that where a woman dies during this
period, the maternity benefit shall be payable only for the days up to and
including the day of her death:Provided also that where a woman, having been
delivered of a child, dies during her delivery or during the period
immediately following the date of her delivery for which she is entitled for
the maternity benefit, leaving behind in either case the child, the employer
shall be liable for the maternity benefit for that entire period but if the
child also dies during the said period, then, for the days up to and including
the date of the death of the child.(4)A woman who legally adopts a child below
the age of three months or a commissioning mother shall be entitled to
maternity benefit for a period of twelve weeks from the date the child is
handed over to the adopting mother or the commissioning mother, as the case
may be.(5)In case where the nature of work assigned to a woman is of such
nature that she may work from home, the employer may allow her to do so after
availing of the maternity benefit for such period and on such conditions as
the employer and the woman may mutually agree.

### 5A. Continuance of payment of maternity benefit in certain cases.—

Every woman entitled to the payment of maternity benefit under this Act shall,
notwithstanding the application of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948
(34 of 1948), to the factory or other establishment in which she is employed,
continue to be so entitled until she becomes qualified to claim maternity
benefit under section 50 of that Act.

### 5B. Payment of maternity benefit in certain cases.—

Every woman—(a)who is employed in a factory or other establishment to which
the provisions of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948),
apply;(b)whose wages (excluding remuneration for over-time work) for a month
exceed the amount specified in sub-clause (b) of clause (9) of section 2 of
that Act; and(c)who fulfils the conditions specified in sub-section (2) of
section 5,shall be entitled to the payment of maternity benefit under this
Act.

### 6. Notice of claim for maternity benefit and payment thereof.—

(1)Any woman employed in an establishment and entitled to maternity benefit
under the provisions of this Act may give notice in writing in such form as
may be prescribed, to her employer, stating that her maternity benefit and any
other amount to which she may be entitled under this Act may be paid to her or
to such person as she may nominate in the notice and that she will not work in
any establishment during the period for which she receives maternity
benefit.(2)In the case of a woman who is pregnant, such notice shall state the
date from which she will be absent from work, not being a date earlier than
six weeks from the date of her expected delivery.(3)Any woman who has not
given the notice when she was pregnant may give such notice as soon as
possible after the delivery.(4)On receipt of the notice, the employer shall
permit such woman to absent herself from the establishment during the period
for which she receives the maternity benefit.(5)The amount of maternity
benefit for the period preceding the date of her expected delivery shall be
paid in advance by the employer to the woman on production of such proof as
may be prescribed that the woman is pregnant, and the amount due for the
subsequent period shall be paid by the employer to the woman within forty-
eight hours of production of such proof as may be prescribed that the woman
has been delivered of a child.(6)The failure to give notice under this section
shall not disentitle a woman to maternity benefit or any other amount under
this Act if she is otherwise entitled to such benefit or amount and in any
such case an Inspector may either of his own motion or on an application made
to him by the woman, order the payment of such benefit or amount within such
period as may be specified in the order.

### 7. Payment of maternity benefit in case of death of a woman.—

If a woman entitled to maternity benefit or any other amount under this Act,
dies before receiving such maternity benefit or amount, or where the employer
is liable for maternity benefit under the second proviso to sub-section (3) of
section 5, the employer shall pay such benefit or amount to the person
nominated by the woman in the notice given under section 6 and in case there
is no such nominee, to her legal representative.

### 8. Payment of medical bonus. —

(1)Every woman entitled to maternity benefit under this Act shall also be
entitled to receive from her employer a medical bonus of one thousand rupees,
if no pre-natal confinement and post-natal care is provided for by the
employer free of charge.(2)The Central Government may before every three
years, by notification in the Official Gazette, increase the amount of medical
bonus subject to the maximum of twenty thousand rupees.

### 9. Leave for miscarriage, etc.—

In case of miscarriage or medical termination of pregnancy, a woman shall, on
production of such proof as may be prescribed, be entitled to leave with wages
at the rate of maternity benefit, for a period of six weeks immediately
following the day of her miscarriage or, as the case may be, her medical
termination of pregnancy.

### 9A. Leave with wages for tubectomy operation.—

In case of tubectomy operation, a woman shall, on production of such proof as
may be prescribed, be entitled to leave with wages at the rate of maternity
benefit for a period of two weeks immediately following the day of her
tubectomy operation.

### 10. Leave for illness arising out of pregnancy, delivery, premature birth
of child, miscarriage, medical termination of pregnancy or tubectomy
operation.—

A woman suffering from illness arising out of pregnancy, delivery, premature
birth of child miscarriage, medical termination of pregnancy or tubectomy
operation shall, on production of such proof as may be prescribed, be
entitled, in addition to the period of absence allowed to her under section 6,
or, as the case may be, under section 9, to leave with wages at the rate of
maternity benefit for a maximum period of one month.

### 11. Nursing breaks.—

Every woman delivered of a child who returns to duty after such delivery
shall, in addition to the interval for rest allowed to her, be allowed in the
course of her daily work two breaks of the prescribed duration for nursing the
child until the child attains the age of fifteen months.

### 11A. Créche facility

(1)Every establishment having fifty or more employees shall have the facility
of créche within such distance as may be prescribed, either separately or
along with common facilities:Provided that the employer shall allow four
visits a day to the creche by the woman, which shall also include the interval
for rest allowed to her.(2)Every establishment shall intimate in writing and
electronically to every woman at the time of her initial appointment regarding
every benefit available under the Act.

### 12. Dismissal during absence of pregnancy.—

(1)When a woman absents herself from work in accordance with the provisions of
this Act, it shall be unlawful for her employer to discharge or dismiss her
during or on account of such absence or to give notice of discharge or
dismissal on such a day that the notice will expire during such absence, or to
vary to her disadvantage any of the conditions of her service.(2)(a)The
discharge or dismissal of a woman at any time during her pregnancy, if the
woman but for such discharge or dismissal would have been entitled to
maternity benefit or medical bonus referred to in section 8, shall not have
the effect of depriving her of the maternity benefit or medical bonus:Provided
that where the dismissal is for any prescribed gross misconduct, the employer
may, by order in writing communicated to the woman, deprive her of the
maternity benefit or medical bonus or both.(b)Any woman deprived of maternity
benefit or medical bonus, or both, or discharged or dismissed during or on
account of her absence from work in accordance with the provisions of this
Act, may, within sixty days from the date on which order of such deprivation
or discharge or dismissal is communicated to her, appeal to such authority as
may be prescribed, and the decision of that authority on such appeal, whether
the woman should or should not be deprived of maternity benefit or medical
bonus, or both, or discharged or dismissed shall be final.(c)Nothing contained
in this sub-section shall affect the provisions contained in sub-section (1).

### 13. No deduction of wages in certain cases.—

No deduction from the normal and usual daily wages of a woman entitled to
maternity benefit under the provisions of this Act shall be made by reason
only of—(a)the nature of work assigned to her by virtue of the provisions
contained in sub-section (3) of section 4; or(b)breaks for nursing the child
allowed to her under the provisions of section 11.

### 14. Appointment of Inspectors.—

The appropriate Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint such officers as it thinks fit to be Inspectors for the purposes of
this Act and may define the local limits of the jurisdiction within which they
shall exercise their functions under this Act.

### 15. Powers and duties of Inspectors.—

An Inspector may, subject to such restrictions or conditions as may be
prescribed, exercise all or any of the following powers, namely:—(a)enter at
all reasonable times with such assistants, if any, being persons in the
service of the Government or any local or other public authority, as he thinks
fit, any premises or place where woman are employed or work is given to them
in an establishment, for the purposes of examining any registers, records and
notices required to be kept or exhibited by or under this Act and require
their production for inspection;(b)examine any person whom he finds in any
premises or place and who, he has reasonable cause to believe, is employed in
the establishment:Provided that no person shall be compelled under this
section to answer any question or give any evidence tending to incriminate
himself;(c)require the employer to give information regarding the names and
addresses of women employed, payments made to them, and applications or
notices received from them under this Act; and(d)take copies of any registers
and records or notices or any portions thereof.

### 16. Inspectors to be public servants.—

Every Inspector appointed under this Act shall be deemed to be a public
servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of
1860).

### 17. Power of Inspector to direct payments to be made.—

(1)Any woman claiming that—(a)maternity benefit or any other amount to which
she is entitled under this Act and any person claiming that payment due under
section 7 has been improperly withheld;(b)her employer has discharged or
dismissed her during or on account of her absence from work in accordance with
the provisions of this Act,may make a complaint to the Inspector.(2)The
Inspector may, of his own motion or on receipt of a complaint referred to in
sub-section (1), make an inquiry or cause an inquiry to be made and if
satisfied that—(a)payment has been wrongfully withheld, may direct the payment
to be made in accordance with his orders;(b)she has been discharged or
dismissed during or on account of her absence from work in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, may pass such orders as are just and proper according
to the circumstances of the case.(3)Any person aggrieved by the decision of
the Inspector under sub-section (2) may, within thirty days from the date on
which such decision is communicated to such person, appeal to the prescribed
authority.(4)The decision of the prescribed authority where an appeal has been
preferred to it under sub-section (3) or of the Inspector where no such appeal
has been preferred, shall be final.(5)Any amount payable under this section
shall be recoverable by the Collector on a certificate issued for that amount
by the Inspector as an arrear of land revenue.

### 18. Forfeiture of maternity benefit.—

If a woman works in any establishment after she has been permitted by her
employer to absent herself under the provisions of section 6 for any period
during such authorised absence, she shall forfeit her claim to the maternity
benefit for such period.

### 19. Abstract of Act and rules thereunder to be exhibited.—

An abstract of the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder in the
language or languages of the locality shall be exhibited in a conspicuous
place by the employer in every part of the establishment in which women are
employed.

### 20. Registers, etc.—

Every employer shall prepare and maintain such registers, records and muster-
rolls and in such manner as may be prescribed.

### 21. Penalty for contravention of Act by employer.—

(1)If any employer fails to pay any amount of maternity benefit to a woman
entitled under this Act or discharges or dismisses such woman during or on
account of her absence from work in accordance with the provisions of this
Act, he shall be punishable with imprisonment which shall not be less than
three months but which may extend to one year and with fine which shall not be
less than two thousand rupees but which may extend to five thousand
rupees:Provided that the court may, for sufficient reasons to be recorded in
writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment for a lesser term or fine only in
lieu of imprisonment.(2)If any employer contravenes the provisions of this Act
or the rules made thereunder, he shall, if no other penalty is elsewhere
provided by or under this Act for such contravention, be punishable with
imprisonment which may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to
five thousand rupees, or with both:Provided that where the contravention is of
any provision regarding maternity benefit or regarding payment of any other
amount and such maternity benefit or amount has not already been recovered,
the court shall, in addition, recover such maternity benefit or amount as if
it were a fine and pay the same to the person entitled thereto.

### 22. Penalty for obstructing Inspector.—

Whoever fails to produce on demand by the Inspector any register or document
in his custody kept in pursuance of this Act or the rules made thereunder or
conceals or prevents any person from appearing before or being examined by an
Inspector shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extent to one year,
or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both.

### 23. Cognizance of offences.—

(1)Any aggrieved woman, an office bearer of a trade union registered under the
Trade Unions Act, 1926 (16 of 1926) of which such woman is a member or a
voluntary organisation registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860
(21 of 1860) or an Inspector, may file a complaint regarding the commission of
an offence under this Act in any court of competent jurisdiction and no such
complaint shall be filed after the expiry of one year from the date on which
the offence is alleged to have been committed.(2)No court inferior to that of
a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class shall try any
offence under this Act.

### 24. Protection of action taken in good faith.—

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance
of this Act or of any rule or order made thereunder.

### 25. Power of Central Government to give directions.—

The Central Government may give such directions as it may deem necessary to a
State Government regarding the carrying into execution of the provisions of
this Act and the State Government shall comply with such directions.

### 26. Power to exempt establishments.—

If the appropriate Government is satisfied that having regard to an
establishment or a class of establishments providing for the grant of benefits
which are not less favourable than those provided in this Act, it is necessary
so to do, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt, subject to
such conditions and restrictions, if any, as may be specified in the
notification, the establishment or class of establishments from the operation
of all or any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule made thereunder.

### 27. Effect of laws and agreements inconsistent with this Act.—

(1)The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law or in the terms of any
award, agreement or contract of service, whether made before or after the
coming into force of this Act:Provided that where under any such award,
agreement, contract of service or otherwise, a woman is entitled to benefits
in respect of any matter which are more favourable to her than those to which
she would be entitled under this Act, the woman shall continue to be entitled
to the more favourable benefits in respect of that matter, notwithstanding
that she is entitled to receive benefits in respect of other matters under
this Act.(2)Nothing contained in this Act shall be construed to preclude a
woman from entering into an agreement with her employer for granting her
rights or privileges in respect of any matter which are more favourable to her
than those to which she would be entitled under this Act.

### 28. Power to make rules.—

(1)The appropriate Government may, subject to the condition of previous
publication and by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for
carrying out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice
to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for—(a)the
preparation and maintenance of registers, records and muster-rolls;(b)the
exercise of powers (including the inspection of establishments) and the
performance of duties by Inspectors for the purposes of this Act;(c)the method
of payment of maternity benefit and other benefits under this Act in so far as
provision has not been made therefor in this Act;(d)the form of notices under
section 6;(e)the nature of proof required under the provisions of this
Act;(f)the duration of nursing breaks referred to in section 11;(g)acts which
may constitute gross misconduct for purposes of section 12;(h)the authority to
which an appeal under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 12 shall lie;
the form and manner in which such appeal may be made and the procedure to be
followed in disposal thereof;(i)the authority to which an appeal shall lie
against the decision of the Inspector under section 17; the form and manner in
which such appeal may be made and the procedure to be followed in disposal
thereof;(j)the form and manner in which complaints may be made to Inspectors
under sub-section (1) of section 17 and the procedure to be followed by them
when making inquiries or causing inquiries to be made under sub-section (2) of
that section;(k)any other matter which is to be, or may be,
prescribed.(3)Every rule made by the Central Government under this section
shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may
be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions, aforesaid both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 29. Amendment of Act 69 of 1951.—

In section 32 of the Plantations Labour Act, 1951,—(a)in sub-section (1), the
letter and brackets “(a)” before the words “in the case of sickness”, the word
“and” after the words “sickness allowance” and clause (b) shall be
omitted;(b)in sub-section (2), the words “or maternity” shall be omitted.

### 30. Repeal.—

On the application of this Act—(i)to mines, the Mines Maternity Benefit Act,
1941 (19 of 1941); and(ii)to factories situate in the Union territory of
Delhi, the Bombay Maternity Benefit Act, 1929 (Bombay Act VII of 1929); as in
force in that territory, shall stand repealed.

