## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Members of the Madurai City Municipal Corporation (Disclosure of
Assets) Rules, 1973

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Members of the Madurai City Municipal Corporation (Disclosure of Assets)
Rules, 1973

## Rule THE-MEMBERS-OF-THE-MADURAI-CITY-MUNICIPAL-CORPORATION-DISCLOSURE-OF-
ASSETS-RULES-1973 of 1973

  * Published on 25 April 1973 
  * Commenced on 25 April 1973 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 April 1973.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Members of the Madurai City Municipal Corporation (Disclosure of Assets)
Rules, 1973Published vide Notification G.O. Ms. No. 837, Rural Development and
Local Administration, dated 25th April 1973S.R.O. No. A-434 of 1973. - In
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 431 of the
Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu 15 of 1971), the
Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

\- (i) These rules may be called the Members of the Madurai City Municipal
Corporation (Disclosure of Assets) Rules, 1973.

### 2. Periodical disclosure of assets of members of the Madurai City
Municipal Corporation.

\- Every member of the Madurai City Municipal Corporation including the Mayor
and the Deputy Mayor shall-(a)if he holds office as such on the date of
commencement of these rules, as soon as may be after such date; or(b)if he is
elected or co-opted, after such date, as soon as may be after such election or
[co-option] [The method of co-option of members have been omitted by the Tamil
Nadu Act 24 of 1994.]; and(c)thereafter at intervals of every twelve months
ending with the 31st day of March, furnish to the executive authority of the
Madurai City Municipal Corporation in the Form appended to these rules a
return of,-(i)all properties owned, acquired or inherited by such member or
any members of his family; and(ii)all properties held on lease or mortgage,
either in his own name or any members of his family, together with details of
the means by which, or the sources from which, such property was acquired or
inherited.

### 3. Returns to be placed at the meeting and to be public document.

\- Every return submitted under rule 2 shall,-(1)as soon as possible, after it
is submitted, be placed at the meeting of the council; and(2)be deemed to be a
public document and the executive authority may, subject to such conditions
(including payment of fees) as may be prescribed by such authority give to any
person on demand a copy of such return.AppendixForm(See Rule 2)Return of
assets of the Member of the....as on the 31st March.Name of
the............Date of election or [co-option] [The method of co-option of
members have been omitted by the Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1994.]Assets of the
Members

### 1\. Immovable property.

### 2\. Business interests-

(a)Shares.(b)Stock.(c)Scrip.(d)Partnership.(e)Debentures and securities.

### 3\. Other interests. Bank accounts.

### 4. (a) Jewellery.

(b)Gold.(c)Precious stones.

### 5. Movables (including motor vehicles) where the aggregate value exceeds
Rs. 10,000.

### 6. Details of Trusts with which the Member has any connection.

### 7. Remarks, if any, of the member.

Assets of the Members of the Family

### 1\. Immovable property.

### 2\. Business interests-

(a)Shares.(b)Stock.Where the aggregate value of all the three items exceeds
Rs. 10,000(c)Scrip.(d)Partnership.(e)Debentures and securities.

### 3\. Other interests.

Bank Accounts.

### 4\. (a) Jewellery.

(b)Gold.(c)Precious.Where the aggregate value of all the three items exceeds
Rs. 10,000.

### 5\. Movables (including motor vehicles) where the aggregate value exceeds
Rs. 10,000.

### 6\. Details of Trust with which the member of the family has any
connection.

### 7\. Remarks, if any, of the member.

DeclarationI, ................ declare that to the best of my knowledge and
belief, the information furnished in the above return is true and
complete.Place:Date:Signature.Notes. - (1) "Member of the family" means any
person related, whether by blood or marriage to the member of the Madurai City
Municipal Corporation, or to his wife or her husband and wholly dependent on
such member.(2)"Immovable property" includes land and buildings.(3)The member
may give a short note explaining the nature of acquisition of the assets in
the column relating to Remarks.(4)If the member so chooses, he may also
explain the liabilities incurred by him and his family members in the column
relating to Remarks.Procedure for Furnishing the Return(1)Every member shall
fill up this form furnishing information for the period ending with 31st day
of March.(2)The member shall, after filling it, send it to the Executive
Authority of the Madurai City Municipal Corporation on or before the 30th day
of September every year.(3)The Executive Authority concerned on receipt of the
same shall causes it to be placed at the meeting of the Council.

