## Union of India - Act

## The Medical Termination Of Pregnancy Act, 1971

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Medical Termination Of Pregnancy Act, 1971

## Act 34 of 1971

  * Published in Gazette 34 on 10 August 1971 
  * Assented to on 10 August 1971 
  * Commenced on 10 August 1971 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 March 2021.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Medical Termination Of Pregnancy (Amendment) Act, 2002 (Act 64 of 2002) on 1 January 2002] 
  2. [Amended by THE MEDICAL TERMINATION OF PREGNANCY (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2021 (Act 08 of 2021) on 25 March 2021] 

The Medical Termination Of Pregnancy Act, 1971[10th August, 1971]Act No. 34 of
1971An Act to provide for the termination of certain pregnancies by registered
medical practitionsers and for matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-second Year of the Republic
of India as follows:-World Health organization comments on THE MEDICAL
TERMINATION OF PREGNANCY (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2021 that how new amended law makes
abortion safer and more accessible.

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971.(2)It
extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.(3)It
shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.-

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"guardian" means a
person having the care of the person of a minor or a mentally ill
person;(aa)"Medical Board" means the Medical Board constituted under sub-
section (2C) of section 3 of the Act;(b)"mentally ill person" means a person
who is in need for treatment by reason of any mental disorder other than
mental retardation;(c)"minor" means a person who, under the provisions of the
Indian Majority Act, 1875 (9 of 1875), is to be deemed not to have attained
his majority;(d)"registered medical practitioner" means a medical practitioner
who possesses any recognised medical qualification as defined in clause (h) of
section 2 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), whose name
has been entered in a State Medical Register and who has such experience or
training in gynaecology and obstetrics as may be prescribed by rules made
under this Act.(e)"termination of pregnancy" means a procedure to terminate a
pregnancy by using medical or surgical methods.

### 3. When pregnancies may be terminated by registered medical
practitioners.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), a
registered medical practitioner shall not be guilty of any offence under that
Code or under any other law for the time being in force, if any pregnancy is
terminated by him in accordance with the provisions of this Act.(2)Subject to
the provisions of sub-section (4), a pregnancy may be terminated by a
registered medical practitioner,—(a)where the length of the pregnancy does not
exceed twenty weeks, if such medical practitioner is, or(b)where the length of
the pregnancy exceeds twenty weeks but does not exceed twenty-four weeks in
case of such category of woman as may be prescribed by rules made under this
Act, if not less than two registered medical practitioners are, of the
opinion, formed in good faith, that—(i)the continuance of the pregnancy would
involve a risk to the life of the pregnant woman or of grave injury to her
physical or mental health; or(ii)there is a substantial risk that if the child
were born, it would suffer from any serious physical or mental
abnormality.Explanation 1.—For the purposes of clause ( a), where any
pregnancy occurs as a result of failure of any device or method used by any
woman or her partner for the purpose of limiting the number of children or
preventing pregnancy, the anguish caused by such pregnancy may be presumed to
constitute a grave injury to the mental health of the pregnant
woman.Explanation 2.—For the purposes of clauses ( a) and ( b), where any
pregnancy is alleged by the pregnant woman to have been caused by rape, the
anguish caused by the pregnancy shall be presumed to constitute a grave injury
to the mental health of the pregnant woman.(2A)The norms for the registered
medical practitioner whose opinion is required for termination of pregnancy at
different gestational age shall be such as may be prescribed by rules made
under this Act.(2B)The provisions of sub-section ( 2) relating to the length
of the pregnancy shall not apply to the termination of pregnancy by the
medical practitioner where such termination is necessitated by the diagnosis
of any of the substantial foetal abnormalities diagnosed by a Medical
Board.(2C)Every State Government or Union territory, as the case may be,
shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute a Board to be
called a Medical Board for the purposes of this Act to exercise such powers
and functions as may be prescribed by rules made under this Act.(2D)The
Medical Board shall consist of the following, namely:—(a)a Gynaecologist;(b)a
Paediatrician;(c)a Radiologist or Sonologist; and(d)such other number of
members as may be notified in the Official Gazette by the State Government or
Union territory, as the case may be."

### 4. Place where pregnancy may be terminated.-

No termination of pregnancy shall be made in accordance with this Act at any
place other than-(a)a hospital established or maintained by Government, or(b)a
place for the time being approved for the purpose of this Act by Government or
a District Level Committee constituted by that Government with the Chief
Medical Officer or District Health Officer as the Chairperson of the said
Committee.Provided that the District Level Committee shall consist of not less
than three and not more than five members including the Chairperson, as the
Government may specify from time to time.

### 5. Sections 3 and 4 when not to apply.-

(1)The provisions of section 4, and so much of the provisions of sub-section
(2) of section 3 as relate to the length of the pregnancy and the opinion of
not less than two registered medical practitioners, shall not apply to the
termination of a pregnancy by a registered medical practitioner in a case
where he is of opinion, formed in good faith, that the termination of such
pregnancy is immediately necessary to save the life of the pregnant
woman.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Penal Code (45 of
1860), the termination of pregnancy by a person who is not a registered
medical practitioner shall be an offence punishable with rigorous imprisonment
for a term which shall not be less than two years but which may extend to
seven years under that Code, and that Code shall, to this extent, stand
modified.(3)Whoever terminates any pregnancy in a place other than that
mentioned in section 4, shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a
term which shall not be less than two years but which may extend to seven
years.(4)Any person being owner of a place which is not approved under clause
(b) of section 4 shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term
which shall not be less than two years but which may extend to seven
years.Explanation 1.- For the purposes of this section, the expression "owner"
in relation to a place means any person who is the administrative head or
otherwise responsible for the working or maintenance of a hospital or place,
by whatever name called, where the pregnancy may be terminated under this
Act.Explanation 2.- For the purposes of this section, so much of the
provisions of clause (d) of section 2 as relate to the possession, by
registered medical practitioner, of experience or training in gynaecology and
obstetrics shall not apply.

### 5A. Protection of privacy of a woman.

(1)No registered medical practitioner shall reveal the name and other
particulars of a woman whose pregnancy has been terminated under this Act
except to a person authorised by any law for the time being in
force.(2)Whoever contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be
punishable with imprisonment which may extend to one year, or with fine, or
with both

### 6. Power to make rules.-

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely:-(a)the experience or training, or
both, which a registered medical practitioner shall have if he intends to
terminate any pregnancy under this Act; and(aa)the category of woman under
clause ( b) of sub-section ( 2) of section 3;(ab)the norms for the registered
medical practitioner whose opinion is required for termination of pregnancy at
different gestational age under sub-section (2A) of section 3;(ac)the powers
and functions of the Medical Board under sub-section (2C) of section
3.".(b)such other matters as are required to be or may be, provided by rules
made under this Act.(3)Every rule made by the Central Government under this
Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may
be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions, and if, before the
expiry of the session in which it is so laid or the session immediately
following, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both
Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 7. Power to make regulations.-

(1)The State Government may, by regulations,-(a)require any such opinion as is
referred to in sub-section (2) of section 3 to be certified by a registered
medical practitioner or practitioners concerned, in such form and at such time
as may be specified in such regulations, and the preservation or disposal of
such certificates;(b)require any registered medical practitioner, who
terminates a pregnancy, to give intimation of such termination and such other
information relating to the termination as may be specified in such
regulations;(c)prohibit the disclosure, except to such persons and for such
purposes as may be specified in such regulations, of intimations given or
information furnished in pursuance of such regulations.(2)The intimation given
and the information furnished in pursuance of regulations made by virtue of
clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall be given or furnished, as the case may be,
to the Chief Medical Officer of the State.(2A)Every regulation made by the
State Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is
made, before the State Legislature.(3)Any person who wilfully contravenes or
wilfully fails to comply with the requirements of any regulation made under
sub-section (1) shall be liable to be punished with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees.

### 8. Protection of action taken in good faith.-

No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against any registered medical
practitioner for any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything which is
in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.

