## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Building (Water Conservation) Rules,
2002

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Building (Water Conservation) Rules,
2002

## Rule THE-MADURAI-CITY-MUNICIPAL-CORPORATION-BUILDING-WATER-CONSERVATION-
RULES-2002 of 2002

  * Published on 11 October 2002 
  * Commenced on 11 October 2002 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 October 2002.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Building (Water Conservation) Rules,
2002Published vide Notification Ms. No. 140, Municipal Administration and
Water Supply, dated 11th October, 2002In exercise of the powers conferred by
section 268 read with sub-section (1) of section 431 of Madurai City Municipal
Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971), the Governor of Tamil Nadu
hereby makes the following rules, namely:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Building
(Water Conservation) Rules, 2002.

### 2. Application.

\- These rules shall apply in addition to the Revised Building Rules, 1942.

### 3. Water conservation.

\- For effective conservation of rain water, application for permission to
construct or reconstruct or alter or add to a building, other than a hut,
shall contain water conservation proposals as detailed below:-(A)Tiled and
sloped terrace building. - (1) In the tiled or sloped building, semi circular
gutters of width 15 to 25 centimetres of plastic or any other material shall
be provided on the down side roof slopes of the building for harvesting rain
water. The gutter shall be connected at the down stream end with a down pipe
of 75 to 100 millimetres diametre, depending upon roof area and size of tank
to convey the harvested rain water from gutters to a plastic or any other
material storage tank or sump (through a filter emit). An inlet screen (wire
mesh) to prevent entry of dry leaves and other debris into the down-pipe shall
be fitted. The collected rain water from the roof shall be allowed to pass
through a filter unit. The filter unit is to be filled with suitable filter
material such as well-burnt broken bricks (or pebbles) up to 15 centimetres
from top. The top 15 centimetres shall be filled up with coarse sand. The
filter unit shall be placed either over a storage tank or at bottom of the
down pipe.(2)The filtered rain water shall be collected in a collection tank
or storage tank placed over the ground or underground. The shape of the tank
shall be cylindrical, rectangular or square of suitable size with a capacity
ranging from 1000 to 10,000 litres or even higher depending on the roof area.
The material of construction shall be brick work, stone work, cement bricks,
ferro-cement, High Density Polyethylene (HDPE), plain cement concrete or
reinforced cement concrete. The storage tanks or collection tanks shall be
provided with pipe fixtures at appropriate places to draw the water, to clean
the tank and to dispose of the excess water depending upon use or re-use
either to open-well or bore-well or to a percolation pit.(B)Ordinary building
(Ground First Floor). - (1) Percolation pits of 30 to 45 centimetres diametre
and of depth adequate, not less than one metre, to recharge the ground, shall
be made. This pit shall be filled with suitable filter material such as well-
burnt broken bricks (or pebbles) up to 15 centimetres from top. The top 15
centimetres shall be filled up with coarse sand. The top of this pit shall be
covered with perforated reinforced concrete cement (RCC) slab or of any other
material, wherever considered necessary. The number of such percolation pits
shall be provided on the basis of one pit per 30 square metres of available
open terrace area or plinth area. The cross distance between the pits shall be
minimum 3 metres.(2)Wherever an open-well or bore-well is available within the
building premises, the rain water collected from the open terrace shall be
collected through pipes of 150 millimetres diametre or other suitable sizes
and led to a filter pit of size 60 centimetres x 60 centimetres x 60
centimetres (with appropriate filter material) and then led into the open-well
or bore-well through 150 millimetres diametre or other suitable pipes, after
filling up a storage tank or sump.(3)Wherever existing water storage sumps are
available, the rain water so collected, after it passes through the filter,
shall be allowed to flow to the sump through closed pipes. An overflow pipe
shall be provided to the storage sump so that the surplus water is led into
the nearby open-well or bore-well or percolation pit.(C)Ordinary building
(Ground + 2 Floors and above). - (1) The specification detailed in item "B"
above for Ordinary building (Ground + First Floor) is also applicable to
building specified in this category.(2)In addition to the percolation pits of
30 centimetres diametre to be provided at 3 metre interval/ a pit of 1 to 1.5
metres width and appropriate depth, so as to recharge the ground, shall be
provided all along the plinth boundary depending upon the soil classification
below ground. This pit shall be filled with appropriate filter material
namely, broken bricks, pebbles, broken stones, etc., at the bottom and the top
15 to 25 centimetres shall be filled with coarse sand. The ground or pavement
surface around the building shall be sloped towards the percolation pit so
that the surplus rain water from terrace and sides-open spaces, etc., flow
over this slopped surfaces and spread into the filter bed all around. Masonry
dwarf walls of 5 to 7.5 centimetres or of suitable height depending upon the
site conditions shall be constructed, if necessary, a: lie entrance and exit
gates to allow the surplus rain water collected within the compound to
recharge the ground within the premises itself; and from draining out to the
road.(3)If the sub-soil is not a permeable one (namely, clay or black cotton),
appropriate recharge structures, namely, recharge shaft or borepit shall be
provided below the filtration pits so as to recharge the ground.(D)Group
development, industries and institutional building. - (1) For buildings for
Ground-I-First floor or Ground 4-2 floors and above located within Group
development, industrial or institutional premises, the specification detailed
in items A, B and C above shall apply.(2)The surplus surface runoff rain
water, in the open spaces within the group development or industrial or
institutional premises shall be allowed to run towards collection drains of
suitable size and these drains shall be constructed as rain water-friendly
storm water drains. All the approach and access roads to the buildings within
the group development or industrial or institutional premises shall also be
provided with rainwater-friendly storm water drains. These rainwater-friendly
storm water drains shall not have paved bottom. If adequate spaces are
available in low lying areas, percolation ponds of suitable size shall be
formed and these rain water-friendly storm water drains shall be led into the
percolation ponds for recharging the ground.(3)For other localised low lying
areas, recharge pits of size of minimum 1 metre x 1 metre x 1 metre or 1 metre
diametre shall be provided wherever needed, so as to prevent rainwater
stagnation around me building. For other places catch water pit structures of
size 30 centimetres diametre and 30 centimetres depth or higher depth as
necessary shall be provided wherever necessary. For existing paved storm water
drains, catch water pits of 30 centimetres diametre and, 30 centimetres depth
or higher depth, as necessary, shall be provided at the bottom of these drains
at 10 to 15 metre intervals. These catch water pits shall be filled with
appropriate filter material as described in item "B" above for Ordinary
building (Ground + First Floor).Explanation. - For the purpose of these rules,
in regard to rain water harvesting structures are concerned any other
modifications, additional structures or alternative designs, furnished by the
applicant shall be considered for approval, if it conforms to rain water
harvesting concept to the satisfaction of the competent authority for building
plan approval. Provision of water harvesting structures for re-use of used
water like water emanating from kitchens and bathrooms for flushing toilets,
gardening shall be considered for approval on its merits.

### 4. Provision of Rain Water Harvesting structures in existing buildings.

\- Rain Water Harvesting structures as detailed in rule 3 shall be provided in
all existing buildings within a time limit of one year from the 11th October
2002.

### 5. Separation of bath and wash basin water and reuse.

\- Every building shall be provided with separate pipelines, one for
collecting waste water from bath and wash basins and the other for connecting
the toilets. The waste water from the toilets alone shall be connected to the
street sewer. The waste water from the bath and wash basins shall be disposed
off as here under:-(i)Ordinary buildings (Ground + 1 Floor, residential
buildings, not exceeding four dwelling units or Commercial/ Industrial/
Institutional building not exceeding 300 square metres). - The waste water
from the bath and wash basin shall be used for ground water recharge by
organic filtration (by providing suitable filter media) depending upon the
soil suitability or for recycling for toilet flushing as indicated for other
buildings specified in item (ii) below:-(ii)Buildings other than the buildings
specified in item (i) above. - Each building shall have a separate downward
pipeline to collect waste water from bath and wash basins and the collected
waste water shall be treated adequately by organic or mechanical recycling and
taken to a sump for onward pumping to the exclusive overhead tank or to a
separate compartment of over head tank for exclusive use of toilet flushing
through cisterns. The excess waste water not reused for toilet flushing, shall
be suitably connected to the rain water recharge structures for ground water
recharge.Explanation. - For the purposes of these rules in regard to recycling
systems are concerned, any other modifications, additional structures,
alternative designs furnished by the applicant shall be considered for
approval, if it conforms to recycling concept to the satisfaction of the
competent authority for building plan approval.

