## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Madurai Corporation Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1975

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Madurai Corporation Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1975

## Rule THE-MADURAI-CORPORATION-SERVICES-DISCIPLINE-AND-APPEAL-RULES-1975 of
1975

  * Published on 30 July 1975 
  * Commenced on 30 July 1975 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 July 1975.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Madurai Corporation Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1975Published
vide Notification G.O. Ms. No. 1300, Rural Development and Local
Administration Department, dated 30th July 1975In exercise of the powers
conferred by sub-section (1) of section 431, read with sub-section (1) of
section 106 of the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu
Act 15 of 1971) the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

### 1. Short title and application.

\- These rules maybe called the Madurai Corporation Services (Discipline and
Appeal) Rules, 1975.They shall apply to-(i)every member of the service holding
posts in any of the categories in Classes I to IV.(ii)every member of the
service appointed to any of the categories in classes I to IV under rule 8 of
the General Rules in Part II of the Madurai Corporation Service
Rules,(iii)every member of the service appointed to any of the categories in
Class I to Class IV under rule 9 of the General Rules except to the extent
otherwise expressly provided in the contract or agreement subsisting between
such member and the Corporation.Explanation. - If any doubt arises as to the
application of these rules to any member of the service, the matter shall be
referred to the Government whose decision thereon shall be final.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the context, the
words and expressions, not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning
assigned to them in Part I of the Madurai Corporation Services Rules
1975.(2)"Appellate authority" means the authority competent to entertain and
pass orders setting aside or confirming or modifying an original order of the
disciplinary authority imposing any of the penalties specified in rule 3 of
these rules on any member of the service.(3)"Disciplinary authority" means the
authority competent to impose any of the penalties specified in rule 3 on any
member of the service.Explanation. - Where an appellate authority passes an
original order imposing any of the penalties specified in rules 3, he shall,
in respect of that order, be deemed to be the disciplinary authority.

### 3. Penalties.

\- The following penalties may, for good and sufficient reasons, be imposed on
any, member of the service, namely:-(1)Censure;(2)Withholding of increments or
promotion;(3)Reduction to a lower rank in the seniority list or to a lower
post or time scale or to lower stage in a time-scale;(4)Recovery from pay of
the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the Corporation or to any
other local body or the State Government, the Central Government by negligence
or breach of order;(5)Recovery from pay to the extent necessary of the
monetary value equivalent to the amount of increments ordered to be withheld
where such an order cannot be given effect to;(6)Recovery from pay to the
extent necessary of the monetary value equivalent to the amount of the
reduction to a lower stage in a time scale ordered, where such an order cannot
be given effect to.Explanation. - In case of stoppage of increment with
cumulative effect, the monetary value equivalent to three times the amount of
increments ordered to be withheld may be recovered;(7)Compulsory retirement
from the service;(8)Removal from the Service;(9)Dismissal from the
Service;(10)Suspension, where a member of the service has already been
suspended under rule 8, to the extent considered necessary by the authority
imposing the penalty.The penalties mentioned in clauses 1, 2, 4 to 6 and 10
shall be deemed to be minor penalties and those in 3, 7 to 9 shall be deemed
to be as major penalties.Explanation (1). - The discharge-(i)of a member of
the service appointed on probation before the expiry or at the end of the
prescribed or extended period of probation, or(ii)of a member of the service
engaged under contract, in accordance with the terms of his contract,
or(iii)of a member of the service appointed otherwise than under contract to
hold a temporary appointment on the expiration of the period of the
appointment does not amount to removal or dismissal within the meaning of this
rule.Explanation (2). - The following shall not amount to a penalty within the
meaning of this rule, namely:-(a)Withholding of increments of pay of a member
of the service for his failure to pass any departmental examination in
accordance with the rules o r orders governing the post which he holds;(b)Non-
promotion of a member of the service whether in a substantive or officiating
capacity after consideration of his case to a class or category for promotion
which he is eligible;(c)Reversion of a member of the service officiating in a
higher class or category to a lower class or category on the ground that he is
considered to be unsuitable for such higher class or category or on any
administrative ground unconnected with his conducts;(d)Reversion of a member
of the service appointed on probation to any other class or category to his
permanent class or category during or at the end of the period of probation in
accordance with the terms of his appointment or to the rules and orders
governing such probation;(e)Replacement of services of a member of the service
whose services had been borrowed from State Government or Central Government
or an authority under the control of State Government or Central Government at
the disposal of the State Government or the authority from which the services
of such member of the service had been borrowed; and(f)Compulsory retirement
of a member of the service in accordance with the provisions relating to
superannuation or retirement.

### 4. Disciplinary authority.

\- The authority competent to impose the penalties specified in clauses (1),
(2), (4), (5), (6) and (1) of rule 3, on the members holding Class I and Class
II posts shall be the Commissioner.The authority competent to impose the
penalties specified in clauses (3), (7) to (9) of rule 3 on the members
holding Class I and Class II posts shall be the Government.The authority
competent to impose any of the penalties mentioned in rule 3 on the members
holding Class III and Class IV posts shall be the Commissioner.

### 5. Appellate authority.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 4, the appellate authority may,
in respect of any specific penalty, pass an order imposing penalty on a member
of the service in any specified case.(2)Where in any case the appellate
authority has imposed or declined to impose a penalty under this rule, the
disciplinary authority shall have no jurisdiction to proceed under these rules
in respect of the same case.(3)The fact that a disciplinary authority has
imposed or declined to impose a penalty in any case shall not debar the
appellate authority from exercising his powers under this rule in respect of
the same case.(4)The order of the appellate authority imposing or declining to
impose a penalty in any case under this rule shall supersede any order passed
by the disciplinary authority in respect of the same case.(5)The fact that the
disciplinary authority has dropped a charge against a member of the service as
not proved, shall not debar the appellate authority from reviving it for
reasons to be recorded in writing and taking suitable action on the charge so
revised.

### 6. Disciplinary authority in respect of members of the service reduced.

\- Where a member of the service has been reduced or reverted from Class II to
Class III, no penalty shall be imposed upon him in respect of his work or
conduct while he was a member of the Class from which he was reverted or
reduced except by an authority competent to impose the penalty upon a member
of Class II.

### 7. Disciplinary authority in respect of members of the service promoted.

\- Whereas a member of the service has been promoted from Class III to Class
II, no penalty shall be imposed on him in respect of his work or conduct while
he was a member of the Class from which he was promoted, except by an
authority competent to impose punishments upon the members of Class II to
which he has been promoted.

### 8. Procedure for imposing penalties.

(1)In every case where it is proposed to impose on a member of the service any
of the penalties specified in clauses (1), (2), (4),(5), (6) and (10) of rule
3, he shall be given a reasonable opportunity of making any representation
that he may desire to make and such representation, if any, shall be taken
into consideration before the order imposing the penalty is passed:Provided
that the requirements of this sub-rule not apply where it is proposed to
impose on a member of the service any of the penalties aforesaid on the basis
of facts which have led to his conviction by a Court Martial or where the
member of the service concerned has absconded or where it is for other reasons
impracticable to communicate with him.(2)In every case where it is proposed to
impose on a member of the service any of the penalties specified in causes
(3), (7), (8) and (9) of rule 3, the grounds on which it is proposed to take
action shall be reduced to the form of a definite charge or charges which
shall be communicated to the member of service charged together with a
statement of the allegations on which each charge is based and of any other
circumstances which it is proposed to take into consideration in passing
orders in the case. The member of the service so charged shall be required,
within a reasonable time, to put in written statement of defence and to state
whether he desires an oral inquiry or to be heard in person. The member of the
service so charged shall be entitled to cross examine the witnesses to girl-
guidance in person and to have such intervals called as he may wish, provided
that the authority conducting the inquiry may, for special and sufficient
reason to be recorded in writing, refuse to call witness whether or not the
member of the service charged desired or had an oral inquiry he shall be heard
in person at any stage if he so desires before passing final orders. A report
of the inquiry or personal hearing as the case may be, shall be prepared a by
the authority holding the enquiry or personal hearing, whether or not such
authority is competent to impose the penalty. Such report shall contain a
sufficient record of evidence, if any, and a statement of the findings and the
grounds thereof.(3)After the enquiry or personal hearing referred to in sub-
rule (2) has been completed and after the authority competent to impose the
penalty has arrived at a provisional conclusion in regard to the penalty to be
imposed, the member of the service charged shall be supplied with a copy of
the report of the enquiring authority referred to in that clause and be called
upon to show cause, within a reasonable time not ordinarily exceeding one
month, against the particular penalty proposed to be imposed.(4)Any
representation in this behalf submitted by the member of the service charged
shall be taken into consideration before final orders are passed provided that
such representation shall be based only on the evidence adduced during the
enquiry.Explanation. - An opportunity to show cause against the imposition of
any of the penalties referred to in sub rule (2) shall be given, after the
authority competent to impose the penalty arrives at a provisional conclusion
in regard to the penalty to be imposed, whether by such authority himself or
under his direction by a subordinate authority who is superior in rank to the
member of the service on whom it is proposed to impose the penalty.(5)The
requirements of sub-rule (2) shall apply where it is proposed to impose on a
member of the service any such penalty as is referred therein on the basis of
the facts which have led to his conviction in a Criminal Court (whether or not
he has been sentenced by such Court to any imprisonment), but he shall be
given reasonable opportunity of making any representation that he may desire
to make and such representation, if-any, shall be taken into consideration
before the order imposing the penalty is passed.(6)The requirement of sub-rule
(2) shall not apply where; it is proposed to impose on a member of the service
any of the penalties mentioned in rule 3 on the basis of the facts, which have
led to his conviction by a Court Martial or where the member of the service
has absconded or where it is for other reasons impracticable to communicate
with him.(7)The provision of sub-rule (2) shall not apply where the Government
are satisfied that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not
expedient to follow the procedure prescribed in the said sub-rule.(8)All or
any of the provision of sub-rules (1) and (2) may, in exceptional cases, for
special and sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing, be waived where
there is difficulty in observing exactly the requirements of the said sub-
rules and these requirements can be waived without injustice to the member of
the service charged. If any question arises whether it is reasonable or
practicable to follow the procedure prescribed in sub-rule (2), the decision
thereon of the authority competent to dismiss or remove such member of the
service or reduce him in rank, as the case may be, shall be final.(9)A member
of the service may be placed under suspension from service where-(i)an inquiry
into grave charge against him is contemplated or is pending; or(ii)a complaint
against him of any criminal offence is under investigation or trial and if
such suspension is necessary in the public interest.(10)A member of the
service, who is detained in custody whether on a criminal charge or otherwise
for a period longer than forty-eight hours shall be deemed to have been
suspended under this rule.(11)Where a penalty of dismissal, removal or
compulsory retirement from service imposed upon a member of the service under
suspension is set aside in appeal or on review under these rules and the case
is remitted for further inquiry or action or with any other direction, the
order of suspension shall be deemed to have continued in force on and from the
date of original order of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement and
shall remain in force until further order.(12)Where a penalty of dismissal,
removal or compulsory retirement from service imposed upon a member of the
service is set aside or declared or rendered void in consequence of, or by a
decision of a Court of law and the disciplinary authority on a consideration
of the circumstances of the case, decide to hold a further inquiry against him
on the allegations on which the penalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory
retirement was originally imposed, such member of a service shall be deemed to
have been placed under suspension by the appointing authority from the date of
original order of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement and shall
continue to remain under suspension until further orders.(13)Where a member of
the service is suspended or is deemed to have been suspended (whether in
connection with any disciplinary proceedings or otherwise) and any other
disciplinary proceedings is commenced against him during the continuance of
that suspension, the authority competent to place him under suspension may,
for reasons to be recorded by him in writing, direct that such a member shall
continue to be under suspension until the termination of all or any of such
proceedings.(14)An order of suspension made or deemed to have been made under
this rule may, at any time, be revoked by the authority which made the order
or by the appellate authority or by the Government.

### 9. Maintenance of records.

\- The competent authority imposing any penalty under these rules shall
maintain a record showing-(i)the allegations upon which action was taken
against the member of the service punished;(ii)the charges framed, if
any;(iii)the representation of the member of the service, if any, and the
evidence taken, if any; and(iv)the finding and the ground thereof, if any.

### 10. Order of punishment to state grounds and to be communicated.

(a)All orders of punishment shall state the grounds on which they are based
and shall be communicated in writing to the member of the service against whom
they are passed.(b)Every order, notice and other process made or issued under
these rules shall be served in person on the member of the service concerned
or sent to him by registered post acknowledgment due or if such member of the
service is not found, by leaving it at his last known place of residence, or
by giving or tendering it to an adult member of his family or if none of the
means aforesaid is available, by affixing it in some conspicuous part of his
last known place of residence.

### 11. Appeals.

\- Every member of the service shall have the right of appeal against an order
passed by an authority within a period of two months from the date on which
the order was communicated to him-(1)imposing on him any of the penalties
specified in rule (3);(2)discharging him in accordance with the terms of his
contract if he has been engaged on a contract for a period exceeding three
years at the time when his services are terminated.

### 12. Appellate Authority.

(a)Where the penalties mentioned in clauses (1), (2), (4), (5), (6) and (10)
of rule 3 have been imposed by the Commissioner on a member of the service
holding Class I and Class II posts, the appeal shall be to the Government.
Where the penalties mentioned in clauses (3), (7), (8) and (9) of rule 3 have
been imposed by the Government on a member of the service holding Class I or
II post, such member of the service may, within two months on the date on
which the order is communicated to him, submit a revision petition to the
Government against the order. In disposing of such petition, the Government
shall be, as far as possible, follow the procedure prescribed for dealing with
appeals.(b)Where any of the penalties mentioned in rule 3 has been imposed by
the Commissioner on a member of the service holding Class III or Class IV
post, the appeal shall lie to the Appeals Committee.(c)The Appointment
Committee shall be the Appeals Committee.

### 13. Appeal to Government.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 12, where an original order
imposing a specific penalty on a member of the service has been passed by the
appellate authority in exercise of the powers conferred by rule 5, an appeal
against such orders shall lie only to the Government:Provided that when the
appellate authority who has passed the original order imposing the penalty
happens to be the Government, the member of the service aggrieved by the order
may prefer a revision petition to the Government to re-consider the order. The
Government shall, thereupon, review the records of the case and pass such
orders thereon as it may appear to them to be just or expedient.

### 14. Procedure to be followed by the appellate authority.

(1)In the case of an appeal against an order imposing any of the penalties
specified in rule 3, the appellate authority shall consider-(i)whether the
facts on which the order was based have been established;(ii)whether the facts
established afford sufficient ground for taking action; and(iii)whether the
penalty is excessive, adequate or inadequate; and(iv)after such consideration
shall pass such orders as it thinks proper. (2) Any error or defect in the
procedure followed in imposing a penalty may be disregarded by the appellate
authority if such authority considers, for reasons to be recorded in writing,
that the error or defect was not material and has neither caused injustice to
the member of the service concerned nor affected the decision of the case.

### 15. Appellate authority to decide appeals.

\- In the case an appeal, the appellate authority shall pass such order as
appears to it just and equitable, having regard to all the circumstances of
the case.

### 16. Mode of preferring an appeal.

(a)Every member of the service preferring an appeal shall do so separately and
in his own name.(b)Every appeal preferred under these rules shall contain all
material statements and arguments relied on by the appellant, shall contain no
disrespectful or improper language and shall be complete in itself. Every such
appeal shall be addressed to the authority to whom the appeal is preferred and
shall be submitted through the head of the office to which the appellant
belongs or belonged and through the authority frc5m whose order the appeal is
preferred.

### 17. Withholding of appeal.

\- An appeal may be withheld by an authority not lower than the authority from
whose order it is preferred, if-(1)it is an appeal in a case in which under
these rules no appeal lies, or(2)it does not comply with the provisions of
rule 16 (b), or(3)it is not preferred within two months after the date on
which the appellant was communicated of the order appealed against and no
reasonable cause is shown for the delay, or(4)it is a repetition of a previous
appeal and is made to the same appellate authority by which such appeal has
been decided and no facts or circumstances are adduced which afford grounds
for re-consideration of the case; or(5)it is addressed to an authority to
which no appeal lies under these rules:Provided that in every case in which an
appeal is withheld, the appellant shall be informed of the fact and the
reasons for it:Provided further that an appeal withheld on account only of
failure to comply with the provisions of rule 16(b) may be re-submitted at any
time with him of the appeal and an appeal re-submitted in a form which
complies with those provisions shall not be withheld.

### 18. No appeal to lie against withholding of any appeal.

\- No appeal shall lie against the withholding of an appeal by a competent
authority.

### 19. Powers of appellate authority or Government when no appeal is
referred.

\- The authority by whom an order imposing a penalty specified in rule 3 may
be reversed or altered in cases in which no appeal is preferred shall be the
appellate authority prescribed in the rules or the Government.

### 20. Forwarding of appeal and list of appeals withheld to appellate
authority.

(1)Every appeal which is not withheld under these rules shall be forwarded to
the appellate authority by the authority from whose order the appeal is
preferred with an expression of opinion.(2)A list of appeals withheld under
rule 17 with the reason for withholding them, shall be forwarded half yearly
by the withholding authority to the appellate authority.

### 21. Powers of appellate authority to call for a withheld appeals.

\- An appellate authority may call for any appeal admissible under these rules
which has been withheld by subordinate authority and may pass such orders
thereon as it considers fit.

### 22. Savings.

\- Nothing in these rules shall operate to deprive any member of the service
of any right of appeal which he would have had if these rules had not been
made, in respect of any order passed before under these rules and rule 14
shall apply as if there appeal were against an order appealed under these
rules.

### 23. Revision petition to Government.

\- Where the original order imposing any of the penalties specified in rule 3
has been imposed on a member of the service by the Government, such member
may, within three months of the date on which the order is communicated to
him, submit a revision petition to the Government against the order. In
disposing of such petition, the Government shall, as far as possible, follow
the procedure prescribed for dealing with appeals.

### 24. Powers of Government to pass orders on completed disciplinary
proceedings.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the Government shall
have the power to call for the records relating to any disciplinary
proceedings Which has been completed either by the disciplinary authority or
by the appellate authority and pass such orders on it as they may consider
just or expedient:Provided that before a penalty is imposed in a case where it
has been imposed or a penalty which has been imposed is enhanced, the member
of the service concerned shall be given an opportunity to show cause as to why
the penalty should not be imposed or enhanced, as the case may be.

