## Union of India - Act

## The National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005

## Act 49 of 2005

  * Published on 20 December 2005 
  * Commenced on 20 December 2005 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 April 2007.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE NATIONAL TAX TRIBUNAL (AMENDMENT) Act, 2007 (Act 18 of 2007) on 3 April 2007] 

The National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005(49 OF 2005)

### 18.

/808Statement of Objects and Reasons.-Under the direct and indirect tax
enactments, an appeal lies to the High Court on a substantial question of law.
Due to pendency of a large number of cases in the High Courts, huge revenue is
blocked in such litigations. This is adversely affecting the national economy.
Hence, urgent measures are required to be taken to speed up taxation matters
pending before the High Courts. To achieve the aforesaid objective, an
Ordinance, namely, the National Tax Tribunal Ordinance, 2003 was promulgated
on 16th October, 2003 to establish a Tax Tribunal to be known as the National
Tax Tribunal to hear cases on substantial question of law from the decisions
of the Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal and the Customs, Excise and Service Tax
Appellate Tribunal. This Tribunal is being set up under article 323-B of the
Constitution and will act through its Benches. A person who has been a Judge
of the Supreme Court or the Chief Justice of a High Court shall be the
Chairperson of the National Tax Tribunal. The number of Benches to hear the
cases under the direct tax laws and indirect tax laws shall be decided by the
Central Government from time to time. With the establishment of the National
Tax Tribunal all matters and proceedings pending in appeals and references
under the direct tax laws and indirect tax laws before the High Courts shall
stand transferred to it.2\. The Bill seeks to replace the aforesaid
Ordinance.[20th December, 2005]An Act to provide for the adjudication by the
National Tax Tribunal of disputes with respect to levy, assessment, collection
and enforcement of direct taxes and also to provide for the adjudication by
that Tribunal of disputes with respect to the determination of the rates of
duties of customs and central excise on goods and the valuation of goods for
the purposes of assessment of such duties as well as in matters relating to
levy of tax on service, in pursuance of article 323-B of the Constitution and
for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by
Parliament in the Fifty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

Brought into force on 28.12.2005 vide S.O. No. 1826(E), dated 28.12.2005.  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement .-

(1)This Act may be called The National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005.(2)It extends to
the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint:Provided that
different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this Act and any
reference in any such provision to the commencement of this Act shall be
construed as a reference to the coming into force of that provision.

### 2. Definitions .-

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Bench" means a Bench
of the National Tax Tribunal;(b)"Board of Direct Taxes" means the Central
Board of Direct Taxes constituted under the Central Boards of Revenue Act,
1963 (54 of 1963);(c)"Board of Excise and Customs" means the Central Board of
Excise and Customs constituted under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963
(54 of 1963);(d)"Central Excise Act" means the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of
1944);(e)"Central Excise Tariff Act" means the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985
(5 of 1986);(f)"Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the National Tax
Tribunal;(g)"Companies (Profits) Surtax Act" means the Companies (Profits)
Surtax Act, 1964 (7 of 1964);(h)"Customs Act" means the Customs Act, 1962 (52
of 1962);(i)"Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal" means the
Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal constituted under section
129 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962);(j)"Customs Tariff Act" means the
Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975);(k)"Expenditure-tax Act" means the
Expenditure-tax Act, 1987 (35 of 1987);(l)"Gift-tax Act" means the Gift-tax
Act, 1958 (18 of 1958);(m)"Income-tax Act" means the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43
of 1961);(n)"Income-tax Appellate Tribunal" means the Income-tax Appellate
Tribunal constituted under section 252 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of
1961);(o)"Interest-tax Act" means the Interest-tax Act, 1974 (45 of
1974);(p)"law officer" means the Attorney-General for India, the Solicitor
General of India or the Additional Solicitor General of India;(q)"Member"
means a Member of the National Tax Tribunal and includes the
Chairperson;(r)"National Tax Tribunal" means the National Tax Tribunal
established under section 3;(s)"notification" means a notification published
in the Official Gazette;(t)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under
this Act;(u)"Supreme Court" means the Supreme Court of India;(v)Wealth-tax
Act" means the Wealth-tax Act, 1957 (27 of 1957);(w)words and expressions used
in this Act but not defined herein and defined in the Central Excise Act, the
Central Excise Tariff Act, the Customs Act, the Customs Tariff Act
(hereinafter referred to as the indirect taxes) or the rules made thereunder
or in Chapter V of the Finance Act, 1994 (32 of 1994) shall have the meanings,
respectively, assigned to them in the said Acts or the rules made
thereunder;(x)words and expressions used in this Act but not defined herein
and defined in the Income-tax Act, the Wealth-tax Act, the Gift-tax Act, the
Expenditure-tax Act, the Interest-tax Act or the Companies (Profits) Surtax
Act (hereinafter referred to as the direct taxes) or the rules made thereunder
shall have the meanings, respectively, assigned to them in the said Acts or
the rules made thereunder.

## Chapter II  
Establishment Of The National Tax Tribunal

### 3. Establishment of National Tax Tribunal .-

The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
establish with effect from such date as may be specified therein, a Tax
Tribunal to be known as the National Tax Tribunal to exercise the
jurisdiction, powers and authority conferred on such Tribunal by or under this
Act.

### 4. Composition of National Tax Tribunal .-

The National Tax Tribunal shall consist of a Chairperson and such number of
Members as the Central Government deems fit, to be appointed by that
Government, by notification in the Official Gazette.

### 5. Constitution and jurisdiction of Benches .-

(1)The jurisdiction of the National Tax Tribunal may be exercised by the
Benches thereof to be constituted by the Chairperson.(2)The Benches of the
National Tax Tribunal shall ordinarily sit at any place in the National
Capital Territory of Delhi or such other places as the Central Government may,
in consultation with the Chairperson, notify:Provided that the Chairperson may
for adequate reasons permit a Bench to hold its temporary sitting for a period
not exceeding fifteen days at a place other than its ordinary place of
seat.(3)The Central Government shall notify the areas in relation to which
each Bench of the National Tax Tribunal may exercise its jurisdiction.(4)The
Central Government shall determine the number of Benches and each Bench shall
consist of two members.(5)The Central Government may [* * *] transfer a Member
from headquarters of one Bench in one State to the headquarters of another
Bench in another State or to the headquarters of any other Bench within a
State:[Provided that no Member shall be transferred without the concurrence of
the Chairperson.] [ Inserted by Act 18 of 2007, Section 2 (w.r.e.f.
29.1.2007).]

### 6. Qualifications for appointment of Chairperson and other Members .-

(1)The Chairperson of the National Tax Tribunal shall be a person who has been
a Judge of the Supreme Court or the Chief Justice of a High Court.(2)A person
shall not be qualified for appointment as Member unless he-(a)is, or has been,
or is eligible to be, a Judge of a High Court; or(b)is, or has been, a Member
of the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal or of the Customs, Excise and Service Tax
Appellate Tribunal for at least [five years].

### 7. Appointment of Chairperson and other Members .-

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), the Chairperson and every
other Member shall be appointed by the Central Government.(2)The Chairperson
and the other Members shall be appointed by the Central Government on the
recommendations of a Selection Committee consisting of-(a)the Chief Justice of
India or a Judge of the Supreme Court nominated by him;(b)the Secretary in the
Ministry of Law and Justice (Department of Legal Affairs);(c)the Secretary in
the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue).(3)No appointment of the
Chairperson or of any other Member shall be invalidated merely by reason of
any vacancy or any defect in the constitution of the Selection Committee.

### 8. Terms of office of Chairperson and other Members .-

The Chairperson and every member shall hold office as such for a term of five
years from the date on which he enters upon his office but shall be eligible
for re-appointment:Provided that no Chairperson or other Member shall hold
office as such after he has attained,-(a)in the case of Chairperson, the age
of sixty-eight years; and(b)in the case of any other Member, the age of sixty-
five years.

### 9. Resignation of Chairperson and other Members .-

The Chairperson or any other Member may, by notice in writing under his hand
addressed to the Central Government, resign his office.

### 10. Salary and allowances .-

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the salary and allowances and other
terms and conditions of the Chairperson shall be the same as applicable to a
sitting Judge of the Supreme Court, but no vacation shall be allowed:Provided
that if a person who, immediately before the date of assuming the office as
the Chairperson was in receipt of or being eligible so to do, had elected to
draw, a pension in respect of any previous service or office held by such
person under the Government of the Union or of a State, his salary in respect
of service as Chairperson shall be reduced by the amount of that
pension.Explanation.-For the purposes of this sub-section, "vacation" shall
have the meaning assigned to it in the Supreme Court Judges (Conditions of
Service) Act, 1958 (41 of 1958).(2)A Member shall draw salary of a High Court
Judge and other allowances and the terms and conditions of his service shall
be the same as applicable to a Secretary to the Government of India:Provided
that if a person who, immediately before the date of assuming the office as
Member was in receipt of, or being eligible so to do, had elected to draw, a
pension in respect of any previous service held by such person in connection
with the affairs of the Union or of a State, his salary in respect of service
as Member shall be reduced to the extent of that pension.(3)The salary and
allowances and other terms and conditions of service of Chairperson or a
Member of the Tribunal shall not be varied to his disadvantage after
appointment.

### 11. Removal and suspension of Chairperson and other Members .-

(1)The Central Government may, in consultation with the Chief Justice of
India, remove from office the Chairperson or any Member who-(a)has been
adjudged an insolvent; or(b)has been convicted of an offence which, in the
opinion of the Central Government, involves moral turpitude; or(c)has become
physically or mentally incapable of acting as such Chairperson or Member of
the National Tax Tribunal; or(d)has acquired such financial or other interest
as is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as the Chairperson or a
Member of the National Tax Tribunal; or(e)has so abused his position as to
render his continuance in office prejudicial to the public interest.(2)The
Chairperson or any other Member shall not be removed from his office except by
an order made by the Central Government on the ground of proved misbehaviour
or incapacity after an inquiry made by a Judge of the Supreme Court in which
such Chairperson or Member had been informed of the charges against him and
given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of those
charges.(3)The Central Government may suspend from office the Chairperson or
any other Member in respect of whom a reference of conducting an inquiry has
been made to the Judge of the Supreme Court under sub-section (2) until the
Central Government has passed orders on receipt of the report of the Judge of
the Supreme Court on such reference.(4)The Central Government may, by rules,
regulate the procedure for the investigation of misbehaviour or incapacity of
the Chairperson or a Member referred to in sub-section (2).

### 12. Officers and employees of National Tax Tribunal .-

(1)The Central Government shall provide the National Tax Tribunal with such
officers and employees as it may deem fit.(2)The salaries and allowances and
other conditions of service of officers and employees of the National Tax
Tribunal shall be such as may be prescribed.(3)The officers and employees of
the National Tax Tribunal shall discharge their functions under the general
superintendence of the Chairperson.(4)The officers and the other employees
shall be appointed on the recommendations of a Selection Committee constituted
by the Central Government.

### 13. Appearance before National Tax Tribunal .-

(1)A party to an appeal other than Government may either appear in person or
authorise one or more chartered accountants or legal practitioners [* * *] to
present his or its case before the National Tax Tribunal.(2)The Government may
authorise one or more legal practitioners or any of its officers to present
its case before the National Tax Tribunal.Explanation.-For the purposes of
this section,-(a)"chartered accountant" means a chartered accountant as
defined in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Chartered
Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949) and who has obtained a certificate of
practice under sub-section (1) of section 6 of that Act;(b)"legal
practitioner" means an advocate, a vakil or any attorney of any High Court,
and includes a pleader in practice.

### 14. Member to act as Chairperson or to discharge his functions in certain
circumstances .-

(1)In the event of any vacancy in the office of the Chairperson by reason of
his death, resignation or otherwise, the Central Government may designate the
senior-most Member to act as the Chairperson until the day on which a
Chairperson, appointed in accordance with the provisions of this Act to fill
such vacancy, enters upon his office.(2)When the Chairperson is unable to
discharge his functions owing to absence, illness or any other cause, the
Central Government may authorise the senior-most Member to discharge the
functions of the Chairperson until the date on which the Chairperson resumes
his duties.(3)The senior-most member designated to act under sub-section (1)
or to discharge functions of the Chairperson under sub-section (2), of the
Chairperson shall continue to draw salary and allowances of a Member.

## Chapter III  
Jurisdiction, Powers And Functions Of National Tax Tribunal

### 15. Appeal to National Tax Tribunal .-

(1)An appeal shall lie to the National Tax Tribunal from every order passed in
appeal by the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal and the Customs, Excise and
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal, if the National Tax Tribunal is satisfied that
the case involves a substantial question of law.(2)The Chief Commissioner or
the Commissioner of Income-tax or the Chief Commissioner or Commissioner of
Customs and Central Excise, as the case may be, or an assessee aggrieved by
any order passed by the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal or any person aggrieved
by any order passed by the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal
(hereinafter referred to as aggrieved person), may file an appeal to the
National Tax Tribunal and such appeal under this sub-section shall-(a)be filed
within one hundred and twenty days from the date on which the order appealed
against is received by the assessee or the aggrieved person or the Chief
Commissioner or Commissioner, as the case may be;(b)be in the form of a
memorandum of appeal precisely stating therein the substantial question of law
involved; and(c)be accompanied by such fees as may be prescribed:-Provided
that separate form of memorandum of appeal shall be filed for matters
involving direct and indirect taxes:Provided further that the National Tax
Tribunal may entertain the appeal within sixty days after the expiry of the
said period of one hundred and twenty days, if it is satisfied that the
appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from preferring an appeal in
time.(3)Where an appeal is admitted under sub-section (1), the National Tax
Tribunal-(a)shall formulate the question of law for hearing the appeal;
and(b)may also determine any relevant issue in connection with the question so
formulated-(i)which has not been so determined by the Income-tax Appellate
Tribunal or by the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal;
or(ii)which has been wrongly determined by the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal
or by the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal, and shall decide
the question of law so formulated and the other relevant issue so determined
and deliver such judgment thereon containing the grounds on which such
decision is founded and may award such cost as it deems fit.(4)Where in any
appeal under this section, the decision of the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal
or the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal involves the payment
of any tax or duties, the assessee or the aggrieved person, as the case may
be, shall not be allowed to prefer such appeal unless he deposits at least
twenty-five per cent. of such tax or duty payable on the basis of the order
appealed against:Provided that where in a particular case the National Tax
Tribunal is of the opinion that the deposit of tax or duty under this sub-
section would cause undue hardship to such person, it may dispense with such
deposit subject to such conditions as it may deem fit to impose so as to
safeguard the interest of revenue.

### 16. Procedure and powers of National Tax Tribunal .-

(1)The National Tax Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down by
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), but shall be guided by the
principles of natural justice.(2)Subject to the other provisions of this Act,
the National Tax Tribunal shall have powers to regulate its own
procedure.(3)The National Tax Tribunal shall have, for the purposes of
discharging its functions under this Act, the same powers as are vested in a
Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying
a suit, in respect of the following matters, namely:-(a)requiring the
discovery and production of books of account and other documents;(b)subject to
the provisions of sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of
1872), requisitioning any public record or document or a copy of such record
or document, from any office;(c)dismissing an appeal for default or deciding
it, ex parte;(d)setting aside any order of dismissal of any appeal for default
or any order passed by it, ex parte;(e)rectifying any mistake or error
apparent on the face of record; and(f)any other matter which may be
prescribed.(4)All proceedings before the National Tax Tribunal shall be deemed
to be judicial proceedings within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 and for
the purposes of section 196 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), and the
National Tax Tribunal shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for the purposes of
section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974).

### 17. Finality of orders of National Tax Tribunal .-

Any order passed by the National Tax Tribunal shall be final and shall be
given effect to accordingly and no Civil Court shall have or be entitled to
exercise any jurisdiction, power or authority with respect to any of the
matters falling within the jurisdiction of the National Tax Tribunal.

### 18\. Decision by majority .-

If the Members of a Bench consisting of two Members differ in opinion on any
point, they shall state the point or points on which they differ, and make a
reference to the Chairperson, who shall hear the point or points himself or
nominate any other Member for such hearing and such point or points shall be
decided according to the opinion of the majority, who have heard the case
including those who first heard it.

### 19. Special Bench .-

Where a judgment pronounced on a question of law by a Bench subsequently comes
up for hearing before any Bench, and the latter Bench is of the opinion that
the question of law requires reconsideration, then the latter Bench shall make
a reference to the Chairperson to constitute a Special Bench consisting of
five Members to hear and decide such question of law.

### 20. Interim Order .-

Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provisions of this Act or any
other law for the time being in force, no interim order (whether by way of
injunction or stay or otherwise) shall be made in relation to any appeal under
this Act, unless-(a)copies of such appeal and all documents in support of the
plea for such interim order are furnished to the party against whom the appeal
is preferred; and(b)opportunity is given to such party to be heard in the
matter.

### 21. Power to punish for contempt .-

The National Tax Tribunal shall have and exercise the same jurisdiction,
powers and authority in respect of contempt of itself as the High Court has
and may exercise such power or authority, for this purpose under the
provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 (70 of 1971) which shall have
effect subject to the modification that-(a)any reference therein to a High
Court shall be construed as including a reference to the National Tax
Tribunal;(b)any reference to the Advocate General in section 15 of the said
Act shall be construed as a reference to such law officer as the Central
Government may specify in this behalf:Provided that such matters shall be
heard by a Special Bench consisting of five Members constituted by the
Chairperson.

### 22. Order of National Tax Tribunal .-

The National Tax Tribunal may, after giving the parties to any proceedings
before it, an opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it
thinks fit.

### 23. Transfer of pending cases from High Court .-

(1)On and from such date as the Central Government may, by notification,
specify, all matters and proceedings including appeals and references under
the direct taxes and indirect taxes pending before any High Court immediately
before that date shall stand transferred to the National Tax Tribunal.(2)Where
any matter or proceeding including appeals and references stand transferred
from the High Court to the National Tax Tribunal under sub-section (1),-(a)the
High Court shall, as soon as may be after such transfer, forward the records
pertaining to such matter or proceeding to the National Tax Tribunal;(b)the
National Tax Tribunal shall, on receipt of such records, proceed to deal with
such matter or proceeding from the stage at which it is transferred or from an
earlier stage or de novo as it may deem fit;(c)the Chairperson shall
constitute a Bench consisting of such number of Members as he deems fit for
hearing cases transferred under this section.

### 24. Appeal to Supreme Court .-

Any person including any department of the Government aggrieved by any
decision or order of the National Tax Tribunal may file an appeal to the
Supreme Court within sixty days from the date of communication of the decision
or order of the National Tax Tribunal to him:Provided that the Supreme Court
may, if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause
from filing the appeal within the said period, allow it to be filed within
such time as it may deem fit.

## Chapter IV  
Miscellaneous

### 25. Members, etc., to be public servants .-

The Chairperson, Members and other officers and employees of the National Tax
Tribunal shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section
21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 26. Protection of action taken in good faith .-

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the National
Tax Tribunal or its Chairperson, Member, officer or other employee in the
discharge of any function for any loss or damage caused or likely to be caused
by any act which is, in good faith, done or intended to be done in the
discharge of any function under this Act.

### 27. Power to remove difficulties .-

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear
to it to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty:Provided that
no such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of two years from the
commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this section shall, as soon
as may be, after it is made, be laid before each House of Parliament.

### 28. Power to make rules .-

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the
provisions of this Act.(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the procedure under sub-section (4) of section 11 for the
investigation of charges of misbehaviour or incapacity against the Chairperson
or other Members;(b)the salaries and allowances and other conditions of
service of officers and other employees of the National Tax Tribunal under
sub-section (2) of section 12;(c)the amount of fees payable under clause (c)
of sub-section (2) of section 15;(d)the other matters in respect of which the
National Tax Tribunal may exercise the powers of a Civil Court under clause
(f) of sub-section (3) of section 16;(e)any other matter which may be
prescribed or in respect of which rules are required to be made by the Central
Government.

### 29. Laying of rules before Parliament .-

Every rule made under this Act by the Central Government shall be laid, as
soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is
in session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions and if, before the expiry of the
session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both
Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 30. Consequential amendments .-

On and from such date as the Central Government may, by notification, specify,
the enactments mentioned in the Schedule shall stand amended in the manner
specified therein.THE SCHEDULE[See section 30]AMENDMENT OF CERTAIN ENACTMENTS

## Part I

AMENDMENTS TO THE INCOME-TAX ACT, 1961 (43 of 1961)

### 1\. In section 2, after clause (29C), the following clause shall be
inserted, namely :

"(29D) "National Tax Tribunal" means the National Tax Tribunal established
under section 3 of the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005;'.

### 2\. In Chapter XX,

(i)in section 254, in sub-section (4), for the words, figures and letter "Save
as provided in section 256 or section 260A", the words and figures "Save as
provided in the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005" shall be substituted;(ii)sub-
heading "C-Reference to High Court" and sections 256, 258 and 259 shall be
omitted;(iii)for section 260, the following section shall be substituted,
namely :"260. Effect to the decision of Supreme Court and of the National Tax
Tribunal.-(1)The Supreme Court upon hearing any reference made to it by the
Appellate Tribunal under section 257 shall decide the question of law raised
therein, and shall deliver its judgment thereon containing the grounds on
which such decision is founded, and a copy of the judgment shall be sent under
the seal of the Court and the signature of the Registrar to the Appellate
Tribunal which shall pass such orders as are necessary to dispose of the case
conforming to such judgment.(2)Where the National Tax Tribunal delivers a
judgment in an appeal filed before it or in any matter transferred to it under
the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005, effect shall be given to the order of
that Tribunal by the Assessing Officer on the basis of certified copy of the
judgment.(3)The cost of any reference to the Supreme Court which shall not
include the fee for making the reference shall be at the discretion of the
Court.";(iv)in section 260A, in sub-section (1), after the words "order passed
in appeal by the Appellate Tribunal", the words "before the date of
establishment of the National Tax Tribunal" shall be inserted;(v)in section
261, after the words "any judgment of the High Court delivered", the words
"before the establishment of the National Tax Tribunal" shall be
inserted;(vi)in section 263, in sub-section (3), after the words "the
Appellate Tribunal,", the words "National Tax Tribunal," shall be
inserted;(vii)in section 264, in sub-section (7), after the words "the
Appellate Tribunal,", the words "National Tax Tribunal;" shall be inserted.

## Part II

AMENDMENTS TO THE WEALTH-TAX ACT, 1957(27 of 1957)

### 1\. In section 2, after clause (lc), the following clause shall be
inserted, namely :-

"(ld) "National Tax Tribunal" means the National Tax Tribunal established
under section 3 of the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005;".

### 2\. In section 25, in sub-section (4), after the words "Appellate
Tribunal," the words "National Tax Tribunal" shall be inserted.

### 3\. In section 27A,-

(i)in sub-section (1), after the words and figures "file on or after the 1st
day of October, 1998", the words "but before the date of establishment of the
National Tax Tribunal" shall be inserted;(ii)in sub-section (2), after the
words "An appeal shall lie to the High Court", the words "before the date of
establishment of the National Tax Tribunal" shall be inserted.

### 4\. In section 29, in sub-section (1), after the words "any judgment of
the High Court delivered", the words "before the date of establishment of the
National Tax Tribunal" shall be inserted.

### 5\. In section 29A, after the words "preferred to the Supreme Court", the
words and figures "under this Act before the commencement of the National Tax
Tribunal Act, 2005" shall be inserted.

## Part III

AMENDMENTS TO THE EXPENDITURE-TAX ACT, 1987(35 of 1987)

### 1\. In section 13, in sub-section (4), for the words "or any order of a
High Court", the words "or any order of the National Tax Tribunal or of a High
Court" shall be substituted.

### 2\. In section 21, in sub-section (7), after the words "Appellate
Tribunal,", the words "the National Tax Tribunal," shall be inserted.

## Part IV

AMENDMENTS TO THE INTEREST-TAX ACT, 1974(45 of 1974)

### 1\. In section 19, in sub-section (3), after the words "the Appellate
Tribunal", the words "the National Tax Tribunal" shall be inserted.

### 2\. In section 20, in sub-section (7), for the words "Appellate Tribunal,
the High Court or the Supreme Court", the words "Appellate Tribunal, the
National Tax Tribunal, the High Court or the Supreme Court" shall be
substituted.

## Part V

AMENDMENT TO THE FINANCE (NO. 2) ACT, 1998(21 of 1998)In section 76, in sub-
section (1), for the words, figures, letter and brackets "sections 23, 23A,
24, 25, 28 and 29 of the Wealth-tax Act as amended and section 27A as inserted
by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1998", the words, figures and letter "sections 23,
23A, 24 and 25 of the Wealth-tax Act" shall be substituted.

## Part VI

AMENDMENTS TO THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962(52 of 1962)

### 1\. In section 2, after clause (30), the following clause shall be
inserted, namely :-

"(30A) "National Tax Tribunal" means the National Tax Tribunal established
under section 3 of the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005";

### 2\. In section 27, in sub-section (3), after the words "Appellate
Tribunal", the words ",the National Tax Tribunal" shall be inserted.

### 3\. In section 27A, in the Explanation, after the words "Appellate
Tribunal", the words ",National Tax Tribunal" shall be inserted.

### 4\. In section 28AA, in Explanations 1 and 2, after the words "Appellate
Tribunal", the words ", National Tax Tribunal" shall be inserted.

### 5\. In section 28AB, in Explanations 1 and 2, after the words "Appellate
Tribunal", the words ", National Tax Tribunal" shall be inserted.

### 6\. In section 28B, in sub-section (1), after the words "Appellate
Tribunal", the words ",National Tax Tribunal" shall be inserted.

### 7\. Sections 130, 130A, 130B, 130C and 130D shall be omitted.

### 8\. In section 130E, in clause (b), after the words "any order passed",
the words "before the establishment of the National Tax Tribunal" shall be
inserted.

### 9\. In section 131, after the words "an appeal has been preferred to the
Supreme Court", the words and figure "under this Act before the commencement
of the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005" shall be inserted.

### 10\. In section 131-C, clause (b) shall be omitted.

## Part VII

AMENDMENTS TO THE CENTRAL EXCISE ACT, 1944(1 of 1944)

### 1\. In section 2, after clause (f), the following clause shall be
inserted, namely :

"(ff) "National Tax Tribunal" means the National Tax Tribunal established
under section 3 of the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005;".

### 2\. In section 11AA, in Explanations 1 and 2, after the words "Appellate
Tribunal", the words ,National Tax Tribunal" shall be inserted.

### 3\. In section 11AB, in Explanations 1 and 2, after the words "Appellate
Tribunal", the words ",National Tax Tribunal" shall be inserted.

### 4\. In section 11BB, in the Explanation, after the words "Appellate
Tribunal", the words ",National Tax Tribunal" shall be inserted.

### 5\. In section 35C, in sub-section (4), for the words, figures and letters
"Save as provided in section 35G or section 35L", the words and figures "Save
as provided in the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005" shall be substituted.

### 6\. Sections 35G, 35H, 35-I and 35J shall be omitted.

### 7\. In section 35K,

(i)in sub-section (1), the words "High Court or the" shall be omitted;(ii)in
sub-section (2),(a)the words "the High Court or" occurring at both the places
shall be omitted;(b)the words "as the case may be," shall be omitted.

### 8\. In section 35L, in clause (b), after the words "any order passed", the
words "before the establishment of the National Tax Tribunal" shall be
inserted.

### 9\. In section 35N, after the words "an appeal has been preferred to the
Supreme Court", the words and figures "under this Act before the commencement
of the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005" shall be inserted.

