## Union of India - Act

## The National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Act, 2011

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Act, 2011

## Act 5 of 2011

  * Published on 30 March 2011 
  * Commenced on 30 March 2011 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 March 2011.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The National Capital Territory Of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second Act, 2009 (Act 40 of 2009) on 22 December 2009] 

The National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Act, 2011NO.
5 OF 2011

### 1725.

[30th March, 2011.]An Act to make special provisions for the National Capital
Territory of Delhi for a further period up to the 31st day of December, 2011
and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.WHEREAS there had
been phenomenal increase in the population of the National Capital Territory
of Delhi owing to migration and other factors resulting in tremendous pressure
on land and infrastructure leading to encroachment or unauthorised
developments which are not in consonance with the concept of planned
development as provided in the Master Plan for Delhi, 2001 and the relevant
Acts and building bye-laws made thereunder;AND WHEREAS the Master Plan for
Delhi, 2001 was extensively modified and notified by the Central Government on
the 7th day of February, 2007 with the perspective for the year 2021 keeping
in view the emerging new dimensions in urban development vis-a-vis the social,
financial and other ground realities;AND WHEREAS the Master Plan for Delhi
with the perspective for the year 2021 specifically provides for strategies
for housing for urban poor as well as to deal with the informal sector;AND
WHEREAS a strategy and a scheme has been prepared by the local authorities in
the National Capital Territory of Delhi for regulation of urban street vendors
in accordance with the National Policy for Urban Street Vendors and the Master
Plan for Delhi, 2021, and is being implemented;AND WHEREAS based on the policy
finalised by the Central Government regarding regularisation of unauthorised
colonies, village abadi area and its extension, the guidelines and regulations
for this purpose have been issued;AND WHEREAS in pursuance of the guidelines
and regulations necessary steps are being taken for regularisation of
unauthorised colonies which, inter alia, involve scrutiny of layout plans,
assessment of built up percentage existed as on the 31st day of March, 2002,
identification of mixed use of streets, approval of layout plans, fixation of
boundaries, change in land use and identification of colonies not eligible for
regularisation;AND WHEREAS more time is required for proper implementation of
the scheme regarding hawkers and urban street vendors and for the
regularisation of unauthorised colonies, village abadi area and its
extension;AND WHEREAS the revised policy for proper arrangements for
relocation and rehabilitation of slum dwellers and jhuggi-jhompri clusters in
the National Capital Territory of Delhi has been formulated and accordingly,
the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board Act, 2010 has been enacted by the
Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi and notified with effect
from the 1st July, 2010 (Delhi Act 7 of 2010) to provide for implementation of
schemes for improvement of slums and jhuggi-jhompri clusters with a view to
bring improvement in environment and living conditions, and to prepare housing
scheme for such persons;AND WHEREAS the draft policy regarding farm houses is
under consideration in the Delhi Development Authority;AND WHEREAS pursuant to
the Master Plan for Delhi, 2021, the Zonal Development Plans in respect of
various Zones have been notified which provides for regularisation of schools,
dispensaries, religious institutions and cultural institutions;AND WHEREAS the
policy with respect to storages, warehouses and godowns used for agricultural
inputs or produce (including dairy and poultry) in rural areas built on
agricultural land are under consideration of the Central Government in
consultation with the Delhi Development Authority;AND WHEREAS the National
Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Act, 2007 was enacted on
the 5th day of December, 2007 (43 of 2007) to make special provisions for the
areas of the National Capital Territory of Delhi for a period up to the 31st
day of December, 2008 which ceased to operate after the 31st December,
2008;AND WHEREAS the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special
Provisions) Act, 2009 (24 of 2009) was enacted in continuation of the
aforesaid Act for a period up to the 31st day of December, 2009 to make
special provisions for the areas of the National Capital Territory of Delhi
and that Act ceased to operate after the 31st day of December, 2009;AND
WHEREAS the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions)
Second Act, 2009 (40 of 2009) was enacted in continuation of the aforesaid Act
for a period up to the 31st day of December, 2010 to make special provisions
for the areas of the National Capital Territory of Delhi and that Act ceased
to operate after the 31st day of December, 2010;AND WHEREAS it is expedient to
have a law in terms of the Master Plan for Delhi, 2021, in continuation of the
said Act for a period up to the 31st day of December, 2011 to provide for
temporary relief and to minimise avoidable hardships and irreparable loss to
the people of the National Capital Territory of Delhi against any action by
the concerned agency in respect of persons covered by the policies referred to
above.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-second Year of the Republic of
India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent, commencement and duration.-

(1)This Act may be called the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws
(Special Provisions) Act, 2011.(2)It extends to the National Capital Territory
of Delhi.(3)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of
January, 2011.(4)It shall cease to have effect on the 31st day of December,
2011, except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such cesser,
and upon such cesser section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897),
shall apply as if this Act had then been repealed by a Central Act.

### 2. Definitions.-

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"building bye-laws"
means bye-laws made under section 481 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act,
1957 (66 of 1957) or the bye-laws made under section 188, sub-section (3) of
section 189 and sub-section (1) of section 190 of the Punjab Municipal Act,
1911 (Punjab Act 3 of 1911), as in force in New Delhi or the regulations made
under sub-section (1) of section 57 of the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of
1957), relating to buildings;(b)"Delhi" means the entire area of the National
Capital Territory of Delhi except the Delhi Cantonment as defined in clause
(11) of section 2 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 (66 of
1957);(c)"encroachment" means unauthorised occupation of Government land or
public land by way of putting temporary, semi-permanent or permanent structure
for residential use or commercial use or any other use;(d)"local authority"
means the Delhi Municipal Corporation established under the Delhi Municipal
Corporation Act, 1957 (66 of 1957), or the New Delhi Municipal Council
established under the New Delhi Municipal Council Act, 1994 (44 of 1994) or
the Delhi Development Authority established under the Delhi Development Act,
1957 (61 of 1957), legally entitled to exercise control in respect of the
areas under their respective jurisdiction;(e)"Master Plan" means the Master
Plan for Delhi with the perspective for the year 2021, notified vide
notification number S.O.141(E), dated the 7th day of February, 2007 under the
Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957);(f)"notification" means a
notification published in the Official Gazette;(g)"punitive action" means
action taken by a local authority under the relevant law against unauthorised
development and shall include demolition, sealing of premises and displacement
of persons or their business establishment from their existing location,
whether in pursuance of court orders or otherwise;(h)"relevant law" means in
case of-(i)the Delhi Development Authority, the Delhi Development Act, 1957
(61 of 1957);(ii)the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, the Delhi Municipal
Corporation Act, 1957 (66 of 1957); and(iii)the New Delhi Municipal Council,
the New Delhi Municipal Council Act, 1994 (44 of 1994);(iv)"unauthorised
development" means use of land or use of building or construction of building
or development of colonies carried out in contravention of the sanctioned
plans or without obtaining the sanction of plans, or in contravention of the
land use as permitted under the Master Plan or Zonal Plan or layout plan, as
the case may be, and includes any encroachment.(2)Words and expressions used
but not defined herein shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them
in the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957), the Delhi Municipal
Corporation Act, 1957 (66 of 1957) and the New Delhi Municipal Council Act,
1994 (44 of 1994).

### 3. Enforcement to be kept in abeyance.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any relevant law or any rules,
regulations or bye-laws made thereunder, the Central Government shall before
the expiry of this Act, take all possible measures to finalise norms, policy
guidelines, feasible strategies and make orderly arrangements to deal with the
problem of encroachment or unauthorised development in the form of
encroachment by slum dwellers and Jhuggi-Jhompri clusters, hawkers and urban
street vendors, unauthorised colonies, village abadi area (including urban
villages), and its extension, existing farm houses involving construction
beyond permissible building limits and schools, dispensaries, religious
institutions, cultural institutions, storages, warehouses and godowns used for
agricultural inputs or produce (including dairy and poultry) in rural areas
built on agricultural land, as mentioned below:(a)orderly arrangments for
relocation and rehabilitation of slum dwellers and Jhuggi-Jhompri clusters in
the National Capital Territory of Delhi in accordance with the provisions of
the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board Act, 2010 (Delhi Act 7 of 2010) and
the Master Plan for Delhi, 2021 to ensure its development in a sustainable,
planned and humane manner;(b)scheme and orderly arrangements for regulation of
urban street vendors in consonance with the national policy for urban street
vendors and hawkers as provided in the Master Plan for Delhi, 2021;(c)orderly
arrangements pursuant to guidelines and regulations for regularisation of
unauthorised colonies, village abadi area (including urban villages) and its
extension, as existed on the 31st day of March, 2002, and where construction
took place even beyond that date and up to the 8th day of February,
2007;(d)policy regarding existing farm houses involving construction beyond
permissible building limits; and(e)policy or plan for orderly arrangement
regarding schools, dispensaries, religious institutions, cultural
institutions, storages, warehouses and godowns used for agricultural inputs or
produce (including dairy and poultry) in rural areas built on agricultural
land.(2)Subject to the provisions contained in sub-section (1) and
notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court, status quo-(i)as
on the 1st day of January, 2006 in respect of encroachment or unauthorised
development; and(ii)in respect of unauthorised colonies, village abadi area
(including urban villages) and its extension, which existed on the 31st day of
March, 2002 and where construction took place even beyond that date and up to
the 8th day of February, 2007, mentioned in sub-section (1), shall be
maintained.(3)All notices issued by any local authority for initiating action
against encroachment or unauthorised development referred to in sub-section
(1), shall be deemed to have been suspended and no punitive action shall be
taken till the 31st day of December, 2011.(4)Notwithstanding any other
provision contained in this Act, the Central Government may, at any time
before the 31st day of December, 2011, withdraw the exemption by notification
in respect of encroachment or unauthorised development mentioned in sub-
section (2) or sub-section (3), as the case may be.

### 4. Provisions of this Act not to apply in certain cases.-

During the period of operation of this Act, no relief shall be available under
the provisions of section 3 in respect of the following encroachment or
unauthorised development, namely:-(a)encroachment on public land except in
those cases which are covered under clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub-section
(1) of section 3;(b)removal of slums and Jhuggi-Jhompri dwellers, hawkers and
urban street vendors, unauthorised colonies or part thereof, village abadi
area (including urban villages) and its extension in accordance with the
relevant policies approved by the Central Government for clearance of land
required for specific public projects.

### 5. Power of Central Government to give directions.-

The Central Government may, from time to time, issue such directions to the
local authorities as it may deem fit, for giving effect to the provisions of
this Act and it shall be the duty of the local authorities, to comply with
such directions.

### 6. Validation,of acts done or omitted to be done, etc., during 1st
January, 2011 up to the date of commencement of this Act.-

Notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court, all things done,
or, omitted to be done, and all action taken, or, not taken, during the period
beginning on or after the 1st day of January, 2011 and ending immediately
before the date of commencement of this Act, shall, in so far as they are in
conformity with the provisions of this Act, be deemed to have been done, or,
omitted to be done, or, taken, or, not taken, under these provisions as if
such provisions were in force at the time such things were done or omitted to
be done and action taken or not taken during the aforesaid period.

