## Union of India - Act

## The National Capital Region Planning Board Act, 1985

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The National Capital Region Planning Board Act, 1985

## Act 2 of 1985

  * Published on 9 February 1985 
  * Commenced on 9 February 1985 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 February 1985.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The National Capital Region Planning Board Act, 1985

### 2. of 1985

### 1888.

[9th February 1985.]An Act to provide for the constitution of a Planning Board
for the preparation of the plan for the development of the National Capital
Region and for co-ordinating and monitoring the implementation of such plan
and for evolving harmonized policies for the control of land-uses and
development of infrastructure in the National Capital Region so as to avoid
any haphazard development of that region and for matters connected therewith
or incidental thereto.-THE SCHEDULEWHEREAS it is expedient in the public
interest to provide for the constitution of a Planning Board for the
preparation of a plan for the development of the National Capital Region and
for co-ordinating and monitoring the implementation of such plan and for
involving harmonized policies for the control of land-uses and development of
infrastructure in the National Capital Regions so as to avoid any haphazard
development thereof;AND WHEREAS Parliament has no power to make laws for the
States with respect to any of the matters aforesaid, except as provided in
articles 249 and 250 of the Constitution;AND WHEREAS in pursuance of the
provisions of clause (1) of article 252 of the Constitution, resolutions have
been passed by all the Houses of the Legislatures of the States of Haryana,
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh to the effect that the matters aforesaid should be
regulated in those States by Parliament by law;BE it enacted by Parliament in
the Thirty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and Commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the National Capital Region Planning Board Act,
1985.(2)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 19th day of October,
1984.

### 2\. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Board" means the
National Capital Region Planning Board constituted under sub-section (1) of
section 3;(b)"Committee" means the Planning Committee constituted under sub-
section (1) of section 4;(c)"counter-magnet area" means an urban area selected
by the Board under clause (f) of section 8;(d)"Functional Plan" means a plan
prepared to elaborate one or more elements of the Regional Plan;(e)"land"
includes benefits to arise out of land, and things attached to the earth or
permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth;(f)"National Capital
Region" means the areas specified in the Schedule:Provided that the Central
Government with the consent of the Government of the concerned participating
State and consultation with the Board, may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, add any area to the Schedule or exclude any area
therefrom;(g)"participating States" means the States of Haryana, Rajasthan and
Uttar Pradesh;(h)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(i)"Project Plan" means a detailed plan prepared to implement one or more
elements of the Regional Plan, Sub-Regional Plan or Functional
Plan;(j)"Regional Plan" means the plan prepared under this Act for the
development of the National Capital Region and for the control of land-uses
and the development of infrastructure in the National Capital
Region;(k)"regulations" means regulations made by the Board under this
Act;(l)"sub-region" means such part of the National Capital Region as falls
entirely within the limits of a participating State or the Union
territory;(m)"Sub-Regional Plan" means a plan prepared for a sub-region;
and(n)"Union territory" means the Union territory of Delhi.

## Chapter II  
The National Capital Region Planning Board

### 3. Constitution and incorporation of the Board.

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute for the purposes of this Act, a Board, to be called the National
Capital Region Planning Board.(2)The Board shall be a body corporate by the
name aforesaid, having perpetual succession and a common seal with power,
subject to the provisions of this Act, to contract and shall, by the said
name, sue and be sued.(3)The Board shall consist of such number of members,
not exceeding twenty-one, as may be prescribed, and unless the rules made in
this behalf otherwise provide, the Board shall consist of the following
members, namely:-(a)the Union Minister for Works and Housing, who shall be the
Chairman of the Board;(b)the Chief Minister of the State of Haryana;(c)the
Chief Minister of the State of Rajasthan;(d)the Chief Minister of the State of
Uttar Pradesh;(e)the Chief Minister of the Union territory;(f)eight members to
be nominated by the Central Government on the recommendation of the
participating States and the Administrator of the Union territory:Provided
that not more than two members shall be nominated on the recommendation of the
participating States and the Administrator of the Union territory:(g)three
other members, of whom one shall be a person having knowledge and experience
in town planning, to be nominated by the Central Government;(h)a full-time
Member-Secretary of the Board, to be nominated by the Central Government from
amongst officers of, or above, the rank of a Joint Secretary to, the
Government of India:Provided that no change shall be made in the composition
of the Board by rules except with the consent of the Government of each of the
participating States and of the Administrator of the Union territory.(4)The
terms and conditions of office of the members nominated under clause (f),
clause (g) or clause (h) of sub-section (3) shall be such as may be
prescribed.

### 4. Composition of the Planning Committee.

(1)The Board shall, as soon as may be, after the commencement of this Act,
constitute & Committee to be called the Planning Committee, for assisting the
Board in the discharge of its functions.(2)The Committee shall consists of
such members as may be prescribed and unless the rules made in this behalf
otherwise provide, the Committee shall consist of the following members,
namely:-(a)the Member-Secretary to the Board, who shall be the ex officio
Chairman of the Committee;(b)the Joint Secretary to the Government of India in
the Ministry of Works and Housing in-charge of Housing and Urban Development,
ex officio;(c)Secretary-in-charge of Urban Development in each participating
State and the Union territory, ex officio;(d)the Vice-Chairman, Delhi
Development Authority, ex officio;(e)the Chief Planner, Town and Country
Planning Organisation, New Delhi, ex offico; and(f)the Chief Town Planner of
each participating State, ex officio.

### 5. Power to co-opt, etc.

(1)The Board or the Committee may, at any time and for such period as it
thinks fit, co-opt any person or persons as a member or members of the Board
or of the Committee.(2)A person co-opted under sub-section (1) shall exercise
and discharge all the powers and functions of a members of the Board or of the
Committee, as the case may be, but shall not be entitled to vote.

### 6. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate proceedings of the Board or the
Committee.

\- No act or proceeding of the Board or the Committee shall be invalid merely
by reason of-(a)the existence of any vacancy in, or any defect in the
constitution of, the Board or the Committee; or(b)any, irregularity in the
procedure of the Board or of the Committee not affecting the merits of the
case.

## Chapter III  
Functions and Powers of the board and of the committee

### 7. Functions of the Board.

\- The functions of the Board shall be-(a)to prepare the Regional Plan and the
Functional Plans;(b)to arrange for the preparation of Sub-Regional Plans and
Project Plans by each of the participating States and the Union
territory;(c)to co-ordinate the enforcement and implementation of the Regional
Plan, Functional Plans, Sub-Regional Plans and Project Plans through the
participating States and the Union territory;(d)to ensure proper and
systematic programming by the participating States and the Union territory in
regard to project formulation, determination of priorities in the National
Capital Region or sub-regions and phasing of development of the National
Capital Region in accordance with stages indicated in the Regional Plan;(e)to
arrange for, and oversee, the financing of selected development projects in
the National Capital Region through Central and State plan funds and other
sources of revenue.

### 8. Powers of the Board.

\- The powers of the Board shall include the powers to-(a)call for reports and
information from the participating States and the Union territory with regard
to preparation, enforcement and implementation of Functional Plans and Sub-
Regional Plans;(b)ensure that the preparation, enforcement and implementation
of Functional Plan or Sub-Regional Plan, as the case may be, is in conformity
with the Regional Plan;(c)indicate the stages for the implementation of the
Regional Plan, Sub-Regional Plan and Project Plan;(d)review the implementation
of the Regional Plan, Functional Plan, Sub-Regional Plan and Project
Plan;(e)select and approve comprehensive projects, call for priority
development and provide such assistance for the implementation of those
projects as the Board may deem fit;(f)select, in consultation with the State
Government concerned, any urban area, outside the National Capital Region
having regard to its location, population and potential for growth, which may
be developed in order to achieve the objectives of the Regional Plan;
and(g)entrust to the Committee such other functions as it may consider
necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act.

### 9. Functions of the Committee.

(1)The functions of the Committee shall be to assist the Board in-(a)the
preparation and co-ordinated implementation of the Regional Plan and the
Functional Plans; and(b)scrutinising the Sub-Regional Plans and all Project
Plans to ensure that the same are in conformity with the Regional Plan.(2)The
Committee shall perform such other functions as may be entrusted to it by the
Board.

## Chapter IV  
The Regional Plan

### 10. Contents of the Regional Plan.

(1)The Regional Plan shall be a written statement and shall be accompanied by
such maps, diagrams, illustrations and descriptive matters, as the Board may
deem appropriate for the purpose of ex-planning or illustrating the proposals
contained in the Regional Plan and every such map, diagrams, illustration and
descriptive matter shall be deemed to be a part of the Regional Plan.(2)The
Regional Plan shall indicate the manner in which the and the National Capital
Region shall be used, whether by carrying out development thereon or by
conservation or otherwise, and such other matters as are likely to have any
important influence on the development of the National Capital Region and
every such Plan shall include the following elements needs to promote growth
and balanced development of the National Capital Region, namely:-(a)the policy
in relation to land-use and the allocation of land for different uses;(b)the
proposals for major urban settlement pattern;(c)the proposals for providing
suitable economic base for future growth;(d)the proposals regarding transport
and communication including railways and arterial roads serving the National
Capital Region;(e)the proposals for the supply of drinking water and for
drainage;(f)indication of the areas which require immediate development as
"priority areas" and(g)such other matters as may be included by the Board with
the concurrence of the participating States and the Union territory for the
proper planning of the growth and balanced development of the National Capital
Region.

### 11. Surveys and studies.

\- For the preparation of the Regional Plan, the Board may cause such surveys
and studies, as it may consider necessary, to be made by such person or group
of persons as it may appoint in this behalf and may also associate such
experts or consultants for carrying out studies in relation to such specified
matters as may be determined by the Board.

### 12. Procedure to be followed for the preparation of Regional Plan.

(1)Before preparing any Regional Plan finally, the Board shall prepare, with
the assistance of the Committee, a Regional Plan in draft and publish it by
making a copy thereof available for inspection and publishing a notice in such
form and in such manner as may be prescribed, inviting objections and
suggestions from any person with respect to the draft Regional Plan before
such date as may be specified in the notice.(2)The Board shall also give
reasonable opportunities to every local authority, within whose local limits
any land touched by the Regional Plan is situate, to make any rep
representation with respect to the draft Regional Plan.

### 13. Date of coming into operation of the Regional Plan.

(1)Immediately after the Regional Plan has been finally prepared, the Board
shall publish, in such manner as may be prescribed, a notice stating that the
Regional Plan has been finally prepared by it and naming the places where a
copy of the Regional Plan may be inspected at all reasonable hours and upon
the date of first publication of the aforesaid notice, the Regional Plan shall
come into operation.(2)The publication of the Regional Plan, after previous
publication, as required by section 12, shall be conclusive proof that the
Regional Plan has been duly prepared.

### 14. Modifications of the Regional Plan.

(1)The Board may, subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), make such
modification in the Regional Plan as finally prepared by it, as it may think
fit, being modifications which, in its opinion, do not effect important
alterations, in the character of the Regional Plan and which do not relate to
the extent of land-uses or the standards of population density.(2)Before
making any modifications in the finally prepared Regional Plan, the Board
shall publish a notice, in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed,
indicating therein the modifications which are proposed to be made in the
finally prepared Regional Plan, and inviting, objections and suggestions, from
any person with respect to the proposed modifications before such date as may
specified in the notice and shall consider all objections and suggestions that
may be received by it on or before the date so specified.(3)Every modification
made under this section shall be published in such manner as the Board may
specify and the modifications shall come into operation either on the date of
such publication or on such later date as the Board may fix.(4)If any question
arises whether the modifications proposed to be made are modifications which
effect important alterations in the character of the Regional Plan, or whether
they relate to the extent of land uses or the standards of population density,
it shall be decided by the Board whose decision thereon shall be final.

### 15. Review and revision of the Regional Plan.

(1)After every five years from the date of coming into operation of the
finally prepared Regional Plan, the Board shall review such Regional Plan, in
its entirely and may, after such review, substitute it by a fresh Regional
Plan, or may make such modifications or alterations therein as may be found by
it to be necessary.(2)Where it is proposed to substitute a fresh Regional Plan
in place of the Regional Plan, which was previously finally prepared or where
it is proposed to make any modifications or alterations in the finally
prepared Regional Plan, such fresh Plan, or as the case may be, modifications,
or alterations, shall be published and dealt with in the same manner as if it
where the Regional Plan, referred to in sections 12 and 13 or as if they were
the modifications or alterations in the Regional Plan made under section 14.

## Chapter V  
Functional Plans, Sub-Regional Plans and Project Plans

### 16. Preparation of Functional Plans.

\- After the Regional Plan has come into operation, the Board may prepare,
with the assistance of the Committee, as many Functional Plans, as may be
necessary for the proper guidance of the participating States and of the Union
Territory.

### 17. Preparation of Plans.

(1)Each participating State shall prepare a Sub-Regional Plan for the sub-
region within that State and the Union Territory shall prepare sub-Regional
Plan for the sub-region within the Union Territory.(2)Each Sub-Regional Plan
shall be a written statement and shall be accompanied by such maps, diagrams
illustrations and descriptive matters as the participating State or the Union
territory may deem appropriate for the purpose of explaining or illustrating
the proposals contained in such Sub-Regional Plan and every such may,
document, illustrations and descriptive matter shall be deemed to be a part of
the Sub-Regional Plan.(3)A Sub-Regional Plan may indicate the following
elements to elaborate the Regional Plan at the sub-regional level,
namely:-(a)reservation of areas for specific land-uses which are of the
regional or sub-regional importance;(b)future urban and major rural
settlements indicating their area, projected population, predominant economic
functions, approximate site and location;(c)road net-work up to the district
roads and roads connecting major rural settlements;(d)proposals for the co-
ordination of traffic and transportation, including terminal
facilities;(e)priority areas at sub-regional level for which immediate plans
are necessary;(f)proposals for the supply of drinking water and for drainage;
and(g)any other matter which is necessary for the proper development of the
sub-region.

### 18. Preparation of Project Plans.

\- A participating State, or the Union Territory, may by itself to in
collaboration with one or more of the participating States or the Union
territory, as the case may be, prepare Project Plans for one or more elements
of the Regional Plan, Functional Plan or Sub-Regional Plan.

### 19. Submission of Sub-Regional Plans to the Board.

(1)Before publishing any Sub-Regional, each participating, State or as the
case may be, the Union territory, shall refer such Plan, to the Board to
enable the Board to ensure that such Plan, is in conformity with the Regional
Plan.(2)The Board shall, after examining a Sub-Regional Plan, communicate,
within sixty days from the date of receipt of such Plan, its observations with
regard to the Sub-Regional Plan to the participating State or the Union
territory by which such Plan was referred to it.(3)The participating State, or
as the case may, be the Union territory, shall after due consideration of the
observations made by the Board, finalise the Sub-Regional Plan after ensuring
that it is in conformity with the Regional Plan.

### 20. Implementation of Sub-Regional Plans etc.

\- Each participating State, or as the case may be, the Union territory shall
be responsible for the implementation of the Sub-Regional Plan, as finalised
by it under sub-section (3) of section 19, and Project Plans prepared by it.

## Chapter VI  
Finance, Accounts and Audit

### 21. Grants and loans by the Central Government.

(1)The Central Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by
law in this behalf make to the Board grants and loans of such sums of money as
that Government may consider necessary to enable the Board to carry out its
functions under this Act.(2)The Central Government shall, also after due the
appropriation made by Parliament by law in this behalf, pay to the Board such
other sums as may be necessary for meeting the salaries, allowances and other
remuneration of the Member-Secretary officers and other employees of the Board
and such amounts as may be necessary ton meet the other administrative
expenses of the Board.

### 22. Constitution of the Fund.

(1)There shall be constituted a Fund to be called the National Capital
Regional Planning Board Fund and there shall be credited thereto-(a)any grants
and loans made to the Board by the Central Government under section 21;(b)all
sums paid to the Board by the participating States and Union territory;
and(c)all sums received by the Board from such other sources as may be decided
upon by the Central Government in consultation with the participating States
and the Union territory.(2)The sums credited to the said Fund referred to in
sub-section (1) shall be applied for:(a)meeting the salaries, allowances and
other remuneration of the Member-Secretary, officers and other employees of
the Board and for meeting other administrative expenses of the Board, so,
however, that the total expenses shall not exceed the amount appropriated for
this purpose under-section (2) of section 21;(b)conducting surveys,
preliminary studies and drawing up of plans for the National Capital
Region;(c)providing financial assistance to the participating States and Union
territory for the implementation of Sub-Regional Plans and Project Plans;
and(d)providing financial assistance to the State concerned for the
development of the counter-magnet area subject to such terms and conditions as
may be agreed upon between such State and the Board.

### 23. Budget.

\- Their Board shall, in each financial year, prepare in such form and at such
time as may be prescribed its budget for the next financial year and forward
the same to the Central Government at least three months prior to the
commencement of the next financial year.

### 24. Annual report.

\- The Board shall prepare in each financial year its annual report in such
form and at such time as may prescribed giving a full account of its
activities during the financial immediately preceding the financial year in
which such report is prepared and forward, before such date as may be
prescribed copies thereof to the Central Government the participating States
and the Union territory.

### 25. Accounts and audit.

\- The accounts of the Board shall be maintained and audited in such manner as
may be prescribed in consultation with the Controller and Auditor-General of
India and the Board shall furnish, to the Central Government, before such date
as may be prescribed a copy of its audited accounts together with the
auditors' report thereon.

### 26. Annual report and auditors' report to be laid before Parliament.

\- The Central Government shall cause the annual report and the auditors'
report to be laid as soon as may be after their receipt, on the Table of each
House of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days,
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions.

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 27. Act to have overriding effect.

\- The provisions of this Act shall effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force
or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act;
or in any decree or order of any court, tribunal or other authority.

### 28. Power of the Central Government to give directions.

\- The Central Government may, from time to time, give such directions to the
Board as it may think fit for the efficient administration of this Act and
when any such direction is given, the Board shall carry out such directions.

### 29. Violation of Regional Plan.

(1)On and from the coming into operation of the finally published Regional
Plan, no development shall be made in the region which is inconsistent with
the Regional Plan as finally published.(2)Where the Board is satisfied that
any participating State or the Union territory has carried out, or is carrying
out, any activity which amounts to a violation of the Regional Plan, it may,
by a notice in writing direct the concerned participating State or the Union
territory, as the case may be to stop violation of the Regional Plan within
such time as may be specified in the said notice and in case of any omission
or refusal on the part of the concerned participating State or the Union
territory to stop such activity, withhold such financial assistance to the
concerned participating State or the Union territory, as the Board may
consider necessary.

### 30. Technical assistance to the Board.

(1)The Central Government may direct its Town and Country Planning
Organisation to provide, on such term and conditions as may be mutually agreed
upon, such technical assistance to the Board as that Government may consider
necessary and the Government of a participating State may direct the Town
Planning Department of that Government to make such technical assistance to
the Board as that Government may consider necessary.(2)With a view to enabling
the Committee to discharge its functions, the Board shall, out of the
technical assistance received by it under sub-section (1) make available to
the Committee such technical assistance as the Committee may require.

### 31. Officer and employees of the Board.

(1)The Board may appoint such other officers and employees as it considers
necessary for the efficient discharge of its functions under this Act.(2)The
terms and conditions of the officers and employees of the Board shall be such
as may be determined by regulations.

### 32. Power to delegate.

\- The Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette direct that any
function or power (other than the power to approve the Regional Plan and to
make regulations), or duty which the Board may perform exercise or discharge
under this Act shall subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified
in the notification be performed, exercised or discharged also by such person
or persons to whom such power is delegated shall perform, exercise or
discharge those power in the same manner and to the same extent as if they
were conferred on him or them directly by this Act and not by way of
delegation.

### 33. Power of entry.

\- Subject to any rules made in this behalf any person generally or specially
authorised by the Board in this behalf, may, at all reasonable times, enter
upon any land or premises and do such things thereon as may be necessary for
the purpose of lawfully carrying out any works or for making any survey,
examination or investigation, preliminary or incidental to the exercise of any
power or performance of any function by the Board under this Act.Provided that
no such person shall enter any building or any enclosed courtyard or garden
attached to a dwelling-house without previously giving the occupier thereof at
least three days' notice in writing of his intention to do so.

### 34. Member, Secretary, officers, and other employees of the Board to be
public servants.

\- The Member-Secretary, officers and other employees of the Board shall be
deemed, when acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the provisions
of this Act, to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the
Indian Penal Code.

### 35. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other proceeding shall be against the Board or any
member or any officer or any other employee of the Board including any other
person authorised by the Board to exercise any power or to discharge any
function under this Act, or for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done under this Act.

### 36. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.(2)Without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:-(a)the composition and number of the members of
the Board and of the Committee as required by sub-section (3) of section 3 and
sub-section (2) of section 4, respectively, to be prescribed;(b)the terms and
conditions of the office of the members as required by sub-section (4) of
section 3, to be prescribed;(c)the form and manner in which notice under sub-
section (1) of section 12 and sub-section (2) of section 14 shall be
published;(d)the manner in which notice under sub-section (1) of section 13
shall be published;(e)the form in which and the time at which the Board shall
prepare its budget under section 23 and its annual report under section 24 and
the manner in which the accounts of the Board shall be maintained and audited
under section 25;(f)the conditions and restrictions with respect to the
exercise of the powers to enter under section 33 and other matters relating
thereto; and(g)any other matter which is to be, or may be prescribed or in
respect of which provision is to be, or may be, made by rules.

### 37. Power to make regulations.

(1)The Board may, with the previous approval of the Central Government by
notification in the Official Gazette make regulations not inconsistent with
this Act and the rules made thereunder to carry out the provisions of this
Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generally of the forgoing
power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the manner in which and the purposes for which the Board may
associate with itself any person under section 11,(b)the terms and conditions
of service of the officers and employees of the Board under sub-section (2) of
section 31; and(c)any other matter in respect of which provision is to be or
may be made by regulations.

### 38. Rules and regulations to be laid before Parliament.

\- Every rule and Every regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as soon
as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in
session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprises in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if before the expiry of the
session immediately following the session or the successive session aforesaid,
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or regulation, as the
case may be, or both Houses agree that the rule or regulation, as the case may
be should not be made, the rule or regulation shall after have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so however that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or regulation.

### 39. Dissolution of the Board.

(1)Where the Central Government is satisfied that the purposes for which the
Board was established under this Act have been substantially achieved or the
Board has failed in its objectives so as to render the continued existence of
the Board in the opinion of the Central Government unnecessary that Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette declare that the Board shall be
dissolved with effect from such date as may be specified in the notification;
and the Board shall be deemed to be dissolved accordingly.(2)From the said
date-(a)all properties funds and dues which are vested in or realisable by the
Board shall vest in, or be realisable by, the Central Government;(b)all
liabilities which are enforceable against the Board shall be enforceable
against the Central Government;(c)for the purpose of carrying out any
development which has not been fully carried out by the Board and for the
purpose of realising properties, funds and dues referred to in clause (a) the
functions of the Board shall be discharged by the Central
Government.(3)Nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing the
Central Government from reconstituting the Board in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.

### 40. Acquisition of land and determination of rights in relation to land to
be made by Government of the participating State or Union territory.

\- For the removal of doubt it is hereby that the acquisition of land or the
determination of any right or interest in, or in relation to, any land or
other property, where necessary to give effect to any Regional Plan,
Functional Plan, Sub-Regional Plan, or Project Plan, shall be made by the
Government of the concerned participating State, or as the case may be, the
Union territory, in accordance with the law for the time being in force in
that State or Union territory.

### 41. Repeal and saving.

(1)The National Capital Region Planning Board Ordinance, 1984, is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken
under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the
corresponding provisions of this Act.THE SCHEDULE[See section 2(f)]The
National Capital Region shall comprise the following areas:-

### 1\. Delhi

The whole of the Union territory of Delhi.

### 2\. Haryana

(i)The whole of District of Gurgaon comprising the Tehsils of Gurgaon, Nuh and
Ferozepur-Jhirka;(ii)The whole of District Faridabad comprising the Tehsils of
Ballabgarh, Palwal and Hathin;(iii)The whole District of Rohtak comprising the
Tehsils of Rohtak, Jhajjar, Bahadurgarh, Meham amd Kosli;(iv)The whole of
District of Sonepat comprising the Tehsils of Sonepat and Gohana;
and(v)Panipat Tehsil of District of Karnal and Reqari Tehsil of District of
Mihindergarh.

### 3\. Uttar Pradesh

(i)The whole of District of Bulandshahr comprising the Tehsils of Anupshahr,
Bulandshahr, Khurja and Sikanderabad;(ii)The whole of District of Meerut
comprising the Tehsils of Meerut, Bagpat, Mawana and Sardhana; and(iii)The
whole of District of Ghaziabad comprising the Tehsils of Ghaziabad and Hapur.

### 4\. Rajasthan.

(i)The whole of the following Tehsils of Alwar District, namely, Behroor,
Mandawar, Kishangarh and Tijara; and(ii)Part of Alwar Tehsil comprising the
area bounded in the north by the Tehsil boundaries of Mandawar and Kishangarh
in the east of the boundaries of Tehsil Ferozepur-Jhirka of District Gurgaon,
Haryana and Alwar Tehsil, in the south by the Barah river right up to Umran
lake in the west and then following the southern boundaries of Umran lake up
to the junction of Umran lake and State Highway from Alwar to Bairat and from
then on west by north-west across the ridge up to the junction of the Tehsil
boundaries of Alwar and Bansur.Explanation. - Save as otherwise provided,
reference to any district or Tehsil in this Schedule shall be construed as a
reference to the areas comprised in that district or Tehsil, as the case may
be, on the 27th day of August, 1984, being the date on which the National
Capital Region Planning Board Bill, 1984 was introduced in the House of the
People.

