## Union of India - Act

## The National Co-Operative Development Corporation Act, 1962

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The National Co-Operative Development Corporation Act, 1962

## Act 26 of 1962

  * Published on 31 August 1962 
  * Commenced on 31 August 1962 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2002.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The National Co- Operative Development Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2002 (Act 45 of 2002) on 1 January 2002] 

The National Co-Operative Development Corporation Act, 1962ACT NO. 26 OF 1962

### 1330.

The National Co-operative Development and Warehousing Board and the Central
Warehousing Corporation were set up as two inter-dependent bodies under the
Agricultuntl Produce (Development and Warehousing) Corporations Act, 1956. the
former being in over-all charge of all aspects of development (including
warehousing) of agricultural produce on co-operative principles. Both the
bodies were under the administrative control of the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture. Subsequently, there has been it re-allocation of business by
which the administrative control of the National Co-operative Development and
Warehousing Board has been transferred to the Ministry of Community
Development and co-operation while the administrative control of the Central
Warehousing Corporation continues to he in the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture. The two bodies are thus under the administrative control of two
different Ministries. In the altered situation and in the interest of the
better functioning of the two bodies and for administrative convenience, it is
considered that the two bodies should function independently under separate
enactments. The present Bill accordingly provides for the establishment of the
National Co-operative Development Corporation in the place of the existing
National Co-operative Development and Warehousing Board.The new Corporation
will continue to perform more or less the same functions as the existing
Board, but thee Corporation shall cease to be a shareholder in the Central
Warehousing Corporation and all shares held by the existing Board in the
Central Warehousing Corporation and all liabilities as to the payment of
unpaid calls on such shares shall stand transferred to the Central Government;
the Warehousing Fund which is now administered by the Board will stand
transferred to and he maintained by the Central Warehousing
Corporation.Opportunity has been taken to incorporate some minor changes in
the constitution of the Corporation and also to empower it to appoint
Committees for general or special purposes - S.O.R. - Gazette of India,
30-4-1962, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p. 190.Amending Act 32 of 1973.- National
Co-operative Development Corporation was established in March, 1973, under the
National Co-operative Development Corporation Act, 1962. The basic objective
of this Corporation is to plan, promote and finance programmes for processing
storage and marketing of agricultural produce and certain other commodities,
on co-operative principles. The subject-matter of the Act is relatable to
entry 43 in the Union List of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and
Entry 33 in the Concurrent List of that Schedule. Since at the time of
enactment of the National Co-operatvc Development Corporation Act, 1962, Entry
33 of the Concurrent List did not apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, the
Act did not extend to that State.2\. Entry 33 of the Concurrent List has since
been made applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. For promoting a large
programme of co-operative processing, storage and marketing, particularly of
fruits and vegetables, in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, it would be
advantageous to extend the National Co-operative Development Corporation Act,
1962, to that State.3\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objective.-
Gazette of India, 16-4-1973. Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p. 335.Amending Act 3 of
1974.- The National Co-operative Development Corporation was established in
March, 1963 under the National Co-operative Development Corporation Act, 1962.
The basic objective of this Corporation is to plan, promote and finance
programmes for processing, storage and marketing of agricultural produce and
certain other notified commodities, on co-operative basis.2\. In pursuance of
certain observations made by the Public Accounts Committee (Fourth Lok Shabha)
in their 106th Report in regard to the need for the continuance of the
National Co-operative Development Corporation and the de-officialisation of
the co-operative movement, the Government of India had appointed an Expert
Committee to examine the working, objectives and future setup of the National
Co-operative Development Corporation. The Committee assessed the performance
of the National Co-operative Development Corporation and came to the
conclusion that the Corporation had made significant contribution towards
developing the potential of the programmes entrusted to it, which have
recorded striking progress in recent years. The Committee accordingly not only
recommended the continuance of the National Co-operative Development
Corporation, but also the broad basing of its functions, activities and
organisational set up. The major recommendations of the Expert Committee are
as follows :(i) The activities of the National Co-operative Development
Corporation should be extended to co-operative dairy, poultry and fishery
programmes, specially designed for assisting the vulnerable sections of the
community. The activities of the Corporation may also include helping the
tribal people in the collection, processing and marketing of minor forest
produce, through appropriate co-operatives, especially designed for them.(ii)
Organisational set up of the National Co-operative Development Corporation
should reflect the nature of its functions, the types of activities sponsored
and the institutions and authorities it has to deal with. It should have a
General Council with larger representation to States, including the State
Governments and State level co-operative institutions and national level co-
operative institutions, and laso it Board of Management in place of the
existing Executive Committee. The Corporation will function through the
General Council and the Board of Management.(iii) Apart from providing
financial assistance to co-operative programmes through the State Governments,
the National Co-operative Development Corporation should participate in the
share capital of, and provide loans and grants to the national and regional
co-operative institutions. It may also provide finance and re-finance to other
types of co-operative on the guarantee of the State Governments concerned, or,
in the case of co-operatives in the Union territories on the guarantee of the
State Government.(iv) The National Co-operative Development Corporation be
enabled to borrow from the open market on Central Government's guarantee, if
necessary, and also from other sources.3\. The Bill seeks to amend the
National Co-operative Development Corporation Act, 1962, for broad-basing the
activities and the Constitution of the Corporation and also for diversifying
the sources of its funds in the light of the recommendations of the Expert
Committee - S.O.R. Gazette of India, 3-12-1973, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p.
998.[31st August, 1962.][An Act to provide for the incorporation and
regulation of a corporation for the purpose of planning and promoting
programmes for the production, processing, marketing, storage, export and
import of agricultural produce, foodstuffs [industrial goods, livestock,
certain other commodities and services on co-operative principles and for
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto] [Substituted by Act 3 of
1974, Section 2, for the long title (w.e.f. 1-4-1974.)]]

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the National Co-operative Development Corporation
Act, 1962.(2)It extends to the whole of India [***] [Omitted by Act 32 of
1973, Section 2](3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

14th March 1963; vide Notification No. G.S.R. 456, dated 14-3-1963, see
Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Pt. II, Section 3(i), p. 149.Extended to
Sikkim (w.e.f. 26-8-1975) vide S. O. 452(E), dated 26-8-1975.Brought into
force in Sikkim (w.e.f. 1-10-1975) vide S. O. 4293, dated 22-9-1975.  
---  
  
### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--(a)[ "agricultural
produce" includes the following:-[Substituted by Act 45 of 2002 (w.e.f.
14.8.2002) ](i)edible and non-edible oil seeds;(ii)cattle feed, including oil
cakes and other ingredients;(iii)produce of horticulture and animal
husbandry;(iv)produce of forestry;(v)produce of poultry farming;(vi)produce of
pisciculture; and(vii)produce of other allied activities, whether or not
undertaken jointly with agriculture](aa)[ "bank" means a nationalised bank and
includes a scheduled bank;] [Inserted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 3 (w.e.f.
7-4-1975)](ab)[ "Board" means the Board of Management of the Corporation
constituted under section 10;] [Inserted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 3, (w.e.f.
1-4-1979)](aba)[ "Central financing institution" means Industrial Development
Bank of India established under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Industrial
Development Bank of India Act, 1964 (18 of 1964) or the Industrial Finance
Corporation of India Limited, a company formed and registered under the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or the Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation of India Limited, a Company formed and registered under the Indian
Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913)] [Inserted by Act 45 of 2002 (w.e.f.
14.8.2002) ](b)[ "Central Warehousing Corporation" means the Central
Warehousing Corporation established under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the
Warehousing Corporations Act, 1962 (58 of 1962); [Substituted by Act 45 of
2002 (w.e.f. 14.8.2002) ](c)"co-operative society" means a society registered
or deemed to be registered under the Co-operative Societies Act, 1912 (2 of
1912) or under the Multi-State Co-operative Societies Act, 1984 (51 of 1984)
or under any other law with respect to co-operative societies for the time
being in force in any State, which is engaged in any of the activities
specified in sub-section (1) of section 9 and includes a Co-operative Land
Development Bank, by whatever name called](d)"Corporation" means the National
Co-operative Development Corporation established under [sub-section (1) of
section 3] [Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 3, for "section 3" (w.e.f.
1-4-1974)];(da)[ "foodstuffs", include-- [Inserted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 3
(w.e.f. 7-4-1975)](i)coconuts and areca-nuts;(ii)eggs and egg
products;(iii)fish, whether fresh, frozen, dried or preserved;(iv)fruits,
whether fresh, dried or dehydrated;(v)honey;(vi)meat, whether fresh, frozen,
dried or preserved;(vii)milk and milk products;(viii)vegetables;](db)[
"General Council" means the General Council of the Corporation constituted
under sub-section (4) of section 3;] [Inserted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 3,
(w.e.f. 1-4-1979)](dba)[ "industrial goods" means the products of industrial
co-operatives or cottage and village industries or products of allied
industries in the rural area and includes any handicrafts or rural
crafts;[Inserted by Act 45 of 2002 (w.e.f. 14.8.2002) ](dbb)"livestock"
includes all animals to be raised for milk, meat, fleece, skin, wool and other
by-products](dc)[ "Managing director" means the managing director of the
Corporation; [Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 3, for "section 3" (w.e.f.
1-4-1974)](dd)[ "nationalised bank" means a corresponding new bank constituted
under section 3 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of
Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970) or under section 3 of the Banking
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980 (40 of 1980)]
[Substituted by Act 45 of 2002 (w.e.f. 14.8.2002) ](e)"notified commodity"
means any commodity (other than agricultural produce [and foodstuffs]
[Inserted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 3 (w.e.f. 1-4-1974)]) which the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare to be a
notified commodity for the purposes of this Act, being a commodity with
respect to which Parliament has power to make laws by virtue of entry 33 in
List III in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution;(ea)[ "notified services"
means any service which the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, declare to be notified services for the purposes of this
Act] [Inserted by Act 45 of 2002(w.e.f. 14.8.2002) ](f)"prescribed" means
prescribed by rules made under this Act;(g)"Reserve Bank" means the Reserve
Bank of India constituted under the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of
1934);(ga)[ "scheduled bank" means a bank for the time being included in the
Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934.);]
[Inserted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 3 (w.e.f. 1-4-1974)](h)[ "State Bank"
means the State Bank of India constituted under the State Bank of India Act,
1955 (23 of 1955) or any of the subsidiary banks of the State Bank of
India;[Substituted by Act 45 of 2002 (w.e.f. 14.8.2002)](ha)"State Co-
operative Bank" has the same meaning as in the National Bank for Agriculture
and Rural Development Act, 1981 (61 of 1981)](i)"year" means the financial
year.

### 2A. [ Construction of references to any law not in force or any
functionary not existence in the State of Jammu and Kashmir. [Inserted by Act
32 of 1973, Section 3]

Any reference in this Act to any law which is not in force, or any functionary
not in existence, in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, shall, in relation to
that State, be construed as a reference to the corresponding law in force, or
to the corresponding functionary in existence, in that State.]

### 3. Establishment of the National Co-operative Development Corporation.

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
establish with effect from such [date] [14th March, 1963, vide Notification
No. G.S.R. 457, dated 14-3-1963, see Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Pt. II,
Section 3(i), p. 149] as may be specified in the notification, a Corporation
by the name of the National Co-operative Development Corporation which shall
be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal with power
to acquire, hold and dispose of property and to contract, and may, in the said
name, sue and be sued.(2)The head-office of the Corporation shall be in New
Delhi.(3)[ The Corporation shall carry on its functions through the General
Council and the Board.(4)The General Council shall consist of the following
members, namely:--(i)a President and a Vice-President, both to be nominated by
the Central Government;(ii)eight members, ex officio, to be nominated by the
Central Government from such of its Ministries dealing with economic matters
as it may think fit;(iii)[ Chairman of the National Bank of Agriculture and
Rural Development constituted under the National Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development Act, 1981 (61 of 1981), ex officio](v)Managing Director of
the Food Corporation of India, constituted under the Food Corporations Act,
1964, (37 of 1964) ex officio;(vi)Managing Director of the Central Warehousing
Corporation, constituted under the Warehousing Corporations Act, 1962 (59 of
1962), ex officio;(vii)[ one member to be nominated by the Central Government
from amongst the chairmen of one of the Central financing institutions, ex
officio] [Substituted by Act 45 of 2002 (w.e.f. 14.8.2002) ](viii)a member
representing banks, to be nominated by the Central Government;(ix)Chairman of
the National Co-operative Union of India, ex officio;(x)Chairman of the
National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation, ex
officio;(xi)Chairman of the National Federation of Co-operative Sugar
Factories, ex officio;(xii)Chairman of the All India Federation of Co-
operative Spinning Mills, ex officio;(xiii)Chairman of the All India State Co-
operative Banks' Federation, ex officio;(xiv)eleven members, other than those
nominated under clause (xv), representing the States and the Union
territories, to be nominated by the Central Government, provided that not more
than one person shall be so nominated from each State or Union
territory;(xv)eleven members to be nominated by the Central Government from
among the Chairmen of the State level co-operative federations from the States
and Union territories, provided that not more than one person shall be so
nominated from each State or Union territory;(xvi)four members representing
persons having special knowledge of, or practical experience in, agricultural
co-operative development, to be nominated by the Central
Government;(xvii)[four members] [The words 'three members' substituted by Act
45 of 2002 ] representing national level organisations engaged or interested
in the promotion and development of co-operative programmes, to be nominated
by the Central Government;(xviii)the managing director.(5)The powers and
functions of the Corporation shall be exercised or discharged, as the case may
be, by the General Council, and references elsewhere in this Act to the
Corporation shall, unless the context otherwise requires, be construed as
references to the General Council.(6)Notwithstanding the expiry of the
prescribed term of his office, every member of the General Council shall
continue to hold office as such, until his successor in such office has
assumed charge of such office.(7)Members of the General Council, other than
the managing director, shall be entitled to receive such sitting fees as may
be specified by regulations made by the Corporation under this Act, for
attending any meeting of the General Council, Board or any committee of the
Corporation:Provided that no official member shall be entitled to receive any
sitting fee.] [Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 4, for the former sub-
sections (3), (4) and (5) (w.e.f. 7-4-1975)]

### 4. Disqualifications for being a member of Corporation.

A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, and for being, a member of
the Corporation--(i)if he is, or at any time has been, adjudicated insolvent
or has suspended payment of his debts or has compounded with his creditors;
or(ii)if he is or has been convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude
and sentenced in respect thereof to imprisonment for not less than six months,
unless a period of five years has elapsed from the date of expiry of the
sentence; or(iii)[except in the case of managing director,] [Inserted by Act 3
of 1974, Section 5 (w.e.f. 1-4-1974)] if he is a salaried official of the
Corporation.

### 5. Term of office of members of Corporation.

(1)The term of office of members of the Corporation and the manner of filling
vacancies among members shall be such as may be prescribed.(2)Any member of
the Corporation other than an ex officio member may resign his office by
giving notice in writing to the Central Government and on such resignation
being accepted, he shall be deemed to have vacated his office.

### 6. Removal from office of member, etc.

The Central Government may, at any time, remove from office any member other
than an ex officio member of the Corporation after giving him a reasonable
opportunity of showing cause against the proposed removal.

### 7. Meetings, etc., of Corporation.

(1)The Corporation [shall ordinarily meet twice a year at such times]
[Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 6, for "shall meet at such times"
(w.e.f. 7-4-1975)] and places and shall, subject to the provisions of sub-
sections (2) and (3), observe such procedure in regard to transaction of
business at its meetings (including the quorum at meetings) as may be provided
by regulations made by the Corporation under this Act.(2)The [President]
[Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 6, for "Chairman" (w.e.f. 7-4-1975)]
or, in his absence, the [Vice-President] [Substituted by Act 3 of 1974,
Section 6, for "Vice-Chairman" (w.e.f. 7-4-1975)] or, in the absence of both
the [President] [Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 6, for "Chairman"
(w.e.f. 7-4-1975)] and the [Vice-President] [Substituted by Act 3 of 1974,
Section 6, for "Vice-Chairman" (w.e.f. 7-4-1975)], any member chosen by the
members present from amongst themselves, shall preside at a meeting of the
Corporation.(3)All questions at a meeting of the Corporation shall be decided
by a majority of votes of the members present and voting, and in the case of
an equality of votes, the [President] [Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section
6, for "Chairman" (w.e.f. 7-4-1975)] or, in his absence, the [Vice-President]
[Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 6, for "Vice-Chairman" (w.e.f.
7-4-1975)] or, in the absence of both the [President] [Substituted by Act 3 of
1974, Section 6, for "Chairman" (w.e.f. 7-4-1975)] and the [Vice-President]
[Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 6, for "Vice-Chairman" (w.e.f.
7-4-1975)], the person presiding shall have and exercise a second or casting
vote.

### 8. Officers and other employees of Corporation.

(1)The Central Government shall, in consultation with the Corporation, appoint
a person to be the [managing director] [Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section
7, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-4-1974)].(2)Subject to such rules as may be
made by the Central Government in this behalf, the Corporation may appoint
such other officers and employees as it considers necessary for the efficient
performance of its functions.(3)The methods of appointment, the conditions of
service and the scales of pay of the officers and other employees of the
Corporation shall,--(a)as respects the [managing director] [Substituted by Act
3 of 1974, Section 7, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-4-1974)], be such as may be
prescribed; and(b)as respects the other officers and employees, be such as may
be determined by regulations made by the Corporation under this Act.(4)[ The
managing director shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as the
Board may entrust or delegate to him.] [Inserted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 7,
(w.e.f. 7-4-1975)]

### 9. Functions of Corporation.

[(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the functions of the Corporation
shall be to [plan, promote and finance] [Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section
8, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 1-4-1974)] programmes, through co-operative
societies, for--(a)the production, processing, marketing, storage, export and
import of agricultural produce, foodstuffs, poultry feed and notified
commodities;(b)the collection, processing, marketing, storage and export of
minor forest produce.](c)[ development of notified services] [Inserted by Act
45 of 2002 (w.e.f. 14.8.2002) ](2)In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing provision, the Corporation may--(a)advance loans
or grant subsidies to State Governments for financing co-operative societies
and for employment of staff for implementing programmes of co-operative
development;(b)provide funds to State Governments for financing co-operative
societies for the purchase of [agricultural produce, foodstuffs] [Substituted
by Act 3 of 1974, Section 8, for "agricultural produce" (w.e.f. 1-4-1974)]
[livestock, poultry feed, industrial goods, notified commodities and notified
services] [The words [and notified commodities] substituted by Act 45 of 2002
] on behalf of the Central Government;(c)plan and promote programmes through
co-operative societies for the supply of seeds, manures, fertilizers,
agriculties for the supply of seeds, manures, fertilizers, agriculment of
agricultural produce;(d)[ provide loans and grants directly to the national
level co-operative societies and other co-operative societies having objects
extending beyond one State; [Inserted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 8, (w.e.f.
1-4-1974)](e)provide loans to co-operative societies on the guarantee of State
Governments or in the case of co-operative societies in the Union territories,
on the guarantee of Central Government;[Provided that no such guarantee shall
be required in cases in which security to the satisfaction of the Corporation
is furnished by the borrowing co-operative society](f)participate in the share
capital of the national level co-operative societies and other co-operative
societies having objects extending beyond one State.](3)The Corporation shall
so exercise its functions under this section as not to interfere with the
activities of the Khadi and Village Industries Commission established under
the Khadi and Village Industries Commission Act, 1956 (61 of 1956).

### 10. [ Board of Management of the Corporation. [Substituted by Act 3 of
1974, Section 9, for s. 10 (w.e.f. 1-4-1974)]

(1)There shall be a Board of Management of the Corporation which shall consist
of the following members, namely:--(i)the Vice-President of the General
Council, who shall be the Chairman;(ii)three members of the General Council,
to be nominated by the Central Government from among the members referred to
in clause (ii) of sub-section (4) of section 3;(iii)the member of the General
Council, referred to in clause (iii) of sub-section (4) of section 3;(iv)one
member of the General Council, to be nominated by the Central Government from
among the members referred to in clauses (ix), (x), (xi), (xii) and (xiii) of
sub-section (4) of section 3;(v)two members of the General Council, to be
nominated by the Central Government from among the members referred to in
clause (xiv) of sub-section (4) of section 3;(vi)two members of the General
Council, to be nominated by the Central Government from among the members
referred to in clause (xv) of sub-section (4) of section 3;(vii)one member of
the General Council, to be nominated by the Central Government from among the
members referred to in clauses (xvi) and (xvii) of sub-section (4) of section
3;(viii)the managing director.(2)The Vice-Chairman of the Board shall be
nominated by the Central Government.(3)Subject to the general control,
direction and superintendence of the General Council, the Board shall be
competent to deal with any matter within the competence of the
Corporation.(4)The Board shall meet at such times and at such places and shall
observe such procedure in regard to transaction of business at its meetings
(including the quorum at meetings) as may be provided by regulations made by
the Corporation under this Act.(5)The confirmed minutes of every meeting of
the Board shall be laid before the General Council at its next following
meeting.]

### 11. Other committees.

The Corporation may constitute such other committees for general or special
purposes as it deems necessary for the efficient performance of its functions
under this Act.

### 12. Grants by the Central Government to Corporation.

The Central Government shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by
law in this behalf, pay to the Corporation--(a)by way of grant each year, such
sum of money as is required by the Corporation for giving subsidies to State
Governments and for meeting its administrative expenses; [***] [The word "and"
omitted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 10 (w.e.f. 7-4-1975)](b)by way of loan, such
sum of money on such terms and conditions as the Central Government may
determine; [and] [Inserted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 10, (w.e.f.
7-4-1975)](c)[ such additional grants, if any, for the purposes of this Act.]
[Inserted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 10, (w.e.f. 7-4-1975)]

### 12A. [ Power of Corporation to borrow money. [Inserted by Act 3 of 1974,
Section 11, (w.e.f. 7-4-1975)]

(1)The Corporation may, for the purposes of carrying out its functions under
this Act, and with the previous approval of, and subject to the directions of
the Central Government, borrow money from--(a)the public by the issue or sale
of bonds or debentures. or both, carrying interest at such rates as may be
specified therein;(b)any bank or other financial institution:(c)any other
authority, organisation or institution as may be specially approved by the
Central Government in this behalf.(2)The Central Government may guarantee the
repayment of the moneys borrowed by the Corporation under clause (a) or clause
(b) or clause (c) of sub-section (1) and the payment of interest thereon and
other incidental charges.][12B. Grants, donations, etc. - (1) The Corporation
may receive gifts, grants, donations or benefactions from Government or any
other agency in or outside India.(2)The Corporation shall not receive any
gifts, grants, donations or benefactions from a foreign government or any
other agency outside India except with the previous approval of the Central
Government][Inserted by Act 45 of 2002 (w.e.f. 14.8.2002) ]

### 13. Corporation to maintain fund.

(1)The Corporation shall maintain a fund called the National Co-operative
Development Fund (hereinafter referred to as the Fund) to which shall be
credited--(a)all moneys and other securities transferred to it under clause
(a) of sub-section (2) of section 24;(b)the grants and other sums of money by
way of loans paid to the Corporation by the Central Government under section
12;(ba)[ all moneys borrowed under section 12A;] [Inserted by Act 3 of 1974,
Section 12 (w.e.f. 7-4-1975)](bb)[ all moneys received under section
12B;[Inserted by Act 45 of 2002 (w.e.f. 14.8.2002) ](bbb)all moneys received
for services rendered](c)such additional grants, if any, as the Central
Government may make to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act;
and(d)such sums of money as may, from time to time, be realised out of
repayment of loans made from the Fund or from interest on loans or dividends
[or other realisations] [Inserted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 12 (w.e.f.
7-4-1975)] on investments made from the Fund.(2)The moneys in the Fund shall
be applied for--(a)advancing loans and granting subsidies to State Governments
on such terms and conditions as the Corporation may deem fit for the purpose
of enabling State Governments to subscribe to the share capital of co-
operative societies or for otherwise financing co-operative
societies;(b)meeting the pay and allowances of the [managing director, the
officers] [Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 12, for "officers" (w.e.f.
7-4-1975)] and other employees of the Corporation and other administrative
expenses of the Corporation; and(c)carrying out the purposes of this Act.(3)[
All moneys in the Fund shall be deposited in the Reserve Bank or the State
Bank or a nationalised bank or a scheduled bank or a State Co-operative Bank]
[Substituted by Act 45 of 2002 (w.e.f. 14.8.2002) ]

### 14. Returns and reports.

(1)The Corporation shall furnish to the Central Government at such times and
in such form and manner as may be prescribed or as the Central Government may
direct, such returns and statements and such particulars in regard to the
discharge of its functions under this Act as the Central Government may, from
time to time, require.(2)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section
(1), the Corporation shall, as soon as possible, after the end of each year,
submit to the Central Government a report, in such form and manner and before
such date as may be prescribed, giving a true and full account of its
activities, policy and programme during the previous year.(3)A copy of the
report received under sub-section (2) shall be laid before both Houses of
Parliament.

### 15. Directions by Central Government.

In all matters including matters of policy, the Corporation shall be guided by
such directions as may be given to it by the Central Government.

### 16. Submission of programme of activities and financial estimates.

(1)The Corporation shall prepare before the commencement of each year a
statement of programme of its activities during the forthcoming year as well
as a financial estimate in respect thereof.(2)A statement prepared under sub-
section (1) shall, not later than three months before the commencement of each
year, be submitted to the Central Government for approval.

### 17. Accounts of Board and audit.

(1)The Corporation shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records
and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form as may be prescribed
in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.(2)The
account of the Corporation shall be audited annually by the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India or any person authorised by him in this behalf and
any expenditure incurred in connection with such audit shall be payable by the
Corporation.(3)The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and any person
authorised by him in connection with the audit of the accounts of the
Corporation shall have the same rights, privileges and authority in connection
with such audit as the Comptroller and Auditor-General has in connection with
the audit of Government accounts and in particular, shall have the right to
demand the pro-88 duction of books, accounnts, connected vouchers and other
documents and papers and to inspect any office of the Corporation.(4)The
accounts of the Corporation certified by the Comptroller and Auditor-General
of India or any other person authorised by him in this behalf together with an
audit report thereon shall be forwarded annually to the Central Government and
that Government shall cause the same to be laid before both Houses of
Parliament.

### 18. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate acts and proceedings of the
Corporation.

No act or proceeding of [the General Council. the Board or any of the
committees of the Corporation] [Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 13. for
"the Corporation" (w.e.f. 1-4-1974)] shall be invalid by reason only of the
existence of any vacancy among its members or any defect in the constitution
thereof.

### 19. Delegation.

The Corporation may, by general or special order in writing, delegate to the
[President or the Vice-President] [Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 14,
for "Chairman or the Vice-Chairman" (w.e.f. 7-4-1975)] or any other member or
any officer of the Corporation subject to such conditions and limitations, if
any, as may be specified in the order such of its powers and functions under
this Act as it may deem necessary.

### 20. Declaration of fidelity and secrecy.

Every member, auditor, officer or other employee of the Corporation shall,
before entering upon his duties, make a declaration of fidelity and secrecy in
the form set out in the Schedule.

### 21. Dissolution of Corporation.

(1)The Central Government, if it is of opinion that the Corporation has failed
to carry out its functions under this Act or that for any other reason it is
not necessary to continue the Corporation, may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, dissolve the Corporation from such date as may be specified
in the notification.(2)When the Corporation is dissolved under sub-section
(1),--(a)all members of the Corporation shall, from the date of dissolution,
vacate their offices as such members;(b)all powers and duties of the
Corporation shall, as from the date of dissolution, be exercised and performed
by the Central Government or such person or persons as the Central Government
may appoint in this behalf;(c)all moneys and other properties of the
Corporation shall vest in the Central Government.

### 22. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)Without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for--[* * * * * ]
[Cls. (a), (b) and (c) omitted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 15 (w.e.f.
7-4-1975)](d)the term of office of members of the Corporation and the manner
of filling vacancies among them;(e)the methods of appointment, the conditions
of service and the scale of pay of the [managing director] [Substituted by Act
3 of 1974, Section 15, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-4-1974)];[* * * * *] [Cl.
(f) omitted Act 3 of 1974, by Section 15, (w.e.f. 7-4-1975)](g)the returns,
statements and other particulars in regard to the discharge of its functions
to be furnished by the Corporation to the Central Government;(h)the form and
the manner in which, and the time within which, the Corporation shall furnish
to the Central Government returns, statements and other particulars with
regard to the discharge of its functions;(i)the form and the manner in which,
and the time within which, the Corporation shall furnish to the Central
Government a report of its activities, policy and programme;(j)any other
matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Every rule made under this
section shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may
be comprised in one session [or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive
sessions aforesaid] [Substituted by Act 32 of 1973, Section 4.], both Houses
agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so however that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule.

### 23. Power of Corporation to make regulations.

(1)The Corporation may, with the previous sanction of the Central Government,
by notification in the Official Gazette, make regulations not inconsistent
with this Act and the rules made thereunder, to provide for all matters for
which provision is necessary or expedient for the purpose of giving effect to
the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such regulations may provide for--(a)the
manner in which meetings of [the General Council, the Board and other
committees of the Corporation] [Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 16, for
certain words (w.e.f. 7-4-1975)] shall be convened, the fees for attending
such meetings and the procedure to be followed thereat;(b)the methods of
appointment, the conditions of service and the scales of pay of the officers
(other than the [managing director] [Substituted by Act 3 of 1974, Section 16,
for "Secretary" (w.e.f. 1-4-1974)]) and other employees of the
Corporations;(c)the duties and conduct of officers and other employees of the
Corporation; and(d)any other matter in respect of which the Corporation is
empowered or required to make regulations under this Act.(3)The Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, rescind any
regulation which it has sanctioned and thereupon the regulation shall cease to
have effect.

### 24. Repeal and saving.

(1)With effect from the date on which the Corporation is established under
section 3, the Agricultural Produce (Development and Warehousing) Corporations
Act, 1956 (28 of 1956), shall, in so far as it relates to the National Co-
operative Development and Warehousing Board stand repealed.(2)Notwithstanding
such repeal,--(a)all moneys and other securities belonging to the National Co-
operative Development Fund which, immediately before the said date, was
maintained by the National Co-operative Development and Warehousing Board
established under the repealed Act (hereinafter referred to as the said
Board), shall stand transferred to, and be maintained by, the Corporation
established under section 3 of this Act;(b)all moneys and other securities
belonging to the National Warehousing Development Fund which, immediately
before the said date, was maintained by the said Board under the repealed Act,
shall stand transferred to and be maintained by the Central Warehousing
Corporation;(c)all shares in the capital of the Central Warehousing
Corporation held by the said Board shall stand transferred to the Central
Government subject to the same liabilities as to payment of unpaid calls on
such shares as the said Board was subject to;(d)anything done or any action
taken (including any loan advanced, subsidy granted and appointment,
delegation, rule or regulation made) under the repealed Act shall, in so far
as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, be deemed to have
been done or taken under this Act; and(e)all rights, liabilities and
obligations of the said Board, whether arising out of any contract or
otherwise, shall be the rights, liabilities and obligations respectively of
the Corporation established under section 3 of this Act.THE SCHEDULE(See
section 20)DECLARATION OF FIDELITY AND SECRECYI...............declare that I
will faithfully, truly and to the best of my judgment, skill and ability
execute and perform the duties which are required of me as a member, officer,
employee or auditor (as the case may be) of the National Co-operative
Development Corporation and which properly relate to the office or position in
the said Corporation held by me. I further declare that I will not communicate
or allow to be communicated to any persons not legally entitled thereto any
information relating to the affairs of the said Corporation nor will I allow
any such persons to inspect or have access to any books or documents belonging
to, or in the possession of, the Corporation and relating to the business of
the Corporation.SignatureSignatureSignatureSigned before meDate

