## Union of India - Act

## The National Dental Commission Act, 2023

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The National Dental Commission Act, 2023

## Act 21 of 2023

  * Published in Gazette of India : Extraordinary on 11 August 2023 
  * Commenced on 11 August 2023 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 August 2023.] 

THE NATIONAL DENTAL COMMISSION ACT, 2023 NO. 21 OF 2023[11th August, 2023.]An
Act to regulate the profession of dentistry in the country, to provide for
quality and affordable dental education,to make accessible high quality oral
healthcare and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.BE it
enacted by Parliament in the Seventy-fourth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:—

## Chapter I  
PRELIMINARY

### 1 Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the National Dental Commission Act, 2023.(2)It
extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint; and
different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this Act and any
reference in any such provision to the commencement of this Act shall be
construed as a reference to the coming into force of that provision.

### 2 Definitions

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)"Autonomous Board"
means any of the Autonomous Boards constituted under section
16;(b)"Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the National Dental Commission
appointed under section 4;(c)"Commission" means the National Dental Commission
constituted under section 3;(d)"Council" means the Dental Advisory Council
constituted under section 11;(e)"Dental Assessment and Rating Board" means the
Board constituted under section 16;(f)"dental auxiliary" includes a dental
hygienist or a dental mechanic or a dental operating room assistant or such
other category as may be specified by the Commission;(g)"dental hygienist"
means a person not being a dentist or a medical practitioner who scales,
cleans or polishes teeth, or gives instruction in dental hygiene;(h)"dental
institution" means any institution within or outside India which grants
degrees, diplomas, certificates for certification courses or licences in
dentistry and includes affiliated colleges, deemed to be Universities and
institutions mentioned in the Schedule;(i)"dental mechanic" means a person
qualified to perform laboratory work required for the prosthetic
rehabilitation of dental and maxillofacial structures and orthodontic
appliances;(j)"dental operating room assistant" means a person who assists the
dentist in sterilising and handing over instruments as required by the dentist
at the chair side;(k)"dentist" means a person who practices
dentistry;(l)"dentistry" includes the science, practice and research in dental
and oral health, directed towards—(i)facilitating healthy development of
dentition, jaws and dentofacial structures;(ii)prevention of oral diseases and
promotion of oral health;(iii)diagnosis and use of diagnostic tests,
investigations and procedure to decide the normal and abnormal state or
diseases of teeth, gums, jaws and related tissues necessary for the functions
of the oral cavity;(iv)performing procedures for the optimisation of dental
and oral health, which may include restoration, rehabilitation, surgery or a
combination thereof, to restore the functions, structural anatomy and
aesthetics of the stomatognathic system and the masticatory
apparatus;(v)creating awareness and working knowledge of the effects of
systemic health on dentition and oral cavity and to perform the duties of an
active member of the healthcare team, including basic life
support;(vi)promoting good systemic health through diagnosis and necessary
interventions related to oral health conditions; and(vii)bringing awareness of
oral health related issues of the society and of nation and to facilitate
implementation of the updated policies of the Government or Government bodies
in this regard;(m)"Ethics and Dental Registration Board" means the Board
constituted under section 16;(n)"Fund" means the National Dental Commission
Fund referred to in sub-section (1) of section 39;(o)"leader" means the Head
of a Department or the Head of an Institute or organisation;(p)"licence" means
a licence to practice dentistry granted under sub-section (1) of section
31;(q)"Member" means a Member of the Commission appointed under section 4 and
includes the Chairperson thereof, or, as the case may be, a Member of the
Autonomous Board referred to in section 17 and includes the President
thereof;(r)"National Register" means the National Register for Dentists or the
National Register for Dental Auxiliaries, as the case may be, maintained by
the Ethics and Dental Registration Board under section 30;(s)"notification"
means a notification published in the Official Gazette and the expression
"notify" shall be construed accordingly;(t)"prescribed" means prescribed by
rules made under this Act;(u)"President" means the President of an Autonomous
Board appointed under section 18;(v)"recognised dental qualification" means a
dental qualification recognised under section 33 or section 34 or section 35,
as the case may be;(w)"regulations" means the regulations made by the
Commission under this Act;(x)"registered professional" means any dentist or
dental auxiliary who is registered in the National Register or the State
Register under section 30;(y)"Schedule" means the Schedule to this
Act;(z)"State Dental Council" means a dental council constituted under any law
for the time being in force in any State or Union territory for regulating the
practice and registration of practitioners of dentistry in that State or Union
territory and includes a Joint Dental Council referred to in sub-section (7)
of section 29;(za)"State Register" means the State Register for Dentists or
the State Register for DentalAuxiliaries, as the case may be, maintained under
any law for the time being in force in any State or Union territory for
registration of dentists or dental auxiliaries, as the case may be;(zb)"Under-
Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board" means the Board constituted
under section 16;(zc)"University" shall have the same meaning as assigned to
it in clause (f) of section 2 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956
and includes a health University.

## Chapter II

NATIONAL DENTAL COMMISSION

### 3\. Constitution of National Dental Commission.

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, with
effect from such date as it may appoint, constitute a Commission, to be known
as the National Dental Commission, to exercise the powers conferred upon, and
to perform the functions assigned to it, under this Act.(2)The Commission
shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid, having perpetual succession
and a common seal, with power, subject to the provisions of this Act, to
acquire, hold and dispose of property, both movable and immovable, and to
contract, and shall, by the said name, sue or be sued.(3)The head office of
the Commission shall be at New Delhi

### 4. Composition of Commission.

(1)The Commission shall consist of the following persons to be appointed by
the Central Government, namely:—(a)a Chairperson;(b)eight ex officio Members;
and(c)twenty-four part-time Members.(2)The Chairperson shall be a dentist of
outstanding ability, proven administrative capacity and integrity, possessing
a postgraduate degree in dentistry from any University or institutes of
national importance and having experience of not less than twenty years in the
field of dentistry, out of which at least ten years shall be as a leader in
the area of dental education.(3)The following persons shall be the ex officio
Members of the Commission, namely:—(a)the President of the Under-Graduate and
Post-Graduate Dental Education Board;(b)the President of the Dental Assessment
and Rating Board;(c)the President of the Ethics and Dental Registration
Board;(d)the Director General of Health Services, Directorate General of
Health Services, New Delhi;(e)Chief of the Centre for Dental Education and
Research,All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi;(f)Head of the
Oral Health Sciences Centre, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and
Research, Chandigarh;(g)one person, not below the rank of Joint Secretary to
the Government of India, to represent the Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare, to be nominated by that Ministry;(h)the Chairperson, National Medical
Commission or nominee from that Commission.(4)The following persons shall be
appointed as part-time Members of the Commission, namely:—(a)three Members, to
be appointed from amongst persons of ability, integrity and standing, who have
special knowledge and professional experience in such areas including
management, law, medical ethics, health research, consumer or patient rights
advocacy, science and technology and economics, in such manner as may be
prescribed, for a term of four years;(b)ten Members to be appointed on
rotational basis from amongst the nominees of the States and Union territories
under clauses (c) and (d) of sub-section (2) of section 11 in the Dental
Advisory Council, in such manner as may be prescribed, for a term of two
years;(c)nine members to be appointed on rotational basis from amongst the
nominees of the States and Union territories under clause (e) of sub-section
(2) of section 11 in the Dental Advisory Council, in such manner as may be
prescribed, for a term of two years;Composition of Commission.(d)two dental
faculties, from any Central or State or Autonomous Government Institutes,
doing exemplary work in the field of dental education, to be nominated by the
Central Government, in such manner as may be prescribed, for a term of four
years.

### 5. Search-cum-Selection Committee for appointment of Chairperson and
Members.

(1)The Central Government shall appoint—(i)the Chairperson referred to in sub-
section (2) of section 4;(ii)part-time Members referred to in clause (a) of
sub-section (4) of section 4;(iii)the Secretary referred to in section 8;
and(iv)the President and Members ofAutonomous Boards referred to in section
16, on the recommendation of a Search-cum-Selection Committee consisting
of—(a)the Cabinet Secretary—Chairperson;(b)three experts, possessing
outstanding qualifications and experience of not less than twenty-five years
in the field of dental education, public health education and health research,
to be nominated by the Central Government, in such manner as may be
prescribed—Members;(c)one person, possessing outstanding qualifications and
experience of not less than twenty-five years in the field of management or
law or economics or science and technology, to be nominated by the Central
Government, in such manner as may be prescribed—Member;(d)the Secretary to the
Government of India in charge of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, to
be the Convener—Member.(2)The Central Government shall, within one month from
the date of occurrence of any vacancy, including by reason of death,
resignation or removal, of the Chairperson or Member or Secretary of the
Commission or the President or Member of the Autonomous Board, as the case may
be, or within three months before the end of tenure of such person, make a
reference to the Search-cum-Selection Committee for filling up of the
vacancy.(3)The Search-cum-Selection Committee shall recommend a panel of at
least three names for every vacancy referred to it.(4)The Search-cum-Selection
Committee shall, before recommending any person for appointment as the
Chairperson or Member or Secretary, satisfy itself that such person does not
have any financial or other interest which is likely to affect prejudicially
his functions as such Chairperson or Member or Secretary.(5)No appointment of
the Chairperson or Member or Secretary of the Commission or the President or
Member of the Autonomous Board, as the case may be, shall be invalid merely by
reason of any vacancy or absence of a Member in the Search-cum-Selection
Committee.(6)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) to (5), the Search-
cum-Selection Committee may regulate its own procedure.

### 6. Term of office and conditions of service of Chairperson and Members

Term of office and conditions of service of Chairperson and Members any valid
reason in the opinion of the Commission, such Member shall be deemed to have
vacated the seat.(1)The Chairperson appointed under sub-section (2) of section
4, and Member of the Commission appointed or nominated under clauses (a) and
(d) of sub-section (4) of section 4 shall not be eligible for any extension of
term beyond four years or for reappointment and such person shall cease to
hold office after attaining the age of seventy years.(2)The term of office of
an ex officio Member shall continue as long as he holds the office by virtue
of which he is such Member.(3)Where a Member, other than an ex officio Member,
is absent from three consecutive ordinary meetings of the Commission and the
cause of such absence is not attributable to Search-cum- Selection Committee
for appointment of Chairperson and Members.(4)The salaries and allowances
payable to, and other terms and conditions of service of, the Chairperson and
Members appointed or nominated under clauses (a) and (d) of sub-section (4) of
section 4, other than an ex officioMember,shall be such as may be
prescribed.(5)The Chairperson or a Member or Secretary of the Commission
may,—(a)relinquish his office by giving in writing to the Central Government a
notice of not less than three months; or(b)be removed from his office in
accordance with the provisions of section 7:Provided that such person may be
relieved from duties earlier than three months or be allowed to continue
beyond three months until a successor is appointed, if the Central Government
so decides.(6)The Chairperson and every Member of the Commission shall make
declaration of his assets and liabilities at the time of entering upon his
office and at the time of demitting his office and also declare his
professional and commercial engagement or involvement in such form and manner
as may be prescribed, and such declaration shall be published on the website
of the Commission.(7)The Chairperson or a Member appointed or nominated under
clauses (a) and (d) of sub-section (4) of section 4 or the Secretary, ceasing
to hold office as such, shall not accept, for a period of two years from the
date of demitting such office, any employment, in any capacity, including as a
consultant or an expert, in any private dental institution, whose matter has
been dealt with by such person, directly or indirectly:Provided that nothing
herein shall be construed as preventing such person from accepting an
employment in a body or institution, including dental institution, controlled
or maintained by the Central Government or a State Government:Provided further
that nothing herein shall prevent the Central Government from permitting the
Chairperson or Member or Secretary of the Commission to accept any employment
in any capacity, including as a consultant or expert in any private dental
institution whose matter has been dealt with by such Chairperson or Member or
Secretary.

### 7. Removal of Chairperson and Member of Commission

(1)The Central Government may, by order, remove from office the Chairperson or
any other Member, who—(a)has been adjudged an insolvent; or(b)has been
convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of the Central Government,
involves moral turpitude; or(c)has become physically or mentally incapable of
acting as a Member; or(d)is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a
competent court; or(e)has acquired such financial or other interest as is
likely to affect prejudicially his functions as a Member; or(f)has so abused
his position as to render his continuance in office prejudicial to public
interest.(2)No Member shall be removed under clauses (e) and (f) of sub-
section (1) unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard
in the matter.

### 8. Appointment of Secretary, experts, professionals, officers and other
employees of Commission.

(1)There shall be a Secretariat for the Commission to be headed by a
Secretary, to be appointed by the Central Government in accordance with the
provisions of section 5.(2)The Secretary of the Commission shall be a person
of proven administrative capacity and integrity, possessing such
qualifications and experience as may be prescribed.(3)The Secretary shall be
appointed by the Central Government for a term of four years and shall not be
eligible for any extension or reappointment.Removal of Chairperson and Member
of Commission.Appointment of Secretary, experts, professionals, officers and
other employees of Commission.SEC.1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY
7(4)The Secretary shall also be the Member Secretary of each of the Autonomous
Boards constituted under section 16.(5)The Secretary shall discharge such
functions of the Commission, and of each of the Autonomous Boards constituted
under section 16, as may be specified by regulations.(6)The Commission may,
for the efficient discharge of its functions under this Act, appoint such
officers and other employees of the Commission, other than Secretary, as it
considers necessary, against the posts created by the Central Government on
the recommendation of the Commission.(7)The salaries and allowances payable
to, and other terms and conditions of service of the Secretary, officers and
other employees of the Commission shall be such as may be prescribed.(8)The
Commission may engage, in accordance with the procedure specified by
regulations, such number of experts, consultants and professionals of
integrity and outstanding ability, who have special knowledge and experience
in such fields, including dental education, public health, management, health
economics, quality assurance, patient advocacy, health research, science and
technology, administration, finance, accounts and law, as it deems necessary,
to assist the Commission in the discharge of its functions under this
Act:Provided that the Commission may, to facilitate global mobility and
employability of registered professionals, invite such number of experts and
domain specialists from a foreign country, as it deems necessary, who have
special knowledge of dental curriculum, practical training and pattern of
examination including licentiate examination of that country, to the meetings
of the Commission, in such manner as may be specified by regulations.

### 9. Meetings, etc., of Commission.

(1)The Commission shall meet at least once every quarter at such time and
place as may be appointed by the Chairperson.(2)The Chairperson shall preside
at the meeting of the Commission and if, for any reason, the Chairperson is
unable to attend the meeting of the Commission, any other Member, being the
President of an Autonomous Board, nominated by the Chairperson, shall preside
at the meeting.(3)Unless the procedure to be followed at the meetings of the
Commission is otherwise provided by regulations, one-half of the total number
of Members of the Commission including the Chairperson shall constitute the
quorum and all the acts of the Commission shall be decided by a majority of
the members present and voting and in the event of equality of votes, the
Chairperson, or in his absence, the President of the Autonomous Board
nominated under sub-section (2), shall have the casting vote.(4)The general
superintendence, direction and control of the administration of the Commission
shall vest in the Chairperson.(5)No act done by the Commission shall be
questioned on the ground of the existence of a vacancy in, or a defect in the
constitution of, the Commission.

### 10. Powers and functions of Commission

(1)The Commission shall, for ensuring coordinated and integrated development
of education and maintenance of the standards of delivery of services, take
all such steps, as it may think fit, and revise the same periodically, as may
be specified by regulations.(2)The Commission shall perform the following
functions, namely:—(a)lay down policies and regulate standards for the
governance of dental education, examination and training and make necessary
regulations in this behalf;(b)promote adoption of additional degrees or
diplomas, higher qualifications, including certification courses and
development of soft skills for advancement of career of the dentists and
dental auxiliaries;(c)regulate dental institutions, dental researches,
dentists and dental auxiliaries and make necessary regulations in this
behalf;(d)ensure that all admissions to undergraduate dental course, namely,
Bachelor of Dental Surgery in all dental institutions which are governed by
the provisions of this Act or any other law for the time being in force, shall
be through National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test conducted under section 14
of the National Medical CommissionAct, 2019;(e)to identify and regulate any
other category of dental auxiliaries;(f)to collaborate with industry and
institutions for use of cutting-edge technology and hybrid education to drive
innovation and research in the field of dental education and examinations and
make necessary regulations in this behalf;(g)assess the requirements in dental
healthcare, including human resources for dental health, career progression of
dentists and dental auxiliaries and healthcare infrastructure and develop a
road map for meeting such requirements;(h)promote, coordinate and frame
guidelines and lay down policies by making necessary regulations for the
proper functioning of the Commission, the Autonomous Boards, the Dental
Advisory Council, the State Dental Councils and the Joint Dental
Councils;(i)ensure coordination among the Autonomous Boards;(j)take such
measures, as may be necessary, to ensure compliance by the State Dental
Councils of the guidelines framed and regulations made under this Act for
their effective functioning under this Act;(k)exercise appellate jurisdiction
with respect to the decisions of the Autonomous Boards;(l)promote preventive
dental care services;(m)lay down policies and codes to ensure observance of
professional ethics in dental profession and to promote ethical conduct during
the provision of care by dentists;(n)frame guidelines for determination of
fees and all other charges in respect of fifty per cent. of seats in private
dental institutions and deemed to be Universities which are governed under the
provisions of this Act;(o)take measures to enhance skills and competency of
registered professionals for facilitating global mobility;(p)exercise such
other powers and perform such other functions as may be prescribed.(3)The
Commission may delegate such of its functions (except the power to make
regulations) to the Autonomous Boards as it may deem necessary.(4)The
Commission may give such directions, as may deem necessary, to a State Council
for carrying out all or any of the provisions of this Act and the State
Council shall comply with such directions.(5)All orders and decisions of the
Commission shall be authenticated by the signature of the Secretary.(6)The
Commission may delegate such of its powers of administrative and financial
matters, as it deems fit, to the Secretary.(7)The Commission may constitute
sub-committees and delegate such of its powers to such sub-committees as may
be necessary to enable them to accomplish specific tasks.

## Chapter III

DENTAL ADVISORY COUNCIL

### 11. Constitution and composition of Dental Advisory Council.

(1)The Central Government shall constitute an advisory body to be known as the
Dental Advisory Council.(2)The Council shall consist of a Chairperson and the
following members, namely:—(a)the Chairperson of the Commission shall be the
ex officio Chairperson of the Council;(b)every ex officio member of the
Commission appointed under sub-section (3) of section 4, and the part-time
members appointed under clauses (a) and (d) of sub-section (4) of that
section, shall be the ex officio members of the Council;(c)one member to
represent each State, who is the Dean or Principal of a Government Dental
College in that State, to be nominated by that State Government:Provided that
the term of office of the member shall continue as long as he holds the post
by virtue of which he has been nominated, subject to a maximum of four
years;(d)one member to represent each Union territory, who is the Dean or
Principal of a Government Dental College in that Union territory, to be
nominated by the Ministry of Home Affairs in the Government of India:Provided
that the term of office of the member shall continue as long as he holds the
post by virtue of which he has been nominated, subject to a maximum of four
years:Provided further that if there is no Government Dental College in any
State or Union territory, the State Government or in case of a Union
territory, the Ministry of Home Affairs shall nominate a member possessing
such dental qualifications and experience, as may be prescribed;(e)one member
to represent each State and each Union territory from amongst the members of
the State Dental Council, to be nominated by that State Dental Council for a
term of four years and shall not be eligible for any extension or
reappointment:Provided that if such member ceases to be a member of the State
Dental Council before the completion of his four year term, then, he shall
cease to be a member of the Dental Advisory Council as well, and in such an
eventuality, the State Dental Council shall nominate another member to
represent that State or Union territory, as the case may be, for the remaining
term of office of the member in whose place he is so nominated;(f)the
Chairman, University Grants Commission;(g)the Director, National Assessment
and Accreditation Council;(h)three members to be nominated by the Central
Government from amongst persons holding the post of Director in the
institutions of national importance or Vice-Chancellor in the
Universities;(i)Director General of Indian Council for Medical Research or his
nominee not below the rank of Scientist 'H';(j)Director General Dental
Services,Army Dental Corps or nominee

### 12. Functions of Dental Advisory Council

(1)The Council shall be the primary platform through which the States and
Union territories may put forth their views and concerns before the Commission
and help in shaping the overall agenda, policy and action relating to dental
education and training.(2)The Council shall advise the Commission on measures
to determine and maintain, and to coordinate maintenance of, the minimum
standards in all matters relating to dental education, training and
research.(3)The Council shall advise the Commission on measures to enhance
equitable access to dental education and uniform system of examination.

### 13. Meetings of Dental Advisory Council

(1)The Council shall meet at least once a year at such time and place as may
be decided by the Chairperson.(2)The Chairperson shall preside at the meeting
of the Council and if for any reason the Chairperson is unable to attend a
meeting of the Council, such other member as nominated by the Chairperson
shall preside over the meeting.(3)Unless the procedure is otherwise provided
by regulations, fifty per cent. of the members of the Council including the
Chairperson shall form the quorum and all acts of the Council shall be decided
by a majority of the members present and voting.

## Chapter IV- NATIONAL EXAMINATION

### 14. National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test.

(1)All admissions to the undergraduate course of Bachelor of Dental Surgery in
all dental institutions which are governed by the provisions of this Act or
any other law for the time being in force shall be through National
Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test conducted under section 14 of the National
Medical Commission Act, 2019.(2)Till such time as the National Exit Test
(Dental) becomes operational under section 15, all admissions to the
postgraduate courses of Master of Dental Surgery in all dental institutions
which are governed by the provisions of this Act or any other law for the time
being in force shall be through National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (MDS)
to be conducted by the designated authority appointed by the Central
Government.(3)The Commission shall specify by regulations the manner of
conducting common counselling by the designated authority for admission to
undergraduate and postgraduate seats in all the dental institutions which are
governed by the provisions of this Act:Provided that the designated authority
appointed or nominated by the Central Government shall conduct the common
counselling for all India seats and the designated authority of the State
Government shall conduct the common counselling for the seats at the State
level.

## Chapter V  
NATIONAL EXIT TEST (DENTAL)

### 15. National Exit Test (Dental).

(1)A common final year undergraduate dental examination, to be known as the
'National Exit Test (Dental)' shall be held for granting licence to practice
dentistry as dentists and for enrolment in the State Register or the National
Register, as the case may be.(2)The Commission shall conduct the National Exit
Test (Dental) through such designated authority and in such manner as may be
specified by regulations.(3)The National Exit Test (Dental) shall become
operational on such date, within three years from the date of commencement of
this Act, as may be appointed by the Central Government, by
notification.(4)Any person with a foreign dental qualification shall have to
qualify National Exit Test (Dental) for the purpose of obtaining licence to
practice dentistry as dentist and for enrolment in the State Register or the
National Register, as the case may be, in such manner as may be specified by
regulations.(5)The National Exit Test (Dental) shall be the basis for
admission to the postgraduate dental education in dental institutions which
are governed under the provisions of this Act Meetings of Dental Advisory
Council.National Eligibility-cum- Entrance Test.(6)The Commission shall
specify by regulations the manner of conducting common counselling by the
designated authority for admission to the postgraduate seats in the dental
institutions referred to in sub-section (5).(7)The designated authority of the
Central Government shall conduct the common counselling for All India seats
and the designated authority of the State Government shall conduct the common
counselling for the seats at the State level.

## Chapter VI  
AUTONOMOUS BOARDS

### 16. Constitution of Autonomous Boards.

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification, constitute the following
Autonomous Boards, under the overall supervision of the Commission, to perform
the functions assigned to such Boards under this Act, namely:—(a)the Under-
Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board;(b)the Dental Assessment and
Rating Board; and(c)the Ethics and Dental Registration Board.(2)Every
Autonomous Board shall carry out its functions under this Act in such manner
as may be specified by regulations.

### 17. Composition of Autonomous Boards.

(1)Every Autonomous Board shall consist of a President, not more than two
whole-time Members and not more than two part-time Members.(2)The President of
each Autonomous Board, two whole-time Members and one part-time Member of the
Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board, and one whole-time
Member and one part-time Member of the Dental Assessment and Rating Board and
of the Ethics and Dental Registration Board, shall be persons of outstanding
ability, proven administrative capacity and integrity, possessing a
postgraduate degree in any discipline of dentistry from any University and
having hands-on clinical experience of not less than fifteen years, out of
which at least seven years shall be as a leader in the area of dental
education.(3)The second whole-time Member of the Dental Assessment and Rating
Board shall be a person of outstanding ability and integrity, possessing a
postgraduate degree in any of the disciplines of management, quality
assurance, law or science and technology from any University, having
experience of not less than fifteen years in such field, out of which at least
seven years shall be as a leader.(4)The second whole-time Member of the Ethics
and Dental Registration Board shall be a person of outstanding ability who has
demonstrated public record of work on dental or medical ethics or a person of
outstanding ability possessing a postgraduate degree in any of the disciplines
of quality assurance, public health, law or patient advocacy from any
University and having experience of not less than fifteen years in such field,
out of which at least seven years shall be as a leader.(5)The second part-time
Member of the Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board, the
Dental Assessment and Rating Board and the Ethics and Dental Registration
Board shall be chosen from amongst the Members appointed under clause (c) of
sub-section (4) of section 4 in such manner as may be prescribed.

### 18. Search-cum-Selection Committee for appointment of President and
Members

The Central Government shall appoint the President and Members of the
Autonomous Boards, except Members referred to in sub-section (5) of section
17, on the recommendations made by the Search-cum-Selection Committee
constituted under section 5 in accordance with the procedure specified in that
section.

### 19. Term of office and conditions of service of President and Members.

(1)The President and Members (other than part-time Members) of each Autonomous
Board shall hold the office for a term not exceeding four years and shall not
be eligible for any extension or reappointment:Provided that part-time Members
of each Autonomous Board shall hold the office for a term of two
years:Provided further that the President or a Member shall cease to hold
office after attaining the age of seventy years.(2)The salaries and allowances
payable to, and other terms and conditions of service of the President and
Members (other than part-time Members) of an Autonomous Board shall be such as
may be prescribed:Provided that part-time Members of each Autonomous Board
shall be entitled for such allowances as may be prescribed.(3)The provisions
of sub-sections (3), (5), (6) and (7) of section 6 relating to other terms and
conditions of service of, and section 7 relating to removal from the office
of, the Chairperson and Members of the Commission shall also be applicable to
the President and Members of the Autonomous Boards.

### 20.\- Advisory committees of experts.

(1)Each Autonomous Board, except the Ethics and Dental Registration Board,
shall be assisted by such advisory committees of experts as may be constituted
by the Commission for the efficient discharge of the functions of such Boards
under this Act:Provided that the advisory committee for the Under-Graduate and
Post-Graduate Dental Education Board shall also have at least one member from
amongst personnel of each category of the dental auxiliaries to be nominated
by the Chairperson of the Commission, in such manner as may be specified by
regulations.(2)The Ethics and Dental Registration Board shall be assisted by
such ethics committees of experts as may be constituted by the Commission for
the efficient discharge of the functions of that Board under this Act.

### 21. Staff of Autonomous Boards.

The experts, consultants, professionals, officers and other employees
appointed under section 8 shall be made available to the Autonomous Boards in
such number, and in such manner, as may be specified by regulations by the
Commission:Provided that the experts and domain specialists from foreign
countries invited by the Commission under sub-section (8) of section 8 shall
also be made available to the Autonomous Boards in such number and manner, as
may be specified by regulations.

### 22. Meetings, etc., of Autonomous Boards.

(1)Every Autonomous Board shall meet at least once every month, or earlier, as
the case may be, at such time and place as it may appoint.(2)All decisions of
the Autonomous Boards shall be made by majority of votes of the President and
Members.(3)Subject to the provisions of section 28, a person who is aggrieved
by any decision of an Autonomous Board may prefer an appeal to the Commission
against such decision within thirty days of the communication of such
decision; and the Commission shall, after giving an opportunity of being
heard, dispose of the appeal within a period of sixty days from the date of
such appeal:Provided that the President of the concerned Board shall not
attend proceedings of the hearing of the appeal made against the decision of
his Board.

### 23.\- Powers of Autonomous Boards and delegation of powers.

(1)The President of each Autonomous Board shall have such administrative and
financial powers as may be delegated to it by the Commission to enable such
Board to function efficiently.(2)The President of an Autonomous Board may
further delegate any of his powers to a Member or an officer of that Board,
and such person shall exercise his powers subject to the general control,
supervision and direction of the President.

### 24. Powers and functions of Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental
Education Board.

(1)The Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board shall perform
the following functions, namely: —(a)determine minimum requirements and
standards of dental education at undergraduate level and postgraduate level
for dentists and dental auxiliaries in accordance with the regulations made
under this Act, and oversee all aspects relating thereto;(b)develop competency
based dynamic curriculum at undergraduate level and postgraduate level for
dentists and dental auxiliaries for addressing the needs of basic dental care
services, including public dentistry and community dental care, in accordance
with the provisions of regulations made under this Act with a view to develop
appropriate skill, knowledge, attitude, values and ethics to provide dental
care, impart dental education and conduct dental research;(c)frame guidelines
for setting up of dental institutions for imparting undergraduate courses and
postgraduate courses for dentists and dental auxiliaries, having regard to the
needs of the country and the global norms, in accordance with the regulations
made under this Act;(d)determine the minimum requirements and standards for
conducting courses and examinations at undergraduate level and postgraduate
level for dentists and dental auxiliaries in dental institutions, having
regard to the needs of creativity at local levels, including designing of some
courses by individual institutions, in accordance with provisions of the
regulations made under this Act;(e)determine standards and norms for
infrastructure, faculty and quality of education in dental institutions
providing undergraduate and postgraduate dental education for dentists and
dental auxiliaries in accordance with provisions of the regulations made under
this Act;(f)facilitate development and training of faculty members teaching
undergraduate courses for dentists and dental auxiliaries;(g)facilitate
research and the international student and faculty exchange programme relating
to undergraduate and postgraduate dental education;(h)specify norms for
compulsory annual disclosures, electronically or otherwise, by dental
institutions, in respect of their functions which have a bearing on the
interest of all stakeholders, including students, faculty, State Dental
Councils, Joint Dental Council, the Commission and the Central
Government;(i)grant recognition to a dental qualification at the undergraduate
level and postgraduate level for dentists and dental auxiliaries.(2)The Under-
Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board shall, in the discharge of
its duties, make such recommendations to, and seek such directions from, the
Commission, as it deems necessary.

### 25. Powers and functions of Dental Assessment and Rating Board

(1)The Dental Assessment and Rating Board shall perform the following
functions, namely:—(a)determine the procedure for assessing and rating the
dental institutions for their compliance with the standards laid down by the
Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board in accordance with the
regulations made under this Act;(b)grant permission for establishment of a new
dental institution, or to start any postgraduate course or to increase number
of seats, in accordance with the provisions of section 28;Powers and functions
of Under- Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board.(c)conduct
inspections of dental institutions using Information Technology based tools or
otherwise for assessing and rating such institutions in accordance with the
regulations made under this Act:Provided that the Dental Assessment and Rating
Board may, if it deems necessary, hire and authorise any other third party
agency or accreditation body or persons for carrying out inspections of dental
institutions for assessing and rating such institutions:Provided further that
where inspection of dental institutions is carried out by such third party
agency or accreditation body or persons authorised by the Dental Assessment
and Rating Board, it shall be obligatory on such institutions to provide
access to such agency or person;(d)conduct, or where it deems necessary,
empanel independent rating agencies to conduct, inspection to assess and rate
all dental institutions, within such period of their opening, and every year
thereafter, at such time, and in such manner, as may be specified by
regulations:Provided that the Dental Assessment and Rating Board may conduct
evaluation and assessment of any dental institution at any time, either
directly or through any other expert having integrity and experience of dental
profession and without any prior notice and assess and evaluate the
performance, standards and benchmarks of such dental institution;(e)make
available on its website or in public domain the assessment and ratings of
dental institutions at regular intervals in accordance with the regulations
made under this Act;(f)take such measures, including issuing warning,
imposition of monetary penalty, reducing intake or stoppage of admissions and
recommending to the Commission for withdrawal of recognition, against a dental
institution for failure to maintain the minimum essential standards specified
by the Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board, in accordance
with the regulations made under this Act:Provided that the monetary penalty so
imposed shall not be less than one-tenth, and not more than five times, of the
total amount charged, by whatever name called, by such institution for one
full batch of students of undergraduate course or postgraduate course, as the
case may be:Provided further that the Dental Assessment and Rating Board shall
consult the Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board before
recommending to the Commission for withdrawal of recognition of a dental
institution that fails to maintain the minimum essential standards specified
by the Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board.(2)The Dental
Assessment and Rating Board shall, in the discharge of its functions, make
such recommendations to, and seek such directions from, the Commission, as it
deems necessary.

### 26. Powers and functions of Ethics and Dental Registration Board

(1)The Ethics and Dental Registration Board shall perform the following
functions, namely:—(a)maintain an online and live National Registers of all
licensed dentists and dental auxiliaries in accordance with the provisions of
section 30;(b)regulate the standards, scope of practice, professional conduct
and promote dental ethics in accordance with the regulations made under this
Act:Provided that the Ethics and Dental Registration Board shall ensure
compliance of the code of professional and ethical conduct through the State
Dental Council in a case where such State Dental Council has been conferred
power to take disciplinary actions in respect of professional or ethical
misconduct by dentists under respective State Acts;(c)approve or reject the
application for registration or suspend or cancel registration or licence
granted to dentists and dental auxiliaries on grounds of professional and
ethical misconduct;(d)develop mechanisms to have continuous interaction with
State Dental Councils to effectively promote and regulate the conduct of
dentists and professionals;(e)exercise appellate jurisdiction under sub-
section (5) of section 29 with respect to the actions taken by a State Dental
Council.(2)The Ethics and Dental Registration Board shall, in the discharge of
its duties, make such recommendations to, and seek such directions from, the
Commission, as it deems necessary.

### 27. Permission for establishment of new dental college or to start
postgraduate course or to increase number of seats.

(1)No person shall establish a new dental college or start any postgraduate
course or increase number of seats without obtaining prior permission of the
Dental Assessment and Rating Board:Provided that the Dental Assessment and
Rating Board shall consult the Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental
Education Board before approving or disapproving such permission.(2)For the
purposes of obtaining permission under sub-section (1), a person may submit a
scheme to the Dental Assessment and Rating Board in such form, containing such
particulars, accompanied by such fee, and in such manner, as may be specified
by regulations.(3)The Dental Assessment and Rating Board shall, having due
regard to the criteria specified in section 28, consider the scheme received
under sub-section (2) and either approve or disapprove such scheme within a
period of six months from the date of such receipt:Provided that the Dental
Assessment and Rating Board shall consult the Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate
Dental Education Board before approving such scheme:Provided further that
before disapproving the scheme, an opportunity to rectify the defects, if any,
shall be given to the person concerned.(4)Where a scheme is approved under
sub-section (3), such approval shall be the permission under sub-section (1)
to establish new dental college or to start any postgraduate course or to
increase number of seats, as the case may be.(5)Where a scheme is disapproved
under sub-section (3), or where no decision is taken within six months of
submitting a scheme under sub-section (1), the person concerned may prefer an
appeal to the Commission for approval of the scheme within fifteen days of
such disapproval or, as the case may be, lapse of six months, in such manner
as may be specified by regulations.(6)The Commission shall decide the appeal
received under sub-section (5) within a period of sixty days from the date of
receipt of the appeal and in case the Commission approves the scheme, such
approval shall be the permission under sub-section (1) to establish a new
dental college or to start any postgraduate course or to increase number of
seats, as the case may be, and in case the Commission disapproves the Scheme,
or fails to give its decision within the specified period, the person
concerned may prefer a second appeal to the Central Government within thirty
days of communication of such disapproval or, as the case may be, lapse of
specified period.(7)The Dental Assessment and Rating Board may conduct
evaluation and assessment of any dental institution at any time, either
directly or through any other expert having integrity and experience in dental
profession, without any prior notice and assess and evaluate the performance,
standards and benchmarks of such dental institution.Explanation.—For the
purposes of this section, the term "person" includes a University, trust or
any other association of persons or body of individuals, but does not include
the Central Government.

### 28. Criteria for approving or disapproving scheme.

While approving or disapproving a scheme under section 27, the Dental
Assessment and Rating Board, or the Commission, as the case may be, shall take
into consideration the following criteria, namely:—(a)adequacy of financial
resources;(b)whether adequate academic faculty and other necessary facilities
have been provided to ensure proper functioning of dental college or
undertaken to be provided within the time-limit specified in the
scheme;(c)whether adequate hospital facilities have been provided or
undertaken to be provided within the time-limit specified in the
scheme;(d)such other factors as may be specified by regulations.

## Chapter VII  
STATE DENTAL COUNCIL OR JOINT DENTAL COUNCIL

### 29. State Dental Council or Joint Dental Council.

(1)The State Government shall, within one year of the commencement of thisAct,
take necessary steps to establish a State Dental Council having the following
composition, namely:—(a)a dentist of outstanding ability, proven
administrative capacity and integrity and possessing a postgraduate degree in
any discipline of dentistry from any University or institute of national
importance with experience of not less than twenty years in the field of
dentistry, out of which at least ten years shall be as a leader, to be
appointed by the State Government—Chairperson;(b)one representative of the
department of medical education or health services in the State Government not
below the rank of Additional Director—Member, ex officio;(c)four persons to be
elected by dentists registered in the State Register from among themselves, in
such manner as may be prescribed by the State Government—Members;(d)two
persons, having experience of not less than ten years in any field of
dentistry from any Government Dental College in that State, to be nominated by
the State Government—Members:Provided that if the State does not have a
Government Dental College, the State Government may nominate one of the
senior-most dentist with minimum of ten years'service in any Government
hospital or in the dental department of a Government Medical College;(e)two
persons having experience of not less than ten years in any field of dentistry
from any recognised private dental college in the State, to be nominated by
the State Government—Members:Provided that if the State does not have a
private dental college, the State Government may nominate one of the senior-
most dentist with minimum of ten years'service in any private hospital or in
the dental department of a private medical college;(f)two persons of eminence
having experience of not less than ten years in any field of dentistry, to be
nominated by the State Government—Members.(2)The State Dental Council shall be
a body corporate by the name aforesaid, having perpetual succession and a
common seal, with power to acquire, hold and dispose of property, both movable
and immovable, and to contract and shall by the same name sue or be
sued.(3)The Chairperson of the State Dental Council and Members elected or
nominated under clauses (c), (d), (e) and (f) of sub-section (1) shall hold
office for a term not exceeding four years from the date on which they enter
upon their office and shall not be eligible for extension or
reappointment:Provided that such person shall cease to hold office after
attaining the age of seventy years.(4)Where a StateAct confers power upon the
State Dental Council to take disciplinary actions in respect of any
professional or ethical misconduct by a registered dentist or professional,
the State Dental Council shall act in accordance with the regulations made,
and the guidelines framed, under this Act:Provided that till such time as a
State Dental Council is established in a State, the Ethics and Dental
Registration Board shall receive the complaints and grievances relating to any
professional or ethical misconduct against a registered dentist or
professional in that State in accordance with such procedure as may be
specified by regulations:Provided further that the Ethics and Dental
Registration Board or the State Dental Council, as the case may be, shall give
an opportunity of being heard to the dentist or professional concerned before
taking any action, including imposition of any monetary penalty against such
person.(5)A registered professional or any other person who is aggrieved by
any action taken by a State Dental Council under sub-section (4) may prefer an
appeal to the Ethics and Dental Registration Board within sixty days against
such action, and the Ethics and Dental Registration Board shall decide on the
appeal within a period of sixty days and the decision, if any, of the Ethics
and Dental Registration Board thereupon shall be binding on the State Dental
Council, unless a second appeal is preferred under sub-section (6).(6)A
registered professional or any other person who is aggrieved by the decision
of the Ethics and Dental Registration Board may prefer an appeal to the
Commission within sixty days of communication of such decision and the
Commission shall dispose of such appeal within a period of ninety days from
the date of that appeal.(7)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in this section, two or more States Governments may enter into an agreement to
constitute a Joint Dental Council with representation of the participating
States, not exceeding the composition specified in sub-section (1), to be in
force for such period and subject to renewal for such further period, as may
be specified in the agreement.Explanation.—For the purposes of this
Act,—(a)"State" includes Union territory and the expressions "State
Government"and "State Dental Council", in relation to a Union territory, shall
respectively mean the "Central Government" and "Union Territory Dental
Council";(b)the expression "professional or ethical misconduct" includes any
act of commission or omission as may be specified by regulations.

## Chapter VIII  
NATIONAL REGISTER AND STATE REGISTER

### 30. National Register and State Register

(1)The Ethics and Dental Registration Board shall maintain an online and live
National Register for Dentists containing the name, address, all recognised
qualifications possessed by a licensed dentist and such other particulars as
may be specified by regulations.(2)The Ethics and Dental Registration Board
shall also maintain a separate online and live National Register for each
category of dental auxiliaries, containing the name, address, recognised
qualifications possessed by the dental auxiliaries and such other particulars
as may be specified by regulations.(3)The National Register referred to in
sub-sections (1) and (2) shall be maintained in such form, including in
electronic or digital form and in such manner as may be specified by
regulations.(4)The manner in which a name or qualification may be added to, or
removed from, the National Register and the grounds for removal thereof, shall
be such as may be specified by regulations.(5)The National Register shall be a
public document within the meaning of section 74 of the Indian Evidence Act,
1872.(6)The National Register shall be made available to the public in form of
a digital portal accessible on the website of the Ethics and Dental
Registration Board in such manner and form as may be specified by
regulations.(7)Every State Dental Council shall maintain and regularly update
the State Register for Dentists and the State Register for dental auxiliaries
in the specified electronic format and supply a physical copy of the same to
the Ethics and Dental Registration Board within three months of the
commencement of this Act.(8)The Ethics and Dental Registration Board shall
ensure electronic synchronisation of the National Register and the State
Registers in such manner that any change in one register is automatically
reflected in the other register.

### 31. Rights of persons to have licence to practice and to be enrolled in
National Register or State Register and their obligations thereto.

(1)Any person who qualifies the National Exit Test (Dental) held under section
15 shall be granted a licence to practice dentistry and shall have his name
and qualifications enrolled in the National Register or a State Register, as
the case may be:Provided that a person who has been registered in the Indian
Dental Register maintained under the DentistsAct, 1948 prior to the coming
into force of thisAct and before the National Exit Test (Dental) becomes
operational under sub-section (3) of section 15, shall be deemed to have been
registered under this Act and be enrolled in the National Register maintained
under this Act.(2)No person who has obtained dental qualification from a
dental institution established in any country outside India and is recognised
as a dentist in that country, shall, after the commencement of this Act and
the National Exit Test (Dental) becomes operational under sub-section (3) of
section 15, be enrolled in the National Register unless he qualifies the
National Exit Test (Dental).(3)When a person whose name is entered in the
State Register or the National Register, as the case may be, obtains any
title, diploma or other qualification for proficiency in sciences or public
health or dentistry which is a recognised dental qualification under section
33 or section 34 or section 35, as the case may be, he shall be entitled to
have such title, diploma or qualification entered against his name in the
State Register or the National Register, as the case may be, in such manner as
may be specified by regulations.

### 32. Bar to Practice

(1)No person other than a person who is enrolled in the State Register or the
National Register, as the case may be, shall—(a)be allowed to practice
dentistry as a qualified dentist;(b)hold office as a dentist or any other
office, by whatever name called, which is meant to be held by a dentist;(c)be
entitled to sign or authenticate a medical or fitness certificate or any other
certificate relating to dentistry, required by any law to be signed or
authenticated by a duly qualified dentist;(d)be entitled to give evidence at
any inquest or in any court of law as an expert under section 45 of the Indian
Evidence Act, 1872 on any matter relating to dentistry:Provided that a foreign
citizen who is enrolled in his country as a dentist in accordance with the law
regulating the registration of dentists in that country may be permitted
temporary registration in India for such period and in such manner as may be
specified by regulations.(2)Any person who contravenes any of the provisions
of this section shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to five lakh rupees or with
both.

## Chapter IX  
RECOGNITION OF DENTAL QUALIFICATIONS

### 33. Recognition of dental qualifications granted by Universities or dental
institutions in India.

(1)The dental qualification granted by any University or dental institution in
India shall be listed and maintained by the Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate
Dental Education Board in such manner as may be specified by regulations and
such dental qualification shall be a recognised dental qualification for the
purposes of this Act.(2)Any University or dental institution in India which
grants an undergraduate or postgraduate dental qualification not included in
the list maintained by the Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education
Board shall apply to that Board for granting recognition to such
qualification.(3)The Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board
shall examine the application for grant of recognition to a dental
qualification within a period of six months in such manner as may be specified
by regulations.(4)Where the Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education
Board decides to grant recognition to a dental qualification, it shall include
such dental qualification in the list maintained by it and also specify the
date of effect of such recognition.(5)Where the Under-Graduate and Post-
Graduate Dental Education Board decides not to grant recognition to a dental
qualification, the University or the dental institution concerned may prefer
an appeal to the Commission for grant of recognition within sixty days of the
communication of such decision, in such manner as may be specified by
regulations.(6)The Commission shall examine the appeal received under sub-
section (5) within sixty days from the date of filing of appeal and after
giving an opportunity of being heard, pass such orders, as it thinks
fit.(7)Where the Commission decides not to grant recognition to the dental
qualification or fails to take a decision within the specified period, the
University or the dental institution concerned may prefer a second appeal to
the Central Government within thirty days of the communication of such
decision or lapse of the specified period, as the case may be.(8)All dental
qualifications which have been recognised before the date of commencement of
this Act and are included in Part I and Part II of the Schedule to the
Dentists Act, 1948, shall also be recognised dental qualifications for the
purposes of this Act, and shall be listed and maintained by the Under-Graduate
and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board in such manner as may be specified by
regulations.

### 34. Recognition of dental qualifications granted by dental institutions
outside India.

(1)Any primary dental qualification or higher dental qualification which is
recognised for enrolment as a dentist in a foreign country shall, in respect
of a person who qualifies the National Exit Test (Dental) for primary dental
qualification, or the Screening Test for higher dental qualification, be
deemed to be a recognised dental qualification for the purposes of this
Act.(2)The Commission shall, for the purposes of sub-section (1), conduct
Screening Test for higher dental qualification through such designated
authority, and in such manner, as may be specified by regulations.(3)All
dental qualifications which have been recognised before the date of
commencement of this Act and are included in Part III of the Schedule to the
Dentists Act, 1948, shall also be recognised dental qualifications for the
purposes of this Act, and shall be listed and maintained by the Commission in
such manner as may be specified by regulations.

### 35. Recognition of dental qualifications granted by statutory or other
body in India.

(1)The dental qualifications granted by any statutory or other dental body in
India which are covered by the categories listed in the Schedule shall be
recognised dental qualifications for the purposes of this Act.(2)The Central
Government may, on the recommendation of the Commission, and having regard to
the objects of this Act, by notification, add to, or, as the case may be, omit
from, the Schedule any categories of dental qualifications granted by a
statutory or other body in India and on such addition, or as the case may be,
omission, the dental qualifications granted by such statutory or other body in
India shall be, or shall cease to be, recognised dental qualifications for the
purposes of this Act.

### 36. Withdrawal of recognition granted to dental qualification granted by
dental institutions in India.

(1)Where, upon receiving the recommendation from the Dental Assessment and
Rating Board under section 25, or otherwise, if the Commission is of the
opinion that—(a)the courses of study and examination to be undergone in, or
the proficiency required from candidates at any examination held by, a
University or dental institution do not conform to the standards specified by
the Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board; or(b)the
standards and norms for infrastructure, faculty and quality of education in
dental institution as determined by the Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate
Dental Education Board are not adhered to by any University or dental
institution, and such University or dental institution has failed to take
necessary corrective action to maintain specified minimum standards, the
Commission may initiate action in accordance with the provisions of sub-
section (2):Provided that the Commission shall, before taking any action for
suo motu withdrawal of recognition granted to the dental qualification awarded
by a University or dental institution, impose penalty in accordance with the
provisions of clause (f) of sub-section (1) of section 25.(2)The Commission
shall, after making such further inquiry as it deems fit, and after holding
consultations with the concerned State Government and the authority of the
concerned University or dental institution, comes to the conclusion that the
recognition granted to a dental qualification ought to be withdrawn, it may,
by order, withdraw recognition granted to such dental qualification and direct
the Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board to amend the
entries against the University or dental institution concerned in the list
maintained by that Board to the effect that the recognition granted to such
dental qualification is withdrawn with effect from the date specified in that
order.

### 37. De-recognition of dental qualifications granted by dental institutions
outside India.

Where, after verification with the authority in any country outside India, the
Commission is of the opinion that a recognised dental qualification granted by
dental institutions outside India which is included in the list maintained by
it is to be de-recognised, it may, by order, de-recognise such dental
qualification and remove it from the list maintained by the Commission with
effect from the date of such order.

## Chapter X- GRANTS, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT

### 38. Grants by Central Government.

The Central Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law
in this behalf, make to the Commission grants of such sums of money as the
Central Government may think fit.

### 39. National Dental Commission Fund.

(1)There shall be constituted a fund to be called "the National Dental
Commission Fund" which shall form part of the public account of India and
there shall be credited thereto—(a)all fees, penalties and charges received by
the Commission and the Autonomous Boards;(b)all sums received by the
Commission from such other sources as may be decided by it.(2)The Fund shall
be applied for making payment towards—(a)the salaries and allowances payable
to the Chairperson, Members appointed or nominated under clauses(a)and (d) of
sub-section (4) of section 4 and the Secretary of the Commission, the
Presidents and Members of the Autonomous Boards and the administrative
expenses including the salaries and allowances payable to the officers and
other employees of the Commission and Autonomous Boards;(b)the expenses
incurred in carrying out the provisions of this Act, including in connection
with the discharge of the functions of the Commission and the Autonomous
Boards.

### 40.\- Audit and accounts.

(1)The Commission shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records
and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form as may be prescribed,
in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.(2)The
accounts of the Commission shall be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India at such intervals as may be specified by him and any
expenditure incurred in connection with such audit shall be payable by the
Commission to the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.(3)The Comptroller
and Auditor-General of India and any other persons appointed by him in
connection with the audit of the accounts of the Commission shall have the
same rights and privileges and authority in connection with such audit as the
Comptroller and Auditor-General generally has in connection with the audit of
Government accounts and in particular, shall have the right to demand the
production of, and complete access to, records, books, accounts, connected
vouchers and other documents and papers and to inspect the office of the
Commission.(4)The accounts of the Commission as certified by the Comptroller
andAuditor-General of India or any other person appointed by him in this
behalf, together with the audit report thereon, shall be forwarded annually by
the Commission to the Central Government which shall cause the same to be
laid, as soon as may be after it is received, before each House of Parliament.

### 41.\- Furnishing of returns and reports to Central Government.

(1)The Commission shall furnish to the Central Government, at such time, in
such form and in such manner, as may be prescribed or as the Central
Government may direct, such reports and statements, containing such
particulars in regard to any matter under the jurisdiction of the Commission,
as the Central Government may, from time to time, require.(2)The Commission
shall prepare, once every year, in such form and at such time as may be
prescribed, an annual report, giving a summary of its activities during the
previous year and copies of the report shall be forwarded to the Central
Government.(3)A copy of the report received under sub-section (2) shall be
laid by the Central Government, as soon as may be after it is received, before
each House of Parliament.

## Chapter XI  
MISCELLANEOUS

### 42. Power of Central Government to give directions to Commission and
Autonomous Boards.

(1)Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this Act, the Commission
and the Autonomous Boards shall, in exercise of their powers and discharge of
their functions under thisAct, be bound by such directions on questions of
policy as the Central Government may give in writing to them from time to
time:Provided that the Commission and theAutonomous Boards shall, as far as
practicable, be given an opportunity to express their views before any
direction is given under this sub-section.(2)The decision of the Central
Government as to whether a question is one of policy or not shall be final.

### 43. Power of Central Government to give directions to State Governments.

(1)The Central Government may give such directions on questions of policy, as
it may deem necessary, to a State Government for carrying out all or any of
the provisions of this Act and the State Government shall comply with such
directions.(2)The decision of the Central Government as to whether a question
is one of policy or not shall be final.

### 44.\- Information to be furnished by Commission and publication thereof.

(1)The Commission shall furnish such reports, copies of its minutes, abstracts
of its accounts, and other information to the Central Government as that
Government may require.(2)The Central Government may publish, in such manner
as it may think fit, the reports, minutes, abstracts of accounts and other
information furnished to it under sub-section (1).

### 45. Obligation of Universities and dental institutions.

Every University and dental institution governed under this Act shall maintain
a website at all times and display on its website all such information as may
be required by the Commission or an Autonomous Board, as the case may be.

### 46. Completion of courses of studies in dental institutions.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in thisAct, any student who was studying
for a degree, diploma or certificate in any dental institution immediately
before the commencement of this Act shall continue to so study and complete
his course for such degree, diploma or certificate, and such institution shall
continue to provide instructions and examination for such student in
accordance with the syllabus and studies as existed before such commencement,
and such student shall be deemed to have completed his course of study under
this Act and shall be awarded degree, diploma or certificate under this
Act.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where recognition
granted to a dental institution has lapsed, whether by efflux of time or by
its voluntary surrender or for any other reason whatsoever, such dental
institution shall continue to maintain and provide the minimum standards
required to be provided under thisAct till such time as all candidates who are
admitted in that dental institution complete their study.

### 47. Joint sittings of Commission with relevant regulatory bodies.

The Commission shall, at least once a year, hold a meeting with the National
Medical Commission, the Pharmacy Council of India, the Indian Nursing Council,
National Commission for Indian System of Medicine, the National Commission for
Homoeopathy and the National Commission for Allied and Healthcare Professions
or the corresponding National Regulator for regulating the above professions,
at such time and place as they mutually appoint, to enhance the interface
between different workforce categories in modern system of medicine, develop
consensus on issues and promote team based approach to healthcare delivery.

### 48. State Government to promote preventive and promotive dental care in
rural areas.

Every State Government may, for the purposes of addressing or promoting public
dentistry and community dental care in rural areas, take necessary measures to
enhance the capacity of the dental professionals.

### 49. Chairperson, Members, officers of Commission and of Autonomous Boards
to be public servants.

The Chairperson, Members, officers and other employees of the Commission and
the President, Members and officers and other employees of the Autonomous
Boards shall be deemed, when acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any
of the provisions of this Act, to be public servants within the meaning of
section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.

### 50. Protection of action taken in good faith.

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Government, the Commission or any Autonomous Board or a State Dental Council
or any Committee thereof, or any officer or other employee of the Government
or of the Commission acting under this Act for anything which is in good faith
done or intended to be done under this Act or the rules or regulations made
thereunder.

### 51. Cognizance of offences.

No court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this Act except
upon a complaint in writing made in this behalf by an officer authorised by
the Commission or the Ethics and Dental Registration Board or a State Dental
Council, as the case may be.

### 52. Power of Central Government to supersede Commission.

(1)If, at any time, the Central Government is of opinion that—(a)the
Commission is unable to discharge the functions and duties imposed on it by or
under the provisions of this Act; or(b)the Commission has persistently made
default in complying with any direction issued by the Central Government under
this Act or in the discharge of the functions and duties imposed on it by or
under the provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, by notification,
supersede the Commission for such period, not exceeding six months, as may be
specified in the notification:Provided that before issuing a notification
under this sub-section, the Central Government shall give a reasonable
opportunity to the Commission to show cause as to why it should not be
superseded and shall consider the explanations and objections, if any, of the
Commission.(2)Upon the publication of a notification under sub-section (1)
superseding the Commission,—(a)all the Members shall, as from the date of
supersession, vacate their offices as such;(b)all the powers, functions and
duties which may, by or under the provisions of this Act, be exercised or
discharged by or on behalf of the Commission, shall, until the Commission is
re-constituted under sub-section (3), be exercised and discharged by such
person or persons as the Central Government may direct;(c)all property owned
or controlled by the Commission shall, until the Commission is re-constituted
under sub-section (3), vest in the Central Government.(3)On the expiration of
the period of supersession specified in the notification issued under sub-
section (1), the Central Government may—(a)extend the period of supersession
for such further term not exceeding six months, as it may consider necessary;
or(b)re-constitute the Commission by fresh appointment and in such case the
Members who vacated their offices under clause (a) of sub-section (2) shall
not be deemed disqualified for appointment:Provided that the Central
Government may, at any time before the expiration of the period of
supersession, whether as originally specified under sub-section (1) or as
extended under this sub-section, take action under clause (b) of this sub-
section.(4)The Central Government shall cause a notification issued under sub-
section (1) and a full report of any action taken under this section and the
circumstances leading to such action to be laid before both Houses of
Parliament at the earliest.

### 53. Power of Central Government to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the
provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:—(a)the manner of appointing ten Members of the
Commission on rotational basis from amongst the nominees of the States and
Union territories in the Dental Advisory Council under clause (b) of sub-
section (4) of section 4;(b)the manner of appointing nine members of the
Commission under clause (c) of sub-section (4) of section 4;(c)the manner of
nominating two members from amongst dental faculties, under clause (d) of sub-
section (4) of section 4;(d)the salaries and allowances payable to, and other
terms and conditions of service of the Chairperson and Members under sub-
section (4) of section 6;(e)the form and the manner of making declaration
under sub-section (6) of section 6;(f)the qualifications and experience to be
possessed by the Secretary of the Commission under sub-section (2) of section
8;(g)the salaries and allowances payable to, and other terms and conditions of
service of the Secretary, officers and other employees of the Commission under
sub-section (7) of section 8;(h)the other powers and functions of the
Commission under clause (p) of sub-section (2) of section 10;(i)the dental
qualifications and experience to be possessed by a member under the second
proviso to clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 11;(j)the manner of
choosing second part-time Members under sub-section (5) of section 17;(k)the
salaries and allowances payable to, and other terms and conditions of service
of the President and Members of an Autonomous Board and the allowances payable
to part-time Members under sub-section (2) of section 19;(l)the form for
preparing annual statement of accounts under sub-section (1) of section
40;(m)the time within which, and the form and the manner in which, the reports
and statements shall be furnished by the Commission under sub-section (1) of
section 41;(n)the form and the time for preparing annual report under sub-
section (2) of section 41;(o)the amount of compensation payable to employees
under the proviso to sub-section (5) of section 58;(p)any other matter in
respect of which provision is to be made by rules.

### 54. Power to make regulations.

(1)The Commission may, after previous publication, by notification, make
regulations consistent with thisAct and the rules made thereunder to carry out
the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such regulations may provide for all or any
of the following matters, namely:—(a)the functions to be discharged by the
Secretary of the Commission under sub-section (5) of section 8;(b)the
procedure in accordance with which experts, consultants and professionals may
be engaged, or the experts and domain specialists from foreign country may be
invited, and the number of such experts and professionals under sub-section
(8) of section 8;(c)the procedure to be followed at the meetings of the
Commission under sub-section (3) of section 9;(d)the quality and standards to
be maintained in dental education under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of
section 10;(e)the manner of regulating dental institutions, dental research,
dentists and dental auxiliaries under clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section
10;(f)the manner of functioning of the Commission, the Autonomous Boards, the
State Dental Councils and the Joint Dental Councils under clause (h) of sub-
section (2) of section 10;(g)the procedure to be followed at the meetings of
the DentalAdvisory Council under sub-section (3) of section 13;(h)the manner
of conducting common counselling by the designated authority for admission to
the undergraduate and postgraduate dental education under sub-section (3) of
section 14;(i)the designated authority, and the manner for conducting the
National Exit Test (Dental) under sub-section (2) of section 15;(j)the manner
in which a person with foreign dental qualification shall qualify National
Exit Test (Dental) and the manner of his enrolment in the State Register or
the National Register under sub-section (4) of section 15;(k)the manner in
which admission to the postgraduate dental education shall be made on the
basis of National Exit Test (Dental) under sub-section (5) of section
15;(l)the manner of conducting common counselling by the designated authority
for admission to the postgraduate dental education under sub-section (6) of
section 15;(m)the manner of nominating one member from amongst personnel of
each category of the dental auxiliaries to the advisory committee for the
Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Dental Education Board under the proviso to
sub-section (1) of section 20;(n)the number of, and the manner in which, the
experts, professionals, officers and other employees, including the experts
and domain specialists from foreign countries invited by the Commission, under
sub-section (8) of section 8 shall be made available by the Commission to the
Autonomous Boards under section 21;(o)the competency based dynamic curriculum
at undergraduate level and postgraduate level under clause (b) of sub-section
(1) of section 24;(p)the manner of imparting undergraduate courses and
postgraduate courses for dentists and dental auxiliaries by dental
institutions under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 24;(q)the minimum
requirements and standards for conducting courses and examinations at
undergraduate level and postgraduate level for dentists and dental auxiliaries
in dental institutions under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section
24;(r)the standards and norms for infrastructure, faculty and quality of
education at undergraduate level and postgraduate level for dentists and
dental auxiliaries in dental institutions under clause (e) of sub-section (1)
of section 24;(s)the procedure for assessing and rating of dental institutions
under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 25;(t)the manner of carrying
out inspections of dental institutions for assessing and rating such
institutions under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 25;(u)the manner
of conducting, and the manner of empaneling independent rating agencies to
conduct assessment and rating of dental institutions and the time period for
such assessment and rating under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section
25;(v)the manner of making available on website or in public domain the
assessment and ratings of dental institutions under clause (e) of sub-section
(1) of section 25;(w)the measures to be taken against a dental institution for
failure to maintain the minimum essential standards under clause (f) of sub-
section (1) of section 25;(x)the manner of regulating professional conduct and
promoting dental ethics under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section
26;(y)the form of scheme, the particulars thereof, the fee to be accompanied
and the manner of submitting scheme for establishing new dental college or for
starting any postgraduate course or for increasing number of seats under sub-
section (2) of section 27;(z)the manner of preferring an appeal to the
Commission for approval of the scheme under sub-section (5) of section
27;(za)the other factors under clause (d) of section 28;(zb)the manner of
taking disciplinary action by a State Dental Council for professional or
ethical misconduct of registered dentist or professional and the procedure for
receiving complaints and grievances by Ethics and Dental Registration Board
under sub-section (4) of section 29;(zc)the act of commission or omission
which amounts to professional or ethical misconduct under clause (b) of the
Explanation to section 29;(zd)other particulars to be contained in the
National Register for Dentists under sub-section (1) of section 30;(ze)the
particulars to be contained in the National Register for DentalAuxiliaries
under sub-section (2) of section 30;(zf)the form, including the electronic
form and the manner of maintaining the National Registers, under sub-section
(3) of section 30;(zg)the manner in which any name or qualification may be
added to, or removed from, the National Register and the grounds for removal
thereof, under sub-section (4) of section 30;(zh)the manner of entering the
title, diploma or qualification in the State Register or the National
Register, under sub-section (3) of section 31;(zi)the period for which, and
the manner in which, a foreign citizen who is enrolled in his country as a
dentist may be permitted temporary registration in India, under the proviso to
sub-section (1) of section 32;(zj)the manner of listing and maintaining dental
qualifications granted by a University or dental institution in India under
sub-section (1) of section 33;(zk)the manner of examining the application for
grant of recognition under sub-section (3) of section 33;(zl)the manner of
including a dental qualification in the list maintained by the Board under
sub-section (4) of section 33;(zm)the manner of preferring an appeal to the
Commission for grant of recognition under sub-section (5) of section
33;(zn)the manner of listing and maintaining dental qualifications which have
been granted recognition before the date of commencement of this Act under
sub-section (8) of section 33;(zo)the designated authority for conducting
Screening Test for higher dental qualification, and the manner of conducting
the Screening Test under sub-section (2) of section 34;(zp)the manner of
listing and maintaining dental qualifications which have been granted
recognition before the date of commencement of this Act under sub-section (3)
of section 34.

### 55\. Rules and regulations to be laid before Parliament.

Every rule and every regulation made, and every notification issued, under
this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House
of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or regulation or notification or both Houses agree that the rule or
regulation or notification should not be made, the rule or regulation or
notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of
no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or regulation or notification.

### 56. Power of State Government to make rules.

(1)The State Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the
provisions of section 29 and section 48 of this Act.(2)In particular, and
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers under sub-section
(1), such rules may provide for the following matters, namely:—(a)the salary
and allowances payable to, and other conditions of service of, the Chairperson
and Members of the State Dental Council and Joint Dental Council;(b)the manner
of filling up of vacancies arising in the State Dental Council and Joint
Dental Council;(c)any other matter in respect of which provision is to be made
by rules.(3)Every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of State
Legislature, where there are two Houses and where there is one House of State
Legislature, before that House.

### 57. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may
appear to it be necessary, for removing the difficulty:Provided that no order
shall be made under this section after the expiry of a period of two years
from the commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this section shall
be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament.

### 58. Repeal and saving

(1)With effect from such date as the Central Government may appoint in this
behalf, the DentistsAct, 1948 shall stand repealed and the Dental Council of
India constituted under section 3 of the said Act shall stand
dissolved.(2)Notwithstanding the repeal of the Act referred to in sub-section
(1), it shall not affect,—(a)the previous operation of the Act so repealed or
anything duly done or suffered thereunder; or(b)any right, privilege,
obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the Act so
repealed; or(c)any penalty incurred in respect of any contravention under the
Act so repealed; or(d)any proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty as aforesaid, and any such
proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such
penalty may be imposed as if that Act had not been repealed.(3)On the
dissolution of the Dental Council of India, the person acting as the President
and Members of the Dental Council of India holding office as such immediately
before such dissolution shall vacate their respective offices and such
President and Members shall be entitled to claim compensation not exceeding
three months' pay and allowances for the premature termination of term of
their office or of any contract of service.(4)Every officer who has been
appointed on deputation basis in the Dental Council of India shall, on its
dissolution, stand reverted to his parent cadre, Ministry or Department, as
the case may be.(5)The services of other employees who have been, before the
dissolution of the Dental Council of India, employed on regular basis by the
Dental Council of India, shall continue for no longer than one year after the
commencement of this Act, as an interim arrangement and thereafter, further
continuity or otherwise of their services shall be determined by the
Commission on the basis of their performance appraisal or evaluation:Provided
that such employees of the erstwhile Dental Council of India shall be entitled
to such compensation which shall not be less three months' pay and allowances,
as may be prescribed.(6)Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid enactment,
any order made, any licence to practice issued, any registration made, any
permission to start new dental college or to start higher course of studies or
for increase in the admission capacity granted, any recognition of dental
qualifications granted, under the DentistsAct, 1948, which are in force as on
the date of commencement of thisAct, shall continue to be in force till the
date of their expiry for all purposes, as if they had been issued or granted
under the provisions of this Act or the rules or regulations made thereunder.

### 59. Transitory provisions.

(1)The Commission shall be the successor in interest to the Dental Council of
India including its subsidiaries or owned trusts and all the assets and
liabilities of the Dental Council of India shall be deemed to have been
transferred to the Commission.(2)Notwithstanding the repeal of the Dentists
Act, 1948, the educational standards, requirements and other provisions of the
said Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder shall continue to be in
force and operate till new standards or requirements are specified under this
Act or the rules and regulations made thereunder:Provided that anything done
or any action taken as regards the educational standards and requirements
under the enactment under repeal and the rules and regulations made thereunder
shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions
of this Act and shall continue in force accordingly unless and until
superseded by anything done or by any action taken under this
Act.(3)Notwithstanding the repeal of the Dentists Act, 1948, the State Council
and the Joint State Council constituted respectively under section 21 and
section 23 of the said Act shall continue to operate until a new State Dental
Council is established by the State Government in accordance with the
provisions of section 29 of this Act.SCHEDULE(See section 35) LIST OF
CATEGORIES OF DENTAL QUALIFICATIONS GRANTED BY STATUTORY OR OTHER DENTALBODY
IN INDIASl.No. Categories of dental qualifications

### 1\. All dental qualifications granted by All India Institutes of Medical
Sciences

2.All dental qualifications granted by the Oral Health Sciences Centre, Post
Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.3.All dental
qualifications granted by the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical
Education and Research, Puducherry.————DR.REETA VASISHTA, Secretary to the
Govt. of India.MGIPMRND—287GI(S3)—11-08-2023.UPLOADED BY THE MANAGER,
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD, NEW DELHI–110002 AND PUBLISHED BY THE
CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI–110054.

