## Union of India - Act

## The National Council For Teacher Education Act, 1993

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The National Council For Teacher Education Act, 1993

## Act 73 of 1993

  * Published on 29 December 1993 
  * Commenced on 29 December 1993 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 January 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR TEACHER EDUCATION (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2019 (Act 2 of 2019) on 10 January 2019] 

The National Council For Teacher Education Act, 1993(73 of 1993)Last Updated
30th December, 2019 [17/794]Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The National
Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) was set up in 1973 by a Government
Resolution as a National expert body to advise Central and State Governments
on all matters pertaining to teacher education. NCTE's status and role have so
far been purely advisory and, mainly due to this reason, it has had very
little impact on the standards of teacher training institutions in the country
and on their unplanned growth.2\. To maintain the standards of teacher
education, the National Policy on Education (NPE) stated that the NCTE would
be provided with necessary resources and capability to accredited institutions
of teacher education and provide guidance regarding curricula and methods. The
Programme of Action prepared for implementation of the NPE in 1986, realising
the inherent difficulties in the constitution of the NCTE to be able to guide
the system of teacher education, envisaged conferring it with statutory
status.3\. The present Bill seeks to provide statutory powers to the NCTE with
the objective of determination, maintenance and co-ordination of standards in
teacher education laying down norms and guidelines for various courses,
promotion of innovation in this field and establishment of a suitable system
of continuing education of teachers.4\. The Bill seeks to empower the Council
to make qualitative improvement in the system of teacher education by phasing
out sub-standard institutions and courses for teacher education. The NCTE
would also be empowered to grant recognition to institutions for teacher
education and permission to recognised institutions for new course or training
in teacher education. The Bill also provides for delegation of various powers
to Regional Committees and other Committee for effective implementation of the
function of the Council.5\. The Notes on Clauses appended to the Bill explain
the various provisions of the Bill.6\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above
objects.[29th December, 1993]An Act to provide for the establishment of a
National Council for Teacher Education with a view to achieving planned and
co-ordinated development for the teacher education system throughout the
country, the regulation and proper maintenance of norms and standards in the
teacher education system [including qualifications of school teachers] [Words
inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section 2.] and for matter connected therewith.Be
it enacted by Parliament in the Forty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:--{||-| Brought into force on 1.7.1995 vide S.O. 620(E), dated
1.7.1995, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section
3(ii), dated 10.7.1995.|}

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement. - (1) This Act may be called The
National Council for Teacher Education Act, 1993.

(2)It extends to the whole of India, [***].(3)It shall come into force on such
date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint.(4)[ Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of this
Act shall apply to-(a)institutions;(b)students and teachers of the
institutions;(c)schools imparting pre-primary, primary, upper primary,
secondary or senior secondary education and colleges providing senior
secondary or intermediate education irrespective of the fact, by whatever
names they may be called; and(d)teachers for schools and colleges referred to
in clause (c).][Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section 3.]

### 2. Definitions. - In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--

(a)"appointed day" means the date of establishment of the National Council for
Teacher Education under sub-section (1) of section 3;(b)"Chairperson" means
the Chairperson of the Council appointed under clause (a) of sub-section (4)
of section 3;(c)"Council" means the National Council for Teacher Education
established under sub-section (1) of section 3;(d)"examining body" means a
University, agency or authority to which an institution is affiliated for
conducting examinations in teacher education qualifications;(e)"institution"
means an institution which offers courses or training in teacher
education;(ea)[ "local authority" means a Municipal Corporation, Municipal
Committee, Municipal Council, Zila Parishad, District Board or Nagar Panchayat
or Panchayat, or other authority (by whatever name called), legally entitled
to, or entrusted by the Government with the control or management of a
municipal or local fund;](f)"Member" means a Member of the Council and
includes the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson;(g)"Member-Secretary" means the
Member-Secretary of the Council appointed under clause (c) of sub-section (4)
of section 3;(h)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under section
31;(i)"recognised institution" means an institution recognised by the Council
under section 14;(j)"Regional Committee" means a committee established under
section 20;(k)"regulations" means regulations made under section 32;(ka)[
"school" means any recognised school imparting pre-primary, primary, upper
primary, secondary or senior secondary education, or a college imparting
senior secondary education, and includes- [Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section
4.](i)a school established, owned and controlled by the Central Government, or
the State Government or a local authority;(ii)a school receiving aid or grants
to meet whole or part of its expenses from the Central Government, the State
Government or a local authority;(iii)a school not receiving any aid or grants
to meet whole or part of its expenses from the Central Government, the State
Government or a local authority;](l)"teacher education" means programmes of
education, research or training of persons for equipping them to teach at pre-
primary, primary, secondary and senior secondary stages in schools, and
includes non-formal education, part-time education, adult education and
correspondence education;(m)"teacher education qualification" means a degree,
diploma or certificate in teacher education awarded by a University or
examining body in accordance with the provisions of this Act;(n)"University"
means a University defined under clause (f) of section 2 of the University
Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956), and includes an institution deemed to
be a University under section 3 of that Act;(o)"Vice-Chairperson" means the
Vice-Chairperson of the Council appointed under clause (b) of sub-section (4)
of section 3.

## Chapter II  
Establishment Of The Council

### 3. Establishment of the Council. - (1) With effect from such date as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint,
there shall be established a Council to be called the National Council for
Teacher Education.

(2)The Council shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid, having
perpetual succession and a common seal with power to contract and shall, by
the said name, sue and be sued.(3)The head office of the Council shall be at
Delhi and the Council may, with the previous approval of the Central
Government, establish regional offices at other places in India.(4)The Council
shall consist of the following Members, namely:¬-(a)a Chairperson to be
appointed by the Central Government;(b)a Vice-Chairperson to be appointed by
the Central Government;(c)a Member-Secretary to be appointed by the Central
Government;(d)the Secretary to the Government of India in the Department
dealing with Education ex officio ;(e)the Chairman, University Grants
Commission established under section 4 of the University Grants Commission
Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) or a member thereof nominated by him, ex officio ;(f)the
Director, National Council of Educational Research and Training, ex officio
;(g)the Director, National Institute of Educational Planning and
Administration, ex officio ;(h)the Adviser (Education), Planning Commission,
ex officio ;(i)the Chairman, Central Boards of Secondary Education, ex officio
;(j)the Financial Adviser to the Government of India in the Department dealing
with Education, ex officio ;(k)the Member-Secretary, All-India Council for
Technical Education, ex officio ;(l)the Chairpersons of all Regional
Committees, ex officio ;(m)thirteen persons possessing experience and
knowledge in the field of education or teaching to be appointed by the Central
Government as under, from amongst the¬-(i)Deans of Faculties of Education and
Professors of Education in Universities -Four;(ii)experts in secondary teacher
education -One;(iii)experts in pre-primary and primary teacher education
-Three;(iv)experts in non-formal education and adult education-Two;(v)experts
in the field of natural sciences, social sciences, linguistics, vocational
education, work experience, educational technology and special education, by
rotation, in the manner prescribed-Three;(n)nine Members to be appointed by
the Central Government to represent the States and the Union territory
Administrations in the manner prescribed;(o)three Members of Parliament of
whom one shall be nominated by the Chairman of the Council of States and two
by the Speaker of the House of the People;(p)three Members to be appointed by
the Central Government from amongst teachers of primary and secondary
education and teachers of recognised institutions.(5)It is hereby declared
that the office of the Member of the Council shall not disqualify its holder
for being chosen as or for being a member of either House of Parliament.

### 4. Term of office and conditions of service of Members. - (1) The
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and the Member-Secretary shall hold office on a
full-time basis.

(2)The term of office of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson and the Member-
Secretary shall be four years, or till they complete the age of sixty years,
whichever is earlier.(3)The conditions of service of the Chairperson, the
Vice-Chairperson and the Member-Secretary shall be such as may be
prescribed.(4)The term of office of Members [other than the Members specified
in clauses (a) to (l) and clauses (n) and (o) of sub-section (4) of section 3
shall be two years or till fresh appointments are made, whichever is later,
and other conditions of service of such Members shall be such as may be
prescribed.(5)If a casual vacancy occurs in the office of Chairperson, whether
by reason of death, resignation or inability to discharge the functions of a
Chairperson owing to illness or other incapacity, the Vice-Chairperson holding
office as such for the time being, shall act as the Chairperson and shall,
unless any other person is appointed earlier as Chairperson, hold office of
the Chairperson for the remainder of the term of office of the person in whose
place the said person is to so act.(6)If a casual vacancy occurs in the office
of the Vice-Chairperson or any other Member, whether by reason of death,
resignation or inability to discharge his functions owing to illness or other
incapacity, such vacancy shall be filled up by making fresh appointment and
the person so appointed shall hold office for the remainder of the term of the
office of the person in whose place such person is so appointed.(7)The
Chairperson shall, in addition to presiding over the meetings of the Council,
exercise and discharge such powers and duties of the Council as may be
delegated to him by the Council and such other powers and duties as may be
prescribed.(8)The Vice-Chairperson shall perform such functions as may be
assigned to him by the Chairperson from time to time.

### 5. Disqualification for office of Member. - A person shall be disqualified
for being appointed as a Member if he-

(a)has been convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for an offence, which, in
the opinion of the Central Government, involves moral turpitude; or(b)is an
undischarged insolvent; or(c)is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a
competent Court; or(d)has been removed or dismissed from the service of the
Government or a body corporate owned or controlled by the Government; or(e)has
in the opinion of the Central Government such financial or other interest in
the Council as is likely to affect prejudicially the discharge by him of his
functions as Member.

### 6. Vacation of office of Member. - The Central Government shall remove a
Member if he-

(a)becomes subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in section
5:Provided that no Member shall be removed on the ground that he has become
subject to the disqualification mentioned in clause (e) of that section,
unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the
matter; or(b)refuses to act or becomes incapable of acting; or(c)is, without
obtaining leave of absence from the Council, absent from three consecutive
meetings of the Council; or(d)in the opinion of the Central Government, has so
abused his position as to render his continuance in office detrimental to the
public interest:Provided that no Member shall be removed under this clause
unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the
matter.

### 7. Meetings of the Council. - (1) The Council shall meet at such time and
places, and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction
of business at its meetings (including the quorum at such meetings) as may be
provided by regulations:

Provided that the Council shall meet at least once every year.(2)The
Chairperson, and in the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice¬- Chairperson
shall preside at the meetings of the Council.(3)If for any reason the
Chairperson and the Vice-Chairperson, both are unable to attend any meeting of
the Council, any other Member chosen by the Members present at the meeting
shall preside at that meeting.(4)All questions which come up before any
meeting of the Council shall be decided by a majority of votes of the Members
present and voting and in the event of any equality of votes, the Chairperson,
or in the absence of the Chairperson the person presiding, shall have and
exercise a second or casting vote.

### 8. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate proceedings of the Council. - No act
or proceeding of the Council shall be invalid merely by reason of¬-

(a)any vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the Council; or(b)any
defect in the appointment of a person acting as a Member of the Council;
or(c)any irregularity in the procedure of the Council not affecting the merits
of the case.

### 9. Power to co-opt. - (1) The Council may co-opt, in such manner and for
such purposes as may be determined by regulations, not more than three
persons, whose assistance or advice it may desire in carrying out any of the
provisions of this Act.

(2)The person co-opted by the Council under sub-section (1) for any purpose
shall have a right to take part in the discussions relevant to that purpose,
but shall not have a right to vote at a meeting of the Council, and shall not
be a Member for any other purpose.

### 10. Appointment of officers and other employees of the Council. - (1) For
the purpose of enabling the Council to discharge its functions efficiently
under this Act, the Council shall, subject to such regulations as may be made
in this behalf, appoint (whether on deputation or otherwise) such number of
officers and other employees as it may consider necessary:

Provided that the category of posts equivalent to Group `A' posts in the
Central Government shall be subject to the approval of the Central
Government.(2)Every officer or other employee appointed by the Council shall
be subject to such conditions of service as may be determined by regulations.

### 11. Authentication of the orders and other instruments of the Council. -
All orders and decisions of the Council shall be authenticated by the
signature of the Chairperson or any other Member authorised by the Council in
this behalf, and all other instruments issued by the Council shall be
authenticated by the signature of the Member-Secretary or any other officer of
the Council authorised in like manner in this behalf by the Chairperson.

## Chapter III  
Functions Of The Council

### 12. Functions of the Council. - It shall be the duty of the Council to
take all such steps as it may think fit for ensuring planned and co-ordinated
development of teacher education and for the determination and maintenance of
standards for teacher education and for the purposes of performing its
functions under this Act, the Council may¬-

(a)undertake surveys and studies relating to various aspects of teacher
education and publish the result thereof;(b)make recommendations to the
Central and State Governments, Universities, University Grants Commission and
recognised institutions in the matter of preparation of suitable plans and
programmes in the field of teacher education;(c)co-ordinate and monitor
teacher education and its development in the country;(d)lay down guidelines in
respect of minimum qualifications for a person to be employed as a teacher [*
* *] in recognised institutions;(e)lay down norms for any specified category
of courses or training in teacher education, including the minimum eligibility
criteria for admission thereof, and the method of selection of candidates,
duration of the course, course contents and mode of curriculum;(f)lay down
guidelines for compliance by recognised institutions, for starting new courses
or training and for providing physical and instructional facilities, staffing
pattern and staff qualifications;(g)lay down standards in respect of
examinations leading to teacher education qualifications, criteria for
admission to such examinations and schemes of courses of training;(h)lay down
guidelines regarding tuition fees and other fees chargeable by recognised
institutions;(i)promote and conduct innovation and research in various areas
of teacher education and disseminate the results thereof;(j)examine and review
periodically the implementation of the norms, guidelines and standards laid
down by the Council and to suitably advise the recognised
institutions;(k)evolve suitable performance appraisal systems, norms and
mechanisms for enforcing accountability on recognised
institutions;(l)formulate schemes for various levels of teacher education and
identify recognised institutions and set up new institutions for teacher
development programmes;(m)take all necessary steps to prevent
commercialisation of teacher education; and(n)perform such other functions as
may be entrusted to it by the Central Government.[12A. Power of Council to
determine minimum standards of education of school teachers. -For the purpose
of maintaining standards of education in schools, the Council may, by
regulations, determine the qualifications of persons for being recruited as
teachers in any pre-primary, primary, upper primary, secondary, senior
secondary or intermediate school or college, by whatever name called,
established, run, aided or recognised by the Central Government or a State
Government or a local or other authority:Provided that nothing in this section
shall adversely affect the continuance of any person recruited in any pre-
primary, primary, upper primary, secondary, senior secondary or intermediate
schools or colleges, under any rule, regulation or order made by the Central
Government, a State Government, a local or other authority, immediately before
the commencement of the National Council for Teacher Education (Amendment)
Act, 2011 solely on the ground of non-fulfilment of such qualifications as may
be specified by the Council:Provided further that the minimum qualifications
of a teacher referred to in the first proviso shall be acquired within the
period specified in this Act or under the Right of Children to Free and
Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (35 of 2009).

### 13. Inspection. - (1) For the purposes of ascertaining whether the
recognised institutions are functioning in accordance with the provisions of
this Act, the Council may cause inspection of any such institution, to be made
by such persons as it may direct, and in such manner as may be prescribed.

(2)The Council shall communicate to the institution the date on which
inspection under sub-section (1) is to be made and the institution shall be
entitled to be associated with the inspection in such manner as may be
prescribed.(3)The Council shall communicate to the said institution, its views
in regard to the results of any such inspection and may, after ascertaining
the opinion of that institution, recommend to that institution the action to
be taken as a result of such inspection.(4)All communications to the
institution under this section shall be made to the executive authority
thereof, and the executive authority of the institution shall report to the
Council the action, if any, which is proposed to be taken for the purposes of
implementing any such recommendation as is referred to in sub¬-section (3).

## Chapter IV  
Recognition Of Teacher Education Institutions

### 14. Recognition of institutions offering course or training in teacher
education. - (1) Every institution offering or intending to offer a course or
training in teacher education on or after the appointed day, may, for grant of
recognition under this Act, make an application to the Regional Committee
concerned in such form and in such manner as may be determined by regulations:

Provided that an institution offering a course or training in teacher
education immediately before the appointed day, shall be entitled to continue
such course or training for a period of six months, if it has made an
application for recognition within the said period and until the disposal of
the application by the Regional Committee.[Provided further that such
institutions, as may be specified by the Central Government by notification in
the Official Gazette, which -(i)are funded by the Central Government or the
State Government or the Union territory Administration;(ii)have offered a
course or training in teacher education on or after the appointed day till the
academic year 2017-2018; and(iii)fulfil the conditions specified under clause
(a) of sub-section (3), shall be deemed to have been recognised by the
Regional Committee.](2)The fee to be paid along with the application under
sub-section (1) shall be such as may be prescribed.(3)On receipt of an
application by the Regional Committee from any institution under sub-section
(1), and after obtaining from the institution concerned such other particulars
as it may consider necessary, it shall,¬-(a)if it is satisfied that such
institution has adequate financial resources, accommodation, library,
qualified staff, laboratory and that it fulfils such other conditions required
for proper functioning of the institution for a course or training in teacher
education, as may be determined by regulations, pass an order granting
recognition to such institution, subject to such conditions as may be
determined by regulations; or(b)if it is of the opinion that such institution
does not fulfil the requirements laid down in sub-clause (a), pass an order
refusing recognition to such institution for reasons to be recorded in
writing:Provided that before passing an order under sub-clause (b), the
Regional Committee shall provide a reasonable opportunity to the concerned
institution for making a written representation.(4)Every order granting or
refusing recognition to an institution for a course or training in teacher
education under sub-section (3) shall be published in the Official Gazette and
communicated in writing for appropriate action to such institution and to the
concerned examining body, the local authority or the State Government and the
Central Government.(5)Every institution, in respect of which recognition has
been refused shall discontinue the course or training in teacher education
from the end of the academic session next following the date of receipt of the
order refusing recognition passed under clause (b) of sub-section (3).(6)Every
examining body shall, on receipt of the order under sub-section (4),¬-(a)grant
affiliation to the institution, where recognition has been granted;
or(b)cancel the affiliation of the institution, where recognition has been
refused.

### 15. Permission for a new course or training by recognised institution. -
(1) Where any recognised institution intends to start any new course or
training in teacher education, it may make an application to seek permission
therefor to the Regional Committee concerned in such form and in such manner
as may be determined by regulations.

[Provided that the course or training in teacher education offered on or after
the appointed day till the academic year 2017-2018 by such institutions, as
may be specified by the Central Government by notification in the Official
Gazette, which -(i)are funded by the Central Government or the State
Government or the Union territory Administration; and(ii)fulfil the conditions
specified under clause (a) of sub-section (3), shall be deemed to have been
granted permission by the Regional Committee.](2)The fees to be paid along
with the application under sub-section (1) shall be such as may be
prescribed.(3)On receipt of an application from an institution under sub-
section (1), and after obtaining from the recognised institution such other
particulars as may be considered necessary, the Regional Committee
shall,¬-(a)if it is satisfied that such recognised institution has adequate
financial resources, accommodation, library, qualified staff, laboratory, and
that it fulfils such other conditions required for proper conduct of the new
course or training in teacher education, as may be determined by regulations,
pass an order granting permission, subject to such conditions as may be
determined by regulation; or(b)if it is of the opinion that such institution
does not fulfil the requirements laid down in sub-clause (a), pass an order
refusing permission to such institution, for reasons to be recorded in
writing:Provided that before passing an order refusing permission under sub-
clause (b), the Regional Committee shall provide a reasonable opportunity to
the institution concerned for making a written representation.(4)Every order
granting or refusing permission to a recognised institution for a new course
or training in teacher education under sub-section (3), shall be published in
the Official Gazette and communicated in writing for appropriate action to
such recognised institution and to the concerned examining body, the local
authority, the State Government and the Central Government.

### 16. Affiliating body to grant affiliation after recognition or permission
by the Council. - Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the
time being in force, no examining body shall, on or after the appointed day,¬-

(a)grant affiliation, whether provisional or otherwise, to any institution;
or(b)hold examination, whether provisional or otherwise, for a course or
training conducted by a recognised institution, unless the institution
concerned has obtained recognition from the Regional Committee concerned,
under section 14 or permission for a course or training under section 15.

### 17. Contravention of provisions of the Act and consequences thereof. - (1)
Where the Regional Committee is, on its own motion or on any representation
received from any person, satisfied that a recognised institution has
contravened any of the provisions of this Act, or the rules, regulations
orders made or issued thereunder, or any condition subject to which
recognition under sub-section (3) of section 14 or permission under sub-
section (3) of section 15 was granted, it may withdraw recognition of such
recognised institution, for reasons to be recorded in writing:

Provided that no such order against the recognised institution shall be passed
unless a reasonable opportunity of making representation against the proposed
order has been given to such recognised institution:Provided further that the
order withdrawing or refusing recognition passed by the Regional Committee
shall come into force only with effect from the end of the academic session
next following the date of communication of such order.(2)A copy of every
order passed by the Regional Committee under sub-section (1),-(a)shall be
communicated to the recognised institution concerned and a copy thereof shall
also be forwarded simultaneously to the University or the examining body to
which such institution was affiliated for cancelling affiliation; and(b)shall
be published in the Official Gazette for general information.(3)Once the
recognition of a recognised institution is withdrawn under sub¬-section (1),
such institution shall discontinue the course or training in teacher
education, and the concerned University or the examining body shall cancel
affiliation of the institution in accordance with the order passed under
sub¬-section (1), with effect from the end of the academic session next
following the date of communication of the said order.(4)If an institution
offers any course or training in teacher education after the coming into force
of the order withdrawing recognition under sub-section (1), or where an
institution offering a course or training in teacher education immediately
before the appointed day fails or neglects to obtain recognition or permission
under this Act, the qualification in teacher education obtained pursuant to
such course or training or after undertaking a course or training in such
institution, shall not be treated as a valid qualification for purposes of
employment under the Central Government, any State Government or University,
or in any school, college or other educational body aided by the Central
Government or any State Government.[17-A. No admission without recognition.\-
No institution shall admit any student to a course or training in teacher
education, unless the institution concerned has obtained recognition under
section 14 or permission under section 15, as the case may be.]

### 18. Appeals. - (1) Any person aggrieved by an order made under section 14
or section 15 or section 17 of the Act may prefer an appeal to the Council
within such period as may be prescribed.

(2)No appeal shall be admitted if it is preferred after the expiry of the
period prescribed therefor:Provided that an appeal may be admitted after the
expiry of the period prescribed therefor, if the appellant satisfied the
Council that he had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within the
prescribed period.(3)Every appeal made under this section shall be made in
such form and shall be accompanied by a copy of the order appealed against and
by such fees as may be prescribed.(4)The procedure for disposing of an appeal
shall be such as may be prescribed:Provided that before disallowing an appeal,
the appellant shall be given a reasonable opportunity to represent its
case.(5)The Council may confirm or reverse the order appealed against.[CHAPTER
IV-A] Temporary Provisions For Recognition Of Certain Institutions

### 18\.

-A. Definition. - In this Chapter, "specified date" means the date of commencement of the National Council for Teacher Education (Amendment and Validation) Ordinance, 2006.

### 18\.

-B. Recognition of certain institutions. - (1) Where an institution, offering a course or training in teacher education before the specified date, failed to make an application under sub-section (1) of section 14, but an examining body granted affiliation to, and held examination for a course or training in teacher education conducted by, such institution, or such examination was due, before the specified date, the provisions of this Chapter shall apply in respect of such institution.(2)An institution falling under sub-section (1) may make an application to the Regional Committee concerned in such form and within such period and along with such fee, as may be prescribed.(3)An application under sub-section (2) shall be dealt with in such manner as may be prescribed.(4)An order granting recognition to an institution on its application under sub-section (2) shall be deemed to be effective from the date of grant of affiliation to it or holding of examination for a course or training conducted by it for the first time, whichever is earlier.

### 18\.

-C. Appeals of certain institutions. - (1) Where an institution, offering a course or training in teacher education before the specified date, was refused recognition under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section 14 and it failed to prefer an appeal under sub-section (1) of section 18, but an examining body granted affiliation to, and held examination for a course or training conducted by, such institution, or such examination was due, before the specified date, such institution may prefer an appeal to the Council within a period of sixty days from the specified date.(2)An appeal under sub-section (1) shall be accompanied with such fee as is prescribed for an appeal under sub-section (3) of section 18.(3)An appeal under sub-section (1) shall be in the same form and dealt with in the same manner as an appeal preferred under sub-section (1) of section 18.(4)Where the Council reverses the order appealed under sub-section (1), an order granting recognition to an institution shall be deemed to be effective from the date of grant of affiliation to it or holding of examination for a course or training conducted by it for the first time, whichever is earlier.

### 18\.

-D. Validity of affiliations and examinations in respect of certain institutions. - Notwithstanding anything contained in section 16, where an institution offering a course or training in teacher education before the specified date, obtains recognition by virtue of sub-section (4) of section 18-B or sub-section (4) of section 18-C, the affiliation granted by an examining body to, and the examination held for a course or training conducted by, such institution, shall be deemed to have been validly granted and held, as the case may be.

### 18\.

-E. Validity of qualifications obtained from certain institutions .¬- Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (4) of section 17, where an institution offering a course or training in teacher education before the specified date, obtains recognition by virtue of sub-section (4) of section 18-B or sub-section (4) of section 18-C, the qualification in teacher education obtained pursuant to such course or training or after undertaking a course or training in such institution, shall be deemed to have been validly obtained.

### 18\.

-F. Validation. - Anything done or any action taken or any effect given in terms of sections 18-B, 18-C, 18-D and 18-E shall be valid, notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any Court, tribunal or other authority to the contrary:Provided that where any unrecognised institution offering a course or training in teacher education before the specified date was directed by any court, tribunal or other authority to return the fees and pay compensation to students admitted by such institution, such institution shall comply with such direction:Provided further that in respect of students whose qualifications are deemed to have been validly obtained under section 18-E, the amount of fees and compensation shall be credited to the Fund of the Council.

### 18\.

-G. Duration and savings. - This Chapter shall remain in force for a period of six months from the specified date, but its expiry under the operation of this section shall not affect¬-(a)the previous operation of, or anything duly done or suffered under this Chapter, or(b)any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under this Chapter, or(c)any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation or liability as aforesaid, and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced as if this Chapter had not expired.

## Chapter V  
Bodies Of The Council

### 19. Executive Committee. - (1) The Council shall constitute a Committee,
called the Executive Committee for discharging such functions as may be
assigned to it by the Council or as may be determined by regulations.

(2)The Executive Committee shall consist of the following members,
namely:¬-(a)the Chairperson;(b)the Vice-Chairperson;(c)the Member-
Secretary;(d)the Secretary to the Government of India in the Department
dealing with Education ex officio ;(e)the Secretary, University Grants
Commission, ex officio ;(f)the Director, National Council of Educational
Research and Training, ex officio ;(g)the Financial Adviser to the Government
of India in the Department dealing with Education, ex officio ;(h)four experts
in teacher education to be nominated by the Central Government;(i)four State
representatives to be nominated by the Central Government in such manner as
may be prescribed;(j)the Chairpersons of the Regional Committees.(3)The
Chairperson and the Member-Secretary of the Council shall respectively,
function as the Chairperson and the Member-Secretary of the Executive
Committee.(4)The Chairperson or in his absence, the Vice-Chairperson of the
Council shall preside at the meetings of the Executive Committee and in the
absence of both the Chairperson and the Vice-Chairperson, any other member
chosen by the members present at the meeting shall preside at the
meeting.(5)The quorum necessary for the transaction of business at the
meetings of the Executive Committee shall be as laid down by
regulations.(6)The Executive Committee may co-opt, in such manner and for such
purposes, as may be determined by regulations, not more than two persons whose
assistance and advice, it may desire in carrying out any of the functions
assigned to the Executive Committee:Provided that the persons co-opted by the
Executive Committee for any purpose shall have a right to take part in the
discussions relevant to that purpose, but shall not have a right to vote at a
meeting of the Executive Committee, and¬ shall not be a member for any other
purpose.(7)The Council may, if it considers necessary, establish such other
committees, for such specific purpose, as it may deem fit.

### 20. Regional Committees. - (1) The Council shall, by notification in the
Official Gazette, establish the following Regional Committees, namely:¬-

(i)the Eastern Regional Committee;(ii)the Western Regional Committee;(iii)the
Northern Regional Committee; and(iv)the Southern Regional Committee.(2)The
Council may, if it considers necessary, establish with the approval of the
Central Government, such other Regional Committees as it may deem fit.(3)The
Regional Committee shall consist of the following members, namely:¬-(a)a
Member to be nominated by the Council;(b)one representative from each of the
States and the Union territories of the region, to be nominated by the
respective States and the Union territories;(c)such number of persons, having
special knowledge and experience in matters relating to teacher education, as
may be determined by regulations.(4)The Council shall nominate one of the
members of the concerned Regional Committee to function as the Chairperson of
the said Committee.(5)The term of office of the members referred to in clause
(c) and the allowances payable to such members shall be such as may be
determined by regulations.(6)The Regional Committee shall, in addition to its
functions under sections 14, 15 and 17, perform such other functions, as may
be assigned to it by the Councilor as may be determined by regulations.(7)The
functions of, the procedure to be followed by, the territorial jurisdiction
of, and the manner of filling casual vacancies among members of, a Regional
Committee shall be such as may be determined by regulations.

### 21. Power to terminate the Regional Committee. - (1) If the Council is of
the opinion that a Regional Committee is unable to perform, or has
persistently made default in the performance of the duties imposed on it by or
under this Act or has exceeded or abused its powers, or has wilfully or
without sufficient cause, failed to comply with any direction issued by the
Council for carrying out the provisions of this Act, the Council may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, terminate forthwith the Regional
Committee.

(2)Upon the publication of a notification under sub-section (1),¬-(a)all
members of the Regional Committee shall, notwithstanding that their term of
office had not expired, as from the date of the termination, vacate their
office as such members; and(b)all the powers and duties which may, by or under
the provisions of this Act be exercised or performed by or on behalf of the
Regional Committee shall, during the period when the term of office of its
members stand terminated, be exercised and performed by such person or persons
as the Council may direct.(3)The Council may at any time after publication of
a notification under sub¬-section (2), re-constitute the Regional Committee in
the manner provided in sub¬-section (3) of section 20:Provided that it shall
be competent for the Council to appoint any person, who was a member of a
Regional Committee which was terminated, as a member of the re-constituted
Regional Committee.

## Chapter VI  
Finance, Accounts And Audit

### 22. Payment to the Council. - The Central Government may, after due
appropriation made by Parliament by law in this behalf, pay to the Council in
each financial year such sums as may be considered necessary for the
performance of the functions of the Council under this Act.

### 23. Fund of the Council. - (1) The Council shall have its own fund; and
all sums which may, from time to time, be paid to it by the Central Government
or a State Government and all the receipts of the Council, including any sum
which any other authority or person in India or abroad may pay to the Council,
shall be credited to the fund and all payments by the Council shall be made
therefrom.

(2)All moneys belonging to the fund shall be deposited in such banks or
invested in such manner as may be decided by the Council.(3)The Council may
spend such sums as it thinks fit for performing its functions under this Act;
and such sums shall be treated as expenditure payable out of the fund of the
Council.

### 24. Budget of the Council. - The Council shall prepare, in such form and
at such time each year as may be prescribed, a budget in respect of the
financial year next ensuing, showing the estimated receipts and expenditure,
and copies thereof shall be forwarded to the Central Government.

### 25. Annual report. - The Council shall prepare once every year, in such
form and at such time as may be prescribed, an annual report giving a true and
full account of its activities during the previous year and copies thereof
shall be forwarded to the Central Government and that Government shall cause
the same to be laid before both Houses of Parliament.

### 26. Accounts and audit. - (1) The Council shall cause to be maintained
such books of account in such form and in such manner as the Central
Government may, in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of
India, prescribe.

(2)The Council shall, as soon as may be, after closing its annual accounts,
prepare a statement of accounts in such form and forward the same to the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India by such date as the Central
Government may, in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-General,
determine.(3)The accounts of the Council shall be audited by the Comptroller
and Auditor-General of India at such times and in such manner as he thinks
fit.(4)The accounts of the Council as certified by the Comptroller and
Auditor¬-General of India or any other person appointed by him in this behalf,
together with the audit report thereon shall be forwarded annually to the
Central Government and that Government shall cause the same to be laid before
both Houses of Parliament.

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 27. Delegation of powers and functions. - The Council may, by general or
special order in writing, delegate to the Chairperson or to any other member
or to any officer of the Regional Committee, subject to such conditions and
limitations, if any, as may be specified in the order, such of its powers and
functions under this Act (except the power to make regulations under section
32), as it may deem necessary.

### 28. Protection of action taken in good faith. - No prosecution or other
legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Government, the Council or any
committees appointed by it, or any Member of the Council or member of such
committees, or any officer or employee of the Central Government or the
Council or any other person authorised by that Government or the Council, for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act or
the rules or regulations made thereunder.

### 29. Directions by the Central Government. - (1) The Council shall, in the
discharge of its functions and duties under this Act be bound by such
directions on questions of policy as the Central Government may give in
writing to it from time to time.

(2)The decision of the Central Government as to whether a question is one of
policy or not shall be final.

### 30. Power to supersede the Council. - (1) If the Central Government is of
the opinion that the Council is unable to perform, or has persistently made
default in the performance of the duties imposed on it by or under this Act or
has exceeded or abused its powers, or has wilfully or without sufficient
cause, failed to comply with any direction issued by the Central Government
under section 29, the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, supersede the Council for such period as may be specified in the
notification:

Provided that before issuing a notification under the sub-section, the Central
Government shall give a reasonable opportunity to the Council to show cause
why it should not be superseded and shall consider the explanation and
objections, if any, of the Council.(2)Upon the publication of a notification
under sub-section (1) superseding the Council¬-(a)all the Members of the
Council shall, notwithstanding that their term of office had not expired, as
from the date of supersession, vacate their offices as such Members;(b)all the
powers and duties which may, by or under the provisions of this Act be
exercised or performed by or on behalf of the Council shall, during the period
of supersession, be exercised and performed by such person or persons as the
Central Government may direct;(c)all property vested in the Council shall,
during the period of supersession, vest in the Central Government.(3)On the
expiry of the period of supersession specified in the notification issued
under sub-section (1), the Central Government, may¬-(a)extend the period of
supersession for such further period as it may consider necessary;
or(b)reconstitute the Council in the manner provided in section 3.[30-A.
Penalty for contravention of section 17-A.\- An institution which contravenes
section 17-A shall be liable to pay to the Council a penalty of an amount
equal to double the amount received from each student against his admission in
such institution:Provided that before imposing any penalty, the Council shall
give to the institution concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard.]

### 31. Power to make rules. - (1) The Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
powers, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:¬-(a)the manner in which the Central Government is to appoint experts
to the Council under sub-clause (v) of clause (m) of sub-section (4) of
section 3;(b)the manner in which the Central Government is to appoint Members
to the Council from amongst the States and the Union territory Administrations
under clause (n) of sub-section (4) of section 3;(c)the conditions of service
of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson and the Member-Secretary under sub-
section (3) and of Members under sub-section (4) of section 4;(d)the powers
and duties of the Chairperson under sub-section (7) of section 4;(e)the manner
in which and the persons by whom the inspection of an institution is to be
made and the manner in which the institution is to be associated in such
inspection under sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 13;(f)the fee payable on
application for obtaining recognition under sub¬-section (2) of section 14 and
for obtaining permission under sub¬-section (2) of section 15;(g)the period of
limitation for an appeal under sub-section (1) of section 18, the form in
which such appeal is to be made and the fees payable therefor under sub-
section (3) of that section and the procedure for disposal of an appeal under
sub-section (4) of that section;(ga)[ the form in which and the period within
which an application under sub-section (2) of section 18-B is to be made, and
the fee payable on such application;(gb)the manner of dealing with an
application under sub-section (3) of section 18-B;](h)the manner in which the
Central Government is to nominate the State representatives in the Executive
Committee under clause (i) of sub¬-section (2) of section 19;(i)the form in
which and the time within which the budget under section 24 and the annual
report under section 25 of the Council is to be prepared;(j)the manner and the
form in which the accounts of the Council are to be maintained under sub-
section (1) of section 26;(k)any other matter which has to be, or may be,
prescribed.

### 32. Power to make regulations. - (1) The Council may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, make regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act and the rules made thereunder, generally to carry out the provisions
of this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:¬-(a)the time and the place of the meetings of the Council and the
procedure for conducting business thereat under sub-section (1) of section
7;(b)the manner in which and the purposes for which persons may be co¬-opted
by the Council under sub-section (1) of section 9;(c)the appointment and terms
and conditions of service of officers and other employees of the Council under
sub-sections (1) and (2) respectively of section 10;(d)the norms, guidelines
and standards in respect of¬-(i)the minimum qualifications for a person to be
employed as a teacher under clause (d) of section 12;(ii)the specified
category of courses or training in teacher education under clause (e) of
section 12;(iii)starting of new courses or training in recognised institutions
under clause (f) of section 12;(iv)standards in respect of examinations
leading to teacher education qualifications referred to in clause (g) of
section 12;(v)the tuition fees and other fees chargeable by institutions under
clause (h) of section 12;(vi)the schemes for various levels of teachers
education, and identification of institutions for offering teacher development
programmes under clause (l) of section 12;(dd)[ the qualifications of teachers
under section 12A](e)the form and the manner in which an application for
recognition is to be submitted under sub-section (1) of section
14;(f)conditions required for the proper functioning of the institution and
conditions for granting recognition under clause (a) of sub-section (3) of
section 14;(g)the form and the manner in which an application for permission
is to be made under sub-section (1) of section 15;(h)conditions required for
the proper conduct of a new course or training and conditions for granting
permission under clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 15;(i)the functions
which may be assigned by the Council to the Executive Committee under sub-
section (1) of section 19;(j)the procedure and the quorum necessary for
transaction of business at the meetings of the Executive Committee under sub-
section (5) of section 19;(k)the manner in which and the purposes for which
the Executive Committee may co-opt persons under sub-section (6) of section
19;(l)the number of persons under clause (c) of sub-section (3) of section
20;(m)the term of office and allowances payable to members under sub¬-section
(5) of section 20;(n)additional functions to be performed by the Regional
Committee under sub-section (6) of section 20;(o)the functions of, the
procedure to be followed by the territorial jurisdiction of, and the manner of
filling casual vacancies among members of, a Regional Committee under sub-
section (7) of section 20;(p)any other matter in respect of which provision is
to be, or may be, made by regulations.

### 33. Rules and regulations to be laid before Parliament. - Every rule and
every regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it
is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree
in making any modification in the rule or regulation, or both Houses agree
that the rule or regulation should not be made, the rule or regulation shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule
of regulation.

### 34. Power to remove difficulties. - (1) If any difficulty arises in giving
effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, by order,
published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act as may appear to be necessary for removing the
difficulty:

Provided that no order shall be made under this section after the expiry of
two years from the commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this
section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made before each House of
Parliament.

