## Union of India - Act

## The National Capital Territory Of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second
Act, 2009

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The National Capital Territory Of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second
Act, 2009

## Act 40 of 2009

  * Published in Gazette of India 40 on 22 December 2009 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 December 2009.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act to make special provisions for the National Capital Territory of Delhi
for a further period up to the 31st day of December, 2010 and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.WHEREAS there had been phenomenal
increase in the population of the National Capital Territory of Delhi owing to
migration and other factors resulting in tremendous pressure on land and
infrastructure leading to encroachment or unauthorised developments which are
not in consonance with the concept of planned development as provided in the
Master Plan for Delhi, 2001 and the relevant Acts and building bye-laws made
thereunder;AND WHEREAS the Master Plan of Delhi, 2001 was extensively modified
and notified by the Central Government on the 7th day of February, 2007 with
the perspective for the year2021 keeping in view the emerging new dimensions
in urban development vis-a-vis the social, financial and other ground
realities; AND WHEREAS the Master Plan of Delhi with the perspective for the
year 2021specifically provides for strategies for housing for urban poor as
well as to deal with thein formal sector;AND WHEREAS a strategy and a scheme
has been prepared by the local authorities in the National Capital Territory
of Delhi for regulation of urban street vendors in accordance with the
National Policy for Urban Street Vendors and the Master Plan for Delhi, 2021,
and is being implemented; AND WHEREAS based on the policy finalised by the
Central Government regarding regularisation of unauthorised colonies, village
a badi area and its extension, the guidelines and regulations for this purpose
have been issued;AND WHEREAS in pursuance of the guidelines and regulations
for regularisation of unauthorised colonies, necessary steps are being taken
which, inter alia, involve scrutiny of layout plans, assessment of built up
percentage existed as on the 31st day of March, 2002, identification of mixed
use of streets, approval of layout plans, fixation of boundaries, change of
land use and identification of colonies not eligible for regularisation; AND
WHEREAS more time is required for orderly implementation of scheme regarding
hawkers and urban street vendors and for regularisation of unauthorised
colonies, village abadi area and its extension;AND WHEREAS the revised policy
and orderly arrangements for relocation and rehabilitation of slum dwellers
and Jhuggi-Jhompri clusters in the National Capital Territory of Delhi has
been considered and a Bill, namely, the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board
Bill, 2009 has been prepared by the Government of National Capital Territory
of Delhi to provide for implementation of schemes for improvement of Jhuggi-
Jhompri clusters and its redevelopment with a view to bring improvement in
environment and living conditions, and preparing housing scheme for
resettlement of persons; AND WHEREAS the draft policy regarding farm houses
has been formulated by the Delhi Development Authority and has been forwarded
to major stakeholders for their views and comments;AND WHEREAS in pursuance of
the Master Plan for Delhi, 2021, the policy or plan regarding schools,
dispensaries, religious institutions, cultural institutions, storages,
warehouses and go downs used for agricultural inputs or produce (including
dairy and poultry) in rural areas built on agricultural land is under
consideration of the Central Government; AND WHEREAS the National Capital
Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Act, 2007 (43 of 2007) was
enacted on the 5th day of December, 2007 to make special provisions for the
areas of National Capital Territory of Delhi for a period up to the 31st day
of December, 2008which ceased to operate after the 31st December, 2008;AND
WHEREAS the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Act,
2009 (24 of 2009) was enacted in continuation of the aforesaid Act referred to
in the preceding paragraph for a period up to the 31st day of December, 2009
to make special provisions for the areas of the National Capital Territory of
Delhi and that Act ceased to operate after the 31st day of December, 2009;AND
WHEREAS it is expedient to have a law in terms of the Master Plan for Delhi,
2021, in continuation of the said Act for a period up to the 31st day of
December, 2010 to provide for temporary relief and to minimise avoidable
hardships and irreparable loss to the people of the National Capital Territory
of Delhi against any action by the concerned agency in respect of persons
covered by the policies referred to above. BE it enacted by Parliament in the
Sixtieth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent, commencement and duration.-

(1)This Act may be called the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws
(Special Provisions) Second Act, 2009.(2)It extends to the National Capital
Territory of Delhi.(3)It shall come into force on the 1st day of January,
2010.(4)It shall cease to have effect on the 31st day of December, 2010,
except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such cesser, and
upon such cesser section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897),
shall apply as if this Act had then been repealed by a Central Act.

### 2. Definitions.-(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"building bye-laws" means bye-laws made under section 481 of the Delhi
Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 (66 of 1957) or the bye-laws made under
section 188, sub-section (3) of section 189 and sub-section (1) of section 190
of the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911 (Punjab Act 3of 1911), as in force in New
Delhi or the regulations made under sub-section (1) of section 57 of the Delhi
Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957) relating to buildings;(b)"Delhi" means the
entire area of the National Capital Territory of Delhi except the Delhi
Cantonment as defined in clause (11) of section 2 of the Delhi Municipal
Corporation Act, 1957 (66 of 1957);(c)"encroachment" means unauthorised
occupation of Government land or public land by way of putting temporary,
semi-permanent or permanent structure for residential use or commercial use or
any other use;(d)"local authority" means the Delhi Municipal Corporation
established under the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 (66 of 1957), or
the New Delhi Municipal Council established under the New Delhi Municipal
Council Act, 1994 (44 of 1994) or the Delhi Development Authority established
under the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957), legally entitled to
exercise control in respect of the areas under their respective
jurisdiction;(e)"Master Plan" means the Master Plan for Delhi with the
perspective for the year 2021, notified vide notification number S.O.141(E),
dated the 7th day of February, 2007, under the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61
of 1957);(f)"notification" means a notification published in the Official
Gazette;(g)"punitive action" means action taken by a local authority under the
relevant law against unauthorised development and shall include demolition,
sealing of premises and displacement of persons or their business
establishment from their existing location, whether in pursuance of court
orders or otherwise;(h)"relevant law" means in case of-(i)the Delhi
Development Authority, the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957);(ii)the
Municipal Corporation of Delhi, the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 (66
of 1957); and(iii)the New Delhi Municipal Council, the New Delhi Municipal
Council Act, 1994 (44 of 1994);(i)"unauthorised development" means use of land
or use of building or construction of building or development of colonies
carried out in contravention of the sanctioned plans or without obtaining the
sanction of plans, or in contravention of the land use as permitted under the
Master Plan or Zonal Plan or layout plan, as the case may be, and includes any
encroachment.(2)Words and expressions used but not defined herein shall have
the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Delhi Development Act, 1957
(61 of 1957) the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 (66 of 1957) and the
New Delhi Municipal Council Act, 1994 (44 of 1994).

### 3. Enforcement to be kept in abeyance.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any relevant law or any rules,
regulations or bye-laws made thereunder, the Central Government shall before
the expiry of this Act, take all possible measures to finalise norms, policy
guidelines, feasible strategies and make orderly arrangements to deal with the
problem of encroachment or unauthorised development in the form of
encroachment by slum dwellers and Jhuggi-Jhompri clusters, hawkers and urban
street vendors, unauthorised colonies, village abadi area (including urban
villages) and its extension, existing farm houses involving construction
beyond permissible building limits and schools, dispensaries, religious
institutions, cultural institutions, storages, warehouses and go downs used
for agricultural inputs or produce (including dairy and poultry) in rural
areas built on agricultural land, as mentioned below:(a)policy for relocation
and rehabilitation of slum dwellers and Jhuggi-Jhompri clusters in accordance
with the provisions of the Master Plan of Delhi, 2021 to ensure development of
Delhi in a sustainable, planned and humane manner;(b)scheme and orderly
arrangements for regulation of urban street vendors inconsonance with the
national policy for urban street vendors and hawkers as provided in the Master
Plan of Delhi, 2021;(c)orderly arrangements pursuant to guidelines and
regulations for regularization of unauthorised colonies, village abadi area
(including urban villages) and its extension, as existed on the 31st day of
March, 2002, and where construction took place even beyond that date and up to
the 8th day of February, 2007;(d)policy regarding existing farm houses
involving construction beyond permissible building limits; and(e)policy or
plan regarding schools, dispensaries, religious institutions, cultural
institutions, storages, warehouses and go downs used for agricultural inputs
or produce (including dairy and poultry) in rural areas built on agricultural
land.(2)Subject to the provisions contained in sub-section (1) and
notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court, status quo-(i)as
on the 1st day of January, 2006 in respect of encroachment or unauthorised
development; and(ii)in respect of unauthorised colonies, village a badi area
(including urban villages) and its extension, which existed on the 31st day of
March, 2002 and where construction took place even beyond that date and up to
the 8th day of February, 2007, mentioned in sub-section (1), shall be
maintained.(3)All notices issued by any local authority for initiating action
against encroachment or unauthorised development referred to in sub-section
(1), shall be deemed to have been suspended and no punitive action shall be
taken till the 31st day of December, 2010.(4)Notwithstanding any other
provision contained in this Act, the Central Government may, at any time
before the 31st day of December, 2010, withdraw the exemption by notification
in respect of encroachment or unauthorised development mentioned in sub-
section (2) or sub-section (3), as the case may be.

### 4. Provisions of this Act not to apply in certain cases.-

During the period of operation of this Act, no relief shall be available under
the provisions of section 3 in respect of the following encroachment or
unauthorised development, namely:-(a)encroachment on public land except in
those cases which are covered under clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub-section
(1) of section 3;(b)removal of slums and Jhuggi-Jhompri dwellers, hawkers and
urban street vendors, unauthorised colonies or part thereof, village a badi
area (including urban villages) and its extension in accordance with the
relevant policies approved by the Central Government for clearance of land
required for specific public projects.

### 5. Power of Central Government to give directions.-

The Central Government may, from time to time, issue such directions to the
local authorities as it may deem fit, for giving effect to the provisions of
this Act and it shall be the duty of the local authorities, to comply with
such directions.

