## Union of India - Act

## The National Environment Tribunal Act, 1995

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The National Environment Tribunal Act, 1995

## Act 27 of 1995

  * Published on 17 June 1995 
  * Commenced on 17 June 1995 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 June 1995.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The National Environment Tribunal Act, 1995(27 OF 1995)

### 17.

/798Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The principle of strict civil liability
in accident cases arising from the activities involving hazardous substances
has been highlighted in a case by the Supreme Court of India. An enterprise
engaged in activities with potential threat to the health and safety of the
persons residing in the surrounding areas of the factory owes an absolute duty
to the community to ensure that no harm is caused to any one on account of
hazardous and inherently dangerous nature of such activities. Cases seeking
compensation for damages to human health, property and the environment,
particularly contamination of sub-surface water, are increasing. There is also
an increasing trend in the number of industrial disasters.The United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development held at Rio de Janeiro in June,
1992, in which India participated, has also called upon the States to develop
National laws regarding liability'and compensation for the victims of
pollution and other environmental damage.3\. It is deemed expedient to develop
and codify the principle of strict civil liability in respect of all such
cases where damage is caused while handling hazardous substances. It is
proposed to establish a National Environment Tribunal for effective and
expeditious disposal of cases arising from certain industrial accidents and
disasters with a view to providing effective and expeditious relief and
compensation for damages to human health, property and the environment.[17th
June, 1995]An Act to provide for strict liability for damages arising out of
any accident occurring while handling any hazardous substance and for the
establishment of a National Environment Tribunal for effective and expeditious
disposal of cases arising from such accident, with a view to giving relief and
compensation for damages to persons, property and the environment and for
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.Whereas decisions were taken
at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development held at Rio de
Janeiro in June, 1992, in which India participated, calling upon the States to
develop National laws regarding liability and compensation for the victims of
pollution and other environmental damages;And whereas it is considered
expedient to implement the decisions of the aforesaid Conference so far as
they relate to the protection of environment and payment of compensation for
damage to persons, property and the environment while handling hazardous
substances;Be it enacted by Parliament in the Forty-sixth Year of the Republic
of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The National
Environment Tribunal Act, 1995.

(2)It shall come into force on such date or dates as the Central Government
may, by notification, appoint, and different dates may be appointed for
different States and any reference in any provision of this Act to the
commencement of this Act shall be construed in relation to any State or part
thereof as reference to the coming into force of that provision in that State
or part thereof.

### 2. Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"accident" means an accident involving a fortuitous or sudden or unintended
occurrence while handling any hazardous substance resulting in continuous or
intermittent or repeated exposure to death of, or injury to, any person or
damage to any property or environment but does not include an accident by
reason only of war or radioactivity;(b)"Bench" means a Bench of the
Tribunal;(c)"Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the
Tribunal;(d)"environment" includes water, air and land and the inter-
relationship which exists among and between water, air and land, and human
beings, other living creatures, plants, micro-organism and
property;(e)"handling", in relation to any hazardous substance, means the
manufacture, processing, treatment, package, storage, transportation by
vehicle, use, collection, destruction, conversion, offering for sale, transfer
or the like of such hazardous substance;(f)"hazardous substance" means any
substance or preparation which is defined as hazardous substance in the
Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (29 of 1986), and exceeding such quantity
as specified by the Central Government under the Public Liability Insurance
Act, 1991 (6 of 1991);(g)"Judicial Members" means a Member of the Tribunal
appointed as such under this Act, and includes the Chairperson or a Vice-
Chairperson who possesses any of the qualifications specified in sub-section
(3) of section 10;(h)"Member" means a Member (whether Judicial or Technical)
of the Tribunal and includes the Chairperson and a Vice-
Chairperson;(i)"notification" means a notification published in the Official
Gazette;(j)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(k)"rules" means the rules made under this Act;(l)"Technical Member" means
a Member of the Tribunal who is not a Judicial Member within the meaning of
clause (g);(m)"Tribunal" means the National Environment Tribunal established
under section 8;(n)"Vice-Chairperson" means the Vice-Chairperson of the
Tribunal.Explanation .-In the case of the Tribunal having two or more Vice-
Chairpersons, references to the Vice-Chairperson in this Act shall be
construed as a reference to each of those Vice-Chairpersons;(o)"owner" means a
person who owns, or has control over handling, any hazardous substance at the
time of accident and includes,-(i)in the case of a firm, any of its
partners;(ii)in the case of an association, any of its members; and(iii)in the
case of a company, any of its directors, managers, secretaries or other
officers who is directly in charge of, and is responsible to, the company for
the conduct of the business of the company.

## Chapter II  
Compensation For Death Of, Or Injury To, A Person And Damage To Property And
Environment

### 3. Liability to pay compensation in certain cases on principle of no fault
.-(1) Where death of, or injury to, any person (other than a workman) or
damage to any property or environment has resulted from an accident, the owner
shall be liable to pay compensation for such death, injury or damage under all
or any of the heads specified in the Schedule.

(2)In any claim for compensation under sub-section (1), the claimant shall not
be required to plead and establish that the death, injury or damage in respect
of which the claim has been made was due to any wrongful act, neglect or
default of any person.Explanation .-For the purposes of this
section,-(i)"workman" has the meaning assigned to it in the Workmen's
Compensation Act, 1923 (8 of 1923);(ii)"injury" includes permanent total or
permanent partial disability or sickness resulting out of an accident.(3)If
the death, injury or damage caused by an accident cannot be attributed to any
individual activity but is the combined or resultant effect of several such
activities, operation and processes, the Tribunal may apportion the liability
for compensation amongst those responsible for such activities, operations and
processes on an equitable basis.

### 4. Application for claim for compensation .-(1) An application for claim
for compensation may be made-

(a)by the person who has sustained the injury;(b)by the owner of the property
to which the damage has been caused;(c)where death has resulted from the
accident, by all or any of the legal representatives of the deceased;(d)by any
agent duly authorised by such person or owner of such property or all or any
of the legal representatives of the deceased, as the case may be;(e)by any
representative body or organisation, functioning in the field of environment
and recognised in this behalf by the Central Government, under all or any of
the heads specified in the Schedule; or(f)by the Central Government or a State
Government or a local authority under all or any of the heads specified in the
Schedule:Provided that where all the legal representatives of the deceased
have not joined in any such application for compensation, the application
shall be made on behalf of or for the benefit of all the legal representatives
of the deceased and the legal representatives who have not so joined shall be
impleaded as respondents to the application.(2)The Tribunal may, if it thinks
fit, take up the cases for claims for compensation suo motu .(3)Any claimant
making an application under sub-section (1) may also make an application
before the Tribunal for such relief as is provided in the Public Liability
Insurance Act, 1991 (6 of 1991):Provided that no such application shall be
made if the relief has been received by the claimant earlier or an application
made by the claimant to the Collector under the said Act is pending and has
not been withdrawn.(4)The Tribunal shall have, and exercise, the same
jurisdiction, powers and authority in respect of the matters specified in the
Public Liability Insurance Act, 1991 (6 of 1991) as the Collector has and may
exercise and, for this purpose, the provisions of that Act shall have effect
subject to the modification that the references therein to the Collector shall
be construed as including a reference to the Tribunal.(5)Every application
under sub-section (1) shall be made to the Tribunal and shall contain such
particulars and shall be accompanied by such documents and such fee, not
exceeding one thousand rupees, as may be prescribed:Provided that no fee shall
be payable by a person whose annual income is below the prescribed limit or by
a representative body or organisation referred to in clause (e) of sub-section
(1) or by the Central Government, a State Government or a local
authority.(6)No application for compensation shall be entertained unless it is
made within five years of the occurrence of the accident.

### 5. Procedure and powers of Tribunal .-(1) On receipt of an application
under sub-section (1) of section 4, the Tribunal may, after such inquiry as it
may deem fit, reject the application summarily.

(2)Where the Tribunal does not reject the application under sub-section (1),
the Tribunal may, after giving notice of the application to the owner and
after giving the parties an opportunity of being heard, hold an inquiry into
the claim or each of the claims and may make an award determining the amount
of compensation which appears to be just and specifying the person or persons
to whom such amount of compensation shall be paid.(3)The Tribunal shall not be
bound by the procedure laid down by the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908), but shall be guided by the principles of natural justice and, subject
to the other provisions of this Act and of any rules, the Tribunal shall have
power to regulate its own procedure including the fixing of places and times
of its inquiry.(4)The Tribunal shall have, for the purpose of discharging its
functions under this Act, the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit, in respect
of the following matters, namely:-(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of
any person and examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production
of documents;(c)receiving evidence on affidavits;(d)subject to the provisions
of sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872),
requisitioning any public record or document or copy of such record or
document from any office;(e)issuing commissions for the examination of
witnesses or documents;(f)reviewing its decisions;(g)dismissing an application
or default or deciding it ex parte ;(h)setting aside any order of dismissal of
any application for default or any order passed by it ex parte ; and(i)any
other matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed.

### 6. Conditions as to making of interim orders .-Notwithstanding anything
contained in any other provision of this Act or in any other law for the time
being in force, no interim order (whether by way of injunction or stay or in
any other manner) shall be made on, or in any proceedings relating to, an
application unless-

(a)copies of such application and of all documents in support of the plea for
such interim order are furnished to the party against whom such application is
made or proposed to be made; and(b)opportunity is given to such party to be
heard in the matter:Provided that the Tribunal may dispense with the
requirements of clauses (a) and (b) and make an interim order as an
exceptional measure if it is satisfied, for reasons to be recorded in writing,
that it is necessary so to do for preventing any loss or damage being caused
to the applicant which cannot be adequately compensated in money but any such
interim order shall, if it is not sooner vacated, cease to have effect on the
expiry of a period of fourteen days from the date on which it is made unless
the said requirements have been complied with before the expiry of that period
and the Tribunal has continued the operation of the interim order.

### 7. Reduction of amount of relief paid under any other law .-Where in
respect of death of, or injury to, any person or damage to any property, the
owner, liable to pay compensation under this Act, is also liable to pay any
amount as relief under the Public Liability Insurance Act, 1991 (6 of 1991) or
any other compensation under any other law, the amount of compensation payable
under this Act shall be reduced by the amount of relief and other compensation
paid under any other law.

## Chapter III  
Establishment Of National Environment Tribunal And Benches Thereof

### 8. Establishment of National Environment Tribunal .-The Central Government
shall, by notification, establish a Tribunal to be known as the National
Environment Tribunal, to exercise the jurisdiction, powers and authority
conferred on it by or under this Act.

### 9. Composition of Tribunal and Benches thereof .-(1) The Tribunal shall
consist of a Chairperson and such number of Vice-Chairpersons, Judicial
Members and Technical Members as the Central Government may deem fit and,
subject to the other provisions of this Act, the jurisdiction, powers and
authority of the Tribunal may be exercised by Benches thereof.

(2)Subject to the other provisions of this Act, a Bench shall consist of one
Judicial Member and one Technical Member.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-section (1), the Chairperson-(a)may, in addition to discharging the
functions of the Judicial Member or the Technical Member of the Bench to which
he is appointed, discharge the functions of the Judicial Member or, as the
case may be, the Technical Member, of any other Bench;(b)may transfer the
Vice-Chairperson or other Member from one Bench to another Bench;(c)may
authorise the Vice-Chairperson or the Judicial Member or the Technical Member
appointed to one Bench to discharge also the functions of the Vice-Chairperson
or, as the case may be, the Judicial Member or the Technical Member of another
Bench; and(d)may, for the purpose of securing that any case or cases which,
having regard to the nature of the questions involved, requires or require, in
his opinion or under the rules made by the Central Government in this behalf,
to be decided by a Bench composed of more than two Members, issue such general
or special orders, as he may deem fit:Provided that every Bench constituted in
pursuance of this clause shall include at least one Judicial Member and one
Technical Member.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing
provisions of this section, it shall be competent for the Chairperson or any
other Member authorised by the Chairperson in this behalf to function as a
Bench consisting of a single Member and exercise the jurisdiction, powers and
authority of the Tribunal in respect of such classes of cases or such matters
pertaining to such classes of cases as the Chairperson may, by general or
special order, specify:-Provided that if at any stage of the hearing of any
such case or matter, it appears to the Chairperson or such Member that the
case or matter is of such a nature that it ought to be heard by a Bench
consisting of two Members, the case or matter may be transferred by the
Chairperson or, as the case may be, referred to him for transfer to such Bench
as the Chairperson may deem fit.(5)Subject to the other provisions of this
Act, the Benches of the Tribunal shall ordinarily sit at New Delhi (which
shall be known as the principal Bench) and at such other places as the Central
Government may, by notification, specify.

### 10. Qualifications for appointment as Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or
other Member .-(1) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as the
Chairperson unless he-

(a)is, or has been, a Judge of the Supreme Court or a High Court; or(b)has,
for at least two years, held the office of Vice-Chairperson.(2)A person shall
not be qualified for appointment as the Vice-Chairperson unless he-(a)is, or
has been, a Judge of a High Court; or(b)has, for at least two years, held the
post of a Secretary to the Government of India or any other post under the
Central or a State Government carrying a scale of pay which is not less than
that of a Secretary to the Government of India; or(c)(i)has, for at least five
years, held the post of an Additional Secretary to the Government of India or
any other post under the Central or a State Government carrying a scale of pay
which is not less than that of an Additional Secretary to the Government of
India; and(ii)has adequate knowledge of, or experience in, legal,
administrative, scientific or technical aspects of the problems relating to
environment; or(d)has, for at least three years, held office as a Judicial
Member or a Technical Member.(3)A person shall not be qualified for
appointment as a Judicial Member unless he-(a)is, or has been, or is qualified
to be, a Judge of a High Court; or(b)has been a member of the Indian Legal
Service and has held a post in Grade I of that Service for at least three
years.(4)A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Technical Member
unless he has adequate knowledge of, or experience in, or capacity to deal
with, administrative, scientific or technical aspects of the problems relating
to environment.(5)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (6) and (7), the
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and every other Member of the Tribunal shall be
appointed by the President.(6)No appointment of a person possessing the
qualifications specified in this section as the Chairperson or the Vice-
Chairperson shall be made except after consultation with the Chief Justice of
India.(7)No appointment of a person as a Judicial Member or a Technical Member
shall be made except on the recommendation of a Selection Committee appointed
by the Central Government consisting of the following, namely:-

(a) Chairperson ofthe Tribunal |  Chairperson of theCommittee, ex officio;  
---|---  
(b) Secretary tothe Government of India in the Ministry of Environment andForests |  Member, exofficio;  
(c) Secretary tothe Government of India in the Ministry of Law, Justice andCompany Affairs (Department of Legal Affairs) |  Member, ex officio;  
(d)Director-General, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research |  Member, exofficio;  
(e) anEnvironmentalist to be nominated by the Central Government | Member.  
  
### 11. Vice-Chairperson to act as Chairperson or to discharge his functions
in certain circumstances .-(1) In the event of the occurrence of any vacancy
in the Office of the Chairperson by reason of his death, resignation or
otherwise, the Vice-Chairperson or, as the case may be, such one of the Vice-
Chairpersons, as the Central Government may, by notification, authorise in
this behalf, shall act as the Chairperson until the date on which a new
Chairperson, appointed in accordance with the provisions of this Act to fill
such vacancy, enters upon his office.

(2)When the Chairperson is unable to discharge his functions owing to absence,
illness of any other cause, the Vice-Chairperson or, as the case may be, such
one of the Vice-Chairpersons, as the Central Government may, by notification,
authorise in this behalf, shall discharge the functions of the Chairperson
until the date on which the Chairperson resumes his duties.

### 12. Term of office .-The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and other Member
shall hold office as such for a term of five years from the date on which he
enters upon his office, but shall be eligible for re-appointment for another
term of five years:

Provided that no Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or other Member shall hold
office as such after he has attained,-(a)in the case of the Chairperson, the
age of seventy years;(b)in the case of the Vice-Chairperson, the age of sixty-
five years; and(c)in the case of any other Member, the age of sixty-two years.

### 13. Resignation and removal .-(1) The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or
other Member may, by notice in writing under his hand addressed to the
President, resign his office:-

Provided that the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or other Member shall unless
he is permitted by the President to relinquish his office sooner, continue to
hold office until the expiry of three months from the date of receipt of such
notice or until a person duly appointed as his successor enters upon his
office or until the expiry of his term of office, whichever is the
earliest.(2)The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or any other Member shall not be
removed from his office except by an order made by the President on the ground
of proved misbehaviour or incapacity after an inquiry made by a Judge of the
Supreme Court in which such Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or other Member had
been informed of the charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity of
being heard in respect of those charges.(3)The Central Government may, by
rules, regulate the procedure for the investigation of misbehaviour or
incapacity of the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or other Member referred to in
sub-section (2).

### 14. Salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and other Members .-The salaries and allowances
payable to, and the other terms and conditions of service (including pension,
gratuity and other retirement benefits) of the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson
and other Member shall be such as may be prescribed:

Provided that neither the salary and allowances nor the other terms and
conditions of service of the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or other Member
shall be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment.

### 15. Provision as to the holding of offices by Chairperson, etc., on
ceasing to be such Chairperson, etc .-On ceasing to hold office,-

(a)the Chairperson of the Tribunal shall be ineligible for further employment
either under the Government of India or under the Government of a State;(b)the
Vice-Chairperson of the Tribunal shall, subject to the other provisions of
this Act, be eligible for appointment as the Chairperson of the Tribunal, but
not for any other employment either under the Government of India or under the
Government of a State;(c)a Member (other than the Chairperson or Vice-
Chairperson) of the Tribunal shall, subject to the other provisions of this
Act, be eligible for appointment as the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson of the
Tribunal or as the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or Member of any other
Tribunal, but not for any other employment either under the Government of
India or under the Government of a State;(d)the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson
or other Member shall not appear, act or plead before the Tribunal.Explanation
.-For the purposes of this section, employment under the Government of India
or under the Government of a State includes employment under any local or
other authority within the territory of India or under the control of the
Government of India or under any corporation or society owned or controlled by
the Government.

### 16. Financial and administrative powers of Chairperson .-The Chairperson
shall exercise such financial and administrative powers over the Benches as
may be vested in him under the rules:

Provided that the Chairperson shall have authority to delegate such of his
financial and administrative powers as he may think fit to the Vice-
Chairperson or any other officer of the Tribunal subject to the condition that
the Vice-Chairperson or such officer shall, while exercising such delegated
powers, continue to act under the direction, control and supervision of the
Chairperson.

### 17\. Staff of the Tribunal .-(1) The Central Government shall determine
the nature and categories of the officers and other employees required to
assist the Tribunal in the discharge of its functions and provide the Tribunal
with such officers and other employees as it may think fit.

(2)The officers and other employees of the Tribunal shall discharge their
functions under the general superintendence of the Chairperson.(3)The salaries
and allowances and conditions of service of the officers and other employees
of the Tribunal shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 18. Distribution of business amongst the Benches .-(1) Where any Benches
of the Tribunal are constituted, the Central Government may, from time to
time, by notification, make provisions as to the distribution of the business
of the Tribunal amongst the Benches and specify the matters which may be dealt
with by each Bench.

(2)If any question arises as to whether any matter falls within the purview of
the business allocated to a Bench, the decision of the Chairperson shall be
final.Explanation .-For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the
expression "matters" includes applications for interim relief.

## Chapter IV  
Jurisdiction And Proceedings Of The Tribunal

### 19. Bar of jurisdiction .-On and from the commencement of this Act, no
Court or other authority except the Tribunal shall have, or be entitled to
exercise, any jurisdiction powers or authority to entertain any application or
action for any claim for compensation which may be entertained or dealt with
by the Tribunal.

### 20. Power of Chairperson to transfer cases from one Bench to another .-On
the application of any of the parties and after notice to the parties, and
after hearing such of them as he may desire to be heard, or on his own motion
without such notice, the Chairperson may transfer any case pending before one
Bench, for disposal, to any other Bench.

### 21. Decision to be taken by majority .-If the Members of a Bench differ in
opinion on any point, the point shall be decided according to the opinion of
the majority, if there is a majority, but if the Members are equally divided,
they shall state the point or points on which they differ, and make a
reference to the Chairperson who shall either hear the point or points himself
or refer the case for hearing on such point or points by one or more of the
other Members and such point or points shall be decided according to the
opinion of the majority of the Members who have heard the case including those
who first heard it.

### 22. Deposit of amount payable for damage to environment .-(1) Where any
amount of compensation is ordered to be paid under any award by the Tribunal
on the ground of any damage to environment, that amount shall be remitted to
the authority specified under sub-section (3) of section 7-A of the Public
Liability Insurance Act, 1991 (6 of 1991) for being credited to the
Environmental Relief Fund established under that section.

(2)The amount of compensation credited to the Environmental Relief Fund under
sub-section (1) may be utilised by such person or authority, in such manner
and for such purposes of environment as may be prescribed.

### 23. Execution of award or order of Tribunal .-(1) An award made by the
Tribunal under this Act shall be executable by the Tribunal as a decree of
Civil Court, and for this purpose, the Tribunal shall have all the powers of a
Civil Court.

(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the Tribunal may
transmit to the Collector having jurisdiction over the area in which the
accident has occurred the copy of the order made by it for payment of relief
as provided in the Public Liability Insurance Act, 1991 (6 of 1991) and the
Collector shall execute the order in the same manner as if it were an order
made by him under that Act.(3)Where the owner against whom the award or order
is made by the Tribunal fails to make the payment or deposit the amount as
directed by the Tribunal within the period specified in the award or order,
such amount shall be recoverable from the owner as arrears of land revenue or
of public demand.

### 24. Appeals .-(1) Save as provided in sub-section (2) and notwithstanding
anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) or in any
other law, an appeal shall lie against any award or other order, not being an
interlocutory order, of the Tribunal to the Supreme Court on one or more of
the grounds specified in section 100 of that Code.

(2)No appeal shall lie against an award or other order made by the Tribunal
with the consent of the parties.(3)Every appeal under this section shall be
preferred within a period of ninety days from the date of the award or other
order appealed against:Provided that no appeal by the person who is required
to pay any amount in terms of such award shall be entertained by the Supreme
Court unless he has deposited with it the amount so awarded in the manner
directed by the Supreme Court:Provided further that the Supreme Court may
entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said period of ninety days, if it
is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from
preferring the appeal in time.

## Chapter V  
Miscellaneous

### 25. Penalty for failure to comply with orders of Tribunal .-Whoever fails
to comply with any order made by the Tribunal, he shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine which
may extend to ten lakh rupees, or with both.

### 26. Offences by companies .-(1) Where any offence under this Act has been
committed by a company, every person who, at the time the offence was
committed, was directly in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for
the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be
deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly:

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such
person liable to any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the
offence was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due
diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Act has
been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been
committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect
on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the
company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be
deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.Explanation .-For the purposes of this
section,-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other
association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a firm, means a
partner in the firm.

### 27. Proceedings before the Tribunal to be judicial proceedings .-All
proceedings before the Tribunal shall be deemed to be judicial proceedings
within the meaning of sections 193, 219 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45
of 1860).

### 28. Members and staff of Tribunal to be public servants .-The Chairperson,
Vice-Chairperson and other Members and the officers and other employees of the
Tribunal shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section
21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 29. Protection of action taken in good faith .-No suit, prosecution or
other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Government or against the
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or other Member of the Tribunal or any other
person authorised by the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or other Member for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of
this Act or any rule or order made thereunder.

### 30. Act to have overriding effect .-Save as provided in the Public
Liability Insurance Act, 1991 (6 of 1991), the provisions of this Act shall
have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any
other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effected by
virtue of any law other than this Act.

### 31. Power to make rules .-(1) The Central Government may, by notification,
make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the particulars which an application shall contain, the documents
and the fee which shall be accompanied with it and the limit of annual income
of a person so as to enable him to make application without paying any fee,
under sub-section (5) of section 4;(b)any such matter in respect of which the
Tribunal shall have powers of a Civil Court, under clause (i) of sub-section
(4) of section 5;(c)the case or cases which, having regard to the nature of
the questions involved, requires or require to be decided by a Bench of more
than two members, under clause (d) of sub-section (3) of section
9;(d)procedure for the investigation of misbehaviour or incapacity of the
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or other Member of the Tribunal under sub-
section (3) of section 13;(e)the salaries and allowances payable to, and the
other terms and conditions of service of, the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson
and other Members under section 14;(f)financial and administrative powers of
the Chairperson over the Benches under section 16;(g)the salaries and
allowances and conditions of service of the officers and other employees of
the Tribunal under sub-section (3) of section 17;(h)the person or the
authority by whom, the manner in which and the purposes of environment for
which the amount of compensation credited to the Environmental Relief Fund
shall be utilised under sub-section (2) of section 22; and(i)any other matter
which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Every rule made under this
Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament, which it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rules.THE SCHEDULE[See section 3(1)]HEADS UNDER WHICH COMPENSATION FOR DAMAGES
MAY BE CLAIMED(a)Death;(b)Permanent, temporary, total or partial disability or
other injury or sickness;(c)Loss of wages due to total or partial disability
or permanent or temporary disability;(d)Medical expenses incurred for
treatment of injuries or sickness;(e)Damages to private property;(f)Expenses
incurred by the Government or any local authority in providing relief, aid and
rehabilitation to the affected persons;(g)Expenses incurred by Government for
any administrative or legal action or to cope with any harm or damage,
including compensation for environmental degradation and restoration of the
quality of environment;(h)Loss to Government or local authority arising out
of, or connected with, the activity causing any damage;(i)Claims on account of
any harm, damage or destruction to the fauna including milch and draught
animals and aquatic fauna;(j)Claims on account of any harm, damage or
destruction to flora including aquatic flora, crops, vegetables, trees and
orchards;(k)Claims including cost of restoration on account of any harm or
damage to environment including pollution of soil, air, water, land and eco-
systems;(l)Loss and destruction of any property other than private
property;(m)Loss of business or employment or both;(n)any other claim arising
out of, or connected with, any activity of handling of hazardous substance.

