## Union of India - Act

## The National Housing Bank Act, 1987

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The National Housing Bank Act, 1987

## Act 53 of 1987

  * Published on 23 December 1987 
  * Commenced on 23 December 1987 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 September 2006.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE BANKING COMPANIES (ACQUISITION AND TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS) AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS LAWS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2006 (Act 45 of 2006) on 25 September 2006] 

The National Housing Bank Act, 1987(53 OF 1987)

### 18.

/800Statement of Objects and Reasons.-Housing is a basic need and serves to
fulfil the fundamental objective of providing shelter. The existing
institutional framework for providing housing finance is yet to develop fully.
It is, therefore, necessary to create a housing finance structure through
establishment of appropriate institutions at various levels which would
mobilise resources and promote housing activity.2\. A high level group which
looked into the problem, recommended that a National Housing Bank be
established as an apex housing financial institution to function as the
principal agency for the promotion of housing finance institutions at various
levels, to co-ordinate the activities of these institutions, to promote
mobilisation of resources for housing and to extend financial support to the
housing finance institutions.3\. The Bill seeks to provide for the
establishment of a National Housing Bank with a view to give effect to the
aforementioned recommendations of the high level group. In addition, the
National Housing Bank will also play a role in the formulation of policies
designed to promote housing in the country and provide guide-lines for the
working of all the agencies connected with housing.4\. The Notes on Clauses
appended to the Bill explain the provisions of the Bill.Amendment Act 15 of
2000-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The National Housing Bank was
established in July, 1988 under the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 to operate
as a principal agency to promote housing finance institutions both at local
and regional levels and to provide financial and other support to such
institutions and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. To
meet the objectives aforesaid, the National Housing Bank was also conferred
powers to regulate the deposit acceptance activities of the housing finance
institutions similar to those available to Reserve Bank of India in respect of
non-banking financial companies. The powers of the Reserve Bank of India to
control the activities of non-banking financial companies were further
strengthened by the Reserve Bank of India (Amendment) Act, 1997. The housing
finance companies which are sub-set of non-banking financial companies were
exempted from the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India Act, as amended in
1997, for the reason that such companies fall under the regulatory frame work
of the National Housing Bank. Thus, there arose the necessity to confer powers
on the National Housing Bank similar to those available to the Reserve Bank of
India after the above amendment. These proposed provisions will enable the
National Housing Bank to safeguard the interest of depositors and promote
healthy and universal growth of housing finance companies in the country.2\.
Housing loans are generally of long term duration and consequently the funds
of housing finance institutions get locked up in mortgages. There is need to
augment their capacity to provide more finance by adopting asset
securitisation and development of a secondary mortgage market in the country.
The National Housing Bank, being the principal agency in the field of housing
finance, is being entrusted with the responsibility to develop such market in
housing mortgages in the country.3\. There has been a long standing demand
from the housing finance institutions for a speedier method of recovery of
dues from the defaulting borrowers. It is prop -sed to provide for a simple,
speedy and cost effective method of recovery of overdues by the housing
finance institutions by providing for the sale of property charged as security
for the assistance granted by such institutions through recovery officers. A
provision is also being made for establishment of Appellate Tribunal to hear
appeal against the decision of recovery officer.4\. With the introduction of
economic reforms, it has been considered necessary to enlarge the capital and
shareholder's base of the National Housing Bank. Consequently, it is proposed
to provide for enhancement of the authorised capital of the National Housing
Bank to rupees three hundred fifty crores with an enabling provision for
further increase up to rupees two thousand crores. It is also proposed that
the National Housing Bank may offer its shareholding to institutions, besides
the Reserve Bank of India, in such manner that the Reserve Bank of India, the
Central Government, public sector banks, public financial institutions or
other institutions owned or controlled by the Central Government, shall in
aggregate at any time hold not less than fifty-one per cent. of the issued
capital of the National Housing Bank. It is also proposed to provide for
restructuring of the Board of Director of the National Housing Bank.5\. In the
light of the experience gained in the operations of the National Housing Bank
since its establishment, it is felt necessary to bring certain amendments to
the said Act for the smooth working of the National Housing Bank and to
authorise it to undertake certain additional business of financing of
agricultural and rural development banks, making of loans and advances for
residential township-cum-housing development projects, undertaking
securitisation of loans, setting up of mutual fund and undertaking or
participating in housing mortgage insurance business.6\. The Bill seeks to
achieve the aforesaid object.[23rd December, 1987]An Act to establish a bank
to be known as the National Housing Bank to operate as a principal agency to
promote housing finance institutions both at local and regional levels and to
provide financial and other support to such institutions and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by Parliament in the
Thirty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

The whole Act except Chapter V and Section 49(3) was brought into force on
9.7.1988 vide S.O. 684(E), dated 9.7.1988. Chapter V and Section 49(3) came
into force on 1.6.1989 vide S.O. 394(E), dated 1.6.1989.  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement. - (1) This Act may be called The
National Housing Bank Act, 1987.

(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date
as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint, and different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this
Act and any reference in any provision to the commencement of this Act shall
be construed as a reference to the coming into force of that provision.

### 2. Definitions. - In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"Board" means the Board of Directors of the National Housing Bank referred
to in section 6;(b)"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Board appointed under
section 6;(c)"director" means a director appointed under section 6;(d)"housing
finance institution" includes every institution, whether incorporated or not,
which primarily transacts or has as [one of its principal objects], the
transacting of the business of providing finance for housing, whether directly
or indirectly;(e)"Managing Director" means the Managing Director appointed
under section 6;(f)"National Housing Bank" means the National Housing Bank
established under section 3;(g)"notification" means a notification published
in the Official Gazette;(h)"prescribed" means prescribed by regulations made
under this Act;(i)"Reserve Bank" means the Reserve Bank of India constituted
under section 3 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934);(j)words
and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Reserve Bank of
India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934), shall have the meanings respectively assigned to
them in that Act.(k)words and expressions used herein and not defined either
in this Act or in the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934), but defined
in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of
1949).

## Chapter II  
Establishment Of The National Housing Bank And Capital Thereof

### 3. Establishment and incorporation of National Housing Bank. - (1) With
effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification, appoint,
there shall be established for the purposes of this Act, a bank to be known as
the National Housing Bank.

(2)The National Housing Bank shall be a body corporate with the name aforesaid
having perpetual succession and a common seal with power, subject to the
provisions of this Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of property and to
contract, and may, by that name, sue and be sued.(3)The head office of the
National Housing Bank shall be at [New Delhi or at such other place as the
Central Government] may, by notification, specify.(4)The National Housing Bank
may establish offices, branches or agencies at any place in India, and with
the previous approval of [the Central Government] [Substituted 'the Reserve
Bank' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.], at any
place outside India.

### 4. [ Capital.

(1)The authorised and paid-up capital of the National Housing Bank shall be
three hundred and fifty crores of rupees:[Provided that the Central Government
may, by notification, increase the authorised capital up to two thousand crore
rupees or such other amount as may be determined by it from time to
time.](2)The Board may, on such terms and conditions, as determined by it from
time to time, issue the increased authorised capital to [***] [Omitted 'the
Reserve Bank' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.], the
Central Government, scheduled banks, public financial institutions, housing
finance institutions or such other institutions, as may be approved by the
Central Government:Provided that no increase in the issued capital shall be
made in such manner that [***] [Omitted 'the Reserve Bank' by Finance Act,
2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.], the Central Government, public
sector banks, public financial institutions or other institutions owned or
controlled by the Central Government, hold in aggregate at any time, less than
fifty-one per cent. of the issued capital of the National Housing Bank.](3)[
The subscribed capital of one thousand four hundred and fifty crore rupees of
the National Housing Bank, which has been subscribed to by the Reserve Bank,
shall stand transferred to, and vested in the Central Government upon payment
of the face value of the subscribed capital, to the Reserve Bank from such
date as may be notified by the Central Government.] [Inserted by Finance Act,
2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.]

## Chapter III  
Management Of The National Housing Bank

### 5. Management. - (1) The general superintendence, direction and management
of the affairs and business of the National Housing Bank shall vest in the
Board of Directors, which shall exercise all powers and do all acts and
things, which may be exercised or done by the National Housing Bank.

(2)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board, in discharging its
functions, shall act on business principles with due regard to public
interest.(3)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1) and save as otherwise
provided in the regulations made under this Act,-(a)[ the Chairman, if he is a
whole-time Director or if he is holding offices both as the Chairman and the
Managing Director, or(b)the Managing Director, if the Chairman is not a whole-
time Director, or if the Chairman being a whole-time Director, is
absent,]shall also have powers of general superintendence, direction and
management of the affairs and business of the National Housing Bank and may
also exercise all powers and do all acts and things which may be exercised or
done by the National Housing Bank and shall act on business principles with
due regard to public interest.(4)The Managing Director shall, in the discharge
of his powers and functions, follow such directions as the Chairman may
give.(5)In the discharge of its functions under this Act, the National Housing
Bank shall be guided by such directions in matters of policy involving public
interest as the Central Government, [***] [Omitted 'in consultation with the
Reserve Bank, or the Reserve Bank' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018)
dated 29.3.2018.], may give in writing.

### 6. Board of Directors. - (1) The Board of Directors of the National
Housing Bank shall consist of the following, namely:-

(a)a Chairman and a Managing Director:Provided that the same person may be
appointed as Chairman and as Managing Director;(b)[two Directors] from amongst
the experts in the field of housing, architecture, engineering, sociology,
finance, law, management and corporate planning or in any other field, special
knowledge of which is considered useful to the National Housing Bank;(c)[ two
Directors, who shall be persons with experience in the working of institutions
involved in providing funds for housing or engaged in housing development or
have experience in the working of financial institutions or scheduled banks;
[Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 5, for Clause (c) (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).
](ca)two Directors elected in such manner as may be prescribed by shareholders
other than [***], the Central Government and other institutions owned or
controlled by the Central Government;](d)[one director] [Substituted 'two
directors' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.] from
out of the directors of the Reserve Bank;(e)three directors from amongst the
officials of the Central Government;(f)two directors from amongst the
officials of the State Government.(2)The Chairman, the Managing Director and
other directors [excluding the directors referred to in clauses (ca) and (d)]
[ Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 5, for " excluding the Directors
referred to in clause (d)" (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).], shall be appointed by the
Central Government [the director] [Substituted 'in consultation with the
Reserve Bank and directors' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated
29.3.2018.] referred to in clause (d) shall be nominated by the Reserve Bank.

### 7. Terms of office of Chairman, Managing Director and other directors,
service conditions, etc. - (1) The Chairman and the Managing Director shall
hold office for such term, not exceeding five years and shall receive such
salary and allowances and be governed by such terms and conditions of service
as the Central Government may, [***], specify and shall be eligible for re-
appointment:

Provided that the Chairman or, as the case may be, the Managing Director
shall, notwithstanding the expiration of his term, continue to hold office
until his successor enters upon his office.(2)The directors referred to in
[clauses (b), (c) and (ca)] [ Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 6, for "
clauses (b) and (c)" (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).] of sub-section (1) of section 6
shall hold office for a term of three years:[* * *] [ Proviso omitted by Act
45 of 2006, Section 19 (w.e.f. 16.10.2006).](3)The Central Government may,
[***] [Omitted 'in consultation with the Reserve Bank' by Finance Act, 2018
(Act No. 13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.], remove the Chairman or the Managing
Director, or any other director referred to in sub-section (2), at any time
before the expiry of his term of office after giving him a reasonable
opportunity of showing cause against the proposed removal.(4)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (3), the Central Government, [***]
[Omitted 'in consultation with the Reserve Bank' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No.
13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.], shall have the right to terminate the term of
office of the Chairman or, as the case may be, the Managing Director, at any
time before the expiry of the term specified under sub-section (1), by giving
him notice of not less than three months in writing or three months' salary
and allowances in lieu thereof and the Chairman or the Managing Director, as
the case may be, shall also have the right to relinquish his office at any
time before the expiry of the term specified under sub-section (1), by giving
to the Central Government notice of not less than three months in writing or
three months' salary and allowances in lieu thereof.(5)The directors shall be
paid such fees and allowances as may be prescribed for attending the meetings
of the Board or of any of its committees and for attending to any other work
of the National Housing Bank:Provided that no such fee shall be payable to any
director, who is an official of the Government or a director of the Reserve
Bank.

### 8. Disqualifications. - No person shall be a director of the Board, if he-

(a)is, or becomes of unsound mind and has been so declared by a competent
Court; or(b)is or has been convicted of any offence which, in the opinion of
the Central Government, involves moral turpitude; or(c)is, or at any time has
been, adjudicated as insolvent or has suspended payment of his debts or has
compounded with his creditors; or(d)has, for any reason, been removed or
dismissed from the service of-(i)the Government, or(ii)the Reserve Bank, the
State Bank or any other bank, or(iii)any public financial institution, or
state financial corporation, or(iv)any other corporation owned or controlled
by the Government.

### 9. Vacation and resignation of office by directors. - (1) If a director-

(a)becomes subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in section 8;
or(b)is absent without leave of the Board for three or more consecutive
meetings thereof, his seat shall thereupon become vacant.(2)Any director may
resign his office by giving notice thereof in writing to the authority that
appointed or, as the case may be, nominated him and on his resignation being
accepted by such authority or if his resignation is not sooner accepted, on
the expiry of three months from the receipt thereof by such appointing
authority, he shall be deemed to have vacated his office.

### 10. Casual vacancy in the office of Chairman or Managing Director. - If
the Chairman, or as the case may be, the Managing Director, is by infirmity or
otherwise rendered incapable of carrying out his duties or is absent on leave
or otherwise, in circumstances not involving the vacation of his appointment,
the Central Government may, appoint another person to act in his place during
his absence.

### 11. Meetings of Board. - (1) The Board shall meet at such times and places
and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of
business at its meetings, as may be prescribed.

(2)The Chairman, or, if for any reason he is unable to attend a meeting of the
Board, the Managing Director, or, in the event of both the Chairman and the
Managing Director being unable to attend a meeting, any other director
nominated by the Chairman in this behalf and in the absence of such
nomination, any director elected by the directors present from among
themselves at the meeting, shall preside at the meeting.(3)All questions which
come up before any meeting of the Board shall be decided by a majority of
votes of the directors present and voting, and in the event of an equality of
votes, the Chairman, or, in his absence, the person presiding, shall have a
second or casting vote.

### 12. Executive Committee and other committees. - (1) The Board may
constitute an Executive Committee consisting of such number of directors as
may be prescribed.

(2)The Executive Committee shall discharge such functions as may be
prescribed, or, as may be delegated to it, by the Board.(3)The Board may
constitute such other committees, whether consisting wholly of directors or
wholly of other persons or partly of directors and partly of other persons as
it thinks fit for such purposes, as it may decide and any committee so
constituted shall discharge such functions as may be delegated to it by the
Board.(4)The Executive Committee or any other committees constituted under
this section shall meet at such times and places and shall observe such rules
of procedure in regard to transaction of business at its meetings, as may be
prescribed.

### 13. Director of Board or member of committee thereof not to participate in
meetings in certain cases. - Any director of the Board or any member of a
committee, who has any direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any matter
coming up for consideration at a meeting of the Board or a committee thereof,
shall, as soon as possible after relevant circumstances have come to his
knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at such meeting and the
disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of the Board, or the committee, as
the case may be, and the director or member shall not take any part in any
deliberation or decision of the Board or the committee with respect to that
matter.

## Chapter IV  
Business Of The National Housing Bank

### 14. Business of the National Housing Bank. - Subject to the provisions of
this Act, the National Housing Bank may transact all or any of the following
kinds of business, namely:-

(a)promoting, establishing, supporting or aiding in the promotion,
establishment and support of housing finance institutions;(b)[ making of loans
and advances or rendering any other form of financial assistance whatsoever
for housing activities to housing finance institutions, scheduled banks, state
co-operative agricultural and rural development banks or any other institution
or class of institutions as may be notified by the Central
Government;(ba)making of loans and advances for housing or residential
township-cum-housing development or slum clearance projects;](c)subscribing to
or purchasing stocks, shares, bonds, debentures and securities of every other
description;(d)guaranteeing the financial obligations of housing finance
institutions and underwriting the issue of stocks, shares, bonds, debentures
and securities of every other description of housing finance
institutions;(e)drawing, accepting, discounting or rediscounting, buying or
selling and dealing in bills of exchange, promissory notes, bonds, debentures,
hundies, coupons and other instruments by whatever name called;(ea)[ buying,
selling or otherwise dealing in any loans or advances secured by mortgage or
charge of the immovable property relating to scheduled bank or housing finance
institutions;(eb)creating one or more trusts and transferring loans or
advances together with or without securities therefor to such trusts for
consideration;(ec)setting aside loans or advances held by the National Housing
Bank and issuing and selling securities based upon such loans or advances so
set aside in the form of debt obligations, trust certificates of beneficial
interest or other instruments, by whatever name called, and to act as trustee
for the holders of such securities;(ed)setting up of one or more mutual funds
for undertaking housing finance activities;(ee)undertaking or participating in
housing mortgage insurance;] [ Inserted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 7 (w.e.f.
12.6.2000).](f)[ promoting, forming, conducting or associating in the
promotion, formation or conduct of companies, mortgage banks, subsidiaries,
societies, trusts or such other association of persons as it may deem fit for
carrying out all or any of its functions under this Act;] [ Substituted by Act
15 of 2000, Section 7, for Clause (f) (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).](g)undertaking
research and surveys on construction techniques and other studies relating to
or connected with shelter, housing and human settlement;(h)formulating one or
more schemes, for the purpose of mobilisation of resources and extension of
credit for housing;(hh)[ formulating a scheme for the purpose of accepting
deposits referred to in clause (a) of section 2 of the Voluntary Deposits
(Immunities and Exemptions) Act, 1991 and crediting forty per cent. of the
amount of such deposits to a special fund created under section 37;] [ Added
by Act 47 of 1991, Section 5 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991).](i)formulating one or more
schemes, for the economically weaker sections of society which may be
subsidised by the Central Government or any State Government or any other
source;(j)organising training programmes, seminars and symposia on matters
relating to housing;(k)providing guidelines to the housing finance
institutions to ensure their growth on sound lines;(l)providing technical and
administrative assistance to housing finance institutions;(m)co-ordinating
with the Life Insurance Corporation of India, the Unit Trust of India, the
General Insurance Corporation of India and other financial institutions, in
the discharge of its overall functions;(n)exercising all powers and functions
in the performance of duties entrusted to the National Housing Bank under this
Act or under any other law for the time being in force;(o)acting as agent of
the Central Government, the State Government or the Reserve Bank or of any
authority as may be authorised by the Reserve Bank;(p)any other kind of
business which the Central Government may, on the recommendation of the
Reserve Bank, authorise;(q)generally, doing of all such matters and things as
may be incidental to or consequential upon the exercise of its powers or the
discharge of its duties under this Act.

### 15. Borrowings and acceptance of deposits by National Housing Bank. - (1)
The National Housing Bank may, for the purpose of carrying out its functions
under this Act-

(a)issue and sell bonds and debentures with or without the guarantee of the
Central Government, in such manner and on such terms as may be
prescribed;(b)borrow money from [the Central Government, scheduled banks,
financial institutions, mutual funds] and from any other authority or
organisation or institution approved by that Government on such terms and
conditions as may be agreed upon;(c)accept deposits repayable after the expiry
of [such period and] [ Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 8, for " a
period which shall not be less than twelve months from the date of the making
of the deposit" (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).] on such terms as may generally or
specially be approved by the Reserve Bank:[Provided that nothing contained in
this clause shall apply to deposits accepted under the scheme formulated by
the Bank in pursuance of clause (hh) of section 14;] [ Added by Act 47 of
1991, Section 5 (w.e.f. 20.9.1991).](d)borrow money from the Reserve Bank-(i)[
by way of loans and advances and generally obtain financial assistance in such
manner or on such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Reserve
Bank;] [ Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 8, for sub-Clause (i) (w.e.f.
12.6.2000).](ii)out of the National Housing Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund
established under section 46-D of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of
1934) or any of the purposes specified in that section;(e)receive for services
rendered, such remuneration, commission, commitment charges, consultancy
charges, service charges, royalties, premia, license fees and any other
consideration of whatever description;(f)receive gifts, grants, donations or
benefactions from Government or any other source.(2)The Central Government
may, on a request being made to it by the National Housing Bank, guarantee the
bonds and debentures issued by the National Housing Bank as to the repayment
of principal and the payment of interest at such rate as may be fixed by that
Government.

### 16. Loans in foreign currency. - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained
[the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999)] or in any other law
for the time being in force relating to foreign exchange, the National Housing
Bank may, for the purpose of making loans and advances under this Act, borrow
in such manner and on such conditions as may be prescribed in consultation
with the Reserve Bank and with the previous approval of the Central
Government, foreign currency from any bank or financial institution in India
or elsewhere.

(2)The Central Government may, where necessary, guarantee any loan taken by
the National Housing Bank under sub-section (1) or any part thereof as to the
repayment of principal and the payment of interest and other incidental
charges.[16-A. Assistance to borrower when to operate or a charge in the
property offered as security.(1)Where any person or institution seeks any
financial assistance from the National Housing Bank on the security of any
immovable property belonging to him or to that institution or on the security
of the property of some other person whose property is offered as a collateral
security for such assistance, such person or institution or, as the case may
be, such other person may execute a written declaration in the form set out in
the Third Schedule to this Act stating therein the particulars of the
immovable property which is proposed to be offered as security, or as the case
may be, collateral security, for such assistance and agreeing that the dues
relating to the assistance, if granted, shall be a charge on such immovable
property and, if on receipt of such declaration, the National Housing Bank
grants any financial assistance to the person or institution aforesaid, the
dues relating to such assistance shall, without prejudice to the rights of any
other creditor holding any prior charge or mortgage in respect of the
immovable property so specified, be, by virtue of the provisions of this
section, a charge on the property specified in the declaration
aforesaid.(2)Where any further immovable property is offered by a person or an
institution as security for the financial assistance referred to in sub-
section (1), such person or institution may execute a fresh declaration, as
far as may be in the form set out in the Third Schedule to this Act, whereupon
the dues relating to such assistance shall, by virtue of the provisions of
this section, also be a charge on the property specified in such fresh
declaration.(3)A declaration made under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) may
be varied or revoked at any time by the person or institution as aforesaid,
with the prior approval of the National Housing Bank.(4)Every declaration made
under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be deemed to be a document
registrable as an agreement under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908
(16 of 1908) and no such declaration shall have effect unless it is so
registered.

### 16\.

-B. Amount and security to be held in trust. - (1) Any sums received by a borrowing institution in repayment or realisation of loans and advances financed or refinanced either wholly or partly by the National Housing Bank shall, to the extent of the accommodation granted by the National Housing Bank and remaining outstanding, be deemed to have been received by the borrowing institution in trust for the National Housing Bank, and shall accordingly be paid by such institution to the National Housing Bank.(2)Where any accommodation has been granted by the National Housing Bank to a borrowing institution, all securities held, or which may be held, by such borrowing institution on account of any transaction in respect of which such accommodation has been granted, shall be held by such institution in trust for the National Housing Bank.]

### 17. Power to transfer rights. - The rights and interests of the National
Housing Bank (including any other rights incidental thereto) in relation to
any loan or advance made, or any amount recoverable, by it, may be transferred
by the National Housing Bank, either in whole or in part, by the execution or
issue of any instrument or by the transfer of any instrument by endorsement,
or in any other manner in which the rights and interests in relation to such
loan or advance may be lawfully transferred, and the National Housing Bank
may, notwithstanding such transfer, act as the trustee within the meaning of
section 3 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (2 of 1882), for the transferee.

### 18\. Power to acquire rights. - The National Housing Bank shall have the
right to acquire, by transfer or assignment, the rights and interests of any
[institution] (including any other rights incidental thereto) in relation to
any loan or advance made, or any amount recoverable by such institution,
either in whole or in part, by the execution or issue of any instrument or by
the transfer of any instrument or in any other manner in which the rights and
interests in relation to such loan or advance may be lawfully transferred.

[18-A. Exemption from registration.\- Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (1) of section 17 of the Registration Act, 1908 (16 of
1908),-(a)any instrument in the form of debt obligations or trust certificate
of beneficial interest or other instruments, by whatever name called, issued
by the National Housing Bank to securities the loans granted by the housing
finance institutions and scheduled banks, and not creating, declaring,
assigning, limiting or extinguishing any right, title or interest, to or in
immovable property except in so far as it entitles the holder to an undivided
interest afforded by a registered instrument, whereby the National Housing
Bank has acquired the rights and interests in relation to such loans and in
securities therefor; or(b)any transfer of such instruments referred to in
clause (a), shall not require compulsory registration.

### 18\.

-B. Recovery of dues as arrears of land revenue. - Where any amount is due under an agreement to the National Housing Bank, whether acting as a trustee or otherwise, in respect of securitisation of loans of housing finance institutions and scheduled banks, the National Housing Bank may without prejudice to any other mode of recovery make an application to the State Government for the recovery of the amount due to it, and if the State Government or such authority, as that Government may specify in this behalf, is satisfied that any amount is due, it may issue a certificate for the amount to the Collector and the Collector shall proceed to recover that amount in the same manner as arrears of land revenue.]

### 19. Power to impose conditions for accommodation. - In entering into any
transaction under this Chapter with any borrowing [institution], the National
Housing Bank may impose such conditions as it may think necessary or expedient
for protecting the interests of the National Hosing Bank.

### 20. Power to call for repayment before agreed period. - Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in any agreement, the National Housing Bank
may, by notice in writing, require any borrowing [institution] to discharge
forthwith in full its liabilities to the National Housing Bank-

(a)if it appears to the Board that false or misleading information in any
material particular was given in the application for the loan or advance;
or(b)if the borrowing [institution] [ Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section
12, for " housing finance institution" (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).] has failed to
comply with any of the terms of the agreement with the National Housing Bank
in the matter of the loan or advance; or(c)if there is a reasonable
apprehension that the borrowing [institution] [ Substituted by Act 15 of 2000,
Section 12, for " housing finance institution" (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).] is unable
to pay its debts or that proceedings for liquidation may be commenced in
respect thereof; or(d)if for any reason, it is necessary so to do to protect
the interests of the National Housing Bank.

### 21. National Housing Bank to have access to records. - (1) The National
Housing Bank shall have free access to all such records of any [institution]
which seeks to avail of any credit facilities from the National Housing Bank
and to all such records of any person who seeks to avail of any credit
facilities from such [institution] [ Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section
12, for " housing finance institution" (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).], the perusal of
which may appear to the National Housing Bank to be necessary in connection
with the providing of finance or other assistance to such [institution] [
Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 12, for " housing finance institution"
(w.e.f. 12.6.2000).] or the refinancing of any loan or advance made to such
person by that [institution] [ Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 12, for
" housing finance institution" (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).].

(2)The National Housing Bank may require any institution or person referred to
in sub-section (1), to furnish to it copies of any of the records referred to
in that sub-section and the institution or the person, as the case may be,
shall be bound to comply with such requisition.

### 22. Validity of loan or advance not to be questioned. - Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being in
force, the validity of any loan or advance made by the National Housing Bank
in pursuance of the provisions of this Act shall not be called in question
merely on the ground of non-compliance with the requirements of such other law
or of any resolution, contract, or any instrument regulating the constitution
of the borrowing [institution]:

Provided that nothing in this section shall enable any company or co-operative
society to obtain any loan or advance where the instrument relating to the
constitution of such company or co-operative society does not empower such
company or co-operative society so to do.

### 23. National Housing Bank not to make loans or advances against its own
bonds or debentures. - The National Housing Bank shall not make any loan or
advance on the security of its own bonds or debentures.

### 24. Power to inspect. - (1) The National Housing Bank may at any time and
shall, on being directed so to do by the Reserve Bank, cause an inspection to
be made by one or more of its officers of any [institution] to which the
National Housing Bank has made any loan or advance or granted any other
financial assistance, and its books, accounts and other documents; and the
National Housing Bank shall supply to the [institution] [ Substituted by Act
15 of 2000, Section 12, for " housing finance institution" (w.e.f.
12.6.2000).] a copy of its report on such inspection.

(2)It shall be the duty of every officer, employee or other person or persons
incharge of the whole or part of the affairs of the [institution] [
Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 12, for " housing finance institution"
(w.e.f. 12.6.2000).] to produce to any officer making an inspection under sub-
section (1), all such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or
power and to furnish within such time as the said officer may specify, any
statements, information relating to the affairs of the [institution] [
Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 12, for " housing finance institution"
(w.e.f. 12.6.2000).] as the said officer may require of him.

### 25. Power to collect credit information. - (1) The National Housing Bank
may, for the purpose of the efficient discharge of its functions under this
Act, at any time direct any [institution] to submit to it credit information
in such form and within such time as may be specified by the National Housing
Bank from time to time.

(2)Every [institution] [ Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 12, for "
housing finance institution" (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).] shall, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in any law for the time being in force or
in any instrument regulating the constitution thereof or in any agreement
executed by it, relating to the secrecy of its dealings with its constituents,
be bound to comply with any directions issued under sub-section (1).(3)The
National Housing Bank may, for the purpose of the efficient discharge of its
functions under this Act collect from the Central and State Governments, local
authorities, the Reserve Bank, any bank or such financial or other
institutions as the Reserve Bank may specify in this behalf, credit
information or other information.Explanation .-For the purposes of this
section and section 26, credit information means any information relating
to-(i)the amount of loans and advances and other credit facilities granted for
the purpose of housing;(ii)the nature of security taken for such loans,
advances or other credit facilities;(iii)the guarantees furnished; and(iv)any
other information which has a bearing on the credit-worthiness of the
borrower.

### 26. Power to publish information. - The National Housing Bank, if it
considers it in the public interest so to do, may publish any credit
information or other information obtained by it under this Act, in such
consolidated form or in any other form as it thinks fit.

### 27. Advisory services. - The National Housing Bank may provide advisory
services to the Central and State Governments, local authorities and other
agencies connected with housing, in respect of-

(a)formulation of overall policies aimed at promoting the growth of housing
and housing finance institutions;(b)legislation relating to matters having a
bearing on shelter, housing and human settlement.

## Chapter V  
Provisions Relating To Housing Finance Institutions Receiving Deposits

### 28. Definition of deposit. - In this Chapter the term "deposit" shall have
the meaning assigned to it in section 45-I of the Reserve Bank of India Act,
1934 (2 of 1934).

### 29. Chapter not to apply in certain cases. - (1) The provisions of this
Chapter shall not apply to deposits accepted by a housing finance institution
which is a firm or an unincorporated association of individuals.

(2)For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the firms and
unincorporated associations of individuals referred to in sub-section (1)
shall continue to be governed by the provisions of Chapter III-C of the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934).[29-A. Requirement of registration
and net owned fund.(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter or in
any other law for the time being in force, no housing finance institution
which is a company shall commence or carry on the business of a housing
finance institution without-(a)obtaining a certificate of registration issued
under this Chapter; and(b)having the net owned fund of twenty-five lakh rupees
or such other higher amount, as the National Housing Bank may, by
notification, specify.(2)Every such housing finance institution shall make an
application for registration to the National Housing Bank in such form as may
be specified by the National Housing Bank:Provided that a housing finance
institution which is a company in existence on the commencement of the
National Housing Bank (Amendment) Act, 2000, shall make an application for
registration to the National Housing Bank before the expiry of six months from
such commencement and notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1),
may continue to carry on the business of housing finance institution until a
certificate of registration is issued to it or rejection of application for
registration is communicated to it.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (1), a housing finance institution which is a company in existence
on the commencement of the National Housing Bank (Amendment) Act, 2000, and
having a net owned fund of less than twenty-five lakh rupees, may, for the
purpose of enabling such institution to fulfil the requirement of the net
owned fund, continue to carry on the business of a housing finance
institution-(i)for a period of three years from such commencement; or(ii)for
such further period as the National Housing Bank may, after recording the
reasons in writing for so doing, extend, subject to the conditions that such
institution shall, within three months of fulfilling the requirement of the
net owned fund, inform the National Housing Bank about such
fulfilment:Provided that the period allowed to continue business under this
sub-section shall in no case exceed six years in the aggregate.(4)The National
Housing Bank, for the purpose of considering the application for registration,
may require to be satisfied by an inspection of the books of such housing
finance institution or otherwise that the following conditions are
fulfilled:-(a)that housing finance institution is or shall be in a position to
pay its present or future depositors in full as and when their claims
accrue;(b)that the affairs of the housing finance institution are not being or
are not likely to be conducted in a manner detrimental to the interest of its
present or future depositors;(c)that the general character of the management
or the proposed management of the housing finance institution shall not be
prejudicial to the public interest or the interests of its depositors;(d)that
the housing finance institution has adequate capital structure and earning
prospects;(e)that the public interest shall be served by the grant of
certificate of registration to the housing finance institution to commence or
to carry on the business in India;(f)that the grant of certificate of
registration shall not be prejudicial to the operation and growth of the
housing finance sector of the country; and(g)any other condition, fulfilment
of which in the opinion of the National Housing Bank, shall be necessary to
ensure that the commencement of or carrying on the business in India by a
housing finance institution shall not be prejudicial to the public interest or
in the interests of the depositors.(5)The National Housing Bank may, after
being satisfied that the conditions specified in sub-section (4) are
fulfilled, grant a certificate of registration subject to such conditions
which it may consider fit to impose.(6)The National Housing Bank may cancel a
certificate of registration granted to a housing finance institution under
this section if such institution-(i)cases to carry on the business of a
housing finance institution in India; or(ii)has failed to comply with any
condition subject to which the certificate of registration had been issued to
it; or(iii)at any time fails to fulfil any of the conditions referred to in
clauses (a) to (g) of sub-section (4); or(iv)fails-(a)to comply with any
direction issued by the National Housing Bank under the provisions of this
Chapter; or(b)to maintain accounts in accordance with the requirement of any
law or any direction or order issued by the National Housing Bank under the
provisions of this Chapter; or(c)to submit or offer for inspection its books
of account and other relevant documents when so demanded by an inspecting
authority of the National Housing Bank; or(v)has been prohibited from
accepting deposit by an order made by the National Housing Bank under the
provisions of this Chapter and such order has been in force for a period of
not less than three months:Provided that before cancelling a certificate of
registration on the ground that the housing finance institution has failed to
comply with the provisions of clause (ii) or has failed to fulfil any of the
conditions referred to in clauses (a) to (g) of sub-section (4), the National
Housing Bank, unless it is of the opinion that the delay in cancelling the
certificate of registration shall be prejudicial to the public interest or the
interest of the depositors or the housing finance institution, shall give an
opportunity to such institution on such terms as the National Housing Bank may
specify for taking necessary steps to comply with such provision or fulfilment
of such condition:Provided further that before making any order of
cancellation of certificate of registration, such institution shall be given a
reasonable opportunity of being heard.(7)A housing finance institution
aggrieved by the order or rejection of application for registration or
cancellation of certificate of registration may prefer an appeal, within a
period of thirty days from the date on which such order of rejection or
cancellation is communicated to it, to the Central Government and the decision
of the Central Government where an appeal has been preferred to it, or of the
National Housing Bank where no appeal has been preferred, shall be
final:Provided that before making any order of rejection of appeal, such
institution shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.Explanation
.-For the purposes of this section,-(I)"net owned fund" means-(a)the aggregate
of the paid-up equity capital and free reserves as disclosed in the latest
balance-sheet of the housing finance institution after deducting
therefrom-(i)accumulated balance of loss;(ii)deferred revenue expenditure;
and(iii)other intangible assets; and(b)further reduced by the amounts
representing-(1)investments of such institution in shares of-(i)its
subsidiaries;(ii)companies in the same groups;(iii)all other housing finance
institutions which are companies; and(2)the book value of debentures, bonds,
outstanding loans and advances (including hire-purchase and lease finance)
made to, and deposit with,-(i)subsidiaries of such company; and(ii)companies
in the same group, to the extent such amount exceeds ten per cent. of (a)
above;(II)"subsidiaries" and "companies in the same group" shall have the same
meanings assigned to them in the [Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)].

### 29\.

-B. Maintenance of percentage of assets. - (1) Every housing finance institution shall invest and continue to invest in India in unencumbered approved securities, valued at a price not exceeding the current market price of such securities, an amount which, at the close of business on any day, shall not be less than five per cent. or such higher percentage not exceeding twenty-five per cent. as the National Housing Bank may, from time to time and by notification, specify, of the deposits outstanding at the close of business on the last working day of the second preceding quarter.(2)Every housing finance institution shall maintain in India in an account with a scheduled bank in term deposits or certificate of deposits (free of charge or lien) or in deposits with the National Housing Bank or by way of subscription to the bonds issued by the National Housing Bank, or partly in such account or in such deposit or partly by way of such subscription, a sum which, at the close of business on any day, together with the investment made under sub-section (1) shall not be less than ten per cent. or such higher percentage not exceeding twenty-five per cent., as the National Housing Bank may, from time to time and by notification specify, of the deposits outstanding in the books of the housing finance institution at the close of business on the last working day of the second preceding quarter.(3)For the purpose of ensuring compliance with the provisions of this section, the National Housing Bank may require every such housing finance institution to furnish a return to it in such form, in such a manner and for such period as may be specified by the National Housing Bank.(4)If the amount invested by a housing finance institution at the close of business on any day is less than the rate specified under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), such housing finance institution shall be liable to pay to the National Housing Bank, in respect of such shortfall, a penal interest at a rate of three per cent. per annum above the bank rate on such amount by which the amount actually maintained or invested falls short of the specified percentage, and where the shortfall continues in the subsequent quarters, the rate of penal interest shall be five per cent. per annum above the bank rate on such shortfall for each subsequent quarter.(5)(a)The penal interest payable under sub-section (4) shall be payable within a period of fourteen days from the date on which a notice issued by the National Housing Bank demanding payment of the same is served on the housing finance institution and, in the event of a failure of the housing finance institution to pay the same within such period, may be levied by a direction of a principal Civil Court having jurisdiction in the area where an office of the defaulting housing finance institution is situated and such direction shall be made only upon and application made in this behalf to the Court by the National Housing Bank; and(b)When the Court makes a direction under clause (a), it shall issue a certificate specifying the sum payable by the housing finance institution and every such certificate shall be enforceable in the manner as if it were a decree made by the Court in a suit.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, if the National Housing Bank is satisfied that the defaulting housing finance institution had sufficient cause for its failure to comply with the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), it may not demand the payment of the penal interest.Explanation.-For the purposes of this section,-(i)"approved securities" means securities of any State Government or of the Central Government and such bonds, both the principal whereof and the interest whereon shall have been fully and unconditionally guaranteed by any such Government;(ii)"unencumbered approved securities" includes the approved securities lodged by the housing finance institution with another institution for an advance or any other arrangement to the extent to which such securities have not been drawn against or availed of or encumbered in any manner;(iii)"quarter" means the period of three months ending on the last day of March, June, September or December.

### 29\.

-C. Reserve fund. - (1) Every housing finance institution which is a company shall create a reserve fund and transfer therein a sum not less than twenty per cent. of its net profit every year as disclosed in the profit and loss account and before any dividend is declared.Explanation .-A housing finance institution creating and maintaining any special reserve in terms of clause (viii) of sub-section (1) of section 36 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), may take into account any sum transferred by it for the year to such special reserve for the purposes of this sub-section.(2)No appropriation of any sum from the reserve fund including any sum in the special reserve which has been taken into account for the purposes of reserve fund in terms of sub-section (1), shall be made by such housing finance institution except for the purpose as may be specified by the National Housing Bank from time to time and every such appropriation shall be reported to the National Housing Bank within twenty-one days from the date of such withdrawal:Provided that the National Housing Bank may, in any particular case and for sufficient cause being shown, extend the period of twenty-one days by such further period as it thinks fit or condone any delay in making such report.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the Central Government may, on the recommendation of the National Housing Bank and having regard to the adequacy of the paid-up capital and reserves of a housing finance institution which is a company in relation to its deposit liabilities, declare by order in writing that the provisions of sub-section (1) shall not be applicable to such housing finance institution for such period as may be specified in the order:Provided that no such order shall be made unless the amount in the reserve fund under sub-section (1), together with the amount in the share premium account, is not less than the paid-up capital to the housing finance institution.]

### 30. National Housing Bank to regulate or prohibit issue of prospectus or
advertisement soliciting deposits of money. - The National Housing Bank may,
if it considers necessary in the public interest so to do, by general or
special order,-

(a)regulate or prohibit the issue by any housing finance institution of any
prospectus or advertisement soliciting deposits of money from the public;
and(b)specify the conditions subject to which any such prospectus or
advertisement, if not prohibited, may be issued.[30-A. Power of National
Housing Bank to determine policy and issue directions.(1)If the National
Housing Bank is satisfied that, in the public interest or to regulate the
housing finance system of the country to its advantage or to prevent the
affairs of any housing finance institution being conducted in a manner
detrimental to the interest of the depositors or in a manner prejudicial to
the interest of the housing finance institutions, it is necessary or expedient
so to do, it may subject to the provisions of sub-section (5) of section 5,
determine the policy and give directions to all or any of the housing finance
institution relating to income recognition, accounting standards, making of
proper provision for bad and doubtful debts, capital adequacy based on risk
weights for assets and credit conversion factors for off balance-sheet items
and also relating to deployment of funds by a housing finance institution or a
group of housing finance institutions or housing finance institutions
generally, as the case may be, and such housing finance institutions shall be
bound to follow the policy so determined and the direction so
issued.(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the powers vested under sub-
section (1), the National Housing Bank may give directions to housing finance
institutions generally or to a group of housing finance institutions or to any
housing finance institution in particular as to-(a)the purpose for which
advances or other fund-based or non-fund-based accommodation may not be made;
and(b)the maximum amount of advances or other finance accommodation or
investment in shares and other securities which, having regard to the paid-up
capital, reserves and deposits of the housing finance institution and other
relevant considerations, may be made by that housing finance institution to
any person or a company or to a group of companies.]

### 31. Power of National Housing Bank to collect information from housing
finance institutions as to deposits and to give directions. - (1) The National
Housing Bank may at any time direct that every housing finance institution
accepting deposits shall furnish to the National Housing Bank in such form, at
such intervals and within such time, such statements, information or
particulars relating to or connected with deposits received by the housing
finance institution, as may be specified by the National Housing Bank by
general or special order.

(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the power vested in the National
Housing Bank under sub-section (1), the statements, information or particulars
to be furnished under sub-section (1), may relate to all or any of the
following matters, namely, the amount of the deposits, the purposes and
periods for which, and the rates of interest and other terms and conditions on
which, such deposits are received.(3)The National Housing Bank may, if it
considers necessary in the public interest so to do, give directions to
housing finance institutions accepting deposits either generally or to any
group of housing finance institutions accepting deposits, and in particular,
in respect of any matters relating to, or connected with, the receipt of
deposits, including [credit rating of the housing finance institution
accepting deposits] the rates of interest payable on such deposits, and the
periods for which deposits may be received.(4)If any housing finance
institution, accepting deposits fails to comply with any direction given by
the National Housing Bank, under sub-section (3), the National Housing Bank
may prohibit the acceptance of deposits by that housing finance
institution.(5)Every housing finance institution receiving deposits, shall, if
so required by the National Housing Bank and within such time as the National
Housing Bank may specify, cause to be sent at the cost of the housing finance
institution, a copy of its annual balance-sheet and profit and loss account or
other annual accounts to every person from whom the housing finance
institution holds, as on the last day of the year to which the accounts
relate, deposits higher than such sum as may be specified by the National
Housing Bank.

### 32. Duty of housing finance institutions to furnish statements, etc.,
required by National Housing Bank. - Every housing finance institution shall
furnish the statements, information or particulars called for, in such form as
may be prescribed and to comply with any direction given to it, under the
provisions of this Chapter.

### 33. Powers and duties of auditors. - (1) The auditor of every housing
finance institution shall enquire whether or not the housing finance
institution has furnished to the National Housing Bank such statements,
information or particulars relating to or connected with deposits received by
it, as are required to be furnished under this Chapter, and the auditor shall,
except where he is satisfied on such enquiry that the housing finance
institution has furnished such statements, information or particulars, make a
report to the National Housing Bank giving the aggregate amount of such
deposits held by the housing finance institution.

[(1-A) The National Housing Bank may, on being satisfied that it is necessary
so to do, in the public interest or in the interest of the depositors or for
the purpose of proper assessment of the books of account, issue directions to
any housing finance institution or any group of housing finance institutions
or housing finance companies generally or to the auditors of such housing
finance institution or institutions relating to balance-sheet, profit and loss
account, disclosure of liabilities in the books of account or any matter
relating thereto.](2)Where, in the case of a housing finance institution,
being a company, the auditor has made, or intends to make a report to the
National Housing Bank under sub-section (1), he shall include in his report
under [sub-section (2) of section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)]
[Substituted 'sub-section (2) of section 227 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
1956)' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.], the
contents of the report which he has made, or intends to make, to the National
Housing Bank.(3)[ Where the National Housing Bank is of the opinion that it is
necessary so to do in the public interest or in the interest of the housing
finance institution or in the interest of the depositors of such institution,
it may at any time by order, direct that a special audit of the accounts of
the housing finance institution in relation to any such transaction or class
of transactions or for such period or periods, as may be specified in the
order, shall be conducted and the National Housing Bank may appoint an auditor
or auditors to conduct such special audit and direct the auditor or the
auditors to submit the report to it.(4)The remuneration of the auditors as may
be fixed by the National Housing Bank, having regard to the nature and volume
of work involved in the audit and the expenses of or incidental to the audit,
shall be borne by the housing finance institution so audited.][33-A. Power of
National Housing Bank to prohibit acceptance of deposit and alienation of
assets.(1)If any housing finance institution violates the provisions of any
section or fails to comply with any direction or order given by the National
Housing Bank under any of the provisions of this Chapter, the National Housing
Bank may prohibit the housing finance institution from accepting any
deposit.(2)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any agreement
or instrument or any law for the time being in force, the National Housing
Bank on being satisfied that it is necessary so to do in the public interest
or in the interest of the depositors, may direct, the housing finance
institution against which an order prohibiting from accepting deposit has been
issued, not to sell, transfer, create, charge or mortgage or deal in any
manner with its property and assets without prior written permission of the
National Housing Bank for such period not exceeding six months from the date
of the order.

### 33\.

-B. Power of National Housing Bank of file winding up petition. - (1) The National Housing Bank, on being satisfied that a housing finance institution which is a company,-(a)is unable to pay its debt; or(b)has by virtue of the provisions of section 29-A become disqualified to carry on the business of a housing finance institution; or(c)has been prohibited by the National Housing Bank from receiving deposit by an order and such order has been in force for a period of not less than three months; or(d)the continuance of the housing finance institution is detrimental to the public interest or to the interest of depositors of the company, may file an application for winding up of such housing finance institution under the [Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)].(2)A housing finance institution which is a company shall be deemed to be unable to pay its debt if it has refused or has failed to meet within five working days any lawful demand made at any of its offices or branches and the National Housing Bank certifies in writing that such company is unable to pay its debt.(3)A copy of every application made by the National Housing Bank under sub-section (1) shall be sent to the Registrar of Companies.(4)All the provisions of the [Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)] [Substituted 'Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.]relating to winding up of a company shall apply to a winding up proceeding initiate on the application made by the National Housing Bank under this provision.] [Inserted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 16 (w.e.f. 12.6.2000). ]

### 34. Inspection. - (1) The National Housing Bank may, at any time, cause an
inspection to be made by one or more of its officers or employees or other
persons (hereafter in this section referred to as the inspecting authority) of
any housing finance institution accepting deposits, for the purpose of
verifying the correctness or completeness of any statement, information or
particulars furnished to the National Housing Bank or for the purpose of
obtaining any information or particulars which the housing finance institution
has failed to furnish on being called upon to do so.

(2)It shall be the duty of every director or member of any committee or other
body or any person for the time being vested with the management of the whole
or part of the affairs of every housing finance institution accepting deposits
or other officer or employee thereof to produce to the inspecting authority
all such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or power and to
furnish that authority with any statement and information relating to the
business of the institution as that authority may require of him, within such
time as may be specified by that authority.(3)The inspecting authority may
examine on oath any director or member of any committee or body or any other
person for the time being vested with the management of the affairs of the
housing finance institution, accepting deposits, or any officer or employee
thereof, in relation to its business.

### 35. Deposits not to be solicited by unauthorised persons. - No person
shall solicit on behalf of any housing finance institution either by
publishing or causing to be published any prospectus or advertisement or in
any other manner deposits of money from the public unless-

(a)he has been authorised in writing by the said housing finance institution
to do so and specifies the name of the institution which has so authorised
him; and(b)the prospectus or advertisement complies with any order made by the
National Housing Bank under section 30 and with any other provision of law for
the time being in force applicable to the publication of such prospectus or
advertisement.[35-A. Disclosure of information.(1)Any information relating to
a housing finance institution,-(a)contained in any statement or return
submitted by such institution under the provisions of this Chapter;
or(b)obtained through audit or inspection or otherwise by the National Housing
Bank, shall be treated as confidential and shall not, except otherwise
provided in this section, be disclosed.(2)Nothing in this section shall apply
to-(a)the disclosure by any housing finance institution, with the previous
permission of the National Housing Bank, of any information furnished to the
National Housing Bank under sub-section (1);(b)the publication by the National
Housing Bank, if it considers necessary in the public interest so to do, of
any information collected by it under sub-section (1) in such consolidated
form as it may think fit without disclosing the name of any housing finance
institution or its borrowers;(c)the disclosure by the housing finance
institution or by the National Housing Bank of any such information to any
other housing finance institution or in accordance with the practice and usage
customary amongst such institutions or as permitted or required under any
other law:Provided that any such information received by a housing finance
institution under this clause shall not be published except in accordance with
the practice and usage customary amongst institutions or as permitted or
required under any other law.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act
or in any other law for the time being in force, the National Housing Bank, if
it is satisfied that, in the public interest or in the interest of the
depositors or the housing finance institution or to prevent the affairs of any
housing finance institution being conducted in a manner detrimental to the
interest of the depositors, it is expedient so to do, may, either on its own
motion or on being requested, furnish or communicate any information relating
to the conduct of business by any housing finance institution to any authority
constituted under any law.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other
law for the time being in force, no Court or tribunal or other authority shall
compel the National Housing Bank to produce or to give inspection of any
statement or other material obtained by the National Housing Bank under any
provision of this Chapter.

### 35\.

-B. Power of National Housing Bank to exempt any housing finance institution. - The National Housing Bank on being satisfied that it is necessary so do to, may, declare by notification that any or all the provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to a housing finance institution or a group of housing finance institutions either generally or for such period as may be specified, subject to such conditions, limitations or restrictions as it may think fit to impose.]

### 36. Chapter V to override other laws. - The provisions of this Chapter
shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in
any other law for the time being in force or any instrument having effect by
virtue of any such law.

[36-A. Power to order repayment of deposit.(1)Every deposit accepted by a
housing finance institution which is a company unless renewed, shall be repaid
in accordance with the terms and conditions of such deposit.(2)Where a housing
finance institution which is a company has failed to repay any deposit or part
thereof in accordance with the terms and conditions of such deposit, such
officer of the National Housing Bank, as may be authorised by the Central
Government for the purpose of this section (hereinafter referred to as the
"authorised officer") may, if he is satisfied, either on his own motion or on
any application of the depositor, that it is necessary so to do to safeguard
the interests of the housing finance institution, the depositors or in the
public interest, direct, by order, such housing finance institution to make
repayment of such deposit or part thereof forthwith or within such time and
subject to such conditions as may be specified in the order:Provided that the
authorised officer may, before making any order under this sub-section, give a
reasonable opportunity of being heard to the housing finance institution and
the other persons interested in the matter.

### 36\.

-B. Nomination by depositors. - (1) Where a deposit is held by a housing finance institution to the credit of one or more persons, the depositor or, as the case may be, all the depositors together may nominate, in the manner prescribed by rules made by the Central Government under section 45-ZA of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), one person to whom in the event of the death of the sole depositor or the death of all the depositors, the amount of deposit may be returned by the housing finance institution.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, or in any deposition, whether testamentary or otherwise, in respect of such deposit, where a nomination made purports to confer on any person the right to receive the amount of deposit from the housing finance institution, the nominee shall, on the death of the sole depositor or, as the case may be, on the death of all other depositor or, as the case may be, of the depositors, in relation to such deposit to the exclusion of all other persons, unless the nomination is varied or cancelled in the manner prescribed by rules made by the Central Government under section 45-ZA of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949).(3)Where the nominee is a minor, it shall be lawful for the depositor making the nomination to appoint, in the manner prescribed by rules made by the Central Government under section 45-ZA of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), any person to receive the amount of deposit in the event of his death during the minority of the nominee.(4)Payment by a housing finance institution in accordance with the provisions of the section shall constitute a full discharge to the housing finance institution of its liability in respect of the deposit:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall affect the right or claim which any person may have against the person to whom any payment is made under this section.(5)No notice of the claim of any person, other than the person or persons in whose name a deposit is held by the housing finance institution, shall be receivable by the housing finance institution, nor shall the housing finance institution be bound by any such notice even though expressly given to it:Provided that where any decree, order, certificate or other authority from a Court of competent jurisdiction relating to such deposit is produced before a housing finance institution, the housing finance institution shall take due note of such decree, order, certificate or other authority.][CHAPTER V-A] [ Inserted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 20 (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).] Other Provisions Relating To Housing Finance Institutions

### 36\.

-C. Definitions. - In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Appellate Tribunal" means the Appellate Tribunal established under section 36-I;(b)"approved institution" means-(i)a housing finance institution which has been granted a certificate of registration under sub-section (5) of section 29-A;(ii)a scheduled bank;(iii)National Housing Bank acting as trustee or otherwise in a transaction of securitisation of housing mortgages undertaken by the National Housing Bank;(iv)such other institutions as the Central Government may, on the recommendation of the National Housing Bank, by notification, specify;(c)"assistance" means any direct or indirect financial assistance granted, by an approved institution during the course of any housing finance activity undertaken by it;(d)"borrower" means any person to whom any assistance has been given by an approved institution for the purposes of purchase, construction, repairs, extension or renovation of a residential house;(e)"dues" means any liability which is claimed as due from any person by an approved institution and includes interest, costs, charges and other amount payable in relation thereto;(f)"recovery officer" means an officer appointed under section 36-D.

### 36\.

-D. Appointment of recovery officer. - (1) The Central Government may, in consultation with the National Housing Bank, by notification, appoint such persons being the officers of the approved institution, as it may deem fit, to be recovery officers for the purpose of this Chapter who shall have such qualifications as the Central Government may by rules made under this Act specify.(2)The local limits within which the recovery officer shall exercise the powers conferred and perform the duties imposed on by or under this Chapter shall be such as may be specified by the Central Government by notification.

### 36\.

-E. Application to the recovery officer. - (1) Where any borrower, who is under a liability to an approved institution under an agreement, makes any default in repayment of any assistance or any instalment thereof or otherwise fails to comply with the terms of the said agreement, then, without prejudice to the provisions of section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882), the approved institution may apply to the recovery officer within the limits of whose jurisdiction the borrower actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on business, or personally works for gain, or the cause of action wholly or in part arises, for the sale of the property pledged, mortgaged, hypothecated or assigned to the approved institution as security for the dues.(2)Where an approved institution, which has to recover its dues from any borrower, has filed an application to the recovery officer under sub-section (1) and the same property is also pledged, mortgaged, hypothecated or assigned to another approved institution or person, the other approved institution or person may join the approved institution at any stage of the proceedings, before the final order is passed, by making an application to that recovery officer.(3)In the application under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the nature and extent of the liability of the borrower to the approved institution or person, the grounds on which it is made shall be stated and it be in such form and be accompanied by such documents or other evidence as may be prescribed.

### 36\.

-F. Procedure in respect of application under section 36-E. - (1) On receipt of an application under section 36-E, if the recovery officer is of opinion that the borrower is under a liability to an approved institution under an agreement, or has made default in repayment of the assistance or any instalment thereof or has otherwise failed to comply with the terms of said agreement, he shall cause a written notice of demand in such form as may be prescribed to be served on the borrower, calling upon him to pay the amount specified in the notice within a period of ninety days from the date of service thereof or to show cause as to why the relief prayed for should not be granted.(2)The recovery officer may after giving the applicant and the borrower an opportunity of being heard, pass such interim or final order, including the order for payment of interest from the date on or before which payment of the amount is found due up to the date of realisation or actual payment, on the application as it thinks fit to meet the ends of justice.(3)The recovery officer may also consider and if satisfied, allow any claim of set-off or counter-claim set up by the borrower against the approved institution or person.(4)The recovery officer shall supply a copy of every order passed by it to the approved institution and the borrower.(5)The recovery officer may make an interim order (whether by way of injunction or stay or attachment) against the borrower to debar him from transferring, alienating or otherwise dealing with or disposing of, any property which is pledged, mortgaged, hypothecated or assigned to the approved institution as security for the dues.(6)The application made to the recovery officer under section 36-E shall be dealt with by him as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made by him to dispose of the application finally within six months from the date of receipt of the application.

### 36\.

-G. Enforcement of order of recovery officer. - (1) Where the borrower refuses or fails to comply with the order within the time specified therein the recovery officer may, take possession of any property pledged, mortgaged, hypothecated or assigned to the approved institution as security for any assistance in respect of which default has been made and transfer by way of sale, lease or otherwise such property.(2)Any transfer by way of sale, lease or otherwise under this section shall be conducted in such manner as may be prescribed.(3)Any transfer of property made by the recovery officer, in exercise of its powers under sub-section (1), shall vest in the transferee all rights in or to the property transferred, as if the transfer has been made by the owner of the property.(4)Where any action has been taken against the borrower under the provisions of sub-section (1), all costs, charges, expenses which in the opinion of the recovery officer have been properly incurred by him as incidental thereto, shall be recoverable from the borrower and the money which is received by it shall, in the absence of any contract to the contrary, be held by it in trust to be applied firstly, in payment of such costs, charges and expenses and secondly, in discharge of debts, due to the approved institution, and the residue of the money so received shall be paid to the person entitled thereto.(5)If the dues of the approved institution, together with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by the recovery officer, are tendered to the approved institution or to the recovery officer at any time before the date fixed for sale or transfer, the property shall not be sold or transferred, and no further steps shall be taken for transfer or sale of that property.

### 36\.

-H. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate and District Magistrate to assist recovery officer in taking charge of property. - (1) Where any property is sold or leased in pursuance of any power conferred by section 36-E, the recovery officer may, for the purpose of taking into custody or under control any such property, request, in writing, the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or the District Magistrate within whose jurisdiction any such property or other documents relating thereto may be situated or found to take possession thereof, and the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or as the case may be, the District Magistrate shall, on such request being made to him,-(a)take possession of such property and documents relating thereto; and(b)forward them to the recovery officer.(2)For the purpose of securing compliance with the provisions of sub-section (1), the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or the District Magistrate may take or cause to be taken such steps and use, or cause to be used, such force, as may, in his opinion, be necessary.(3)No act of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or the District Magistrate done in pursuance of this section shall be called in question in any Court or before any authority.

### 36\.

-I. Establishment of Appellate Tribunal. - (1) The Central Government shall, by notification, establish one or more Appellate Tribunals, to be known as the Housing Finance Institutions Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunals, to exercise the jurisdiction, powers and authority conferred on such Tribunal by or under this Act.(2)The Central Government shall also specify in the notification referred to in sub-section (1), the areas in relation to which the Appellate Tribunal may exercise jurisdiction.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (2), the Central Government may authorise the Presiding Officer of an Appellate Tribunal to discharge also the functions of the Presiding Officer of other Appellate Tribunal.

### 36\.

-J. Composition of Appellate Tribunal. - An Appellate Tribunal shall consist of one person only (hereinafter referred to as the Presiding Officer of the Appellate Tribunal) to be appointed, by notification, by the Central Government.

### 36\.

-K. Qualifications for appointment as Presiding Officer of Appellate Tribunal .-A person shall not be qualified for appointment as the Presiding Officer of an Appellate Tribunal, unless he-(a)is, or has been, or is qualified to be a District Judge;(b)has been a Member of the Indian Legal Service and has held a post in Grade II of that Service for at least three years.

### 36\.

-L. Term of office. - The Presiding Officer of an Appellate Tribunal shall hold office for a term of five years from the date on which he enters upon his office or until he attains the age of sixty-five years, whichever is earlier.

### 36\.

-M. Staff of Appellate Tribunal. - (1) The Central Government shall provide the Appellate Tribunal with such officers and other employees as that Government may think fit.(2)The officers and other employees of the Appellate Tribunal shall discharge their functions under the general superintendence of the Presiding Officer.(3)The salaries and allowances and other conditions of service of the officers and other employees of the Appellate Tribunal shall be such as the Central Government may by rules made under this Act specify.

### 36\.

-N. Salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of Presiding Officers. - The salary and allowances payable to and the other terms and conditions of service (including pension, gratuity and other retirement benefits) of, the Presiding Officer of an Appellate Tribunal shall be such as the Central Government may by rules made under this Act specify:Provided that neither the salary and allowances nor the other terms and conditions of a Presiding Officer shall be varied to his disadvantage after appointment.

### 36\.

-O. Filling up of vacancies. - If, for any reason other than temporary absence, any vacancy occurs in the office of the Presiding Officer of an Appellate Tribunal, then the Central Government shall appoint another person in accordance with the provisions of this Act to fill the vacancy and the proceedings may be continued before the Appellate Tribunal from the stage at which the vacancy is filled.

### 36\.

-P. Resignation and removal. - (1) The Presiding Officer of an Appellate Tribunal may, by notice in writing under his hand addressed to the Central Government, resign his office:Provided that the said Presiding Officer shall, unless he is permitted by the Central Government, to relinquish his office sooner, continue to hold office until the expiry of three months from the date of receipt of such notice or until a person duly appointed as his successor enters upon his office or until the expiry of his term of office, whichever is earliest.(2)The Presiding Officer of an Appellate Tribunal shall not be removed from his office except by an order made by the Central Government on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity after enquiry made by a Judge of a High Court in which the Presiding Officer concerned has been informed of the charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of the charges.(3)The Central Government may, by rules made under this Act, regulate the procedure for the investigation of misbehaviour or incapacity of the aforesaid Presiding Officer.

### 36\.

-Q. Orders constituting Appellate Tribunal to be final and not to invalidate its proceedings. - No order of the Central Government appointing any person as the Presiding Officer of an Appellate Tribunal shall be called in question in any manner, and no act or proceeding before an Appellate Tribunal shall be called in question in any manner on the ground merely of any defect in the establishment of an Appellate Tribunal.

### 36\.

-R. Jurisdiction, powers and authority of Appellate Tribunal. - An Appellate Tribunal shall exercise the jurisdiction, powers and authority to entertain appeals against any order made or deemed to have been made by the recovery officer under this Act.

### 36\.

-S. Appeal to the Appellate Tribunal. - (1) Any person aggrieved by an order made or deemed to have been made by the recovery officer under this Chapter, may prefer an appeal to an Appellate Tribunal having jurisdiction in the matter.(2)Every appeal under sub-section (1) shall be filed within a period of forty-five days from the date on which a copy of the order made or deemed to have been made by the recovery officer is received by him and it shall be in such form and be accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed:Provided that the Appellate Tribunal may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of forty-five days if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within that period.(3)On receipt of an appeal under sub-section (1), the Appellate Tribunal may, after giving the parties to the appeal, an opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit, confirming, modifying or setting aside the order appealed against.(4)The Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every order made by it to the parties to the appeal and to the concerned recovery officer.(5)The appeal filed before the Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (1) shall be dealt with by it as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made by it to dispose of the appeal finally within six months from the date of the receipt of the appeal.

### 36\.

-T. Deposit of amount due, on filing appeal. - Where an appeal is preferred by a borrower, such appeal shall not be entertained by the Appellate Tribunal unless such person has deposited with the Appellate Tribunal seventy-five per cent. of the amount due from him as determined by the recovery officer:Provided that the Appellate Tribunal may, for the reasons to be recorded in writing, waive or reduce the amount to be deposited under this section.

### 36\.

-U. Procedure and powers of recovery officer and Appellate Tribunal. - (1) The recovery officer and the Appellate Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down by the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), but shall be guided by the principles of natural justice and, subject to the other provisions of this Act and of any regulations, the recovery officer and the Appellate Tribunal shall have powers to regulate their own procedure including the places at which they shall have their sittings.(2)The recovery officer and the Appellate Tribunal shall have, for the purposes of discharging their functions under this Act, the same powers as are vested in a civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit, in respect of the following matters, namely:-(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production of documents;(c)receiving evidence on affidavits;(d)issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents;(e)reviewing its decisions;(f)dismissing an application for default or deciding it ex parte ;(g)setting aside any order of dismissal of any applicant for default or any order passed by it ex parte ; and(h)any other matter which may be prescribed.(3)Any proceeding before the recovery officer or the Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228, and for the purposes of section 196 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), and the recovery officer or the Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to be a civil Court for all the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).

### 36\.

-V. Limitation. - The provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963) shall, as far as may be, apply to an application made to recovery officer.

### 36\.

-W. Presiding Officer, recovery officer, other officers and employees to be public servant. - The Presiding Officer, other officers and employees of an Appellate Tribunal and the recovery officer shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 36\.

-X. Protection of action taken in good faith. - No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Central Government or against the Presiding Officer of an Appellate Tribunal or against the recovery officer for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of the provisions of this Act or any rule or regulation or order made thereunder.

### 36\.

-Y. Bar of jurisdiction. - No Court or other authority shall have, or be entitled to exercise, any jurisdiction, powers or authority (except the Supreme Court, and a High Court exercising jurisdiction under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution) in relation to the matters specified in this Chapter.

### 36\.

-Z. Transitional provisions. - Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, till the establishment of the Appellate Tribunal under section 36-I for any area, the Appellate Tribunal established under section 8 of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of 1993) and which is functioning in that area shall exercise the jurisdiction, powers and authority conferred on the Appellate Tribunal under this Act.

## Chapter VI  
Funds, Accounts And Audit

### 37. General fund and other funds. - (1) With effect from such date as [the
Central Government] may specify, the National Housing Bank shall establish a
fund to be called the General Fund and all payments by the National Housing
Bank shall be made out of the said General Fund.

(2)The Board may, and shall, if so directed by [the Central Government]
[Substituted 'the Reserve Bank' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018)
dated 29.3.2018.], create a special fund or a reserve fund or such other funds
as may be prescribed.

### 38. Preparation of balance-sheet, etc., of National Housing Bank. - (1)
The balance sheet and accounts of the National Housing Bank shall be prepared
and maintained in such form and manner as may be prescribed.

(2)The Board shall cause the books and accounts of the National Housing Bank
to be balanced and closed as on the thirtieth day of June each year.

### 39. Disposal of surplus. - After making provision for bad and doubtful
debts, depreciation of assets and all other matters for which provision is
necessary or expedient or which is usually provided for by bankers, the
National Housing Bank shall transfer-

(i)for a period of fifteen years, following the accounting year during which
the National Housing Bank is established, the amount remaining (hereafter in
this section referred to as surplus) such of the funds referred to in section
37 as the Reserve Bank may specify; and(ii)after the expiry of the said period
of fifteen years, the National Housing Bank shall, after making provision for
the funds referred to in section 37, transfer the balance of surplus to [the
Central Government].

### 40. Audit. - (1) The accounts of the National Housing Bank shall be
audited by auditors duly qualified to act as auditors under [sub-section (1)
of section 141 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)], who shall be
appointed by the Reserve Bank, for such term and on such remuneration as the
Reserve Bank may fix.

(2)The auditors shall be supplied with a copy of the annual balance sheet of
the National Housing Bank and it shall be their duty to examine it together
with the accounts and vouchers relating thereto and they shall have a list
delivered to them of all books kept by the National Housing Bank and shall at
all reasonable times have access to the books, accounts, vouchers and other
documents of the National Housing Bank.(3)The auditors may, in relation to the
accounts of the National Housing Bank, examine any director of the Board or
any officer or other employee of the National Housing Bank and shall be
entitled to require from the Board or officers or other employees of the
National Housing Bank such information and explanation as they may think
necessary for the performance of their duties.(4)The auditors shall make a
report to the National Housing Bank upon the annual balance sheet and accounts
examined by them and in every such report, they shall state whether in their
opinion the balance sheet is a full and fair balance sheet containing all
necessary particulars and properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the National Housing Bank and in case they had
called for any explanation or information from the Board or any officer or
other employee of the National Housing Bank, whether it was given and whether
it was satisfactory.(5)The National Housing Bank shall furnish to the Central
Government and the Reserve Bank within [four months] [ Substituted by Act 15
of 2000, Section 21, for " three months" (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).] from the date on
which the annual accounts of the National Housing Bank are closed and
balanced, a copy of its balance sheet as on the close of the relevant year
together with a copy of the profit and loss account for the year and a copy of
the auditors' report and a report of the working of the National Housing Bank
during that year, and the Central Government shall, as soon as may be after
they are received by it, cause the same to be laid before each House of
Parliament.(6)Without prejudice to anything contained in the preceding sub-
sections, the Central Government may, at any time, appoint the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India to examine and report upon the accounts of the
National Housing Bank and any expenditure incurred by him in connection with
such examination and report shall be payable by the National Housing Bank to
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.

### 41. Returns. - The National Housing Bank shall furnish, from time to time,
to the Reserve Bank such information and returns as the Reserve Bank may
require.

### 42. Annual report on housing. - The National Housing Bank shall make an
annual report to the Central Government and the Reserve Bank on the trend and
progress of housing in the country and in that report may make such
suggestions as it may think necessary or expedient for the development of
housing and the Central Government shall, as soon as may be after the report
is received by it, cause the same to be laid before each House of Parliament.

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 43. Staff of National Housing Bank.-(1) The National Housing Bank may
appoint such number of officers and other employees as it considers necessary
or desirable for the efficient performance of its functions and determine the
terms and conditions of their appointment and service.

(2)The duties and conduct, terms and conditions of service and the
establishment and maintenance of provident fund or any other fund for the
benefit of the officers and other members of staff of the National Housing
Bank shall be such as may be prescribed.(3)The National Housing Bank may
depute any officer or any member of its staff for such period and on such
terms and conditions as it may determine, to any institution including a
housing finance institution.(4)Nothing contained in this section shall empower
the National Housing Bank to depute any officer or member of its staff to any
institution on any salary, emoluments or other terms and conditions which is
or are less favourable to him than that or those to which he is entitled to
immediately before such deputation.(5)The National Housing Bank may, [***],
receive or take on deputation any officer or other employee from any
institution including a housing finance institution for such period and on
such terms and conditions as it may think necessary in the interest of the
National Housing Bank.[43-A. Delegation of powers.\- The Board may, by general
or special order, delegate to an officer or officers of the National Housing
Bank, subject to such conditions and limitations, if any, as may be specified
in the order, such of its powers and duties under this Act as it may deem
necessary.]

### 44. Obligation as to fidelity and secrecy. - (1) The National Housing Bank
shall not, except as otherwise required by this Act or any other law, divulge
any information relating to, or to the affairs of, its constituents except in
circumstances in which it is, in accordance with the law or practice and usage
customary among bankers, necessary or appropriate for the National Housing
Bank to divulge such information.

(2)Every director, member of a committee, auditor, advisor, officer or other
employee of the National Housing Bank or of the Reserve Bank, whose services
are utilised by the National Housing Bank under the provisions of this Act,
shall, before entering upon his duties, make a declaration of fidelity and
secrecy in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Act.(3)[ Nothing
contained in this section shall apply to the credit information disclosed
under the Credit Information Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005 (30 of 2005).]

### 45. Defects in appointment not to invalidate acts, etc. - (1) No act or
proceeding of the Board or of any committee of the National Housing Bank shall
be questioned on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in, or
defect in the constitution of, the Board or the committee, as the case may be.

(2)No act done by any person acting in good faith as a director of the Board
or as a member of a committee of the National Housing Bank shall become
invalid merely on the ground that he was disqualified to be a director or that
there was any other defect in his appointment.[45-A. Arrangement with National
Housing Bank on appointment of Directors to prevail.(1)Where any arrangement
entered into by the National Housing Bank with a housing finance institution
which is a company provides for the appointment by the National Housing Bank
of one or more Directors of such housing finance institution, such provision
and any appointment of Directors made in pursuance thereof shall be valid and
effective notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the [Companies
Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)] or in any other law for the time being in force or in
the memorandum, articles of association or any other instrument relating to
that housing finance institution, or any provision regarding share
qualification, age limit, number of Directorships, removal from office of
Directors and such like conditions contained in any such law or instrument
aforesaid, shall not apply to any Director appointed by the National Housing
Bank in pursuance of the arrangement as aforesaid.(2)Any Director appointed as
aforesaid shall-(a)hold office during the pleasure of the National Housing
Bank and may be removed or substituted by any person by order in writing of
the National Housing Bank;(b)not incur any obligation or liability by reasons
only of his being a Director or for anything done or omitted to be done in
good faith in the discharge of his duties as a Director or anything in
relation thereto:(c)not be liable to retirement by rotation and shall not be
taken into account for computing the number of Directors liable to such
retirement.]

### 46. Protection of action taken under the Act. - No suit or other legal
proceeding shall lie against the National Housing Bank or any director or any
officer or other employee of the National Housing Bank or any other person
authorised by the National Housing Bank to discharge any functions under this
Act for any loss or damage caused or likely to be caused by anything which is
in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or of any
other law or provision having the force of law.

### 47. Indemnity of directors. - (1) Every director shall be indemnified by
the National Housing Bank against all losses and expenses incurred by him in,
or in relation to, the discharge of his duties, except such as are caused by
his own wilful act or default.

(2)A director shall not be responsible for any other director or for any
officer or other employee of the National Housing Bank or for any loss or
expenses resulting to the National Housing Bank from the insufficiency or
deficiency of the value of, or title to, any property or security acquired or
taken on behalf of the National Housing Bank or the insolvency or wrongful act
of any debtor or any person under obligation to the National Housing Bank or
anything done in good faith in the execution of the duties of his office in
relation thereto.[47-A. Nomination in respect of deposits, bonds,
etc.(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being
in force, where a nomination in respect of any deposit, bond or other
securities is made with the National Housing Bank in the prescribed manner,
the amount due on such deposits, bonds or securities shall, on the death of
the depositor or holder thereof, vest in, and be payable to, the nominee
subject to any right, title or interest of any other person to such deposits,
bonds or securities.](2)Any payment made by the National Housing Bank in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be a full discharge of
its liability in respect of such deposits, bonds or securities.

### 48. Exemption from tax on income. - [ Repealed by the Finance Act, 2001
(14 of 2001), section 141 (w.e.f.1-4-2001).]

### 49. Penalties. - (1) Whoever in any return, balance sheet, or other
document or in any information required or furnished by or under or for the
purposes of any provision of this Act, wilfully makes a statement which is
false in any material particular, knowing it to be false, or wilfully omits to
make a material statement, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine.

(2)If any person fails to produce any book, account or other document, or to
furnish any statement or information which, under the provisions of this Act,
it is his duty to produce or furnish, he shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to two thousand rupees in respect of each offence and in the case
of a continuing failure, with an additional fine which may extend to one
hundred rupees for every day during which the failure continues after
conviction for the first such failure.[(2-A) If any person contravenes the
provisions of sub-section (1) of section 29-A, he shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may
extend to five years and with fine which shall not be less than one lakh
rupees but which may extend to five lakh rupees.(2-B) If any auditor fails to
comply with any direction given or order made by the National Housing Bank
under section 33, he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five
thousand rupees.(2-C) Whoever fails to comply with any order made by the
authorised officer under sub-section (2) of section 36-A, shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be
liable to a fine of not less than rupees fifty for every day during which such
non-compliance continues.](3)If any person [other than an auditor] [ Inserted
by Act 15 of 2000, Section 25 (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).]-(a)receives any deposit in
contravention of any direction given or order made under Chapter V; or(aa)[
fails to comply with any direction given or order made by the National Housing
Bank under any of the provisions of Chapter V; or] [Inserted by Act 15 of
2000, Section 25 (w.e.f. 12.6.2000). ](b)issues any prospectus or
advertisement otherwise than in accordance with section 35 or any order made
under section 30, as the case may be, he shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine
which may extend,-(i)in the case of a contravention falling under clause (a),
to twice the amount of deposit received; and(ii)in the case of a contravention
falling under clause (b), to twice the amount of the deposit called for by the
prospectus or advertisement.(4)If any other provision of this Act is
contravened or if any default is made in complying with any other requirement
of this Act, or of any order, regulation or direction made or given or
condition imposed thereunder, any person guilty of such contravention or
default shall be punishable with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees
and where a contravention or default is a continuing one with further fine
which may extend to one hundred rupees for every day, after the first, during
which the contravention or default continues.

### 50. Offences by companies. - (1) Where an offence has been committed by a
company, every person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in
charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business
of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such
person liable to any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the
offence was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due
diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1) where an offence under this Act has been
committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed
with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to, any neglect on the
part of any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such
director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be
guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.Explanation .-For the purposes of this
section-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other
association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a firm, means a
partner in the firm.

### 51. Cognizance of offences. - (1) No Court shall take cognizance of any
offence punishable under this Act except upon a complaint in writing made by
an officer of the National Housing Bank, generally or specially auhorised in
writing in this behalf by the National Housing Bank, and no Court other than
that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the first class
or a Court superior thereto shall try any such offence.

(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973
(2 of 1974), a Magistrate may, if he sees reason so to do, dispense with the
personal attendance of the officer of the National Housing Bank filing the
complaint but the Magistrate may in his discretion, at any stage of the
proceedings, direct the personal attendance of the complainant.

### 52. [ Application of fine.

\- A Court imposing fine under the Act may direct that the fine, if realised,
shall be applied-(a)firstly, in or towards payment of, the cost of the
proceedings, and(b)secondly, for repayment of the deposit to the person to
whom repayment of the deposit was to be made, and on such payment, the
liability of the housing finance institution to make repayment of the deposit
shall, to the extent of the amount paid by the Court, stand discharged.

### 52\.

-A. Power of National Housing Bank to impose fine. - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 49, if the contravention or default of the nature referred to in section 49 is committed by a housing finance institution which is a company, the National Housing Bank may impose on such institution-(a)a penalty not exceeding five thousand rupees; or(b)where the contravention or default is under sub-section (2-A) or clause (a) or clause (aa) of sub-section (3) of section 49, a penalty not exceeding five lakh rupees or twice the amount involved in such contravention or default, where the amount is quantifiable, whichever is more; and where such contravention or default is a continuing one, further penalty which may extend to twenty-five thousand rupees for every day, after the first, during which the contravention or default continues.(2)For the purpose of imposing penalty under sub-section (1), the National Housing Bank shall serve a notice on the housing finance institution requiring it to show cause why the amount specified in the notice should not be imposed as a penalty and a reasonable opportunity of being heard shall also be given to such housing finance institution.(3)Any penalty imposed by the National Housing Bank under this section shall be payable within a period of thirty days from the date on which notice issued by the National Housing Bank demanding payment of the sum is served on the housing finance institution and, in the event of failure of the housing finance institution to pay the sum within such period, may be levied on a direction made by the principal Civil Court having jurisdiction in the area where the registered office or the head office of the housing finance institution is situated:Provided that no such direction shall be made, except on an application made by an officer of the National Housing Bank authorised in this behalf, to the principal Civil Court.(4)The Court which makes a direction under sub-section (3), shall issue a certificate specifying the sum payable by the housing finance institution and every such certificate shall be enforceable in the same manner as if it were a decree made by the Court in a civil suit.(5)No complaint shall be filed against any housing finance institution in any Court of law pertaining to any contravention or default in respect of which any penalty has been imposed by the National Housing Bank under this section.(6)Where any complaint has been filed against a housing finance institution in a Court in respect of contravention or default of the nature referred to in section 49, no proceedings for imposition of penalty against the housing finance institution shall be taken under this section.]

### 53. Bankers' Books Evidence Act 18 of 1891, to apply in relation to
National Housing Bank. - The Bankers' Books Evidence Act, 1891 (18 of 1891),
shall apply in relation to the National Housing Bank as if it were a bank as
defined in section 2 of that Act.

### 54. Liquidation of National Housing Bank. - No provision of law relating
to the winding up of companies shall apply to the National Housing Bank and
the National Housing Bank shall not be placed in liquidation save by order of
the Central Government and in such manner as it may direct.

[54-A. Power to make rules.(1)The Central Government may, by notification,
make rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.(2)Without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:-(a)qualifications for appointment as a recovery
officer under sub-section (1) of section 36-D;(b)the salaries and allowances
and other terms and conditions of service of the officers and other employees
of the Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (3) of section 36-M;(c)the
salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the
Presiding Officers of the Appellate Tribunal under section 36-N; and(d)the
procedure for the investigation of misbehaviour or incapacity of the Presiding
Officers of the Appellate Tribunals under sub-section (3) of section 36-P.]

### 55. Power of the Board to make regulations. - (1) The Board may, with the
previous approval of [***] the Central Government, by notification, make
regulations not inconsistent with this Act to provide for all matters for
which provision is necessary or expedient for the purpose of giving effect to
the provisions of this Act.

(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the fees and allowances that may be paid to the directors for
attending the meetings of the Board or its committees under sub-section (5) of
section 7;(aa)[ the manner in which Directors shall be elected under clause
(c-a) of sub-section (1) of section 6;] [ Inserted by Act 15 of 2000, Section
28 (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).](b)the times and places at which the Board may meet,
and the rules of procedure that may be followed in regard to the transaction
of business under sub-section (1) of section 11;(c)the number of members that
the Executive Committee may consist, the functions that it may discharge and
times and places at which it shall meet and the rules of procedure that it may
follow in the transaction of business under section 12;(d)the manner and terms
of issue and redemption of bonds and debentures under clause (a) of sub-
section (1) of section 15;(e)the manner in which and the conditions subject to
which the National Housing Bank may borrow in foreign currency under sub-
section (1) of section 16;(f)the form in which the statements, information,
etc., is to be furnished under section 32;(fa)[ the form of application to be
made under section 36-E and the documents to be annexed to such application; [
Inserted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 28 (w.e.f. 12.6.2000).](fb)the form in
which notice of demand is required to be served on the borrower under sub-
section (1) of section 36-F;(fc)the manner in which the property shall be
transferred under sub-section (2) of section 36-G;(fd)the form in which the
appeal can be filed with the Appellate Tribunal under section 36-S and the
amount of fee required to be deposited with such appeal;](g)the special fund,
reserve fund and other funds to be created under sub-section (2) of section
37;(h)the form and manner in which the balance-sheet and accounts shall be
prepared and maintained under sub-section (1) of section 38;(i)the duties and
conduct, salaries, allowances and conditions of service of the officers and
other members of staff of the National Housing Bank under section 43;(j)the
establishment and maintenance of provident fund and any other fund for the
benefit of officers and other members of staff of the National Housing Bank
under section 43; and[(j-a) the manner in which nomination may be made under
sub-section (1) of section 47-A;] [ Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 28,
for " regulation or scheme" (w.e.f. 12.6.2000). Earlier it was substituted by
Act 47 of 1991, Section 5, for " regulation" (w.e.f. 20.9.1991).](k)any other
matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Any regulation which may be
made by the Board under this Act may be made [***] [Omitted 'by the Reserve
Bank' by Finance Act, 2018 (Act No. 13 of 2018) dated 29.3.2018.], in
consultation with the Central Government, before the expiry of three months
from the date of establishment of the National Housing Bank, and any
regulation so made may be altered and rescinded by the Board in the exercise
of its powers under this Act.(4)The power to make regulations conferred by
this section shall include the power to give retrospective effect to the
regulations or any of them from a date not earlier than the date of
commencement of this Act, but no retrospective effect shall be given to any
regulation so as to prejudicially affect the interests of any person to whom
such regulation may be applicable.(5)The Central Government shall cause every
[rules, regulation or scheme] [ Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 28, for
" regulation or scheme" (w.e.f. 12.6.2000). Earlier it was substituted by Act
47 of 1991, Section 5, for " regulation" (w.e.f. 20.9.1991).] made under this
Act to be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the [rules, regulation or scheme] [ Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 28,
for " regulation or scheme" (w.e.f. 12.6.2000). Earlier it was substituted by
Act 47 of 1991, Section 5, for " regulation" (w.e.f. 20.9.1991).] or both
Houses agree that the [rules, regulation or scheme] [ Substituted by Act 15 of
2000, Section 28, for " regulation or scheme" (w.e.f. 12.6.2000). Earlier it
was substituted by Act 47 of 1991, Section 5, for " regulation" (w.e.f.
20.9.1991).] should not be made, the [rules, regulation or scheme] [
Substituted by Act 15 of 2000, Section 28, for " regulation or scheme" (w.e.f.
12.6.2000). Earlier it was substituted by Act 47 of 1991, Section 5, for "
regulation" (w.e.f. 20.9.1991).] shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under the regulation.

### 56. Amendment of certain enactments. - The enactments specified in the
Second Schedule to this Act shall be amended in the manner provided therein
and unless otherwise provided in that Schedule, such amendments shall take
effect on and from the date of establishment of the National Housing Bank
under section 3.

### 57. Power to remove difficulties. - If any difficulty arises in giving
effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, by order,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, remove the difficulty:

Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of
three years from the commencement of this Act.

