## Union of India - Act

## The National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development Act, 1981

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development Act, 1981

## Act 61 of 1981

  * Published on 30 December 1981 
  * Commenced on 30 December 1981 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 January 2018.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development (Amendment) Act ,2000 (Act 55 of 2000) on 1 January 2000] 
  2. [Amended by The National Bank For Agriculture And Rural development (Amendment) Act, 2003 (Act 48 of 2003) on 1 January 2003] 
  3. [Amended by The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Amendment) Act, 2017 (Act 7 of 2018) on 18 January 2018] 

The National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development Act, 1981(61 OF 1981)

### 17.

/785Statement of Objects and Reasons.-This Bill is intended to provide for the
establishment of a national level institution for providing credit for the
promotion of agriculture, small-scale industries, cottage and village
industries, handicrafts and other rural crafts and other allied economic
activities in rural areas with a view to promoting integrated rural
development and securing prosperity of rural areas.2\. It has its genesis in
the recommendations of the National Commission on Agriculture. The Commission
had suggested that to overcome difficulties being faced by farmers in
obtaining credit and other inputs, an integrated approach should be adopted
for the supply of services and inputs, including credit. The Commission had
recommended that all types of credit needs should be met through a single
integrated agency leading up to an Agricultural Development Bank at the apex.
It was suggested that such a Bank could consolidate, expertise and experience
of various national level agencies into a single national organisation
directing the flow of agricultural credit according to the needs. The
Government had requested the Reserve Bank of India in March 1979 to arrange
for a review of the institutional arrangements for rural credit with a view to
streamlining them. In pursuance of the above, the Reserve Bank had appointed a
Committee to review arrangements for Institutional Credit for agriculture and
rural development. The Committee gave an interim report recommending the
setting up of a National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development and also
gave a broad outline for it. The recommendations of the interim report of the
Committee were examined by the Government and it was decided to set up such a
Bank.3\. The National Bank shall be the apex organisation with respect to all
matters relating to policy, planning and operational aspects in the field of
credit for the promotion of agriculture, small-scale industries, cottage and
village industries, handcrafts and other rural crafts and other allied
economic activities in rural areas. The Bank will serve as a refinancing
institution for extending short term credit for the promotion of activities in
the said field. Similarly, the Bank will provide refinance to various banks
for their term lending operations for the purposes of agriculture and rural
development. A provision has also been made for direct lending to any
institution as may be approved by the Central Government. The proposed Bank is
to have organic links with the Reserve Bank. It is the intention that the
Reserve Bank's close link with rural credit should be retained and its
authority as the Central Bank, over monetary and credit accretion should not
be diluted in any manner. The entire undertaking of the Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation shall be transferred to and vest in the new Bank
and the Corporation shall stand dissolved. The Bill also provides for changes
of a supplemental, incidental or consequential nature in the Reserve Bank of
India Act, 1934, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the Industrial Disputes
Act, 1947 and the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965.Amendment Act 55 of
2000-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The National Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development was established in 1982 under the provisions of the National
Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981. The authorised capital
of the NABARD is rupees five hundred crores and its capital is to be
subscribed by the Central Government and the Reserve Bank of India in equal
proportions.2\. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development is an
apex development bank in the field of agriculture and rural development. Its
main function is to provide refinance to various financing institutions, such
as State co-operative banks, regional rural banks, land development banks and
State commercial banks for promotion of agriculture, small-scale industries,
cottage and village industries and allied activities in rural areas with a
view to promoting integrated rural development and securing prosperity of
rural areas.3\. While implementing the provisions of the National Bank for
Agriculture and Rural Development Act, several bottlenecks and shortcomings
have come to light. Hence with a view to removing them and providing
functional autonomy and operational flexibility to the Bank as well as
expanding its role and augmenting its resources to make it a strong self-
reliant and more vibrant institution so as to effectively serve the
agricultural and rural sector in consonance with the present policy of
liberalisation and reforms, several amendments have been carried out in the
Act, which, inter alia, include the following main provisions:-(i) long title
of the Act is proposed to be amended to highlight the nature and status of the
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development as a development bank;(ii)
ceiling on the Bank's capital is proposed to be increased from rupees five
hundred crores to rupees five thousand crores;(iii) section 19 of the Act is
proposed to be amended to empower the said Bank to issue bonds, debentures and
other financial instruments with or without Government guarantee and to enable
it to borrow long-term loans from the Reserve Bank of India and also to enable
it to borrow long-term loans from any other authority or organisation or
institution approved by the Board instead of the Central Government;(iv)
section 20 of the Act is proposed to be amended to enable the Bank to lend
foreign currency for the purposes of the Act;(v) section 26 is proposed to be
amended to empower the Bank's Board in place of the Central Government to deal
in the shares or contribute to the share capital to any institution concerned
with the agricultural and rural development, which the Reserve Bank of India
approves, subject to such conditions, as may be specified by the Reserve Bank
of India.4\. The Act is being amended with a view to giving more powers to the
Board of the Bank in place of the Central Government so that its work may be
transacted more smoothly and quickly.5\. The Bill seeks to achieve the
aforesaid objects.Amendment Act 48 of 2003-Statement of Objects and
Reasons.-The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981
established a development bank for providing and regulating credit and other
facilities for the promotion and development of agriculture, small scale
industries, etc. One of the principal activities of the NABARD is to refinance
agriculture credit. Representations have been received from various quarters
to reduce the rate of interest on crop loans. Recently, the public sector
banks agreed that crop loans to farmers up to Rs. 50,000 would carry interest
not exceeding 9% per annum.2\. Co-operative Banks are important players in the
disbursement of crop loans. A similar effort has also been initiated in
respect of the co-operatives. Every year NABARD extends refinance at a
concessional rate of interest to State Co-operative Banks for agriculture
credit. Since this refinance passes through several tiers of the co-operative
system, at each of these tiers transaction costs get added, which ultimately
have then to be borne by the borrower, who ends by paying a much higher rate
of interest. As NABARD refinancing to District Central Co-operative Banks
(DCCBs) directly, does not at present exist, it is proposed to amend the
NABARD Act, 1981 to introduce this refinancing of DCCBs directly, on a
voluntary basis. The States which volunteer to implement the scheme shall have
the benefit of this direct refinancing. This method will reduce transaction
costs, directly benefiting the farmers having accounts in co-operatives for
their agriculture credit and reducing the cost of credit.3\. Therefore, it is
proposed to amend the NABARD Act, 1981 to enable NABARD to refinance Central
Co-operative Banks directly.4\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above
objects.[30th December, 1981][An Act to establish a development bank to be
known as the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development for providing
and regulating credit and other facilities for the promotion and development
of agriculture, [micro-enterprises, small enterprises and medium enterprises,
cottage and village industries, handlooms] [ Substituted by Act 55 of 2000,
Section 2, for the long title (w.e.f. 1.2.2001).], handicrafts and other rural
crafts and other allied economic activities in rural areas with a view to
promoting integrated rural development and scaring prosperity of rural areas
and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.]Be it enacted by
Parliament in the Thirty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

1\. Brought into force on 1.5.1982 (except sections 3, 16 and 18) vide S.O.
278(E), dated 21.4.1982.2\. Brought into force on 12.7.1982 (in respect of
Section 3, 16 and 18) vide S.O. 484(E), dated 6.7.1982.3\. 12.7.1982 vide S.O.
485(E), dated 6.7.1982.  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981.

(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date
as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint, and different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this
Act, and any reference in any provision to the commencement of this Act shall
be construed as a reference to the coming into force of that provision.

### 2. Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"agriculture" includes horticulture, animal husbandry, forestry, dairy and
poultry farming, pisciculture, and other allied activities, whether or not
undertaken jointly with agriculture and the expression "agricultural
operations" shall be construed accordingly.Explanation.-For the purposes of
this clause, "pisciculture" includes the development of fisheries, and both
inland and marine, catching of fish and all activities connected therewith or
incidental thereto;(b)"Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation"
means the Corporation established under section 3 of the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation Act, 1963 (10 of 1963), and renamed
under section 3-A of that Act as the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation;(c)"Board" means the Board of Directors of the National
Bank;(d)"central co-operative bank" means the principal co-operative society
in a district in a State, the primary object of which is the financing of
other co-operative societies in that district:Provided that in addition to
such principal society in a district, or where there is no such principal
society in a district, the State Government may declare any one or more co-
operative societies carrying on the business of financing other co-operative
societies in that district to be also or to be a central co-operative bank or
central co-operative banks within the meaning of this definition;(e)"Chairman"
means the Chairman [* * *] appointed under section 6;(f)"co-operative society"
means a society registered, or deemed to be registered, under the Co-operative
Societies Act, 1912 (2 of 1912) or any other law relating to co-operative
societies for the time being in force in any State;(g)"crops" includes
products of agricultural operations;(h)"director" means a director appointed
under section 6;(i)[ ***] [Omitted by Act No. 7 of 2018, dated
18.1.2018](j)"Managing Director" means the Managing Director appointed under
section 6;(k)"marketing of crops" includes the processing of crops prior to
marketing by any agricultural producers or any organisation of such
producers;(ka)[ "micro enterprise", "small enterprise" and "medium enterprise"
shall have the same meanings as are respectively assigned to then in the
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006] [Inserted by Act
No. 7 of 2018, dated 18.1.2018].(l)"National Bank" means the National Bank for
Agriculture and Rural Development established under section
3;(m)"notification" means a notification published in the Official
Gazette;(n)"primary rural credit society" means a co-operative society, by
whatever name called,-(1)which has as its object or business the provision of
financial accommodation to its members for agriculture or agricultural
operations or for the marketing of crops, or for rural development; and(2)the
bye-laws of which do not permit admission of any other co-operative society as
member:Provided that this sub-clause shall not apply to the admission, as a
member, of a co-operative society, which is a State co-operative bank or a
central co-operative bank by reason of such bank subscribing to the share
capital of the co-operative society out of funds provided by the State
Government for the purpose;(o)"prescribed" means prescribed by regulations
made under this Act;(p)"regional rural bank" means a regional rural bank
established under section 3 of the Regional Rural Banks Act, 1976 (21 of
1976);(q)"rural development" means development of rural areas through any
activities conducive to such development.Explanation.-For the purposes of this
clause,-(a)activities conducive to development of rural areas include
activities relating to production of goods or provision of services in rural
areas and activities for the promotion of cottage and village industries,
[micro-enterprises, small enterprises and medium enterprises, handicrafts,
handlooms] [Substituted 'industry in the tiny and decentralised sector and
small-scale industry and handicrafts' by Act No. 7 of 2018, dated 18.1.2018]
and other rural crafts;(b)"rural area" means the area comprised in any village
and includes the area comprised in any town, the population of which does not
exceed ten thousand or such other figure as the Reserve Bank may specify from
time to time;(r)"Reserve Bank" means the Reserve Bank of India constituted
under section 3 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of
1934);(s)"scheduled bank" means a bank for the time being included in the
Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934);(t)[ ***]
[Omitted by Act No. 7 of 2018, dated 18.1.2018](u)"State co-operative bank"
means the principal co-operative society in a State, the primary object of
which is the financing of other co-operative societies in the State:Provided
that in addition to such principal society in a State, or where there is no
such principal society in a State, the State Government may declare any one or
more co-operative societies carrying on business in that State to be also or
to be a State co-operative bank or State co-operative banks within the meaning
of this definition;(v)"State land development bank" means the co-operative
society which is the principal land development bank (by whatever name called)
in a State and which has as its primary object the providing of long-term
finance for agricultural development:Provided that, in addition to such
principal land development bank in a State, or where there is no such bank in
a State, the State Government may declare any co-operative society carrying on
business in that State and authorised by the bye-laws of such co-operative
society to provide long-term finance for agricultural development to be also
or to be a State land development bank within the meaning of this
definition;(w)words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in
the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934), shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in that Act;(x)words and expressions used herein
and not defined either in this Act or in the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934
(2 of 1934), but defined in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949),
shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949).

## Chapter II  
Establishment Of The National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development And
Capital Thereof

### 3. Establishment and incorporation of National Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development .-(1) With effect from such date as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, there shall be
established for the purposes of this Act, a bank to be known as the National
Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development.

(2)The Bank shall be a body corporate with the name aforesaid having perpetual
succession and a common seal with power, subject to the provisions of this
Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of property and to contract, and may by that
name sue and be sued.(3)The head office of the National Bank shall be at
[Mumbai] or at such other place as the Central Government may, by
notification, specify.(4)The National Bank may establish offices, branches or
agencies at any place in India, and with the previous approval of the Central
Government and in consultation with the Reserve Bank, at any place outside
India.

### 4. Capital .-(1) The Capital of the National Bank shall be one hundred
crores of rupees:-

[Provided that the Central Government may by notification, increase the said
capital up to thirty thousand crore rupees:Provided further that the Central
Government may, in consultation with the Reserve Bank and by notification,
further increase the said capital to such amount as it may deem necessary from
time to time](2)[ The capital of the National Bank which has been subscribed
to by the Reserve Bank valued at twenty crore rupees as on the date
immediately preceding the commencement of the National Bank for Agriculture
and Rural Development (Amendment) Act, 2017 shall, on such commencement, stand
transferred to, and vested in, the Central Government.Provided that the
National Bank may issue capital to such institution and persons in such manner
as may be notified by the Central Government:Provided further that the
shareholding of the Central Government shall not at any time be less than
fifty-one per cent. of the total subscribed capital.(3)the Central Government
shall give to the Reserve Bank an amount equal to the face value of the
subscribed capital, valued at twenty crores of rupees, referred to in sub-
section (2), in cash, for transfer to, and vesting in the Central Government
of the capital of the National Bank which has been so subscribed to by the
said Bank.] [Substituted by Act No. 7 of 2018, dated 18.1.2018.]

## Chapter III  
Management Of The National Bank

### 5. Management .-(1) The general superintendence, direction and management
of the affairs and business of the National Bank shall vest in a Board of
Directors, which shall exercise all powers and do all acts and things which
may be exercised or done by the National Bank.

(2)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board in discharging its
functions, shall act on business principles with due regard to public
interest.(3)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1) and save as otherwise
provided in the regulations made under this Act, the Managing Director shall
also have powers of general superintendence, direction and management of the
affairs and business of the National Bank and may also exercise all powers and
do all acts and things which may be exercised or done by the National
Bank:[Provided that during the period of any casual vacancy of the nature
referred to in section 11 in the office of the Managing Director, the Chairman
may also exercise the powers and discharge the functions of the Managing
Director until the person appointed by the Central Government under section 11
to act as Managing Director enters upon his office.](4)Any whole-time director
appointed under sub-section (3) of section 6 shall assist the Managing
Director in the discharge of his functions under sub-section (3) and perform
such duties as the Board may entrust or delegate to him.(5)In the discharge of
his powers and functions under sub-section (3), the Managing Director shall
follow such directions as the Chairman may give.(6)In the discharge of its
functions under this Act, the National Bank shall be guided by such directions
in matters of policy involving public interest as the Central Government, in
consultation with the Reserve Bank, or the Reserve Bank, may give in writing.

### 6. Board of Directors .- [(1) The Board of Directors of the National Bank
shall consist of the following, namely:-

(a)a Chairman;(b)three directors from amongst experts in rural economics,
rural development, village and cottage industries, [micro-enterprises, small
enterprises and medium enterprises] or persons having experience in the
working of co-operative banks, regional rural banks or commercial banks or any
other matter the special knowledge or professional experience in which is
considered by the Central Government as useful to the National Bank;(c)three
directors from out of the directors of the Reserve Bank;(d)three directors
from amongst the officials of the Central Government;(e)four directors from
amongst the officials of the State Government;(f)such number of directors
elected in the prescribed manner, by shareholders other than the Reserve Bank,
the Central Government and other institutions owned or controlled by the
Central Government whose names are entered on the register of shareholders of
the National Bank ninety days before the date of the meeting in which such
election takes place on the following basis, namely:-(i)where the total amount
of equity two directors; share capital issued to such share-holders is ten per
cent. or less of the total issued equity capital(ii)where the total amount of
equity three directors; and share capital issued to such share-holders is more
than ten per cent but less than twenty-five per cent.of the total issued
equity capital.(iii)where the total equity share capital four directors:
issued to such shareholders is twenty-five per cent. or more of the total
issued equity capital Provided that until the assumption of charge by the
elected directors under this clause, the Central Government may at any time
nominate such number of directors not exceeding four from amongst persons
having special knowledge of, and professional experience in, agricultural
science, technology, economics, banking, co-operatives, law, rural finance,
investment, accountancy, marketing or any other matter, the special knowledge
of, and professional experience in, which would, in the opinion of the Central
Government, be useful to the National Bank for carrying out its functions;
and(g)a Managing Director.(2)The Chairman and other directors, excluding the
directors referred to in clause (f), shall be appointed by the Central
Government in consultation with the Reserve Bank:Provided that no such
consultation shall be necessary in the case of directors appointed under
clause (d) of sub-section (1).](3)Where the Central Government is satisfied,
in consultation with the Reserve Bank [* * *] [ The words " and the Board"
omitted by Act 81 of 1985, Section 17 (w.e.f. 1.5.1986).], that it is
necessary so to do, it may appoint one or more whole-time directors with such
designations as may be deemed appropriate by that Government and any whole-
time director so appointed shall also be a member of the Board:[* * *] [
Proviso omitted by Act 81 of 1985, Section 17 (w.e.f. 1.5.1986).]

### 7. Term of office of Chairman and other directors, retirement and payment
of fees .-(1) The Chairman shall hold office for such term not exceeding five
years and shall receive such salary and allowances as the Central Government
may, at the time of appointment, specify [and shall be eligible for re-
appointment]:

[* * *] [ Proviso omitted by Act 81 of 1985, Section 18 (w.e.f.
1.5.1986).][(1-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the
Central Government shall have the right to terminate the term of office of the
Chairman at any time before the expiry of the term specified under that sub-
section by giving him a notice of not less than three months in writing or
three months' salary and allowances in lieu of such notice.] [ Inserted by Act
81 of 1985, Section 17 (w.e.f. 1.5.1986).][(1-B) In the case of a vacancy in
the office of the Chairman, the Managing Director shall perform the functions
and duties of the Chairman during such vacancy.] [ Inserted by Act 55 of 2000,
Section 6 (w.e.f. 1.2.2001).](2)[ Subject to the provisions contained in sub-
section (5), a director appointed under clause (b) or clause (c) of sub-
section (1) of section 6, shall hold office for such term, not exceeding three
years, as the Central Government may specify in this behalf ] [Substituted by
Act 66 of 1988, Section 45, for sub-Section (2) (w.e.f. 30.12.1988). ][* * *]
[ The words " and thereafter until his successor enters upon his office"
omitted by Act 55 of 2000, Section 6 (w.e.f. 1.2.2001).][and shall be eligible
for reappointment:Provided that no such director shall hold office
continuously for a period exceeding six years.] [Substituted by Act 66 of
1988, Section 45, for sub-Section (2) (w.e.f. 30.12.1988). ](3)The Central
Government may, in consultation with the Reserve Bank, remove the Chairman [*
* *] [ The words " or any other Director referred to in sub-Section (2)"
omitted by Act 66 of 1988, Section 45 (w.e.f. 30.12.1988).] at any time before
the expiry of his term of office after giving him a reasonable opportunity of
showing cause against the proposed remove.(4)[ The Chairman and any other
director, who is not an officer of the Central Government or a State
Government or an officer of the Reserve Bank or any body or corporation
established by or under any Central Act or any State Act and owned or
controlled by such Government, shall be paid such fees and allowances as may
be prescribed for attending the meetings of the Board or of any of its
committees and for attending to any other work of the National Bank.] [
Substituted by Act 55 of 2000, Section 6 (w.e.f. 1.2.2001).](5)[ The directors
appointed under clauses (b) to (f) of sub-section (1) of section 6 shall hold
office during the pleasure of the Central Government.] [ Inserted by Act 66 of
1988, Section 45 (w.e.f. 30.12.1988).]

### 8. Term of office of Managing Director and whole-time directors,
conditions of service, etc .-(1) The Managing Director and any whole-time
director appointed under sub-section (3) of section 6 shall,-

(a)hold office for such term not exceeding five years as the Central
Government may, at the time of appointment, specify [and shall be eligible for
re-appointment];(b)receive such salary and allowances and be governed by such
terms and conditions of service as the Board may, with the previous approval
of the Central Government and in consultation with the Reserve Bank,
determine:Provided that the Managing Director and any such whole-time director
appointed to the first Board shall receive such salary and allowances and be
governed by such terms and conditions of service as the Central Government
may, in consultation with the Reserve Bank, determine.(2)The Central
Government may, in consultation with the Reserve Bank, remove the Managing
Director or any whole-time director appointed under sub-section (3) of section
6 at any time before the expiry of his term of office, after giving him a
reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the proposed
removal.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2), the Central Government shall have the right to terminate the term
of office of the Managing Director or of any whole-time director appointed
under sub-section (3) of section 6 at any time before the expiry of the term
fixed under sub-section (1) by giving him notice of not less than three months
in writing or three months' salary and allowances in lieu of such
notice:Provided that the Central Government shall, before terminating the term
of office of the Managing Director or any whole-time director appointed under
sub-section (3) of section 6, consult the Reserve Bank.

### 9. Disqualifications .-(1) No person shall be a director who-

(a)is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent Court; or(b)is or
has been convicted of any offence which, in the opinion of the Central
Government, involves moral turpitude; or(c)is, or at any time has been,
adjudicated insolvent or has suspended payment of his debts or has compounded
with his creditors.(2)The appointment as director of any person who is a
Member of Parliament or the Legislature of any State shall, unless within two
months of the date of his appointment he ceases to be such member, be void on
the expiry of the said period of two months and if any director is elected or
nominated as a member of Parliament or of any State Legislature, he shall
cease to be a director as from the date of such election or nomination, as the
case may be.

### 10. Vacation and resignation of office by directors .-(1) If a director-

(a)becomes subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in section 9;
or(b)is absent without leave of the Board for more than three consecutive
meetings thereof, his seat shall thereupon become vacant.(2)Any director may
resign his office by giving notice thereof in writing to the Central
Government, and on his resignation being accepted by the Central Government or
if his resignation is not sooner accepted, on the expiry of three months from
the receipt thereof by the Central Government, he shall be deemed to have
vacated his office.

### 11. Casual vacancy in the office of Managing Director .-If the Managing
Director is by infirmity, or otherwise rendered incapable of carrying out his
duties or is absent on leave or otherwise, in circumstances not involving the
vacation of his appointment, the Central Government may, after consultation
with the Reserve Bank and the Board, appoint another person to act in his
place as Managing Director during his absence.

### 12. Meetings of Board .-(1) The Board shall meet at such times and places
and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of
business at its meetings as may be prescribed.

(2)The Chairman of the Board, or, if for any reason he is unable to attend any
meeting [the Managing Director and in the absence of both, the Chairman and
the Managing Director], any other director nominated by the Chairman in this
behalf, and in the absence of such nomination, any other director elected by
the directors present at the meeting, shall preside at the meeting of the
Board.(3)All questions which come up before any meeting of the Board shall be
decided by a majority of votes of the directors present and voting, and in the
event of an equality of votes, the Chairman, or, in his absence, the person
presiding, shall have a second or casting vote.

### 13. Committees of National Bank .-(1) The Board may constitute an
Executive Committee consisting of such number of directors as may be
prescribed.

(2)The Executive Committee shall discharge such functions as may be prescribed
or may be delegated to it by the Board.(3)The Board may constitute such other
committees, whether consisting wholly of directors or wholly of other persons
or partly of directors and partly of other persons as it thinks fit and for
such purposes as it may decide and every committee so constituted shall
discharge such functions as may be delegated to it by the Board.(4)The
Executive Committee shall meet at such times and places and shall observe such
rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at its meetings,
as may be prescribed.(5)The times and places at which any committee
constituted under sub-section (3) shall meet, the rules of procedure which
such committee shall observe in regard to the transaction of business at its
meetings, and the fees and allowances which may be paid to the members of such
committee for attending the meetings of the committee and for attending to any
other work of the National Bank shall be such as may be specified by that
Bank.

### 14. Advisory Council .-(1) [The Board may] constitute an Advisory Council
consisting of such number of directors and such other persons who, in the
opinion of the Board, have special knowledge of agriculture, agricultural
credit, co-operation and rural economics, [micro-enterprises, small
enterprises and medium enterprises] [Substituted 'small-scale industries' by
Act No. 7 of 2018, dated 18.1.2018], village and cottage industries and
handicrafts and other rural crafts or have special knowledge and appreciation
of the country's overall developmental policies and in particular overall
monetary and credit policies, which is considered by the Board as useful to
the National Bank.

(2)The Advisory Council shall advise the National Bank in such matters as may
be referred to the Advisory Council by the National Bank and may discharge
such other functions as may be entrusted or delegated to the Advisory Council
by the National Bank.(3)A member of the Advisory Council shall hold office for
such term not exceeding five years as the National Bank may fix, and receive
such fees and allowances as may be prescribed for attending the meetings of
the Advisory Council and for attending to any other work of the National
Bank.(4)The Advisory Council shall meet at such times and places and shall
observe such rules of procedure in regard to transaction of business at its
meetings as may be prescribed.

### 15. Member of Board or Committee thereof not to participate in meetings in
certain cases .-A director of the Board or a member of a Committee, who has
any direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any matter coming up for
consideration at a meeting of the Board or a Committee thereof, shall, as soon
as possible after relevant circumstances have come to his knowledge, disclose
the nature of his interest at such meeting, and the disclosure shall be
recorded in the minutes of the Board, or the Committee, as the case may be,
and the director or member shall not take any part in any deliberation or
decision of the Board or the Committee with respect to that matter.

## Chapter IV  
Transfer Of Business To The National Bank

### 16. Transfer of assets and liabilities of Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation .-(1) On such date as the Central Government, in
consultation with the Reserve Bank may, by notification, appoint, the entire
undertaking of the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(hereafter in this Chapter referred to as the "Corporation") including all
business, property, assets and liabilities, rights, interests, privileges and
obligations of whatever nature, shall stand transferred to and vest in the
National Bank.

(2)As compensation for the transfer of the undertaking of the Corporation to
the National Bank under sub-section (1), the National Bank shall within six
months from the date appointed under that sub-section (hereafter in this
section referred to as the appointed date) pay to the shareholders of the
Corporation a sum equal to the total paid-up capital of the Corporation as on
the date immediately preceding the appointed date.(3)The amount of
compensation payable under sub-section (2) to the shareholders of the
Corporation shall be apportioned among the shareholders in proportion to their
contributions to the paid-up capital of the Corporation as on the date
immediately preceding the appointed date.Explanation.-For the purposes of this
sub-section, "shareholders of the Corporation" means shareholders of the
Corporation whose names appear on the register of shareholders maintained
under section 8 of the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation Act,
1963 (10 of 1963), on the date immediately preceding the appointed date.(4)The
National Bank shall also pay to the shareholders of the Corporation referred
to in sub-section (2) an amount calculated at the rate at which the shares of
the Corporation were guaranteed as to the payment of minimum dividend under
section 6 of the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation Act, 1963
(10 of 1963), for the period, if any, that has expired in the accounting year
of the Corporation before the appointed date and this amount the National Bank
shall distribute to the shareholders of the Corporation referred to in sub-
section (2) in proportion to the shares held by such shareholders on the date
immediately preceding the appointed date and at the rate at which such shares
were guaranteed as to the payment of minimum dividend.(5)All contracts, deeds,
bonds, agreements, powers of attorney, grants of legal representation and
other instruments of whatever nature subsisting or having effect immediately
before the appointed date and to which the Corporation is a party, or which
are in favour of the Corporation, shall be of as full force and effect against
or in favour of the National Bank, as the case may be, and may be enforced or
acted upon as fully and effectually as if instead of the Corporation the
National Bank had been a party thereto, or as if they had been in favour of
the National Bank.(6)If, immediately before the appointed date, any suit,
appeal or other legal proceeding of whatever nature, is pending, by or against
the Corporation, the same shall not abate, be discontinued or be in any way
prejudicially affected by reason of the transfer to the National Bank of the
undertaking of the Corporation, or of anything contained in this Act, but the
suit, appeal or other proceeding may be continued, prosecuted and enforced, by
or against the National Bank.

### 17\. Dissolution of the Corporation and repeal of Act 10 of 1963.-On the
date appointed under sub-section (1) of section 16,-

(a)the Corporation shall stand dissolved; and(b)the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation Act, 1963 (10 of 1963), shall stand repealed.

### 18. Transfer of business from Reserve Bank .-(1) On such date as the
Central Government may, in consultation with the Reserve Bank, by
notification, appoint, the assets and liabilities with the Reserve Bank
relating to-

(a)the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund established
and maintained under section 46-A of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of
1934); and(b)the National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund established
and maintained under section 46-B of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of
1934), shall stand transferred to the National Bank and form part of the
National Rural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund referred to in section 42
and the National Rural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund referred to in section 43,
respectively.(2)With effect from such date as the Central Government may, in
consultation with the Reserve Bank, by notification, appoint, the loans and
advances which the Reserve Bank has granted to State co-operative banks and
regional rural banks under section 17 except sub-clause (a) of clause (4) of
the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934), and which the Reserve Bank
may specify by a general or special order, shall, as far as may be, become and
be deemed to be loans and advances granted by the National Bank under section
21, and the National Bank shall repay to the Reserve Bank, the amount of such
loans and advances on such terms and conditions as the Central Government may
specify, in consultation with the Reserve Bank.(3)All rights, liabilities,
interests, privileges and obligations of whatever nature (including the rights
and obligations arising by way of purchase, sale and rediscount of any bills
of exchange and promissory notes) of the Reserve Bank in relation to any asset
or liability referred to in sub-section (1) or any loan or advance referred to
in sub-section (2) shall stand transferred to and vest in the National Bank on
the date on which such asset or liability stands transferred to the National
Bank under sub-section (1), or, as the case may be, such loan or advance
becomes under sub-section (2) a loan or advance granted by the National
Bank.(4)All contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements, powers of attorney, grants of
legal representation and other instruments of whatever nature relating to any
asset or liability referred to in sub-section (1) and subsisting or having
effect immediately before the date appointed under that sub-section or
relating to any loan or advance referred to in sub-section (2) and subsisting
or having effect immediately before the date appointed under that sub-section
shall be of as full force and effect against, or in favour of, the National
Bank, as the case may be, and may be enforced or acted upon as fully and
effectually as if instead of the Reserve Bank, the National Bank had been a
party thereto, or as if they had been in favour of the National Bank.(5)If,
immediately before the date appointed under sub-section (1) or sub-section
(2), as the case may be, any suit, appeal or other legal proceedings of
whatever nature relating to any asset or liability referred to in sub-section
(1) or any loan or advance referred to in sub-section (2) is pending, by or
against the Reserve Bank, the same shall not abate, be discontinued, or be in
any way prejudicially affected by reason of the transfer to the National Bank
of such asset or liability under sub-section (1), or as the case may be, such
loan or advance becoming under sub-section (2) a loan or advance granted by
the National Bank, or of anything contained in this Act, but the suit, appeal
or other proceedings may be continued, prosecuted and enforced, by or against
the National Bank.

## Chapter V  
Borrowings By The National Bank

### 19. Borrowings by the National Bank .-The National Bank may, for the
purpose of carrying out its functions under this Act,-

(a)[ issue and sell bonds, debentures and other financial instruments with or
without guarantee of the Central Government on such terms and conditions as
may be approved by the Board;(b)borrow money from the Reserve Bank repayable
on demand or otherwise on such terms and conditions including the terms
relating to security and purposes as may be specified by the Reserve
Bank;(c)borrow money from the Central Government and from any other authority
or organisation or institution approved by the Board, on such terms and
conditions as may be agreed upon;(d)accept from the Central Government, a
State Government, a local authority, a State land development bank, a State
co-operative bank or a scheduled bank or any person or body, whether
incorporated or not, deposits repayable on such terms as the National Bank
may, with the approval of the Reserve Bank, fix; and(e)receive gifts, grants,
donations or benefactions from the Central Government or any State Government
or any other source.]

### 20. [ Borrowings in foreign currency

.-Notwithstanding anything contained in the Foreign Exchange Management Act,
1999 (42 of 1999), or in any other law for the time being in force, relating
to foreign exchange, the National Bank may borrow, with the previous approval
of the Central Government and in consultation with the Reserve Bank, foreign
currency from any bank or financial institution in India or elsewhere, for
granting loans and advances or for utilising such currency for any other
purpose specified under the provisions of this Act.]

## Chapter VI  
Credit Functions Of The National Bank

### 21. Production and marketing credit .-(1) The National Bank may provide by
way of refinance, loans and advances, repayable on demand or on the expiry of
fixed periods not exceeding eighteen months, [to State co-operative banks,
Central co-operative banks, regional rural banks], or to any financial
institution or to any class of financial institutions, which are approved by
the Reserve Bank in this behalf, for financing-

(i)agricultural operations or the marketing of crops, or(ii)the marketing and
distribution of inputs necessary for agriculture or rural development,
or(iii)any other activity for the promotion of or in the field of agriculture
or rural development, or(iv)bona fide commercial or trade transactions,
or(v)the production or marketing activities of artisans or of [village and
cottage industries, micro-enterprises, small enterprises and medium
enterprises or of those engaged in the field of handicraft, handlooms]
[Substituted 'small-scale industries, industries in the tiny and decentralised
sector, village and cottage industries or of those engaged in the field of
handicrafts' by Act No. 7 of 2018, dated 18.1.2018] and other rural
crafts.(2)The National Bank may make loans and advances under sub-section (1)
against the security of-(i)stocks, funds and securities other than immovable
property, in which a trustee is authorised to invest trust money by any law
for the time being in force;(ii)promissory notes supported by documents of
title to goods, such documents having been transferred, assigned or pledged to
the borrowing institution as security for a loan or advance made for any of
the purposes specified in sub-section (1):Provided that the National Bank may,
whenever it considers it necessary so to do, accept, in lieu of the actual
assignment of any such security in favour of the National Bank, a declaration
in writing from the borrowing institution,-(a)stating that it holds such
documents of title to goods as may be set out in the declaration;
and(b)containing such other particulars as may be required by the National
Bank.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), the National
Bank may in its discretion grant a loan or advance-(a)[to any State co-
operative bank or Central co-operative bank] [ Substituted by Act 48 of 2003,
Section 2, for " to any State Co-operative Bank" (w.e.f. 19.9.2003).] if the
loan or advance is fully guaranteed for repayment of principal and interest by
Government;(b)to any State co-operative bank which is a scheduled bank, if the
loan or advance is secured either by a bill of exchange or promissory note
executed by the central co-operative bank and assigned in favour of the State
co-operative bank.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (2)
and (3), the National Bank may also make loans and advances repayable on
demand or on the expiry of fixed periods not exceeding eighteen months against
promissory notes of a State co-operative bank or a regional rural bank or an
institution approved under sub-section (1):Provided that the borrowing
institution furnishes a declaration in writing, setting out the purpose for
which it has made loans and advances and such other particulars as may be
required by the National Bank.

### 22. [ Conversion loan for production credit

.-Where the National Bank is satisfied that owing to drought, famine or other
natural calamities, military operations or enemy action, any State co-
operative bank, Central co-operative bank, regional rural bank or any such
financial institution or any financial institution falling under any such
class of financial institutions, as may be approved by the Reserve Bank in
this behalf, requires assistance under this section, it may provide to such
bank or institution such financial assistance as it may deem fit by way of
making loans and advances repayable on the expiry of fixed periods not
exceeding seven years and on such terms and conditions as may be specified in
this behalf by the National Bank:Provided that loans and advances may be made
under this section only for the purpose of enabling the borrowing bank or
institution,-(a)to pay any dues to the National Bank for credit extended for
financing agricultural operations or the marketing of crops under clause (i)
of sub-section (1) of section 21, or(b)(i)to make loans or advances to Central
co-operative banks or primary rural credit societies in cases where the
borrowing bank is a State co-operative bank, and(ii)to make loans and advances
to primary rural credit societies in cases where the borrowing bank is a
Central co-operative bank, and such loans or advances in both the cases being
repayable on the expiry of fixed periods not being less than eighteen months
and not exceeding seven years, by way of reimbursement of loans and advances
made by such co-operative banks or societies for agriculture or agricultural
operations or for reimbursement of such loans or advances which have been
converted into loans or advances repayable on expiry of fixed periods not
being less than eighteen months and not exceeding seven years from the date of
conversion:-Provided further that no loan or advance shall be made under this
section to a State co-operative bank or a Central co-operative bank unless
such loan or advance is fully guaranteed as to the repayment of the principal
and payment of interest, by the State Government.]

### 23. Rescheduling of loans to artisans, small-scale industries, etc .-Where
the National Bank is satisfied that owing to unforeseen circumstances the
rescheduling of any loans and advances made to artisans, [village and cottage
industries, micro enterprise, small enterprises and medium enterprises and
those engaged in the field of handicraft, handlooms and other rural crafts],
by any State co-operative bank, regional rural bank or any such financial
institution or any financial institution falling under such class of financial
institutions as may be approved by the Reserve Bank in this behalf, has become
necessary, it may provide to such bank or institution such financial
assistance as it may deem fit by way of loans and advances repayable on the
expiry of fixed periods not being less than eighteen months and not exceeding
seven years against such securities as may be specified in this behalf by the
National Bank:

Provided that no loan or advance shall be made under this section to a State
co-operative bank unless such loan or advance is fully guaranteed as to the
repayment of the principal and payment of interest, by the State Government
but such guarantee may be waived by the National Bank if other security to the
satisfaction of the National Bank is furnished, or if, for reasons to be
recorded by it in writing, the National Bank is satisfied that the guarantee
or other security is not necessary.

### 24. Investment credit-Medium term .-The National Bank shall provide such
financial assistance as it may consider necessary by way of making to State
co-operative banks, regional rural banks, loans and advances repayable on the
expiry of fixed periods not being less than eighteen months and not exceeding
seven years against such securities as may be specified, in this behalf, by
the National Bank and such loans or advances may be made for agriculture,
rural development or such other purposes as the National Bank may, from time
to time, determine:

Provided that no loan or advance shall be made under this section to a State
co-operative bank unless such loan or advance is fully guaranteed as to the
repayment of the principal and payment of interest, by the State Government
but such guarantee may be waived by the National Bank, if other security to
the satisfaction of the National Bank is furnished, or if, for reasons to be
recorded by it in writing, the National Bank is satisfied that the guarantee
or other security is not necessary.

### 25. Other investment credit .-(1) The National Bank may provide such
financial assistance as it may consider necessary for promoting agriculture
and rural development by-

(a)making loans and advances, by way of refinance, on such terms and
conditions as the National Bank may think fit to impose, to a State land
development bank or a State co-operative bank or a scheduled bank or any other
financial institution approved by the Reserve Bank in this behalf, and also
rescheduling the payment of such loans and advances:Provided that the maximum
period for which any such loan or advance may be granted, whether originally
or by rescheduling the payment thereof, shall not exceed twenty-five
years;(b)purchasing or selling, or subscribing to the bonds or debentures
issued by any bank or institution referred to in clause (a) and repayable
within a period not exceeding twenty-five years from the dates on which they
are issued;(c)making loans and advances on such terms and conditions as the
National Bank may think fit to impose, to a State co-operative bank or a
scheduled bank for the purpose of enabling such bank to make loans or advances
to artisans, [village and cottage industries, micro-enterprises, small
enterprises and medium enterprises and those engaged in the field of
handicrafts handlooms] and other rural crafts and also rescheduling the
payment of such loans and advances:-Provided that the maximum period for which
any such loan or advance may be granted, whether originally or by rescheduling
the payment thereof, shall not exceed twenty-five years;(d)making, where it is
considered necessary so to do in connection with any financial assistance
under clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) to a State land development bank
or a State co-operative bank or a scheduled bank, loans and advances repayable
on demand or on the expiry of a fixed period not exceeding eighteen months, by
way of refinance [or otherwise] [ Inserted by Act 55 of 2000, Section 12
(w.e.f. 1.2.2001).] to such bank and also rescheduling the payment of such
loans and advances for such period as the National Bank may deem fit.(2)The
provisions of this section shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of,
the provisions of section 21 and section 24.

### 26. [ Purchase and sale of shares

.-The National Bank may subscribe to, or purchase or sell stocks, shares,
bonds or debentures of, or invest in the securities of, any institution or
class of institutions concerned with agriculture and rural development which
the Board may approve subject to such terms and conditions as it may deem
fit.]

### 27. Loans to State Governments for share capital contribution .-The
National Bank may make loans and advances to State Governments, repayable on
the expiry of fixed periods not exceeding twenty years from the date of making
such loans and advances, from the National Rural Credit (Long Term Operations)
Fund established under section 42 for enabling them to subscribe directly or
indirectly to the share capital of a co-operative credit society.

[27-A. Loans to State Government, undertakings, etc.-The National Bank may
make loans and advances to any State Government or a corporation owned or
controlled by the State Government or to any other person or class of persons,
as may be approved by the Board, repayable on the expiry of a fixed period not
exceeding twenty-five years from the date of making of such loans and advances
and subject to such terms and conditions, as may be approved by the Board, for
the purpose of development of infrastructure facilities for promotion of
agriculture and rural development.]

### 28. Security for credit .-(1) No accommodation shall be granted by the
National Bank under clause (a) or clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 25
or section 30 or section 32 to an institution other than a scheduled bank
unless it is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Government as to the
repayment of principal and payment of interest:

Provided that no such guarantee shall be required in cases in which security
to the satisfaction of the Board is furnished by the borrowing
institution.(2)No accommodation shall be granted by the National Bank under
clause (a) or clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 25 or section 32 to any
scheduled bank unless security to the satisfaction of the Board is furnished
by such scheduled bank.(3)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(1) or sub-section (2), no guarantee or security referred to therein shall be
required in cases in which the Board, for reasons to be recorded in writing,
decides that no such security or guarantee is necessary in respect of a
scheduled bank, a State co-operative bank or any person or class of persons,
specifically approved by the Board or in respect of any scheme or class of
schemes, having regard to the nature and scope of the scheme or schemes for
which accommodation is proposed to be granted by the National Bank.]

### 29. Amounts and securities to be held in trust .-(1) Any sums received by
a borrowing institution in repayment or realisation of loans and advances
refinanced either wholly or partly by the National Bank shall, to the extent
of the accommodation granted by the National Bank and remaining outstanding,
be deemed to have been received by the borrowing institution in trust for the
National Bank, and shall accordingly be paid by such institution to the
National Bank, as per the repayment schedule fixed by the National Bank.

(2)Where an accommodation has been granted to a borrowing institution, all
securities held, or which may be held, by such borrowing institution, on
account of any transaction in respect of which such accommodation has been
granted by the National Bank, shall be held by such institution in trust for
the National Bank.(3)[ Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
any law for the time being in force, where a liquidator is appointed for
winding up a borrowing institution, it shall be the duty of the liquidator to
forthwith pass on to the National Bank the sums recovered by the borrowing
institution or the liquidator, as the case may be, in repayment or realisation
of the loans and advances refinanced either wholly or partly by the National
Bank to the extent the refinance is outstanding any the National Bank shall be
entitled to enforce the securities held by the borrowing institution in trust
for the National Bank as if every reference to the borrowing institution in
any contract, security or other document obtained by borrowing institution is
a reference to the National Bank and accordingly, the National Bank shall be
entitled to recover the balance sums due under such loans and advances from
the constituents of borrowing institution and any discharge given by the
National Bank to such constituent shall be a valid discharge and the
liquidator shall, on demand made by the National Bank, deliver to it all such
contracts, securities and other documents, for due enforcement thereof by the
National Bank.Explanation.-For the purposes of this sub-section, the word
"liquidator" shall include liquidator or a provisional liquidator or any
person or authority entrusted with the duty of liquidating the borrowing
institution.]

### 30. [ Direct loans

.-The National Bank may, in exceptional circumstances to be recorded in
writing by the Board, by itself or in association with other financial
institutions or scheduled banks, make loans and advances, otherwise than by
way of refinance to any person or class of persons or body corporate, on such
terms and conditions, including security and repayable within such period not
exceeding twenty-five years, as the National Bank may deem fit.

### 30\.

-A. Bills rediscounting .-The National Bank may rediscount bills of exchange and promissory notes made, drawn, accepted or endorsed by any company or body corporate concerned with agriculture and rural development presented by a scheduled bank, a State co-operative bank, State land development bank, regional rural bank or any other institution or class of institutions approved by the Board.]

### 31. Commission .-The National Bank may receive, for the rendering of any
of the services mentioned in this Chapter or Chapter VII, such commission or
other consideration as may be agreed upon.

### 32. [ Issue of guarantees

.-The National Bank may guarantee, subject to such directions as may be issued
by the Board, from time to time, deferred payments in connection with the
purchase of capital goods or for any other purpose for giving effect to the
provisions of this Act, due from any person or class of persons, whether
incorporated or not.]

### 33. Power to impose conditions for accommodation .-In entering into any
transaction [under this Act with a borrower], the National Bank may impose
such conditions as it may think necessary or expedient for protecting the
interests of the National Bank.

### 34. [ Power to call for repayment before agreed period

.-Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any agreement or
arrangement, the National Bank may, by notice in writing, require any borrower
or assisted person to whom it has granted any loan or other financial
assistance including grants, to discharge forthwith in full, the loan or other
financial assistance, including grants, as the case may be,-(a)if it appears
to the National Bank that false or misleading information in any material
particulars was given in the application for the loan or other financial
assistance; or(b)if the borrower or the person has failed to comply with any
of the terms of the contract or arrangement with the National Bank in the
matter of loan or other financial assistance, including grants; or(c)if there
is a reasonable apprehension that the borrower is unable to pay its debts or
that proceedings for liquidation may be commenced in respect thereof; or(d)if
for any reason it is necessary so to do, to protect the interests of the
National Bank.]

### 35. National Bank to have access to records .- [(1) The National Bank
shall have free access to all such records of a borrower seeking to avail of
any credit or other facilities from the National Bank under this Act and also
to all such records of any person seeking to avail of any credit or other
facilities from such borrower, perusal whereof may appear to the National Bank
to be necessary in connection with the providing of finance or other
assistance to such borrower or the refinancing of any loan or advance made to
such person by the borrower.]

(2)The National Bank may require any institution or person referred to in sub-
section (1) to furnish to it copies of any of the records referred to in that
sub-section and the institution or the person, as the case may be, shall be
bound to comply with such requisition.

### 36. Validity of loan or advance not to be questioned .-Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being in
force, the validity of any loan or advance granted by the National Bank in
pursuance of the provisions of this Act shall not be called in question merely
on the ground of non-compliance with the requirements of such other law as
aforesaid or of any resolution, contract, memorandum, articles of association
or other instrument:

Provided that nothing in this section shall render valid any loan or advance
obtained by any company or co-operative society where such company or co-
operative society is not empowered by its memorandum to obtain loans or
advances.

### 37. National Bank not to grant loans or advances against its own bonds or
debentures .-The National Bank shall not grant any loan or advance on the
security of its own bonds or debentures.

### 37A. [ Prohibited business

.-(1) The National Bank shall not make any loans or advances under section 30
or make any grants under this Act to any person or body of persons of which
any of the directors of the National Bank is a proprietor, partner, director,
manager, agent, employee or guarantor or in which one or more directors of the
National Bank together hold substantial interest:Provided that this Act sub-
section shall not apply to any borrower if any director of the National
Bank-(a)is nominated as Director of the Board of such borrower by the
Government or a Government company as defined [in clause (45) of section 2 of
the Companies Act, 2013] or by a corporation established by any other
law;(b)is elected on the Board of such borrower by virtue of shares held in
the borrower organisation by the Government, or a Government company as
defined [in clause (45) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013] [Substituted
'in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)' by Act No. 7 of 2018,
dated 18.1.2018] or by a corporation established by any other law, by reason
only of such nomination or election, as the case may be.Explanation.-For the
purposes of this sub-section, "substantial interest", in relation to a
borrower, means the beneficial interest held by one or more of the directors
of the National Bank or by any relative of such director as defined [in clause
(77) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013] [Substituted 'in clause (41) of
section 2 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)' by Act No. 7 of 2018, dated
18.1.2018] whether singly or taken together, in the shares of the borrower,
the aggregate amount paid-up own which either exceeds five lakhs of rupees or
five per cent of the paid-up share capital of the borrower, whichever is
lesser.(2)The provisions of sub-section (1)-(a)shall not apply to any
borrower, if the National Bank is satisfied that it is necessary in the public
interest to enter into business with that borrower and entering into any kind
of business with such borrower shall be in accordance with the subject to such
conditions and limitations, as may be approved by the Board;(b)shall not apply
to any transaction relating to the business entered into prior to the
commencement of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
(Amendment) Act, 2000, and all such business and any transaction in relation
thereto may be implemented continued as if that Act had not come into
force;(c)shall apply only so long as the conditions precedent to such
disability as set out in the said sub-section continue.]

## Chapter VII  
Other Functions Of The National Bank

### 38. Other functions of National Bank .-The National Bank-

(i)shall co-ordinate its operations and the operations of various institutions
engaged in the field of rural credit and maintain expert staff to study all
problems relating to agriculture and rural development and be available for
consultation to the Central Government, the Reserve Bank, the State
Governments and the other institutions engaged in the field of rural
development;(ii)may act as the agent for the Central Government or a State
Government or the Reserve Bank in the transaction of any business, in respect
of loans and advances granted or to be granted, or bonds or debentures
purchased or subscribed for, or to be purchased or subscribed for;(iii)may
provide facilities for training, for dissemination of information and the
promotion of research including the undertaking of studies, researches,
techno-economic and other surveys in the field of rural banking, agricultural
and rural development and it may for the said purposes [make loans or advances
or grants] including grants by way of provision for fellowships and chairs to
any institution;(iv)[ may provide technical, legal, financial, marketing and
administrative assistance to any person engaged in agriculture and rural
development activities; [ Inserted by Act 55 of 2000, Section 23 (w.e.f.
1.2.2001).](v)may provide consultancy services in the field of agriculture and
rural development and other related matters in or outside India, on such terms
and against such remuneration, as may be agreed upon;(vi)may perform the
functions entrusted to or required of the National Bank by any other law for
the time being in force; and(vii)do any other kind of business or undertake
any other kind of activity which the Central Government or the Reserve Bank
may authorise.][38-A. Promotion of subsidiaries.-The National Bank may, in
consultation with the Reserve Bank, promote, form or manage or associate
itself in promotion, formation or management of companies, subsidiaries,
affiliates, societies, trusts or such other association of persons, as it may
deem fit, for the purpose of carrying out its functions under this Act.

### 38\.

-B. Securitisation of debt .-Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the National Bank may-(a)create one or more trusts and transfer loans and advances granted by it, with or without the securities, to such trusts, for consideration;(b)set aside loans or advances held by the National Bank and issue and sell securities based upon such loans or advances so set aside in the form of debt obligations, trust certificates of beneficial interest or other instruments, by whatever name called, and act as a trustee for the holders of such securities.

### 38\.

-C. Exemption from compulsory registration .-Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 17 of the Registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908),-(a)any instrument in the form of debt obligations or trust certificate of beneficial interest or any other instrument, by whatsoever name called, issued by the National Bank or the trust created by it to securities the loans granted by it and not creating, declaring, assigning, limiting or extinguishing any right, title or interest to or in immovable property; or(b)any transfer of such instruments referred to in clause (a), shall not require compulsory registration.]

### 39. Incidental powers .-The National Bank may also do all such things as
may be necessary or incidental to or consequential upon the exercise of its
powers, discharge of its functions and the performance of its duties, under
this Act, or under any other law for the time being in force.

### 40. [ Deposits and investments

.-(1) The National Bank may invest its funds in promissory notes, stocks or
securities of the Central Government or keep the moneys deposited with the
Reserve Bank or with any agency of the Reserve Bank or with a State co-
operative bank or a scheduled bank.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (1) or section 30-A, the National Bank may, for beneficial
investment of its surplus funds, rediscount bills of exchange or promissory
notes arising out of bona fide trade and commercial transactions and also lend
repayable at call or short notice to a scheduled bank or any financial
institution approved by the Reserve Bank, or invest in certificates of deposit
and other instruments or schemes as may be approved by the Board.]

### 41. Credit information .-The National Bank may, for the purpose of the
efficient discharge of its functions under this Act, collect from or furnish
to the Central Government, the Reserve Bank or any banking company or such
other financial institution as may be notified by the Central Government in
this behalf, credit information or other information.

Explanation.-For the purposes of this section, the expressions "banking
company" and "credit information" shall have the same meanings as in section
45-A of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934).

## Chapter VIII  
Funds, Accounts And Audit

### 42. National Rural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund .-(1) The National
Bank shall establish and maintain a Fund to be known as the National Rural
Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund.

(2)The Fund shall (in addition to assets and liabilities transferred under
section 18) include,-(a)such sums of money as the Central Government and the
State Governments may contribute from time to time;(b)such sums of money as
the Reserve Bank may contribute every year; and(c)such further sums of money
as the Board may contribute every year.(3)The amount in the said Fund shall be
applied by the National Bank only to provide financial assistance by way of
loans and advances under section 23, section 24, sub-section (1) of section 25
or section 27 or for the purposes of section 26.

### 43. National Rural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund .-(1) The National Bank
shall establish and maintain a Fund to be known as the National Rural Credit
(Stabilisation) Fund.

(2)The Fund shall (in addition to assets and liabilities transferred under
section 18) include,-(a)such sums of money as the Central Government and the
State Governments may contribute from time to time;(b)such sums of money as
the Reserve Bank may contribute every year; and(c)such further sums of money
as the Board may contribute every year.(3)The amounts in the said Fund shall
be applied by the National Bank only to provide loans and advances under
section 22.

### 44. Research and Development Fund .-(1) The National Bank shall establish
and maintain a Fund to be known as the Research and Development Fund, to which
shall be credited-

(a)such sums of money as are transferable to this Fund in accordance with
section 47;(b)such sums of money as the Board may contribute every year to
this Fund from out of its annual profits; and(c)such gifts, grants, donations
or benefactions which the National Bank may receive and which the Board may
earmark for this purpose.(2)The Research and Development Fund shall be
expended on matters of importance to agriculture, agricultural operations and
rural development, including the provision of training and research facilities
and the [making of loans or advances or grants] under clause (iii) of section
38.

### 45. Reserve Fund and other Funds .-The National Bank shall establish a
Reserve Fund [and other Funds] as the Board may consider necessary by
transferring such sums as it may deem fit, out of its annual profits and out
of receipts from gifts, grants, donations or benefactions, which it may
receive.

### 46. Preparation of balance sheet, etc., of National Bank .-(1) The balance
sheet and accounts of the National Bank shall be prepared and maintained in
such form and manner as may be prescribed.

(2)The Board shall cause the books and accounts of the National Bank to be
balanced and closed as on the thirtieth day of June, [or such other date in
each year as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify:][Provided that with a view to facilitating the transition
from one period of accounting to another period of accounting under this sub-
section, the Central Government may, by order published in the Official
Gazette, make such provisions as it considers necessary or expedient for the
balancing and closing of, or for other matters relating to, the books or
accounts in respect of the concerned years.] [ Inserted by Act 66 of 1988,
Section 46 (w.e.f. 30.12.1988).]

### 47. Disposal of surplus .-After making provision for bad and doubtful
debts, depreciation of assets and all other matters for which provision is
necessary or expedient or which is usually provided for by bankers, and for
the Funds referred to in sections 42, 43 and 45, the National Bank shall
transfer-

(i)for a period of fifteen years, following the accounting year during which
the National Bank is established, the amount remaining (hereafter in this
section referred to as surplus) to the Research and Development Fund under
section 44; and(ii)[ after the expiry of the said period of fifteen years, the
Board shall, after making provision for the Fund referred to in clause (i),
disburse or spend the balance of the surplus in such manner as may be approved
by the Board.]

### 48. Audit .-(1) The accounts of the National Bank shall be audited by
auditors duly qualified to act as auditors under sub-section (1) of [section
141 of the Companies Act, 2013], who shall be appointed by the Central
Government in consultation with the Reserve Bank, for such term and on such
remuneration as the Central Government may fix.

(2)The auditors shall be supplied with a copy of the annual balance-sheet of
the National Bank and it shall be their duty to examine it together with the
accounts and vouchers relating thereto and they shall have a list delivered to
them of all books kept by the National Bank and shall at all reasonable times
have access to the books, accounts, vouchers and other documents of the
National Bank.(3)The auditors may, in relation to the accounts of the National
Bank, examine any director of the Board or any officer or other employee of
the National Bank and shall be entitled to require from the Board or officers
or employees of the National Bank such information and explanation as they may
think necessary for the performance of their duties.(4)The auditors shall make
a report to the National Bank upon the annual balance-sheet and accounts
examined by them and in every such report, they shall state whether in their
opinion the balance-sheet is a full and fair balance-sheet containing all
necessary particulars and properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the National Bank and in case they had called
for any explanation or information from the Board or any officer or other
employee of the National Bank, whether it has been given and whether it is
satisfactory.(5)The National Bank shall furnish to the Central Government and
the Reserve Bank within four months from the date on which the annual accounts
of the National Bank are closed and balanced, a copy of its balance-sheet as
on the close of that year together with a copy of the profit and loss account
for the year and a copy of the auditors' report and a report of the working of
the National Bank during the relevant year, and the Central Government shall,
as soon as may be, after they are received by it, cause the same to be laid
before each House of Parliament and cause the copies of the said balance-
sheet, profit and loss account and auditors' report to be published in the
Official Gazette.(6)Without prejudice to anything contained in the preceding
sub-sections, the Central Government may, at any time, appoint the Comptroller
and Auditor-General of India to examine and report upon the accounts of the
National Bank and any expenditure incurred by him in connection with such
examination and report shall be payable by the National Bank to the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.

### 49. Returns .-The National Bank shall furnish, from time to time, to the
Central Government and to the Reserve Bank, such returns as the Central
Government or the Reserve Bank may require.

## Chapter IX  
Staff

### 50. Staff of National Bank .-(1) The National Bank may appoint such number
of officers and other employees as it considers necessary or desirable for the
efficient performance of its functions and determine the terms and conditions
of their appointment and service.

(2)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), it shall be lawful
for the National Bank to utilise, and for the Reserve Bank to make available,
the services of such staff of the Reserve Bank on such terms and conditions as
may be agreed upon between the National Bank and the Reserve Bank.(3)Subject
to the provisions of sub-section (6), at any time before the expiry of six
months from the appointed day, the Reserve Bank may, in public interest,
transfer to the National Bank, such members of the staff of Reserve Bank whom
the Reserve Bank considers as engaged, or as suitable to be engaged, in
attending to the work of a nature which is same or similar to that which the
National Bank may require for its efficient functioning, and upon such
transfer they shall be deemed to be appointed by the National Bank under sub-
section (1) with effect from the date of such transfer:-Provided that every
person so transferred may, before the expiry of a period of six months from
the appointed day, or before the expiry of a period of thirty days from such
transfer, whichever period expires later, elect to go back to the Reserve Bank
by exercising an option in writing to that effect, the option once exercised
being final, and on the exercise of such option, the Reserve Bank shall,
before the expiration of a period of eighteen months from the appointed day,
take back such member of the staff and he shall be deemed to have been on
deputation to the National Bank during the period he was a member of the staff
of the National Bank.(4)(a)Any member of the staff of the Reserve Bank who is
not appointed under sub-section (3), may, if he so desires, make an
application to the Reserve Bank within six months from the appointed day, to
be considered for appointment as a member of the staff of the National
Bank.(b)The Reserve Bank may, in consultation with the National Bank, consider
such application having regard to the suitability of the person so applying,
the availability of vacancies in the National Bank, the exigencies of service
in the Reserve Bank and the National Bank and such other factors as may be
considered relevant in this regard, and, if the Reserve Bank is satisfied
having regard to these factors, that such applicant is suitable for being so
appointed, recommend his appointment to the National Bank.(c)The National Bank
may thereupon, within eighteen months from the appointed day, appoint such a
person applying under this sub-section, as a member of the staff of the
National Bank, and on such appointment, such a person shall be deemed to have
been appointed in the National Bank under sub-section (3):Provided that the
proviso to sub-section (3) and the proviso to sub-section (5) shall not apply
in respect of such a person.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in
this Act or in any other law or in any contract, for the time being in force,
at any time before the expiry of six months from the appointed day, the
Reserve Bank may, if it considers it necessary in consultation with the
National Bank so to do in the interest of the National Bank, transfer on
promotion any member of the staff of the National Bank to the Reserve Bank,
and on such transfer to the Reserve Bank, each such member of the staff shall
be deemed to be a member of the staff of the Reserve Bank and shall be
entitled to the same salary, emoluments and other conditions of service to
which he was entitled immediately before the date of such transfer, including
benefits, if any, arising directly out of such promotion:Provided that every
member of the staff who is transferred as aforesaid may, before the expiry of
a period of six months from the appointed day or within thirty days from such
transfer, whichever period expires later, elect to go back to the National
Bank by exercising an option in writing to that effect, the option once
exercised being final, and on the exercise of such option, the National Bank
shall, before the expiration of a period of eighteen months from the appointed
day, take back such member of the staff and he shall be deemed to have been on
deputation to the Reserve Bank during the period he was a member of the staff
of the Reserve Bank.(6)Every person,-(a)who, immediately before the date
appointed under sub-section (1) of section 16, is a member of the staff of the
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation; or(b)who is a member of
the staff of the Reserve Bank but whose services are being utilised
immediately before that date by the said Corporation, shall be deemed to be
appointed by the National Bank under sub-section (1) on the said date:Provided
that every member of the staff of the Reserve Bank, who is so deemed to be
appointed, and who was not recruited specifically for utilisation in the
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation, may, before the expiry of
a period of six months from the appointed day or within a period of thirty
days from the date appointed under sub-section (1) of section 16, whichever
period expires later, elect to go back to the Reserve Bank by exercising an
option in writing to that effect, the option once exercised being final, and
on the exercise of such option, the Reserve Bank shall, before the expiration
of a period of eighteen months from the appointed day, take back such member
of the staff and he shall be deemed to have been on deputation to the National
Bank during the period he was a member of the staff of the National
Bank.(7)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law or in any
agreement, for the time being in force, no member of the staff shall be
entitled to claim any compensation for, or in relation to any matter
concerning his transfer, appointment or as the case may be, return, under sub-
sections (3) to (6) and no claim in respect thereof shall be entertained by
any Court, tribunal or other authority.(8)Subject to the provisions of sub-
section (10) and sub-section (11), every member of the staff of the
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation or of the Reserve Bank who
is deemed to be appointed as a member of the National Bank under this section,
shall be deemed to have been appointed by the National Bank on the same
salary, emoluments and other terms and conditions of service to which he was
entitled immediately before his appointment in the National Bank.(9)The
provisions relating to superannuation benefits, namely, the regulations
relating to provident fund and the rules relating to payment of gratuity and
compassionate gratuity and any other provision relating to superannuation as
are applicable to the staff of the Reserve Bank on the appointed day shall, so
far as may be, apply to the staff of the National Bank, unless and until the
National Bank alters or amends the same:Provided that after the appointed day,
any such alteration or amendment may be effected by the National Bank as
regards provident fund regulations in accordance with section 60, and as
regards the other rules in the manner they would have been altered or amended
but for this sub-section:Provided further that after the expiry of six months
from the appointed day, the balances held in the Reserve Bank of India
Employees' Provident Fund to the credit of any member of the staff of the
Reserve Bank whose services are transferred under this section to the National
Bank and who does not opt to go back to the Reserve Bank, shall be transferred
to, and held in, the Provident Fund of the National Bank on same or similar
terms subject to which those balances were held earlier in the Reserve Bank of
India Employees' Provident Fund.(10)Notwithstanding anything contained in any
other law, settlement, or agreement, every person employed by the National
Bank or whose services have been transferred to the National Bank under this
Act, shall be liable to serve anywhere in India.(11)Notwithstanding anything
contained in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), or any other law
for the time being in force, or in any award, judgment, decree, decision or
order of any Industrial Tribunal, Court or other authority, or any settlement
or agreement, made or entered into before the date of transfer to the National
Bank of the services of any person under this section, the National Bank shall
be free to alter, amend or repeal in such manner and to such extent it may
consider necessary, any of the terms and conditions of service applicable to
such persons whose services are so transferred to the National Bank and who
are appointed in the National Bank under this section except that the National
Bank shall not alter to their prejudice the terms relating to payment of
salary and other emoluments, retirement benefits and eligibility for
leave.Explanation.-For the purposes of this section, "appointed day" means the
date of establishment of the National Bank under section 3.

## Chapter X  
Miscellaneous

### 51. Obligation as to fidelity and secrecy .-(1) The National Bank shall
not, except as otherwise required by this Act or any other law, divulge any
information relating to, or to the affairs of, its constituents except in
circumstances in which it is, in accordance with the law or practice and usage
customary among bankers, necessary or appropriate for the National Bank to
divulge such information.

(2)Every director, member of a committee, auditor, officer or other employee
of the National Bank or of the Reserve Bank, whose services are utilised by
the National Bank under the provisions of this Act, shall, before entering
upon his duties, make a declaration of fidelity and secrecy in the form set
out in the First Schedule to this Act.(3)[ Nothing contained in this section
shall apply to the credit information disclosed under the Credit Information
Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005 (30 of 2005).]

### 52. Defects in appointment not to invalidate acts, etc .-(1) No act or
proceeding of the Board or of any committee of the National Bank shall be
questioned on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in, or defect
in the constitution of, the Board or the committee, as the case may be.

(2)No act done by any person acting in good faith as a director of the Board
or as a member of a committee of the National Bank shall become invalid merely
on the ground that he was disqualified to be a director or that there was any
other defect in his appointment.

### 52A. [ Agreement with National Bank on appointment of directors to prevail

.-(1) Where any agreement entered into by the National Bank with a company or
a body corporate while granting loans and advances, provides for the
appointment by the National Bank of one or more directors of such company or
body corporate, such provisions and any appointment of directors made in
pursuance thereof shall be valid and effective, notwithstanding anything to
the contrary contained in [the Companies Act, 2013] or in any other law for
the time being in force, or in the memorandum, articles of association or any
other instrument relating to the company or body corporate, and any provision
regarding share qualification, age limit, number of directorships, removal
from office of directors and such like conditions contained in any such law or
instrument aforesaid, shall not apply to any director appointed by the
National Bank in pursuance of the agreement as aforesaid.(2)Any director
appointed as aforesaid shall,-(a)hold office during the pleasure of the
National Bank and may be removed or substituted by any person by order in
writing of the National Bank;(b)not incur any obligation or liability by
reason only of his being a director or for anything done or omitted to be done
in good faith in the discharge of his duties as a director or anything in
relation thereto;(c)not be liable to retirement by rotation and shall not be
taken into account for computing the number of directors liable to such
retirement.]

### 53. Protection of action taken under the Act .-No suit or other legal
proceeding shall lie against the National Bank or any director or any officer
or other employee of the National Bank or any other person authorised by the
National Bank to discharge any functions under this Act for any loss or damage
caused or likely to be caused by anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or of any other law or provision
having the force of law.

### 54. Indemnity of directors .-(1) Every director shall be indemnified by
the National Bank against all losses and expenses incurred by him in, or in
relation to, the discharge of his duties, except such as are caused by his own
wilful act or default.

(2)A director shall not be responsible for any other director or for any
officer or other employee of the National Bank or for any loss or expenses
resulting to the National Bank from the insufficiency or deficiency of the
value of, or title to, any property or security acquired or taken on behalf of
the National Bank or the insolvency or wrongful act of any debtor or any
person under obligation to the National Bank or anything done in good faith in
the execution of the duties of his office in relation thereto.

### 55.

[* * *]

### 56. Penalties .-(1) Whoever in any return, balance-sheet, or other
document or in any information required or furnished by or under or for the
purposes of any provision of this Act, wilfully makes a statement which is
false in any material particular, knowing it to be false, or wilfully omits to
make a material statement, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine.

(2)If any person fails to produce any book, account or other document, or to
furnish any statement or information which, under the provisions of this Act,
it is his duty to produce or furnish, he shall be punishable with a fine which
may extend to two thousand rupees in respect of each offence and in the case
of a continuing failure, with an additional fine which may extend to one
hundred rupees for every day during which the failure continues after
conviction for the first such failure.

### 57. Offences by companies .-(1) Where an offence has been committed by a
company, every person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in
charge of, and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business
of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such
person liable to any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the
offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due
diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Act has
been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been
committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect
on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the
company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be
deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.Explanation.-For the purposes of this
section-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other
association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a firm, means a
partner in the firm.

### 58. Bankers' Books Evidence Act, 1891, to apply in relation to National
Bank .-The Bankers' Books Evidence Act, 1891 (18 of 1891), shall apply in
relation to the National Bank as if it were a bank as defined in section 2 of
that Act.

### 59. Liquidation of National Bank .-No provision of law relating to the
winding up of companies shall apply to the National Bank and the National Bank
shall not be placed in liquidation save by order of the Central Government and
in such manner as it may direct.

### 60. Power of Board to make regulations .-(1) The Board may, with the
previous approval of the Central Government and in consultation with the
Reserve Bank, by notification, make regulations not inconsistent with this Act
to provide for all matters for which provision is necessary or expedient for
the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act.

(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the fees or allowances that may be paid to the directors or members
of the Advisory Council;(b)the times and places of the meetings of the Board
or the Executive Committee or the Advisory Council and the procedure to be
followed at such meetings including the quorum necessary for the transaction
of business;(c)the number of directors constituting the Executive Committee
and the functions that such Committee shall discharge;(d)the manner and terms
of issue and redemption of bonds and debentures by the National Bank;(e)[ the
manner of election of directors under clause (f) of sub-section (1) of section
6;][* * *] [ Clauses (f) and (h) omitted by Act 55 of 2000, Section 30 (w.e.f.
1.2.2001).](g)the form and manner in which the balance-sheets and the accounts
of the National Bank shall be prepared or maintained;[* * *] [Clauses (f) and
(h) omitted by Act 55 of 2000, Section 30 (w.e.f. 1.2.2001). ](i)the duties
and conduct, salaries, allowances and conditions of service of officers and
other employees;(j)the establishment and maintenance of provident or other
benefit funds for employees of the National Bank; and(k)such other matters for
which the Board may consider it expedient or necessary to provide for by way
of regulations.(3)Any regulation which may be made by the Board under this Act
may be made by the Reserve Bank, in consultation with the Central Government,
before the expiry of three months from the date of establishment of the
National Bank, and any regulation so made may be altered and rescinded by the
Board in the exercise of its powers under this Act.(4)The power to make
regulations conferred by this section shall include the power to give
retrospective effect to the regulations or any of them from a date not earlier
than the date of commencement of this Act, but no retrospective effect shall
be given to any regulation so as to prejudicially affect the interests of any
person to whom such regulation may be applicable.(5)The Central Government
shall cause every regulation made under this Act to be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the regulation or both Houses agree
that the regulation should not be made, the regulation shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that regulation.

### 61. Amendment of certain enactments .-[Omitted by the Repealing and
Amending Act, 1988 (19 of 1988), section 2 and Schedule I (w.e.f. 31-4-1988)].

### 62. Power to remove difficulty .-If any difficulty arises in giving effect
to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, by order, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, remove the difficulty:

Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of
three years from the commencement of this Act.THE FIRST SCHEDULE[See section
51(2)]DECLARATION OF FIDELITY AND SECRECYI do hereby declare that I will
faithfully, truly and to the best of my skill and ability execute and perform
the duties required of me as director, auditor, officer or other employee (as
the case may be) of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
and which properly relate to the office or position held by me in the said
National Bank.I further declare that I will not communicate or allow to be
communicated to any person not legally entitled thereto any information
relating to the affairs of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
Development or to the affairs of any person having any dealing with the said
National Bank nor will I allow any such person to inspect or have access to
any books or documents belonging to or in the possession of the National Bank
for Agriculture and Rural Development and relating to the business of the said
National Bank or the business of any person having any dealing with the said
National Bank.Signed before me..............................(Signature)THE
SECOND SCHEDULE(See section 61)[Omitted by the Repealing and Amending Act,
1988 (19 of 1988), section 2 and Schedule I (w.e.f. 31-4-1988)].

