## Union of India - Act

## The National Commission For Women Act, 1990

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The National Commission For Women Act, 1990

## Act 20 of 1990

  * Published on 30 August 1990 
  * Commenced on 30 August 1990 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 August 1990.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The National Commission For Women Act, 1990(20 of 1990)Last Updated 30th
December, 2019 [17/793]Statement of Objects and Reasons.-Successive
Commissions on Women have noted in their Reports the unequal status of women
obtaining in every sphere of life and had suggested the setting up of an
agency to fulfil the surveillance functions.as well as to facilitate redressal
of grievances of women. Several women activists and voluntary action groups
have also been making persistent demands for setting up of a Commission for
women. The country cannot progress as long as the inequality persists with
reference to half of its population. Having realised the importance of the
issue, the Government decided to set up a Commission for women, to be called
the National Commission for Women, consisting of a Chairperson and six
Members.2\. The main task of the Commission shall be to study and monitor all
matters relating to the constitutional and legal safeguards provided for
women, to review the existing legislations and suggest amendments, wherever
necessary. It will also look into the complaints and take suo motu notice of
the cases involving deprivation of the rights of women in order to provide
support, legal or otherwise, to helpless women. The Commic3ion shall monitor
the proper implementation of all the legislations made to protect the rights
of women so as to enable them to achieve equality in all spheres of life and
equal participation in the development of the nation.3\. The Bill seeks to
achieve the aforesaid objectives.[30th August, 1990]An Act to constitute a
National Commission for Women and to provide for matters connected therewith
or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Forty-first Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-{||-| Brought into force on 31.1.1992 vide
S.O. 99(E), dated 31.1.1992.|}

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The
National Commission for Women Act, 1990.

(2)It extends to the whole of India [***].(3)It shall come into force on such
date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint.

### 2. Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"Commission" means the National Commission for Women constituted under
section 3;(b)"Member" means a Member of the Commission and includes the
Member-Secretary;(c)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act.

## Chapter II  
The National Commission For Women

### 3. Constitution of the National Commission for Women .-(1) The Central
Government shall constitute a body to be known as the National Commission for
Women to exercise the powers conferred on, and to perform the functions,
assigned to it under this Act.

(2)The Commission shall consist of-(a)a Chairperson, committed to the cause of
women, to be nominated by the Central Government;(b)five Members to be
nominated by the Central Government from amongst persons of ability, integrity
and standing who have had experience in law or legislation, trade, unionism,
management of an industry or organisation committed to increasing the
employment potential of women, women's voluntary organisations (including
women activists), administration, economic development, health, education or
social welfare:Provided that at least one Member each shall be from amongst
persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
respectively;(c)a Member-Secretary to be nominated by the Central Government,
who shall be-(i)an expert in the field of management, organisational structure
or sociological movement, or(ii)an officer who is a member of a civil service
of the Union or of an all-India service or holds a civil post under the Union
with appropriate experience.

### 4. Term of office and conditions of service of Chairperson and Members
.-(1) The Chairperson and every Members shall hold office for such period, not
exceeding three years, as may be specified by the Central Government in this
behalf.

(2)The Chairperson or a Member (other than the Member-Secretary who is a
member of a civil service of the Union or of an all-India service or holds a
civil post under the Union) may, by writing and addressed to the Central
Government, resign from the office of Chairperson or, as the case may be, of
the Member at any time.(3)The Central Government shall remove a person from
the office of Chairperson or a Member referred to in sub-section (2) is that
person-(a)becomes an undischarged insolvent;(b)gets convicted and sentenced to
imprisonment for an offence which in the opinion of the Central Government
involves moral turpitude;(c)becomes of unsound mind and stands so declared by
a competent Court;(d)refuses to act or becomes incapable of acting;(e)is,
without obtaining leave of absence from the Commission, absent from three
consecutive meetings of the Commission; or(f)in the opinion of the Central
Government has so abused the position of Chairperson or Member as to render
that person's continuance in office detrimental to the public
interest:Provided that no person shall be removed under this clause until that
person has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the
matter.(4)A vacancy caused under sub-section (2) or otherwise shall be filled
by fresh nomination.(5)The salaries and allowances payable to, and the other
terms and conditions of service of, the Chairperson and Members shall be such
as may be prescribed.

### 5. Officers and other employees of the Commission .-(1) The Central
Government shall provide the Commission with such officers and employees as
may be necessary for the efficient performance of the functions of the
Commission under this Act.

(2)The salaries and allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions
of service of, the officers and other employees appointed for the purpose of
the Commission shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 6. Salaries and allowances to be paid out of grants .-The salaries and
allowances payable to the Chairperson and Members and the administrative
expenses, including salaries, allowances and pensions payable to the officers
and other employees referred to in section 5, shall be paid out of the grants
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 11.

### 7. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate proceedings of the Commission .-No
act or proceeding of the Commission shall be questioned or shall be invalid on
the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy or defect in the
constitution of the Commission.

### 8. Committees of the Commission .-(1) The Commission may appoint such
committees as may be necessary for dealing with such special issues as may be
taken up by the Commission from time to time.

(2)The Commission shall have the power to co-opt as members of any committee
appointed under sub-section (1) such number of persons, who are not Members of
the Commission, as it may think fit and the persons so co-opted shall have the
right to attend the meetings of the committee and take part in its proceedings
but shall not have the right to vote.(3)The persons so co-opted shall be
entitled to receive such allowances for attending the meetings of the
Committee as may be prescribed.

### 9. Procedure to be regulated by the Commission .-(1) The Commission or a
committee thereof shall meet as and when necessary and shall meet at such time
and place as the Chairperson may think fit.

(2)The Commission shall regulate its own procedure and the procedure of the
committees thereof.(3)All orders and decisions of the Commission shall be
authenticated by the Member-Secretary or any other officer of the Commission
duly authorised by the Member-Secretary in this behalf.

## Chapter III  
Functions Of The Commission

### 10. Functions of the Commission .-(1) The Commission shall perform all or
any of the following functions, namely:-

(a)investigate and examine all matters relating to the safeguards provided for
women under the Constitution and other laws;(b)present to the Central
Government, annually and at such other times as the Commission may deem fit,
reports upon the working of those safeguards;(c)make in such reports
recommendations for the effective implementation of those safeguards for
improving the conditions of women by the Union or any State;(d)review, from
time to time, the existing provisions of the Constitution and other laws
affecting women and recommend amendments thereto so as to suggest remedial
legislative measures to meet any lacunae, inadequacies or shortcomings in such
legislations;(e)take up the cases of violation of the provisions or the
Constitution and of other laws relating to women with the appropriate
authorities;(f)look into complaints and take suo motu notice of matters
relating to-(i)deprivation of women's rights;(ii)non-implementation of laws
enacted to provide protection to women and also to achieve the objective of
equality and development;(iii)non-compliance of policy decisions, guidelines
or instructions aimed at mitigating hardships and ensuring welfare and
providing relief to women, and take up the issues arising out of such matters
with appropriate authorities;(g)call for special studies or investigations
into specific problems or situations arising out of discrimination and
atrocities against women and identify the constraints so as to recommend
strategies for their removal;(h)undertake promotional and educational research
so as to suggest ways of ensuring due representation of women in all spheres
and identify factors responsible for impeding their advancement, such as, lack
of access to housing and basic services, inadequate support services and
technologies for reducing drudgery and occupational health hazards and for
increasing their productivity;(i)participate and advise on the planning
process of socio-economic development of women;(j)evaluate the progress of the
development of women under the Union and any State;(k)inspect or cause to be
inspected a jail, remand home, women's institution or other place of custody
where women are kept as prisoners or otherwise, and take up with the concerned
authorities for remedial action, if found necessary;(l)fund litigation
involving issues affecting a large body of women;(m)make periodical reports to
the Government on any matter pertaining to women and in particular various
difficulties under which women toil;(n)any other matter which may be referred
to it by the Central Government.(2)The Central Government shall cause all the
reports referred to it in clause (b) of sub-section (1) to be laid before each
House of Parliament alongwith a memorandum explaining the action taken or
proposed to be taken on the recommendations relating to the Union and the
reasons for the non-acceptance, if any, of any of such
recommendations.(3)Where any such report or any part thereof relates to any
matter with which any State Government is concerned, the Commission shall
forward a copy of such report or part to such State Government who shall cause
it to be laid before the Legislature of the State along with a memorandum
explaining the action taken or proposed to be taken on the recommendations
relating to the State and the reasons for the non-acceptance, if any, of any
of such recommendations.(4)The Commission shall, while investigating any
matter referred to in clause (a) or sub-clause (i) of clause (f) of sub-
section (1), have all the powers of a Civil Court trying a suit and, in
particular, in respect of the following matters, namely:-(a)summoning and
enforcing the attendance of any person from any part of India and examining
him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production of any
document;(c)receiving evidence on affidavits;(d)requisitioning any public
record or copy thereof from any Court or office;(e)issuing commissions for the
examination of witnesses and documents; and(f)any other matter which may be
prescribed.

## Chapter IV  
Finance, Accounts And Audit

### 11. Grants by the Central Government .-(1) The Central Government shall,
after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in this behalf, pay to the
Commission by way of grants such sums of money as the Central Government may
think fit for being utilised for the purposes of this Act.

(2)The Commission may spend such sums as it thinks fit for performing the
functions under this Act, and such sums shall be treated as expenditure
payable out of the grants referred to in sub-section (1).

### 12. Accounts and audit .-(1) The Commission shall maintain proper accounts
and other relevant records and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such
form as may be prescribed by the Central Government in consultation with the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.

(2)The accounts of the Commission shall be audited by the Comptroller and
Auditor-General at such intervals as may be specified by him and any
expenditure incurred in connection with such audit shall be payable by the
Commission to the Comptroller and Auditor-General.(3)The Comptroller and
Auditor-General and any person appointed by him in connection with the audit
of the accounts of the Commission under this Act shall have the same rights
and privileges and the authority in connection with such audit as the
Comptroller and Auditor-General generally has in connection with the audit of
Government accounts and, in particular, shall have the right to demand the
production of books, accounts, connected vouchers and other documents and
papers and to inspect any of the offices of the Commission.(4)The accounts of
the Commission, as certified by the Comptroller and Auditor-General or any
other person appointed by him in this behalf, together with the audit report
thereon shall be forwarded annually to the Central Government by the
Commission.

### 13. Annual report .-The Commission shall prepare, in such form and at such
time, for each financial year, as may be prescribed, its annual report, giving
a full account of its activities during the previous financial year and
forward a copy thereof to the Central Government.

### 14. Annual report and audit report to be laid before Parliament .-The
Central Government shall cause the annual report together with a memorandum of
action taken on the recommendations contained therein, in so far as they
relate to the Central Government, and the reasons for the non-acceptance, if
any, of any of such recommendations and the audit report to be laid as soon as
may be after the reports are received, before each House of Parliament.

## Chapter V  
Miscellaneous

### 15. Chairperson, Members and staff of the Commission to be public servants
.-The Chairperson, the Members, officers and other employees of the Commission
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the
Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 16. Central Government to consult Commission .-The Central Government
shall consult the Commission on all major policy matters affecting women.

### 17. Power to make rules .-(1) The Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the provisions of this
Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)salaries and allowances payable to, and the other terms and
conditions of service of, the Chairperson and Members under sub-section (5) of
section 4 and of officers and other employees under sub-section (2) of section
5;(b)allowances for attending the meetings of the committee by the co-opted
persons under sub-section (3) of section 8;(c)other matters under clause (f)
of such-section (4) of section 10;(d)the form in which the annual statement of
accounts shall be maintained under sub-section (1) of section 12;(e)the form
in, and the time at which the annual report shall be prepared under section
13;(f)any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Every
rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made,
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of
thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive
sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the
session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be
made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be
of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule.

