## Union of India - Act

## THE NATIONAL ANTI-DOPING ACT, 2022

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# THE NATIONAL ANTI-DOPING ACT, 2022

## Act 15 of 2022

  * Published on 12 August 2022 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 August 2022.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act to provide for the constitution of the National Anti-Doping Agency for
regulating anti-doping activities in sports and to give effect to the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation International
Convention against doping in sport, and compliance of such other obligations
and commitments thereunder and for matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto.WHEREAS India is a signatory to the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organisation International Convention against doping
in sport;AND WHEREAS India has ratified the said Convention on the 7th day of
November, 2007;AND WHEREAS it is considered expedient to maintain highest
standards of integrity while participating and preparing for sports
competition domestically and internationally, to regulate anti-doping
activities in sports and to meet obligations of India under the said
Convention.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Seventy-third Year of the
Republic of India as follows:—

## Chapter I  
PRELIMINARY

### 1. Short title and commencement

(1)This Act may be called the National Anti-Doping Act, 2022.(2)It shall come
into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)"Agency" means the
National Anti-Doping Agency incorporated and constituted under sub-section (1)
of section 14;(b)"Anti-Doping Rule Violation" means the circumstance, act or
conduct specified in section 4;(c)"Appeal panel" means the National Anti-
Doping Appeal panel constituted under section 12;(d)"athlete" means any person
who competes in any sport at the national level or international level or
participates in any competition or event to which this Act applies;(e)"athlete
support personnel" means any coach, trainer, manager, agent, team staff,
official, medical or paramedical personnel or such other person working with
or treating or assisting an athlete who is participating in, or preparing for,
a competition or event at the national level or international level or to
which this Act applies;(f)"Board" means the National Board for Anti-Doping in
Sports established under sub-section (1) of section 7;(g)"Chairperson" means
the Chairperson of the Board appointed under sub-section (2) of section
7;(h)"Code" means the World Anti-Doping Code adopted and amended from time to
time by the World Anti-Doping Agency;(i)"competition" means a single race,
match, game or singular contest;(j)"Convention" means the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation International Convention
against doping in sport;(k)"Director General" means the Director General
appointed under sub-section (3) of section 14;(l)"Disciplinary Panel" means
the National Anti-Doping Disciplinary Panel constituted under sub-section (1)
of section 11;(m)"dope testing laboratory" means a laboratory established or
recognised under section 26;(n)"doping Control" includes all steps and
processes from test distribution planning up to the disposal of any appeal and
enforcement of consequences, including all steps and processes in between,
including but not limited to, testing, investigation, whereabouts, Therapeutic
Use Exemptions, sample collection and handling, laboratory analysis, Results
Management, hearings and appeals, and investigations or proceedings relating
to an Anti-Doping Rule Violation;(o)"doping in sport" means the occurrence of
any Anti-Doping Rule Violations specified in section 4;(p)"event" means a
series of individual competitions conducted together under anyone ruling body,
such as Olympic Games, World Championships of an International Federation and
such other event;(q)"In-competition Testing" means collection of sample for
testing from an athlete who is participating in a competition where such
collection is made at any time during the period commencing at 11:59 p.m. on
the day before the competition in which such athlete is scheduled to
participate till the end of such competition and the sample collection process
related to such competition;(r)"international event" means an event or
competition where the International Olympic Committee, the International
Paralympic Committee, an International Federation, a major event organisation
or another international sport organisation is the governing body for such
event or appoints the technical officials for the event;(s)"International
Federation" means the international governing body for a particular
sport;(t)"Member" means a Member of the Board appointed under sub-section (2)
of section 7 and includes the Chairperson thereof;(u)"national event" means a
sport event or competition involving international level or national level
athletes which is not an international event;(v)"National Sports Federation"
means any recognised body governing a particular sport to which the Code is
applicable;(w)"Other Anti-Doping Organisations" means organisations which are
responsible for adopting anti-doping rules for initiating, implementing or
enforcing any part of the doping control process and include the World Anti-
Doping Agency, the International Olympic Committee, the International
Paralympic Committee, other major event organisations that conduct testing at
their events and International Federations, but does not include the
Agency;(x)"Out-of-competition Testing" means sample collection during any
period other than the period specified for in-competition testing;(y)"person"
means a natural person or an organisation or other entity;(z)"prescribed"
means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(za)"Prohibited List" means the
list of prohibited substances and prohibited methods specified by the Agency
by regulations;(zb)"prohibited method" means any method listed in the
Prohibited List;(zc)"prohibited substance" means any substance listed in the
Prohibited List;(zd)"regulations" means regulations made by the Board or the
Agency, as the case may be;(ze)"sample" means any biological material
collected from an athlete for the purpose of doping control under this
Act;(zf)"Society" means the National Anti-Doping Agency or the National Dope
Testing Laboratory, as the case may be, registered as a society under the
Societies Registration Act, 1860 and functioning as such immediately before
the commencement of this Act;(zg)"testing" means the parts of the doping
control process involving test distribution planning, sample collection,
sample handling, sample transport to the laboratory and testing of
samples;(zh)"use" means the utilisation, application, ingestion, injection or
consumption by any means whatsoever of any prohibited substance or prohibited
method;(zi)"World Anti-Doping Agency" means an international agency
established on 10th November, 1999 in Switzerland which adopts and amends the
Code for giving effect to anti-doping policies and international standards.

## Chapter II  
PROHIBITION OF DOPING IN SPORT AND ANTI-D OPING RULE VIOLATIONS

### 3. Prohibition of doping in sport.

(1)No athlete, athlete support personnel or other persons shall indulge in
doping in sport.(2)Every athlete, athlete support personnel or other persons
shall ensure that there is no occurrence of any Anti-Doping Rule Violation as
specified in section 4.(3)Every athlete shall participate in a sport
competition at all levels with highest standards of integrity and ethics and
in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations
made thereunder.(4)Every athlete, athlete support personnel and other persons
participating or involved in sport shall accept the anti-doping rules as a
condition of such participation or involvement and be bound by the provisions
of this Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder.(5)Every athlete,
athlete support personnel and other persons shall be responsible for knowing
what constitutes Anti-Doping Rule Violations and the restrictions on the use
of prohibited substances and the prohibited methods which are included in the
Prohibited List.(6)The provisions of this Act shall apply to such persons who
are specified by the Central Government to be protected persons, to such
extent and in such manner, as may be prescribed.

### 4. Anti-Doping Rule Violations.

Anyone or more of the following circumstances or acts or conduct by an athlete
or athlete support personnel or other persons shall constitute Anti-Doping
Rule Violation for the purposes of this Act, namely:—(a)the presence of a
prohibited substance or its metabolites or markers in an athlete's
sample;(b)use or attempted use of any prohibited substance or a prohibited
method, unless such use is exempted by the Agency under section 5;(c)refusing
or failing without compelling justification, to submit sample collection after
notification as authorised in applicable anti-doping rules or otherwise
evading sample collection;(d)whereabouts failure;Explanation.—For the purposes
of this clause, the term "whereabouts failure" means—(i)filing failure, that
is to say, the athlete has failed to submit his whereabouts information before
the required deadline or to update the same after change in circumstances or
if submitted on time, has submitted incomplete, inaccurate or insufficient
information to locate him for testing; or(ii)missed test, that is to say,
though the athlete has filed his whereabouts information, he is not available
at the location for testing; or(iii)such other omissions or failures as may be
specified by the Agency by regulations;(e)tampering, or attempting to tamper,
with any part of doping control;(f)possession of prohibited substances or
prohibited methods;(g)trafficking or attempted trafficking in any prohibited
substance or prohibited method;(h)administration or attempted administration
of a prohibited substance or prohibited method to any athlete;(i)assisting,
encouraging, aiding, abetting, conspiring, covering up or any other type of
complicity involving an Anti-Doping Rule Violation or any attempted Anti-
Doping Rule Violation or violation of the prohibition against participation
durin ineligibility or provisional suspension;(j)prohibited association with
such athlete, athlete support personnel or other persons as may be specified
by the Agency by regulations;(k)discouraging or retaliating against reporting
to authorities;(l)such other circumstances, or engaging in such other acts or
conduct, which amounts to Anti-Doping Rule Violation, as may be specified by
the Agency by regulations.

### 5. Therapeutic Use Exemptions.

(1)Where any substance or method is included in the Prohibited List and such
prohibited substance or prohibited method is required for use by any athlete
on the ground of medical conditions, such athlete may make an application to
the Agency for granting Therapeutic Use Exemption in respect of such
prohibited substance or prohibited method.(2)The Agency may consider the
application received by it under sub-section (1) in such manner and after
taking into consideration such criteria as may be specified by
regulations.(3)The Agency shall, either grant or refuse to grant Therapeutic
Use Exemptions in respect of the application received under sub-section (1),
in such manner as may be specified by regulations.(4)Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Agency under sub-section (3) may prefer an appeal to the
Appeal Panel.

### 6. Consequences of Anti-Doping Rule Violations.

(1)The consequences of Anti-Doping Rule Violations by an individual athlete or
athlete support personnel may result in one or more of the following,
namely:—(a)disqualification of results with all consequences including
forfeiture of medals, points and prizes, in such manner as may be specified by
the Agency by regulations;(b)ineligibility to participate in any competition
or event or other activity or funding, for such period and in such manner, as
may be specified by the Agency by regulations;(c)provisional suspension from
participating in any competition or activity prior to the decision in appeal
under section 23 in such manner as may be specified by the Agency by
regulations;(d)imposition of financial sanction including proportionate
recovery of costs, in such manner as may be specified by the Agency by
regulations;(e)public disclosure and such other consequences as may be
specified by the Agency by regulations.(2)The consequences of Anti-Doping Rule
Violations for team sports and protected persons shall be such as may be
specified by regulations.

## Chapter III  
NATIONAL B OARD FOR ANTI-DOPING IN SPORTS

### 7. Establishment and constitution of National Board for Anti-Doping in
Sports.

(1)With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, appoint in this behalf, there shall be established,
for the purposes of this Act, a Board to be called the National Board for
Anti-Doping in Sports.(2)The Board shall consist of a Chairperson and two
Members to be appointed by the Central Government:Provided that no person
shall be appointed as the Chairperson or Member of the Board, or continue to
hold such position, if such person is involved in the management or operation
of any International Federation, National Sports Federation, Major Event
Organisation, National Olympic Committee, National Paralympic Committee or is
in the Government department with responsibility for sport or anti-
doping.(3)The Chairperson shall be a person of ability, integrity and standing
who has knowledge and experience of not less than twenty years in the field of
general administration, sport administration or is a retired eminent
athlete.(4)A Member shall be a person of ability, integrity and standing who
has knowledge and experience of not less than fifteen years in the field of
general administration, medical sciences, law or is a retired eminent
athlete.Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, the term "eminent
athlete" means a sportsperson who has been conferred with a national sports
award or Padma award for his outstanding contribution to the development of
national sports in terms of medals won in international events.(5)The term of
office of the Chairperson and Members shall be three years or till they attain
the age of sixty-five years, whichever is earlier.(6)In the event of the
occurrence of a vacancy in the office of the Chairperson or Member by reason
of death, resignation or otherwise, or, when the Chairperson or Member is
unable to discharge his functions owing to absence, illness or any other
cause, the Central Government may assign temporary charge of such office to
any person who fulfils the requisite qualification and experience as provided
in section 7, and such person shall discharge the functions of the Chairperson
or Member, as the case may be, until a new Chairperson or Member, appointed in
accordance with the provisions of this Act to fill such vacancy, enters upon
his office, or until the date on which the Chairperson or Member resumes the
charge of his functions.(7)The Chairperson or a Member shall not accept,
either during his term of office or for a period of one year from the date on
which he ceases to hold office, any employment, in any capacity whatsoever,
with any International Federation or National Sports Federation or with any
organisation, body or entity whose matter has been dealt with, directly or
indirectly, by such Chairperson or Member:Provided that nothing contained
herein shall be construed as preventing such person from accepting an
employment in a body or institution controlled or maintained by the Central
Government or a State Government.(8)The Chairperson or a Member
may—(a)relinquish his office by giving in writing to the Central Government, a
notice of not less than three months; or(b)be removed from his office by the
Central Government, if he—(i)has been adjudged an insolvent; or(ii)has been
convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of the Central Government,
involves moral turpitude; or(iii)has become physically or mentally incapable
of acting as a Member; or(iv)has acquired such financial or other interest as
is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as a Member; or(v)has so
abused his position as to render his continuance in office prejudicial to the
public interest; or(vi)has been found to have committed any Anti-Doping Rule
Violation:Provided that no person shall be so removed from his office under
sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) of clause (b), unless such person has been
given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the matter.(9)The salaries
and allowances payable to, and other conditions of service of, the Chairperson
and members shall be such as may be as prescribed.

### 8. Meetings of Board.

(1)The Board shall meet at such times and places, and shall observe such
procedure with regard to the transaction of business at its meetings
(including the quorum at such meetings) as may be provided by regulations made
by the Board.(2)Every decision of the Board shall, as far as possible, be on
the basis of a simple majority.(3)No act or proceeding of the Board shall be
invalidated merely by reason of—(a)any vacancy in, or any defect in the
constitution of, the Board;(b)any defect in the appointment of a person acting
as a member of the Board;(c)any irregularity in the procedure of the Board not
affecting the merits of the case.

### 9. Officers and employees of Board.

(1)The Central Government shall provide the Board with such officers and
employees as may be necessary for the efficient discharge of its functions
under this Act.(2)The salaries and allowances payable to, and other conditions
of service of, officers and other employees of the Board shall be such as may
be prescribed.

### 10. Powers and functions of Board.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board shall be responsible for
ensuring implementation of the international obligations and commitments and
monitoring the compliance thereof.(2)The Board shall advise the Central
Government and make recommendations relating to regulating anti-doping in
sports and international obligations and commitments.(3)The Board shall
oversee the activities of the Agency and may call for such information and
reports from the Agency as may be required including reports on—(a)the
activities of Agency towards ensuring compliance with the anti-doping
rules;(b)matters of integrity and fair play in sports;(c)implementation of the
notified or adopted anti-doping measures or policies;(d)strategic planning of
its anti-doping activities for the forthcoming years;(e)any other matter which
the Board may deem expedient for fulfilling the objective of eliminating
doping in Sports.(4)The Board may make such recommendations to the Agency as
may be necessary for elimination of doping in sport.(5)The Board may call for
such information from the Disciplinary Panel and the Appeal Panel on its
operations and issue such directions, as may be necessary, for the effective
and timely discharge of their functions with respect to Anti-Doping Rule
Violations under this Act:Provided that such directions shall be limited to
procedural efficiency of the Disciplinary Panel and the Appeal Panel and shall
not, in any case, interfere with their decision making process.

### 11. Disciplinary Panel.

(1)The Board shall, for the purpose of determining the consequences of Anti-
Doping Rule Violations under this Act, constitute a National Anti-Doping
Disciplinary Panel, in such manner as may be specified by regulations.(2)The
Disciplinary Panel shall consist of—(a)a Chairperson, who is a legal expert,
having not less than ten years of standing as legal practitioner;(b)four Vice-
Chairpersons, who are legal experts, having not less than seven years of
standing as legal practitioners;(c)five members, who are registered medical
practitioners, having not less than five years of standing;(d)five members,
who are sports administrators for not less than five years or retired eminent
athletes.(3)The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and other members of the
Disciplinary Panel shall be appointed by the Board for a term of two years, in
such manner and subject to such conditions, as may be specified by
regulations:Provided that each member shall be eligible for
reappointment.(4)If a member of Disciplinary Panel dies or resigns, or is
otherwise removed from the Panel by the Board on such grounds as may be
specified by regulations, the Board may appoint a suitable person to fill such
vacancy for the remainder of the term of the member in whose place such person
is appointed.(5)For the purposes of hearing and determining consequences of
Anti-Doping Rule Violations under this Act, a hearing panel of three members
shall be formed by the Chairperson of the Disciplinary Panel or in his
absence, by the Vice-Chairperson; and each such panel shall consist of the
Chairperson or the Vice-Chairperson as its Chairperson, one member who is a
medical practitioner and other member who is a sports administrator or retired
eminent athlete.

### 12. Appeal Panel.

(1)For the purposes of hearing of appeals under this Act, the Board shall
constitute a National Anti-Doping Appeal Panel, in such manner as may be
specified by regulations.(2)The Appeal Panel shall consist of—(a)a
Chairperson, who is a retired Judge of a High Court;(b)a Vice-Chairperson, who
is a legal expert, having not less than ten years of standing as legal
practitioner;(c)two members, who are registered medical practitioners, having
not less than ten years of standing;(d)two members, who are, or have been,
retired eminent athletes or sports administrators for not less than ten
years.(3)The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and other members of the Appeal
Panel shall be appointed by the Board for a term of two years, in such manner
and subject to such conditions, as may be specified by regulations:Provided
that each member shall be eligible for reappointment.(4)If a Panel member dies
or resigns, or is otherwise removed from the Panel by the Board on such
grounds as may be specified by regulations, the Board may appoint a suitable
person to fill such vacancy for the remainder of the term of the member in
whose place such person is appointed.(5)For the purposes of hearing of appeals
under this Act, a panel of three members shall be formed by the Chairperson of
the Appeal Panel or in his absence, by the Vice-Chairperson; and each such
panel shall consist of the Chairperson or the Vice-Chairperson as its
Chairperson, one member who is a medical practitioner and other member who is
a sports administrator or retired eminent athlete.

### 13. Annual report.

(1)The Board shall furnish to the Central Government an annual report
containing such details of the steps taken, proposals made, researches
undertaken and other measures undertaken by it in pursuance of its functions
under section 10, in such form and manner as may be prescribed.(2)The Central
Government shall cause the annual report furnished under sub-section (1) to be
laid before each House of Parliament.

## Chapter IV  
NATIONAL ANTI-DOPING AGENCY

### 14. Incorporation of National Anti-Doping Agency.

(1)The National Anti-Doping Agency, established as a society and functioning
as such, prior to the coming into force of this Act, is hereby constituted a
body corporate by the same name, and as such body corporate, it shall have
perpetual succession and a common seal with power, subject to the provisions
of this Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of property, both movable and
immovable, and to contract, and shall, by that name, sue and be sued.(2)The
Head Office of the Agency shall be at New Delhi.(3)The Agency shall be headed
by an officer designated as the Director General to be appointed by the
Central Government:Provided that the Director General appointed prior to the
commencement of this Act and holding the office as such, shall be deemed to
have been appointed as the Director General under this Act.(4)The Central
Government shall, in consultation with the Board and the Director General,
determine the number, nature and categories of officers and other staff
required to assist the Agency in the discharge of its function and provide the
Agency with such officers and employees as it may deem fit.(5)The salaries and
allowances payable to, and other terms and conditions of service of, the
Director General, officers, and other staff of the Agency shall be such as may
be prescribed.(6)The power to oversee the activities of the Agency shall vest
in the Board.

### 15. Director General.

(1)The Director General shall be appointed by the Central Government from
amongst persons of integrity and outstanding ability possessing such
qualifications and experience as may be prescribed.(2)The Director General
shall hold office on full-time basis for a period of three years, which may be
extended to such further period, as the Central Government deems fit.(3)The
Director General shall be responsible for the execution of the powers and
functions of the Agency specified in section 16.(4)The Board may assign such
responsibilities to the Director General from time to time as it may deem
expedient for fulfilling the objective of eliminating doping in sport.(5)In
the event of the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of the Director General
by reason of his death, resignation or otherwise, the Central Government may
appoint any other person to discharge the functions of the Director General
until a new Director General is appointed in accordance with the provisions of
this Act to fill such vacancy.(6)When the Director General is unable to
discharge his functions owing to absence, illness or any other cause, the
Central Government may appoint any other person to act as the Director General
until the date on which the Director General resumes the charge of his
functions.(7)The Director General may relinquish his office by giving in
writing to the Central Government a notice of not less than three
months:Provided that such resignation shall be effective from the date when it
is accepted by the Central Government.(8)The Central Government may remove the
Director General at any time before the expiry of his term of office on the
ground of proven misbehavior or incapacity or such other ground, after giving
him a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against any such charge.(9)The
Director General shall have administrative control over the officers and other
staff of the Agency.

### 16.

(1)The Agency shall be responsible for adopting and implementing anti-doping
rules, regulations and policies which conform to international obligations and
commitments for promoting, coordinating and monitoring the doping control
programme in sports to ensure dope-free sport.(2)The Agency shall have the
primary responsibility to implement the provisions of this Act and may direct
the collection of samples, manage test results and conduct results management
at the national level.(3)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
provisions, the Agency shall perform the following functions, namely:—(a)the
planning, coordination, implementation and monitoring of anti-doping
activities, including effective testing and whereabouts management;(b)taking
measures to prevent Anti-Doping Rule Violations;(c)undertaking anti-doping
sensitisation and advocacy measures;(d)carrying out investigation and
conducting results management of any Anti-Doping Rule Violations;(e)adopting
and implementing anti-doping rules and policies which conform to international
obligations and commitments and perform its functions in accordance with such
rules and policies;(f)implementing the Convention in accordance with the
Act;(g)enforcing anti-doping rules by exercising authority over athletes,
athlete support personnel and other persons, including National Sports
Federations and other sports organisations;(h)promoting anti-doping
research;(i)coordinating and cooperating with the World Anti-Doping Agency,
Other Anti-Doping Organisations, National Sports Federations and International
Federations;(j)coordinate and collaborate with concerned authorities and
stakeholders in matters relating to establishment of best practices in the
marketing and distribution of nutritional supplements including information
regarding their analytical composition and quality assurance;(k)facilitating
sharing and free flow of information relating to the use of doping substances,
doping practices or any Anti-Doping Rule Violation between sports bodies,
officials conducting competition or event, Other Anti-Doping Organisations and
the Agency;(l)establishing code of conduct for officers and employees of the
Agency and for such other persons or agencies engaged by the
Agency;(m)establishing standards for the manufacturing of nutritional
supplements for sport in India;(n)undertaking any other activity specified by
regulations by the Board that may be expedient for fulfilling the objective of
eliminating doping in sport.(4)The Agency may make such regulations, as it
deems necessary, for the effective discharge of its functions.

### 17. Power to constitute committees.

The Agency may constitute such committees, as it deems fit, for the discharge
of its function under this Act, including Therapeutic Exemption Committee,
Investigation Committee, Sample Collection and Testing Committee, Result
Management Committee and Education Committee, in such manner as may be
specified by regulations.

### 18. Constitution of investigation teams and engagement of experts and
professionals by Agency.

(1)Where the Agency considers it necessary so to do, it may constitute one or
more investigation teams, consisting of such officers or such persons, as it
thinks necessary, for the purposes of carrying out its functions under this
Act.(2)The Agency may engage such number of experts and professionals, having
such qualifications and experience, and in such manner, as may be specified by
regulations, to assist the Agency in the discharge of its functions under this
Act.

## Chapter V  
DOPING CONTROL PROCESS

### 19. Power of entry, search and seizure.

(1)Where the Agency has reasons to believe that an athlete or athlete support
personnel or any other person to whom this Act applies has committed an Anti-
Doping Rule Violation, any person authorised by the Agency may, in accordance
with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973,—(a)enter any
place, at all reasonable times, with such assistance as is considered
necessary, for the purpose of inspecting, examining and determining if any
Anti-Doping Rule Violation has been committed or is being committed;(b)search
any premises in which the officer has reason to believe that any Anti-Doping
Rule Violation has been, or is being, or is about to be, committed;(c)seize
any equipment, device, substance, record, register, document or other material
object, if such officer believes that it may furnish evidence of such Anti-
Doping Rule Violation or that seizure is necessary to prevent or mitigate any
Anti-Doping Rule Violation.(2)Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the
procedure for investigation or taking any other action under this section
shall be such as may be specified by regulations.

### 20. Power of collecting samples and testing.

Where the Agency has reasons to believe that an athlete has committed an Anti-
Doping Rule Violation, it shall require such athlete to submit samples for
testing, in accordance with such procedure and in such manner, as may be
specified by regulations.

### 21. Result management process.

(1)After receiving an adverse report from a dope testing laboratory showing
presence of any prohibited substance in the sample of an athlete, the Agency
shall carry out initial examination of the report in such manner as may be
specified by regulations, and verify if Therapeutic Use Exemption has been
granted to such athlete in respect of such substance.(2)Where, after
examination and verification under sub-section (1), the Agency is satisfied
that no Therapeutic Use Exemption has been granted to the athlete, it shall
take such actions and in such manner as may be specified by regulations.

### 22. Hearing by Disciplinary Panel and determination of consequences
thereof.

(1)After the issuance of a notice by the Agency to the athlete or other person
asserting the commission of Anti-Doping Rule Violation under this Act, if such
athlete or the other person does not waive his right of hearing in the manner
specified by regulations, the Agency shall refer such matter to the
Disciplinary Panel for hearing and determination of consequences of such Anti-
Doping Rule Violation.(2)The Disciplinary Panel shall hear and determine all
issues arising from any matter which is referred to it, and determine the
consequences of Anti-Doping Rule Violations.(3)Every party shall have a right
to be represented, and to have an interpreter, at their own cost.(4)The
Disciplinary Panel shall have power, at its own discretion, to appoint an
expert to assist or advice it on such matters as it may require.(5)Subject to
such regulations as may be made by the Board, the Disciplinary Panel shall
have power to regulate its own procedure.(6)Each party to the proceedings
shall have right to present the evidence, including the right to call and
question witnesses, subject to the discretion of the Disciplinary Panel.(7)The
parties to the proceedings may submit written submissions with all documents
relied upon, in such manner and within such time, as may be specified by
regulations.(8)The Disciplinary Panel shall after hearing all parties and
after considering all evidence placed before it, by an order in writing made
unanimously or by majority, determine the consequences of Anti-Doping Rule
Violations in accordance with the provisions of section 6 and the regulations
made thereunder.(9)The decision of the Disciplinary Panel shall be
communicated in such manner, as may be specified by regulations.

### 23. Hearing of appeal by Appeal Panel.

(1)Any person who is aggrieved by any decision under this Act, including—(a)a
refusal to grant Therapeutic Use Exemption under section 5;(b)imposition of
consequences for an Anti-Doping Rule Violation under section 6;(c)such other
decision as may be specified by regulations, may prefer an appeal to the
Appeal Panel in such form, within such time, and in such manner, as may be
specified by regulations.(2)Subject to such regulations as may be made by the
Board, the Appeal Panel shall have power to regulate its own procedures.(3)The
Appeal Panel shall have power, at its own discretion, to appoint an expert to
assist or advice it on such matters as it may require.(4)Every party shall
have a right to be represented, and to have an interpreter, at their own
cost.(5)Each party to the proceedings shall have right to present relevant
evidence, to call and examine witnesses and to submit written and oral
submissions.(6)The Appeal Panel shall complete hearing as expeditiously as
possible, and endeavour shall be made to dispose of such appeal within three
months of the date of order of the Disciplinary Panel.(7)The Appeal Panel
shall, after hearing all parties and considering all evidences placed before
it, by an order in writing, made unanimously or by majority, either confirm or
vary or set aside the order of the Disciplinary Panel.(8)The decision of the
Appeal Panel shall be communicated to the parties concerned, in such manner,
as may be specified by regulations.(9)Any person who is aggrieved by the
decision of the Appeal Panel may prefer an appeal to the Court of Arbitration
for Sport, in accordance with such rules as may be provided by the Court of
Arbitration for Sport.Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section,
"Court of Arbitration for Sport" means an international body established in
1984 to settle disputes related to sport through arbitration whose headquarter
is in Lausanne, Switzerland.

## Chapter VI  
FINANCE , ACCOUNTS , AUDIT AND REPORTS

### 24. Grants by Central Government.

The Central Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law
in this behalf, grant such sums of money as the Central Government may think
fit for being utilised for the purposes of this Act and to comply with its
commitments under the Convention, and such funds shall be utilised to meet all
the expenses incurred on administrative and operational requirements of the
Board, the Agency and the national Dope Testing Laboratory established under
sub-section (1), or under clause (b) of sub-section (2), of section 26
(hereafter in this Chapter referred to as the concerned bodies), in such
manner as may be specified by regulations.

### 25. Accounts and audit.

(1)The concerned bodies shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant
records and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form as may be
prescribed by the Central Government in consultation with the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India.(2)The accounts of the concerned bodies shall be
audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India at such intervals as
may be specified by him and any expenditure incurred in connection with such
audit shall be payable by the concerned bodies to the Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India.(3)The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and any
person appointed by him in connection with the audit of the accounts of the
concerned bodies shall have the same rights and privileges and authority in
connection with such audit as the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India
generally has in connection with the audit of Government accounts and, in
particular, shall have the right to demand the production of books, accounts,
connected vouchers and other documents and papers and to inspect any of the
offices of the concerned bodies.(4)The accounts of the concerned bodies as
certified by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India or any other person
appointed by him in this behalf, together with the audit report thereon shall
be forwarded annually to the Central Government by the concerned bodies and
the Central Government shall cause the audit report to be laid, as soon as may
be after it is received, before each House of Parliament.

## Chapter VII  
MISCELLANEOUS

### 26.

(1)The National Dope Testing Laboratory, established and functioning as such
prior to the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be the principal dope
testing laboratory established under this Act and shall continue to function
for the purposes of this Act in such manner as may be prescribed.(2)The
Central Government may,—(a)recognise one or more laboratories or institutes
located within India as dope testing laboratories to carry out the functions
entrusted to a dope testing laboratory under this Act or the rules and
regulations made thereunder;(b)establish one or more National Dope Testing
Laboratories, including laboratories for undertaking research in anti-doping
science and related fields:Provided that every dope testing laboratory
recognised or established under this section may, if required, obtain the
accreditation of the World Anti-Doping Agency or of such other accrediting
bodies, and shall maintain the requisite accreditations as a condition for
continuation as a dope testing laboratory under this Act.(3)Every National
Dope Testing Laboratory and other dope testing laboratories established or
recognised under this section shall have the authority to—(i)test the sample
for any sports federation or sports event not recognised by the International
Olympic Committee or the Central Government;(ii)undertake sample analysis of
sports other than any national or international event;(iii)undertake any other
tests or samples analysis as may be prescribed.(4)The Central Government may
make rules to provide for—(a)the qualifications and experience for appointment
as technical and non-technical staff of the National Dope Testing
Laboratory;(b)the salaries and allowances payable to, and other conditions of
service of, the technical and non-technical staff of the National Dope Testing
Laboratory;(c)the standards for establishment, recognition, maintenance and
operation of a dope testing laboratory and the manner of granting recognition
to such dope testing laboratory;(d)the functions of the dope testing
laboratory, the procedure for submission to the said laboratory of samples for
analysis or tests and other standard operative procedures.

### 27. Data of athletes and maintenance of database.

(1)The Agency shall have the power to collect, use and process the following
personal data for the purposes of implementation of the objectives of the Act
and in accordance with applicable data privacy regulations, namely:—(a)sex or
gender of the athlete;(b)list of Anti-Doping Rule Violations committed by an
athlete under the Act and the details of such violation;(c)medical history of
the athlete;(d)whereabouts information of the athlete;(e)any other personal
data as may be specified by regulations.(2)The Agency may make regulations to
govern the procedure for collection, usage, processing and disclosure of the
personal data specified in sub-section (1).(3)The Agency shall establish and
maintain a database to record all the sanctions awarded by the Agency, the
Disciplinary Panel and the Appeal Panel and such other details of the
sanctions, in such manner, as may be specified by regulations.(4)The Agency
shall publicly disclose the disposition of the anti-doping matter, including
the sport, the anti-doping rule violated, the name of the athlete or other
person committing the Anti-Doping Rule Violation, the prohibited substance or
prohibited method involved (if any) and the consequences imposed, in
accordance with such procedure as may be specified by regulations.

### 28. Application of Act, rules and regulations to other athletes and sports
bodies, etc.

(1)The provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder
shall apply to such other athletes or sport bodies, or to competition or event
at such other level, as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify.(2)Every person to whom this Act is made applicable
under sub-section (1), shall be bound by, and have the obligation to comply
with, the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations made
thereunder.

### 29. Power to make rules.

The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for all or any of the following matters, namely:—(a)the protected
persons and the extent and manner of application of the provisions of this Act
to such persons under sub-section (6) of section 3;(b)the salaries and
allowances payable to, and other conditions of service of, the Chairperson and
Members of the Board under sub-section (9) of section 7;(c)the salaries and
allowances payable to, and other conditions of service of, officers and other
employees of the Board under sub-section (2) of section 9;(d)the form and the
manner in which an annual report shall be furnished under sub-section (1) of
section 13;(e)the salaries and allowances payable to, and other conditions of
service of, the Director General, officers and other staff of the Agency under
sub-section (5) of section 14;(f)the qualifications and experience for
appointment as Director General under sub-section (1) of section 15;(g)the
form in which annual statement of accounts shall be prepared under sub-section
(1) of section 25;(h)the manner in which the National Dope Testing Laboratory
shall carry out its functions under sub-section (1) of section 26;(i)the
manner of undertaking other tests or samples analysis under clause (iii) of
sub-section (3) of section 26;(j)the qualifications and experience for
appointment as technical and non-technical staff of the National Dope Testing
Laboratory, under clause (a) of sub-section (4) of section 26;(k)the salaries
and allowances payable to and other conditions of service of the technical and
non-technical staff of the National Dope Testing Laboratory, under clause (b)
of sub-section (4) of section 26;(l)the standards for establishment,
recognition, maintenance and operation of dope testing laboratories and the
manner of granting recognition to such laboratories, under clause (c) of sub-
section (4) of section 26;(m)the functions of the dope testing laboratory and
the procedure for the submission to the said laboratory of samples for
analysis or tests, under clause (d) of sub-section (4) of section 26;(n)any
other matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed, for fulfilling
obligations of the country under the Convention.

### 30. Power to make regulations by Board.

The Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make regulations, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, for all or any of the following
matters, namely:—(a)the times and places for meetings and the procedure for
transaction of business at meetings of the Board (including the quorum), under
sub-section (1) of section 8;(b)the manner of constituting a Disciplinary
Panel under sub-section (1) of section 11;(c)the manner of appointment of the
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson and other members of the Disciplinary Panel
and the conditions subject to which such appointments shall be made under sub-
section (3) of section 11;(d)the grounds on which a member of Disciplinary
Panel may be removed under sub-section (4) of section 11;(e)the manner of
constituting an Appeal Panel under sub-section (1) of section 12;(f)the manner
of appointment of the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson and other members of
the Appeal Panel and the conditions subject to which such appointments shall
be made under sub-section (3) of section 12;(g)the grounds on which a member
of Appeal Panel may be removed under sub-section (4) of section 12;(h)the
other activities to be undertaken by the Agency for eliminating doping in
sport under clause (n) of sub-section (3) of section 16;(i)the procedure to be
followed by the Disciplinary Panel under sub-section (5) of section 22;(j)the
manner in which, and the time within which, written submissions may be
submitted under sub-section (7) of section 22;(k)the manner of communicating
the decision of the Disciplinary Panel under sub-section (9) of section
22;(l)the other decisions against which appeal may be filed, and the form and
manner in which and the time within which appeal may be filed, under sub-
section (1) of section 23;(m)the procedure to be followed by the Appeal Panel
under sub-section (2) of section 23;(n)the manner of communicating the
decision of the Appeal Panel under sub-section (8) of section 23;(o)any other
matter which has to be, or may be, specified by regulations, for giving effect
to the provisions of this Act or for fulfilling obligations under the
Convention, except on matters for which the Agency has power to make
regulations under section 31.

### 31. Power to make regulations by Agency.

(1)The Agency may, for complying with the requirements of international
obligations and commitments including the Code, make regulations on the
following matters:—(a)the procedure, methods and standards for testing and
analysis and sample collection;(b)the procedure and standards for collection,
storage and retention of samples and results management in relation to
samples;(c)the procedure for investigation and determination of Anti-Doping
Rule Violations and imposition of sanctions for an Anti-Doping Rule
Violation;(d)the procedures for negative analytical findings and adverse
analytical findings, and principles governing the provisional suspension of an
athlete or other person alleged to have committed an Anti-Doping Rule
Violation;(e)the procedures, methods and standards for assessing and granting
Therapeutic Use Exemptions;(f)the procedure for re-entry of a banned
athlete;(g)the procedure to be followed for in-competition testing of
athletes, methodology for testing and any matters pertaining to in-competition
testing of athletes;(h)the procedure for qualifying athletes for out-of-
competition testing and procedure for undertaking out-of-competition testing
of athletes, collection of whereabouts data of such athletes and any matters
pertaining to out-of-competition testing of athletes;(i)the measures for
promotion of research and advocacy in relation to sports doping and testing
and methods for sensitising athletes, athlete support personnel, other persons
and other concerned stakeholders in relation to the ills of doping;(j)the
manner of implementing anti-doping control activities and anti-doping
education, training and sensitisation programmes to provide updated and
accurate information on the harm of doping to the ethical values of sport and
the health consequences of doping;(k)the procedure for search and seizure of
premises, collection of samples, and collection of information and whereabouts
data, and consequences for wilful delay, obstruction, destruction or provision
of false information by any person in relation to any exercise of power by an
empowered person under this Act;(l)the manner of taking measures for
eradicating doping in sports;(m)the manner in which the sports bodies,
officials conducting competition or event and other Anti-Doping Organisations
may share information relating to the use of doping substances, doping
practices or any Anti-Doping Rule Violation with the Agency;(n)the manner in
which the recommendations made by the Board may be considered by the
Agency.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, the Agency may make regulations, for giving effect to the
provisions of the Act, on all or any of the following matters:—(a)the
prohibited substances and prohibited methods in the Prohibited List under
clause (za) of section 2;(b)the other omissions or failures under clause (iii)
of the Explanation to clause (d) of section 4;(c)the prohibited association
with athlete support personnel under clause (j) of section 4;(d)the other
circumstances, or engaging in other acts or conduct, which amounts to Anti-
Doping Rule Violation, under clause (l) of section 4;(e)the manner of
considering the application and the criteria to be taken into consideration
under sub-section (2) of section 5;(f)the manner of granting or refusing to
grant Therapeutic Use Exemptions under sub-section (3) of section 5;(g)the
manner of imposing disqualification of results under clause (a) of sub-section
(1) of section 6;(h)the manner of imposing ineligibility to participate in any
competition or event or other activity or funding, and the period of such
ineligibility, under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 6;(i)the manner
of imposing provisional suspension from participating in any competition or
activity under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 6;(j)the manner of
imposing financial sanction including proportionate recovery of costs under
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 6;(k)other consequences under clause
(e) of sub-section (1) of section 6;(l)the consequences of Anti-Doping Rule
Violations for team sports and protected persons under sub-section (2) of
section 6;(m)the code of conduct for officers and employees of the Agency and
for such other persons or agencies engaged by the Agency, under clause (l) of
sub-section (3) of section 16;(n)the effective discharge of functions of the
Agency under sub-section (4) of section 16;(o)the manner of constituting
committees under section 17;(p)the number of experts and professionals to be
engaged by the Agency, the qualifications and experience to be possessed by
them, and the manner in which they may be engaged, under sub-section (2) of
section 18;(q)the procedure for investigation or taking any other action,
under sub-section (2) of section 19;(r)the procedure and the manner for
submitting samples for testing under section 20;(s)the manner of carrying out
the initial examination of the report of a dope testing laboratory under sub-
section (1) of section 21;(t)the actions to be taken, and the manner in which
such actions may be taken, under sub-section (2) of section 21;(u)the manner
of waiving right of hearing under sub-section (1) of section 22;(v)other
personal data under clause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 27;(w)the
procedure for collection, usage, processing and disclosure of the personal
data under sub-section (2) of section 27;(x)the other details of the
sanctions, and the manner of establishing and maintaining a database under
sub-section (3) of section 27;(y)the procedure for making public disclosure
under sub-section (4) of section 27;(z)any other matter which has to be, or
may be, specified by regulations.

### 32. Rules and regulations to be laid before Parliament.

Every rule and regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or regulation, or both
Houses agree that the rule or regulation should not be made, the rule or
regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no
effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or regulation.

### 33. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order, published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may
appear to it to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty:Provided
that no such order shall be made under this section after the expiry of five
years from the commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this section
shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid before each House of
Parliament.

### 34. Transitional provisions.

On and from the commencement of this Act,—(a)the Societies, namely, the
National Anti-Doping Agency and the National Dope Testing Laboratory shall
stand dissolved;(b)any reference to the Society in any contract or other
instrument shall be deemed as a reference to the National Anti-Doping Agency
or the National Dope Testing Laboratory, as the case may be, established under
this Act;(c)all properties, movable and immovable, of or belonging to the
Society shall vest in the National Anti-Doping Agency or the National Dope
Testing Laboratory, as the case may be, established under this Act;(d)all the
rights and liabilities of the Society shall be transferred to, and be the
rights and liabilities of, the National Anti-Doping Agency or the National
Dope Testing Laboratory, as the case may be, established under this
Act;(e)every person employed by the Society, immediately before such
commencement, shall hold office in the National Anti-Doping Agency or the
National Dope Testing Laboratory, as the case may be, by the same tenure, at
the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same
rights and privileges as to pension, leave, gratuity, provident fund and other
matters as he would have held the same if this Act had not been enacted, and
shall continue to be so unless and until his employment is terminated or until
such tenure, remuneration and terms and conditions are duly altered by any
regulations made under this Act:Provided that if the alteration so made is not
acceptable to such employee, his employment may be terminated by the National
Anti-Doping Agency or the National Dope Testing Laboratory, as the case may
be, in accordance with the terms of the contract with the employee or, if no
provision is made therein in this behalf, on payment, to him by the National
Anti-Doping Agency or the National Dope Testing Laboratory, as the case may
be, of compensation equivalent to three months' remuneration in case of
permanent employees and one month's remuneration in the case of other
employees;(f)if there are any pending proceedings, including any disciplinary,
arbitration, appeal or other legal proceedings, of whatever nature, by or
against the Society, the same shall not get abated or discontinued by reason
of the incorporation of the Society under this Act, but such proceedings may
be continued or enforced by or against the National Anti-Doping Agency or the
National Dope Testing Laboratory, as the case may be, in the same manner and
to the same extent as it would or may have been continued or enforced by or
against the society, if this Act had not been enacted;(g)any rules and
regulations made prior to such commencement, shall, in so far as they are
consistent with the provisions of this Act, continue to be applicable till new
rules and regulations are made under this Act.

