## Union of India - Act

## The Notaries Act, 1952

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Notaries Act, 1952

## Act 53 of 1952

  * Published in Gazette 53 on 9 August 1952 
  * Assented to on 9 August 1952 
  * Commenced on 9 August 1952 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 August 1952.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Notaries Act, 1952[Act, No. 53 of 1952][9th August, 1952]An Act to
regulate the profession of notaries.BE it enacted by Parliament as follows:--

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.—

(1)This Act may be called the Notaries Act, 1952.(2)It extends to the whole of
India.(3)It shall come into force on such date2 as the Central Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.—

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(b)“instrument” includes
every document by which any right or liability is, or purports to be, created,
transferred, modified, limited, extended, suspended, extinguished or
recorded;(c)“legal practitioner” means an advocate entered in any roll under
the provisions of the Advocates Act, 1961 (25 1961);(d)“notary” means a person
appointed as such under this Act:Provided that for a period of two years from
the commencement of this Act it shall include also a person who, before such
commencement was appointed a notary public under the Negotiable Instruments
Act, 1881 XXVI of 1881, and is, immediately before such commencement, in
practice in any part of India:Provided further that in relation to the State
of Jammu and Kashmir the said period of two years shall be computed from the
date on which this Act comes into force in that State;(e)“prescribed” means
prescribed by rules made under this Act;(f)“Register” means a Register of
Notaries maintained by the Government under section 4;(g)“State Government”,
in relation to a Union territory means the administrator thereof.

### 3. Power to appoint notaries.—

The Central Government, for the whole or any part of India, and any State
Government, for the whole or any part of the State, may appoint as notaries
any legal practitioners or other persons who possess such qualifications as
may be prescribed.

### 4. Registers.—

(1)The Central Government and every State Government shall maintain, in such
form as may be prescribed, a Register of the notaries appointed by that
Government and entitled to practise as such under this Act.(2)Every such
Register shall include the following particulars about the notary whose name
is entered therein, namely:—(a)his full name, date of birth, residential and
professional address;(b)the date on which his name is entered in the
Register;(c)his qualifications; and(d)any other particulars which may be
prescribed.

### 5. Entry of names in the Register and issue or renewal of certificates of
practice.—

(1)Every notary who intends to practise as such may, on payment to the
Government appointing him of the prescribed fee, if any, be entitled—(a)to
have his name entered in the Register maintained by that Government under
section 4; and(b)to a certificate authorising him to practise for a period of
five years from the date on which the certificate is issued to him.(2)The
Government appointing the notary, may, on receipt of an application and the
prescribed fee, renew the certificate of practice of any notary for a period
of five years at a time.

### 6. Annual publication of lists of notaries.—

The Central Government and every State Government shall, during the month of
January each year, publish in the Official Gazette a list of notaries
appointed by that Government and in practice at the beginning of that year
together with such details pertaining to them as may be prescribed.

### 7. Seal of notaries.—

Every notary shall have and use, as occasion may arise, a seal of such form
and design as may be prescribed.

### 8. Functions of notaries.—

(1)A notary may do all or any of the following acts by virtue of his office;
namely:—(a)verify, authenticate, certify or attest the execution of any
instrument;(b)present any promissory note, hundi or bill of exchange for
acceptance or payment or demand better security;(c)note or protest the
dishonour by non-acceptance or non-payment of any promissory note, hundi or
bill of exchange or protest for better security or prepare acts of honour
under the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (XXVI of 1881), or serve notice of
such note or protest;(d)note and draw up ship’s protest, boat’s protest or
protest relating to demurrage and other commercial matters;(e)administer oath
to, or take affidavit from, any person;(f)prepare bottomry and respondentia
bonds, charter parties and other mercantile documents;(g)prepare, attest or
authenticate any instrument intended to take effect in any country or place
outside India in such form and language as may conform to the law of the place
where such deed is entitled to operate;(h)translate, and verify the
translation of, any document from, one language into another;(ha)act as a
Commissioner to record evidence in any civil or criminal trial if so directed
by any court or authority;(hb)act as an arbitrator, mediator or conciliator,
if so required;(i)any other act which may be prescribed.(2)No act specified in
sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be a notarial act except when it is done by
a notary under his signature and official seal.

### 9. Bar of practice without certificate.—

(1)Subject to the provisions of this section, no person shall practise as a
notary or do any notarial act under the official seal of a notary unless he
holds a certificate of practice in force issued to him under section
5:Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to the presentation of
any promissory note, hundi or bill of exchange for acceptance or payment by
the clerk of a notary acting on behalf of such notary.(2)Nothing contained in
sub-section (1) shall, until the expiry of two years from the commencement of
this Act, apply to any such person as is referred to in the proviso to clause
(d) of section 2:Provided that in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir
the said period of two years shall be computed from the date on which this Act
comes into force in that State.

### 10. Removal of names from Register.—

The Government appointing any notary may, by order, remove from the Register
maintained by it under section 4 the name of the notary if he—(a)makes a
request to that effect; or(b)has not paid any prescribed fee required to be
paid by him; or(c)is an undischarged insolvent; or(d)has been found, upon
inquiry in the prescribed manner, to be guilty of such professional or other
misconduct as, in the opinion of the Government, renders him unfit to practise
as a notary; or(e)is convicted by any court for an offence involving moral
turpitude; or(f)does not get his certificate of practice renewed.

### 11. Construction of references to notaries public in other laws.—

Any reference to a notary public in any other law shall be construed as a
reference to a notary entitled to practise under this Act.

### 12. Penalty for falsely representing to be a notary, etc.—

Any person who—(a)falsely represents that he is a notary without being
appointed as such, or(b)practises as a notary or does any notarial act in
contravention of section 9, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

### 13. Cognizance of offence.—

(1)No court shall take cognizance of any offence committed by a notary in the
exercise or purported exercise of his functions under this Act save upon
complaint in writing made by an officer authorised by the Central Government
or a State Government by general or special order in this behalf.(2)No
magistrate other than a presidency magistrate or a magistrate of the first
class shall try an offence punishable under this Act.

### 14. Reciprocal arrangements for recognition of notarial acts done by
foreign notaries.-

If the Central Government is satisfied that by the law or practice of any
country or place outside India, the notarial acts done by notaries within
India are recognized for all or any limited purposes in that country or place,
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare
that the notarial acts lawfully done by notaries within such country or place
shall be recognized with India for all purposes or, as the case may be, for
such limited purposes as may be specified in the notification.

### 15. Power to make rules.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely:—(a)the qualifications of a
notary, the form and manner in which applications for appointment as a notary
may be made and the disposal of such applications;(b)the certificates,
testimonials or proofs as to character, integrity, ability and competence
which any person applying for appointment as a notary may be required to
furnish;(c)the fees payable for appointment as a notary and for the issue and
renewal of a certificate of practice, area of practice or enlargement of area
of practice and exemption whether wholly or in part, from such fees in
specified classes of cases;(d)the fees payable to a notary for doing any
notarial act;(e)the form of Registers and the particulars to be entered
therein;(f)the form and design of the seal of a notary;(g)the manner in which
inquiries into allegations of professional or other misconduct of notaries may
be made;(h)the acts which a notary may do in addition to those specified in
section 8 and the manner in which a notary may perform his functions;(i)any
other matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Every rule made by the
Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is
made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree
in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule
should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule.

### 16. Amendment of Act XXVI of 1881.—

Repealed by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1957 (36 of 1957), Section 2 and
Schedule I.

