## Union of India - Act

## The National Commission For Minority Educational Institutions Act, 2004

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The National Commission For Minority Educational Institutions Act, 2004

## Act 2 of 2005

  * Published on 11 November 2004 
  * Commenced on 11 November 2004 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 April 2006.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE NATIONAL COMMISSION FOR MINORITY EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2006 (Act 18 of 2006) on 28 April 2006] 

The National Commission For Minority Educational Institutions Act, 2004(2 of
2005)Last Updated 30th December, 2019Statement of Objects and Reasons.-In one
of the sections of the National Common Minimum Programme, there is a provision
to establish a Commission for Minority Educational Institutions (hereinafter
referred to as the National Commission) that will provide direct affiliation
for minority professional institutions to Central Universities. This long felt
demand of the Minority Communities was also underscored in a series of
meetings held by the Ministry of Human Resource Development with
educationists, eminent citizens and community leaders associated with Minority
education. Among the various issues raised by the representatives of the
Minority communities was the difficulty faced by them in establishing and
running their own educational institutions, despite the Constitutional
guarantees accorded to them in this regard. The major problem was the issue of
securing affiliation to a university of their choice. The territorial
jurisdiction of the State Universities, and the concentration of minority
populations in some specific areas invariably meant that the institutions
could not avail the opportunity of affiliation with the universities of their
choice.2\. Subsequently, in a meeting of the National Monitoring Committee for
Minority Education held on August 27, 2004, similar views were voiced by many
experts. Participants from the various minority communities affirmed the need
to provide access to such affiliation in view of the often restrictive
conditions imposed by the existing statutes of the Universities, relating to
the affiliation of such institutions. They felt that these conditions affected
the rights granted to them on account of their Minority status. The fact that
there was no effective forum for appeal and quick redressal only aggravated
the sense of deprivation of the minority communities.3\. In view of the
commitment of the Government in the National Common Minimum Programme, the
issue of setting up of a National Commission was a matter of utmost urgency.
As the Parliament was not in session and in view of the considerable
preparatory work that would be involved to make the National Commission's
functioning effective on and from the next academic session, recourse was
taken to create the National Commission through promulgation of the National
Commission for Minority Educational Institutions Ordinance, 2004 on 11th
November, 2004.4\. The salient features of the aforesaid Ordinance are as
follows:-(i) it enables the creation of a National Commission for Minority
Educational Institutions;(ii) it creates the right of a minority educational
institution to seek recognition as an affiliated college to a Scheduled
University, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time
being in force;(iii) it allows for a forum of dispute resolution in the form
of a Statutory Commission, regarding matters of affiliation between a minority
educational institution and a Scheduled university and its decision shall be
final and binding on the parties;(iv) the Commission shall have the powers of
a Civil Court while trying a suit for the purpose of discharging its functions
under it, which would provide the decisions of the Commission the legal
sanction necessary for such purpose; and(v) it empowers the Central Government
to amend the Schedule to add in, or omit from, any University.5\. The Bill
seeks to replace the above Ordinance.Amendment Act 18 of 2006-Statement of
Objects and Reasons.-The National Commission for Minority Educational
Institutions Act, 2004 was enacted to constitute a Commission for Minority
Educational Institutions. The functions of the said Commission were to advise
the Central Government or any State Government on any question relating to the
education of minorities that may be referred to it; to look into specific
complaint regarding deprivation or violation of rights of minorities to
establish and administer educational institutions of their choice; to decide
on any dispute relating to affiliation to a Scheduled University; to report
its findings to the Central Government for its implementation. The said Act
also provides right of a Minority Educational Institution to seek affiliation
to any of the six Scheduled Universities, namely-(i) University of Delhi, (ii)
North-Eastern Hill University, (iii) Pondicherry University. (iv) Assam
University, (v) Nagaland University and (vi) Mizoram University. The
Commission was also given power to determine disputes regarding affiliation
between Minority Educational Institutions and the Scheduled Universities.2\.
Based on the experience of the functioning of the Commission, it was felt that
by limiting the scope of affiliation only to said six Scheduled Universities,
the applicability of the Act has been severely restricted. The Commission as
well as the Government received several representations and suggestions for a
more proactive role for the Commission in order to enable it to be an
effective instrument in deciding on matters of deprivation or violation of the
educational rights of the minorities guaranteed under Article 30 of the
Constitution. The majority of the representation received by the Commission
has drawn attention to the problems faced by minority communities in obtaining
no objection certificate for establishing an educational institution and, for
such eligible institution from obtaining the status of being a minority
institution.3\. In keeping with the commitment of the Government in the
National Common Minimum Programme regarding the setting up of the National
Commission for Minority Educational Institutions, it is further proposed to
empower the Commission to make its functioning more effective and purposive in
meeting the aspirations of minority communities in regard to their educational
rights under the Constitution, therefore the present Bill.4\. The salient
features of the Bill are as follows:-(i) it provides for the right to
establish a Minority Educational Institution and also provides that wherever
no objection certificate for establishing a Minority Educational Institution
is either not granted within a period of sixty days or where a decision in
this regard is not communicated within such period, the Minority Educational
Institution would proceed with the establishment of the institution as if the
no objection certificate has been granted to it;(ii) it provides for the right
of Minority Educational Institutions to seek affiliation to any University of
their choice subject to the Acts, Statutes, Ordinances, Rules and Regulations
of the concerned University;(iii) it is also proposed to give appellate
jurisdiction to the Commission in the matters of refusal to grant no objection
certificate for establishing a Minority Educational Institution;(iv) it
enables the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions to
enquire into and investigate complaints regarding deprivation or violation of
rights of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of
their choice and, also to decide on disputes relating to affiliation of
Minority Educational Institutions to a University;(v) it also enables the
Commission to decide on all questions relating to the status of any
institution as a Minority Educational Institution;(vi) it empowers the
Commission to cancel recognition as a Minority Educational Institution, where
it is found by the Commission that the purpose or character on which a
Minority Educational Institution status was granted and also in admitting
students belonging to the minority community as per rules and prescribed
percentage, has failed;(vii) it provides that every proceeding before the
Commission shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding and, the orders made by
the Commission shall be executable by it as a decree of a Civil Court;(viii)
it empowers the Commission to utilise the services of any officer of the
Central Government or any State Government, with the concurrence of such
Government, for the purpose of conducting investigation pertaining to
complaints received by the Commission;(ix) it bars the jurisdiction of Courts
(except the Supreme Court and the High Courts) to entertain any suit,
application or other proceedings in respect of orders made by the
Commission;(x) in addition to the above certain minor and consequential
amendments have also been proposed.5\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above
objects.[6th January, 2005]An Act to constitute a National Commission for
Minority Educational Institutions and to provide for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-fifth
Year of the Republic of India as follows:

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement

(1)This Act may be called The National Commission for Minority Educational
Institutions Act , 2004.(2)It extends to the whole of India [***][The words
'<SPAN class=amd2><A TITLE =]' omitted by Act 34 of 2019, s. 95 and the Fifth
Schedule (w.e.f. 31-10-2019)">[***].(3)It shall be deemed to have come into
force on the 11th day of November, 2004.

### 2. Definitions

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)affiliation together
with its grammatical variations, includes, in relation to a college,
recognition of such college by, association of such college with, and
admission of such college to the privileges of, a [*] [The word "Scheduled"
omitted by Act 18 of 2006, Section 2 (w.e.f. 23.1.2006).] University;(aa)[
appropriate Government means, [Inserted by Act 18 of 2006, Section 2 (w.e.f.
23.1.2006).](i)in relation to an educational institution recognised for
conducting its programmes of studies under any Act of Parliament, the Central
Government; and(ii)in relation to any other educational institution recognised
for conducting its programmes of studies under any State Act, a State
Government in whose jurisdiction such institution is established;][* * *]
[Clause (b) omitted by Act 18 of 2010 (w.e.f. 16.8.2010) ](c)Commission means
the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions constituted
under section 3;(ca)[ Competent authority means the authority appointed by the
appropriate Government to grant no objection certificate for the establishment
of any educational institution of their choice by the minorities;] [Inserted
by Act 18 of 2006, Section 2 (w.e.f. 23.1.2006).](d)degree means any such
degree as may, with previous approval of the Central Government, be specified
in this behalf by the University Grants Commission, by notification in the
Official Gazette;(da)[ educational rights of minorities means the rights of
minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of their
choice;] [Inserted by Act 18 of 2006, Section 2 (w.e.f. 23.1.2006).](e)Member
means a member of the Commission and includes the Chairperson;(f)minority, for
the purpose of this Act, means a community notified as such by the Central
Government;(g)[ "Minority Educational Institution" means a college or an
educational institution established and administered by a minority or
minorities] [Substitution of clause (g) by Act 20 of 2010 (w.e.f. 16.8.2010)
](h)prescribed means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(i)qualification
means a degree or any other qualification awarded by a University;[* * *]
[Clause (j) omitted by Act 18 of 2006, Section 2 (w.e.f.
23.1.2006).](k)technical education has the meaning assigned to it in clause
(g) of section 2 of the All India Council for Technical Education Act, 1987
(52 of 1987);(l)University means a University defined under clause (f) of
section 2 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956), and
includes an institution deemed to be a University under section 3 of that Act,
or an institution specifically empowered by an Act of Parliament to confer or
grant degrees.

## Chapter II  
The National Commission For Minority Educational Institutions

### 3. Constitution of National Commission for Minority Educational
Institutions

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute a body to be known as the National Commission for Minority
Educational Institutions to exercise the powers conferred on, and to perform
the functions assigned to, it under this Act.(2)The Commission shall consist
of a Chairperson and [three members] [Substitution for the words 'two members'
by Act 20 of 2010 (w.e.f. 16.8.2010) ] to be nominated by the Central
Government.

### 4. Qualifications for appointment as Chairperson or other Member

(1)a person shall not be qualified for appointment as the Chairperson unless
he,(a)is a member of a minority community; and(b)has been a Judge of a High
Court.(2)A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Member unless
he,(a)is a member of a minority community; and(b)is a person of eminence,
ability and integrity.

### 5. Term of office and conditions of service of Chairperson and Members

(1)Every Member shall hold office for a term of five years from the date on
which he assumes office.(2)A Member may, by writing under his hand addressed
to the Central Government, resign from the office of Chairperson or, as the
case may be, of Member at any time.(3)The Central Government shall remove a
person from the office of Member if that person(a)becomes an undischarged
insolvent;(b)is convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for an offence which,
in the opinion of the Central Government, involves moral turpitude;(c)becomes
of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent Court;(d)refuses to act
or becomes incapable of acting;(e)is, without obtaining leave of absence from
the Commission, absent from three consecutive meetings of the Commission;
or(f)in the opinion of the Central Government, has so abused the position of
Chairperson or Member as to render that persons continuance in office
detrimental to the public interest:Provided that no person shall be removed
under this clause until that person has been given an opportunity of being
heard in the matter.(4)A vacancy caused under sub-section (2) or otherwise
shall be filled by fresh nomination and a person so nominated shall hold
office for the unexpired period of the term for which his predecessor in
office would have held office if such vacancy had not arisen.(5)The salaries
and allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions of service of,
the Chairperson and Members shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 6. Officers and other employees of Commission

(1)The Central Government shall provide the Commission with a Secretary and
such other officers and employees as may be necessary for the efficient
performance of the functions of the Commission under this Act.(2)The salaries
and allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions of service of,
the Secretary, officers and other employees appointed for the purpose of the
Commission shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 7. Salaries and allowances to be paid out of grants

.The salaries and allowances payable to the Chairperson and Members and the
administrative expenses, including salaries, allowances and pensions payable
to the Secretary, officers and other employees referred to in section 6, shall
be paid out of the grants referred to in sub-section (1) of section 14.

### 8. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate proceedings of Commission

.No act or proceeding of the Commission shall be questioned or shall be
invalid on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy or defect in the
constitution of the Commission.

### 9. Procedure to be regulated by Commission

(1)The Commission shall meet as and when necessary at such time and place as
the Chairperson may think fit.(2)The Commission shall regulate its own
procedure.(3)All orders and decisions of the Commission shall be authenticated
by the Secretary or any other officer of the Commission duly authorised by the
Secretary in this behalf.[Chapter III [Substituted by Act 18 of 2006, Section
3, for Chap.III (w.e.f. 23.1.2006).] Rights Of A Minority Educational
Institution

### 10. Right to establish a Minority Educational Institution

.[(1) Subject to the provisions contained in any other law for the time being
in force, any person, who desires to establish a Minority Educational
Institution may apply to the competent authority for the grant of no objection
certificate for the said purpose] [Substituted by Act 20 of 2010 (w.e.f.
16.8.2010) ](2)The competent authority shall,(a)on perusal of documents,
affidavits or other evidence, if any; and(b)after giving an opportunity of
being heard to the applicant,decide every application filed under sub-section
(1) as expeditiously as possible and grant or reject the application, as the
case may be:Provided that where an application is rejected, the competent
authority shall communicate the same to the applicant.(3)Where within a period
of ninety days from the receipt of the application under sub-section (1) for
the grant of no objection certificate,(a)the competent authority does not
grant such certificate; or(b)where an application has been rejected and the
same has not been communicated to the person who has applied for the grant of
such certificate,it shall be deemed that the competent authority has granted a
no objection certificate to the applicant.(4)The applicant shall, on the grant
of a no objection certificate or where the competent authority has deemed to
have granted the no objection certificate, be entitled to commence and proceed
with the establishment of a Minority Educational Institution in accordance
with the rules and regulations, as the case may be, laid down by or under any
law for the time being in force.Explanation. For the purposes of this
section,(a)applicant means any person who makes an application under sub-
section (1) for establishment of a Minority Educational Institution;(b)no
objection certificate means a certificate stating therein, that the competent
authority has no objection for the establishment of a Minority Educational
Institution.

### 10\.

-A. Right of a Minority Educational Institution to seek affiliation(1)a Minority Educational Institution may seek affiliation to any University of its choice subject to such affiliation being permissible within the Act under which the said University is established.(2)Any person who is authorised in this behalf by the Minority Educational Institution, may file an application for affiliation under sub-section (1) to a University in the manner prescribed by the Statute, Ordinance, rules or regulations of the University:Provided that such authorised person shall have right to know the status of such application after the expiry of sixty days from the date of filing of such application.]

## Chapter IV  
Functions And Powers Of Commission

### 11. Functions of Commission

.Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, the Commission shall(a)advice the Central Government or any State
Government on any question relating to the education of minorities that may be
referred to it;(b)[ enquire, suo motu, or on a petition presented to it by any
Minority Educational Institution, or any person on its behalf into complaints
regarding deprivation or violation of rights of minorities to establish and
administer educational institutions of their choice and any dispute relating
to affiliation to a University and report its finding to the appropriate
Government for its implementation; [Substituted by Act 18 of 2006, Section 4,
for Clause (b)(w.e.f. 23.1.2006).](c)intervene in any proceeding involving any
deprivation or violation of the educational rights of the minorities before a
Court with the leave of such Court;(d)review the safeguards provided by or
under the Constitution, or any law for the time being in force, for the
protection of educational rights of the minorities and recommend measures for
their effective implementation;(e)specify measures to promote and preserve the
minority status and character of institutions of their choice established by
minorities;(f)decide all questions relating to the status of any institution
as a Minority Educational Institution and declare its status as such;(g)make
recommendations to the appropriate Government for the effective implementation
of programmes and schemes relating to the Minority Educational Institutions;
and(h)do such other acts and things as may be necessary, incidental or
conducive to the attainment of all or any of the objects of the Commission.]

### 12. Powers of Commission

(1)If any dispute arises between a minority educational institution and a [*]
[The word "Scheduled" omitted by Act 18 of 2006, Section 5 (w.e.f.
23.1.2006).] University relating to its affiliation to such University, the
decision of the Commission thereon shall be final.(2)The Commission shall, for
the purposes of discharging its functions under this Act, have all the powers
of a Civil Court trying a suit and in particular, in respect of the following
matters, namely:(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person from
any part of India and examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and
production of any document;(c)receiving evidence on affidavits;(d)subject to
the provisions of sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of
1872), requisitioning any public record or document or copy of such record or
document from any office;(e)issuing commissions for the examination of
witnesses or documents; and(f)any other matter which may be prescribed.(3)[
Every proceeding before the Commission shall be deemed to be a judicial
proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228, and for the purposes of
section 196, of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and the Commission shall be
deemed to be a civil Court for the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).] [Inserted by Act 18 of
2006, Section 5 (w.e.f. 23.1.2006).][12-A. Appeal against orders of the
competent authority [Inserted by Act 18 of 2006, Section 6 (w.e.f.
23.1.2006).](1)Any person aggrieved by the order of refusal to grant no
objection certificate under sub-section (2) of section 10 by the competent
authority for establishing a Minority Educational Institution, may prefer an
appeal against such order to the Commission.(2)An appeal under sub-section
(1)shall be filed within thirty days from the date of the order referred to in
sub-section (1) communicated to the applicant:Provided that the Commission may
entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of thirty days, if it
is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within that
period.(3)An appeal to the Commission shall be made in such form as may be
prescribed and shall be accompanied by a copy of the order against which the
appeal has been filed.(4)The Commission, after hearing the parties, shall pass
an order as soon as may be practicable, and give such directions as may be
necessary or expedient to give effect to its orders or to prevent abuse of its
process or to secure the ends of justice.(5)An order made by the Commission
under sub-section (4) shall be executable by the Commission as a decree of a
civil Court and the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908), so far as may be, shall apply as they apply in respect of a decree of a
civil Court.

### 12\.

-B. Power of Commission to decide on the minority status of an educational institution(1)Without prejudice to the provisions contained in the National Minority Commission Act, 1992 (19 of 1992), where an authority established by the Central Government or any State Government, as the case may be, for grant of minority status to any educational institution rejects the application for the grant of such status, the aggrieved person may appeal against such order of the authority to the Commission.(2)An appeal under sub-section (1)shall be preferred within thirty days from the date of the order communicated to the applicant:Provided that the Commission may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of thirty days, if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within that period.(3)An appeal to the Commission shall be made in such form as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by a copy of the order against which the appeal has been filed.(4)On receipt of the appeal under sub-section (3), the Commission may, after giving the parties to the appeal an opportunity of being heard [* * *] [Certain words omitted by Act 20 of 2010 (w.e.f. 16.8.2010) ], decide on the minority status of the educational institution and shall proceed to give such directions as it may deem fit and, all such directions shall be binding on the parties.Explanation. For the purposes of this section and section 12-C, authority means any authority or officer or commission which is established under any law for the time being in force or under any order of the appropriate Government, for the purpose of granting a certificate of minority status to an educational institution.

### 12\.

-C. Power to cancel.The Commission may, after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard to a Minority Educational Institution to which minority status has been granted by an authority or Commission, as the case may be, cancel such status under the following circumstances, namely:(a)if the constitution, aims and objects of the educational institution, which has enabled it to obtain minority status has subsequently been amended in such a way that it no longer reflects the purpose or character of a Minority Educational Institution;(b)if, on verification of the records during the inspection or investigation, it is found that the Minority Educational Institution has failed to admit students belonging to the minority community in the institution as per rules and prescribed percentage governing admissions during any academic year.

### 12\.

-D. Power of Commission to investigate matters relating to deprivation of educational rights of minorities(1)The Commission shall have the power to investigate into the complaints relating to deprivation of the educational rights of minorities.(2)The Commission may, for the purpose of conducting any investigation pertaining to a complaint under this Act, utilise the services of any officer of the Central Government or any State Government with the concurrence of the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be.(3)For the purpose of investigation under sub-section (1), the officer whose services are utilised may, subject to the direction and control of the Commission,(a)summon and enforce the attendance of any person and examine him;(b)require the discovery and production of any document; and(c)requisition any public record or copy thereof from any office.(4)The officer whose services are utilised under sub-section (2) shall investigate into any matter entrusted to it by the Commission and submit a report thereon to it within such period as may be specified by the Commission in this behalf.(5)The Commission shall satisfy itself about the correctness of the facts stated and the conclusion, if any, arrived at in the report submitted to it under sub-section (4) and for this purpose the Commission may make such further inquiry as it may think fit.

### 12\.

-E. Power of Commission to call for information, etc(1)The Commission, while enquiring into the complaints of violation or deprivation of educational rights of minorities shall call for information or report from the Central Government or any State Government or any other authority or organisation subordinate thereto, within such time as may be specified by it:Provided that,(a)if the information or report is not received within the time stipulated by the Commission, it may proceed to inquire into the complaint;(b)if, on receipt of information or report, the Commission is satisfied either that no further inquiry is required, or that the required action has been initiated or taken by the concerned Government or authority, it may not proceed with the complaint and inform the complainant accordingly.(2)Where the inquiry establishes violation or deprivation of the educational rights of the minorities by a public servant, the Commission may recommend to the concerned Government or authority, the initiation of disciplinary proceedings or such other action against the concerned person or persons as may be deemed fit.(3)The Commission shall send a copy of the inquiry report, together with its recommendations to the concerned Government or authority and the concerned Government or authority shall, within a period of one month, or such further time as the Commission may allow, forward its comments on the report, including the action taken, or proposed to be taken thereon, to the Commission.(4)The Commission shall publish its inquiry report and the action taken or proposed to taken by the concerned Government or authority on the recommendations of the Commission.

### 12\.

-F. Bar of jurisdiction.No Court (except the Supreme Court and a High Court exercising jurisdiction under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution) shall entertain any suit, application or other proceedings in respect of any order made under this Chapter.]

### 13. Financial and administrative powers of Chairperson

.The Chairperson shall exercise such financial and administrative powers as
may be vested in him by the rules made under this section:Provided that the
Chairperson shall have authority to delegate such of the financial and
administrative powers as he may think fit to any Member or Secretary or any
other officer of the Commission subject to the condition that such Member or
Secretary or officer shall, while exercising such delegated powers, continue
to act under the direction, control and supervision of the Chairperson.

## Chapter V  
Finance, Accounts And Audit

### 14. Grants by Central Government

(1)The Central Government shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by
law in this behalf, pay to the Commission by way of grants such sums of money
as the Central Government may think fit for being utilised for the purposes of
this Act.(2)The Commission may spend such sums of money as it thinks fit for
performing the functions under this Act, and such sums shall be treated as
expenditure payable out of the grants referred to in sub-section (1).

### 15. Accounts and audit

(1)The Commission shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records
and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form as may be prescribed
by the Central Government in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India.(2)The accounts of the Commission shall be audited by the
Comptroller and Auditor-General at such intervals as may be specified by him
and any expenditure incurred in connection with such audit shall be payable by
the Commission to the Comptroller and Auditor-General.(3)The Comptroller and
Auditor-General and any person appointed by him in connection with the audit
of the accounts of the Commission under this Act shall have the same rights
and privileges and the authority in connection with such audit as the
Comptroller and Auditor-General generally has in connection with the audit of
Government accounts and, in particular, shall have the right to demand the
production of books, accounts, connected vouchers and other documents and
papers and to inspect any of the offices of the Commission.

### 16. Annual report

.The Commission shall prepare, in such form and at such time, for each
financial year, as may be prescribed, its annual report, giving a full account
of its activities during the previous financial year and forward a copy
thereof to the Central Government.

### 17. Annual report and audit report to be laid before Parliament

.The Central Government shall cause the annual report, together with a
memorandum of action taken on the advice tendered by the Commission under
section 11 and the reasons for the non-acceptance, if any, of any such advice,
and the audit report to be laid as soon as may be after they are received
before each House of Parliament.

## Chapter VI  
Miscellaneous

### 18. Power to amend Schedule

.[Omitted by the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions
(Amendment) Act, 2006 (18 of 2006), section 7 (w.e.f. 23-1-2006)].

### 19. Chairperson, Members, Secretary, employees, etc., of Commission to be
public servants

.The Chairperson, Members, Secretary, officers and other employees of the
Commission shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section
21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 20. Directions by Central Government

(1)In the discharge of its functions under this Act, the Commission shall be
guided by such direction on questions of policy relating to national purposes,
as may be given to it by the Central Government.(2)If any dispute arises
between the Central Government and the Commission as to whether a question is
or is not a question of policy relating to national purposes, the decision of
the Central Government shall be final.

### 21. Protection of action taken in good faith

.No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government, Commission, Chairperson, Members, Secretary or any officer or
other employee of the Commission for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done under this Act.

### 22. Act to have overriding effect

.The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force
or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act.

### 23. Returns or information

.The Commission shall furnish to the Central Government such returns or other
information with respect to its activities as the Central Government may, from
time to time, require.

### 24. Power to make rules

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers, such rules may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:(a)the salaries and
allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions of the service of,
the Chairperson and Members under sub-section (5) of section 5 and of the
Secretary, officers and other employees under sub-section (2) of section
6;(aa)[ the forms in which appeal under sub-section (3) of section 12-A and
sub-section (3) of section 12-B shall be made;] [Inserted by Act 18 of 2006,
Section 8 (w.e.f. 23.1.2006).](b)the financial and administrative powers to be
exercised by the Chairperson under section 13;(c)the form in which the annual
statement of accounts shall be prepared under sub-section (1) of section
15;(d)the form in, and the time at, which the annual report shall be prepared
under section 16;(e)any other matter which is required to be, or may be,
prescribed.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be;so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule.

### 25. Power to remove difficulties

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear to
it to be necessary or expedient, for removing the difficulty:Provided that no
such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of two years from the
date of commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this section shall,
as soon as may be after it is made, be laid before each House of Parliament.

### 26. Repeal and saving

(1)The National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions Ordinance,
2004 (Ord. 6 of 2004) is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding the repeal of the
said Ordinance, anything done or any action taken under the said Ordinance
shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions
of this Act.[* * *] [The Schedule omitted by Act 18 of 2006, Section 9 (w.e.f.
23.1.2006).]

