## Union of India - Act

## The National Environment Appellate Authority Act, 1997

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The National Environment Appellate Authority Act, 1997

## Act 22 of 1997

  * Published in Gazette 22 on 26 March 1997 
  * Assented to on 26 March 1997 
  * Commenced on 26 March 1997 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 March 1997.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The National Environment Appellate Authority Act, 1997[26th March, 1997.]ACT
NO. 22 of 1997An Act to provide for the establishment of a National
Environment Appellate Authority to hear appeals with respect to restriction of
areas in which any industries, operations or processes or class of industries,
operations or processes shall not be carried out or shall be carried out
subject to certain safeguards under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and
for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.PREAMBLEBE it enacted by
Parliament in the Forty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement.—

(1)This Act may be called the National Environment Appellate Authority Act,
1997.(2)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 30th day of January,
1997.

### 2. Definitions.—

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)“Act” means the
Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (29 of 1986);(b)“Authority” means the
National Environment Appellate Authority established under sub-section (1) of
section 3;(c)“Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Authority;(d)“Member”
means a Member of the Authority;(e)“prescribed” means prescribed by rules made
under this Act;(f)“Vice-Chairperson” means the Vice-Chairperson of the
Authority.

## Chapter II  
Establishment of Authority

### 3. Establishment of Authority.—

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
establish a body to be known as the National Environment Appellate Authority
to exercise the powers conferred upon, and to perform the functions assigned
to, it under this Act.(2)The head office of the Authority shall be at Delhi.

### 4. Composition of Authority.—

The Authority shall consist of a Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson and such
other Members not exceeding three, as the Central Government may deem fit.

### 5. Qualifications for appointment as Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or
Member.—

(1)A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Chairperson unless he
has been—(a)a Judge of the Supreme Court; or(b)the Chief Justice of a High
Court.(2)A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Vice-Chairperson
unless he has—(a)for at least two years held the post of a Secretary to the
Government of India or any other post under the Central or State Government
carrying a scale of pay which is not less than that of a Secretary to the
Government of India; and(b)expertise or experience in administrative, legal,
managerial or technical aspects of problems relating to environment.(3)A
person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Member unless he has
professional knowledge or practical experience in the areas pertaining to
conservation, environment management, law or planning and development.(4)The
Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson and the Members shall be appointed by the
President.

### 6. Vice-Chairperson to act as Chairperson or to discharge his functions in
certain circumstances.—

(1)In the event of the occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the
Chairperson by reason of his death, resignation or otherwise, the Vice-
Chairperson shall act as the Chairperson until the date on which a new
Chairperson appointed in accordance with the provisions of this Act to fill
such vacancy enters upon his office.(2)When the Chairperson is unable to
discharge his functions owing to absence, illness or any other cause, the
Vice-Chairperson or, as the case may be, such one of the Member as the Central
Government may, by notification, authorise in this behalf, shall discharge the
functions of the Chairperson until the date on which the Chairperson resumes
his duties.

### 7. Term of office.—

The Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson or a Member shall hold office as such
for a term of three years from the date on which he enters upon his office,
but shall be eligible for re-appointment for another term of three
years:Provided that no Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or Member shall hold
office as such after he has attained,—(a)in the case of the Chairperson, the
age of seventy years; and(b)in the case of the Vice-Chairperson or a Member,
the age of sixty-five years.

### 8. Resignation and removal.—

(1)The Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson or a Member may, by notice in writing
under his hand addressed to the President, resign his office:Provided that the
Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson or a Member shall, unless he is permitted by
the President to relinquish his office sooner, continue to hold office until
the expiry of three months from the date of receipt of such notice or until a
person duly appointed as his successor enters upon his office or until the
expiry of his term of office, whichever is the earliest.(2)The Chairperson,
the Vice-Chairperson or a Member shall not be removed from his office except
by an order made by the President on the ground of proved misbehaviour or
incapacity after an inquiry made by a Judge of the Supreme Court in which such
Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson or a Member had been informed of the charges
against him and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of
those charges.(3)The President may suspend from office the Chairperson, the
Vice-Chairperson or a Member in respect of whom a reference has been made to
the Supreme Court under sub-section (2) until the President has passed orders
on receipt of the report of the Supreme Court on such reference.(4)The Central
Government may, by rules, regulate the procedure for the investigation of
misbehaviour or incapacity of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson or a
Member referred to in sub-section (2).

### 9. Salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Members.—

The salaries and allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions of
service (including pension, gratuity and other retirement benefits) of, the
Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson and the Members shall be such as may be
prescribed by the Central Government.

### 10. Vacancy in Authority not to invalidate acts or proceedings.—

No act or proceedings of the Authority shall be questioned or shall be invalid
merely on the ground of existence of any vacancy or defect in the
establishment of the Authority.

## Chapter III  
Jurisdiction and powers of the Authority

### 11. Appeals to Authority.—

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order granting environmental clearance in the
areas in which any industries, operations or processes or class of industries,
operations and processes shall not be carried out or shall be carried out
subject to certain safeguards may, within thirty days from the date of such
order, prefer an appeal to the Authority in such form as may be
prescribed:Provided that the Authority may entertain any appeal after the
expiry of the said period of thirty days but not after ninety days from the
date aforesaid if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by
sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.(2)For the purposes of sub-
section (1), “person” means—(a)any person who is likely to be affected by the
grant of environmental clearance;(b)any person who owns or has control over
the project with respect to which an application has been submitted for
environmental clearance;(c)any association of persons (whether incorporated or
not) likely to be affected by such order and functioning in the field of
environment;(d)the Central Government, where the environmental clearance is
granted by the State Government and the State Government, where the
environmental clearance is granted by the Central Government; or(e)any local
authority, any part of whose local limits is within the neighbourhood of the
area wherein the project is proposed to be located.(3)On receipt of an appeal
preferred under sub-section (1), the Authority shall, after giving the
appellant an opportunity of being heard, pass such orders, as it thinks
fit.(4)The Authority shall dispose of the appeal within ninety days from the
date of filing the appeal:Provided that the Authority may for reasons to be
recorded in writing dispose of the appeal within a further period of thirty
days.

### 12. Procedure and powers of Authority.—

(1)The Authority shall not be bound by the procedure laid down in the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), but shall be guided by the principles of
natural justice and subject to the other provisions of this Act and of any
rules made by the Central Government, the Authority shall have power to
regulate its own procedure including the fixing of places and times of its
inquiry and deciding whether to sit in public or in private.(2)The Authority
shall have, for the purposes of discharging its functions under this Act, the
same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit, in respect of the following matters,
namely:—(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining
him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production of
documents;(c)receiving evidence on affidavits;(d)subject to the provisions of
sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872),
requisitioning any public record or document or copy of such record or
document from any office;(e)issuing commissions for the examination of
witnesses or documents;(f)reviewing its decisions;(g)dismissing a
representation for default or deciding it, ex parte;(h)setting aside any order
of dismissal of any representation for default or any order passed by it ex
parte; and(i)any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed
by the Central Government.

### 13. Financial and administrative powers of Chairperson.—

The Chairperson shall exercise such financial and administrative powers as may
be vested in him under the rules:Provided that the Chairperson shall have
authority to delegate such of his financial and administrative powers as he
may think fit to the Vice-Chairperson or any other officer subject to the
condition that the Vice-Chairperson or such other officer shall, while
exercising such delegated powers, continue to act under the direction, control
and supervision of the Chairperson.

### 14. Staff of Authority.—

(1)The Central Government shall determine the nature and categories of the
officers and other employees required to assist the Authority in the discharge
of its functions and provide the Authority with such officers and other
employees as it may think fit.(2)The officers and other employees of the
Authority shall discharge their functions under the general superintendence of
the Chairperson.(3)The salaries and allowances and conditions of service of
the officers and other employees shall be such as may be prescribed.

## Chapter IV  
Miscellaneous

### 15. Bar of jurisdiction.—

With effect from the date of establishment of the Authority, no civil court or
other authority shall have jurisdiction to entertain any appeal in respect of
any matter with which the Authority is so empowered by or under this Act.

### 16. Proceedings before the Authority to be judicial proceedings.—

All proceedings before the Authority shall be deemed to be judicial
proceedings within the meaning of sections 193, 219 and 228 of the Indian
Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 17. Members and staff of Authority to be public servants.—

The Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson and the Members and the officers and
other employees of the Authority shall be deemed to be public servants within
the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 18. Protection of action taken in good faith.—

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government or against the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson or a Member of the
Authority or any other person authorised by the Chairperson, the Vice-
Chairperson or a Member for anything which is in good faith done or intended
to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule or order made thereunder.

### 19. Penalty for failure to comply with orders of Authority.—

Whoever fails to comply with any order made by the Authority, he shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, or
with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees, or with both.

### 20. Offences by companies.—

(1)Where any offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was directly in charge of,
and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the
company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided
that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable
to any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he has exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent
or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of, any
director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director,
manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,—(a)“company” means
any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals;
and(b)“director”, in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 21. Power to remove difficulties.—

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear
to it to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty:Provided that
no such order shall be made after the expiry of the period of three years from
the date on which this Act receives the assent of the President.(2)Every order
made under this section shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid
before each House of Parliament.

### 22. Power to make rules.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out
the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:—(a)the procedure under sub-section (4) of
section 8 for the investigation of misbehaviour or incapacity of the
Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson or a Member;(b)the salaries and allowances
payable to and the other terms and conditions of service of the Chairperson,
the Vice-Chairperson and the Members under section 9;(c)the form which an
appeal shall contain under sub-section (1) of section 11;(d)financial and
administrative powers of the Chairperson under section 13;(e)the salaries and
allowances and conditions of service of the officers and other employees of
the Authority;(f)any other matter which is required to be, or may be,
prescribed.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule.

### 23. Repeal and saving.—

(1)The National Environment Appellate Authority Ordinance, 1997 (12 of 1997)
is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action
taken under the said Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken
under the corresponding provisions of this Act.

