## Union of India - Act

## The Oaths Act, 1969

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Oaths Act, 1969

## Act 44 of 1969

  * Published on 26 December 1969 
  * Commenced on 26 December 1969 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 December 1969.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Oaths Act, 1969(44 of 1969)Last Updated 30th December, 2019[26th December,
1969]An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to judicial oaths and
for certain other purposes.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Twentieth Year
of the Republic of India as follows:{||-|The Act has been extended to Sikkim
by S.O.529(E), dated 22.7.1983.|}

### 1. Short title and extent

(1)This Act may be called The Oaths Act , 1969.(2)It extends to the whole of
India [***] [The words 'except the State of Jammu and Kashmir' omitted by Act
34 of 2019, s. 95 and the Fifth Schedule (w.e.f. 31-10-2019)].

### 2. Saving of certain oaths and affirmations

.Nothing in this Act shall apply to proceedings before Courts-martial or to
oaths, affirmations or declarations prescribed by the Central Government with
respect to members of the Armed Forces of the Union.

### 3. Power to administer oaths

(1)The following Courts and persons shall have power to administer, by
themselves or, subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 6, by
an officer empowered by them in this behalf, oaths and affirmations in
discharge of the duties imposed or in exercise of the powers conferred upon
them by law, namely:(a)all Courts and persons having by law or consent of
parties authority to receive evidence;(b)the commanding officer of any
military, naval, or air force station or ship occupied by the Armed Forces of
the Union, provided that the oath or affirmation is administered within the
limits of the station.(2)Without prejudice to the powers conferred by sub-
section (1) or by or under any other law for the time being in force, any
Court, Judge, Magistrate or person may administer oaths and affirmations for
the purpose of affidavits, if empowered in this behalf(a)by the High Court, in
respect of affidavits for the purpose of judicial proceedings; or(b)by the
State Government, in respect of other affidavits.

### 4. Oaths or affirmations to be made by witnesses, interpreters and jurors

(1)Oaths or affirmations shall be made by the following persons, namely:(a)all
witnesses, that is to say, all persons who may lawfully be examined, or give,
or be required to give, evidence by or before any Court or person having by
law or consent of parties authority to examine such persons or to receive
evidence;(b)interpreters of questions put to, and evidence given by,
witnesses; and(c)jurors:Provided that, where the witness is a child under
twelve years of age, and the Court or person having authority to examine such
witness is of opinion that, though the witness understands the duty of
speaking the truth, he does not understand the nature of an oath or
affirmation, the foregoing provisions of this section and the provisions of
section 5 shall not apply to such witness; but in any such case the absence of
an oath or affirmation shall not render inadmissible any evidence given by
such witness nor affect the obligation of the witness to state the
truth.(2)Nothing in this section shall render it lawful to administer, in a
criminal proceeding, an oath or affirmation to the accused person, unless he
is examined as a witness for the defence, or necessary to administer to the
official interpreter of any Court, after he has entered on the execution of
the duties of his office, an oath or affirmation that he will faithfully
discharge those duties.

### 5. Affirmation by person desiring to affirm

.A witness, interpreter or juror may, instead of making an oath, make an
affirmation.

### 6. Forms of oaths and affirmations

(1)All oaths and affirmations made under section 4 shall be administered
according to such one of the forms given in the Schedule as may be appropriate
to the circumstances of the case:Provided that if a witness in any judicial
proceeding desires to give evidence on oath or solemn affirmation in any form
common amongst, or held binding by persons of the class to which he belongs,
and not repugnant to justice or decency, and not purporting to affect any
third person, the Court may, if it thinks fit, notwithstanding anything
hereinbefore contained, allow him to give evidence on such oath or
affirmation.(2)All such oaths and affirmations shall, in the case of all
Courts other than the Supreme Court and the High Courts, be administered by
the presiding officer of the Court himself, or, in the case of a Bench of
Judges or Magistrates, by any one of the Judges or Magistrates, as the case
may be.

### 7. Proceedings and evidence not invalidated by omission of oath or
irregularity

.No omission to take any oath or make any affirmation, no substitution of any
one for any other of them, and no irregularity whatever in the administration
of any oath or affirmation or in the form in which it is administered, shall
invalidate any proceeding or render inadmissible any evidence whatever, in or
in respect of which such omission, substitution or irregularity took place, or
shall affect the obligation of a witness to state the truth.

### 8. Persons giving evidence bound to state the truth

.Every person giving evidence on any subject before a Court or person hereby
authorised to administer oaths and affirmations shall be bound to state the
truth on such subject.

### 9. Repeal and saving

(1)The Indian Oaths Act, 1873 (10 of 1873), is hereby repealed.(2)Where, in
any proceeding pending at the commencement of this Act, the parties have
agreed to be bound by any such oath or affirmation as is specified in section
8 of the said Act, then, notwithstanding the repeal of the said Act, the
provisions of sections 9 to 12of the said Act shall continue to apply in
relation to such agreement as if this Act had not been passed.The Schedule(See
section 6)Forms of Oaths or AffirmationsForm No. 1(Witnesses):I dothat what I
shall state shall be the truth, the wholetruth and nothing but the truth.Form
No. 2 (Jurors):swear in the name of GodI dothat I will well and truly try and
true deliverancemake between the State and the prisoner(s) at the bar, whom I
shall have in charge, and a true verdict give according to the evidence.Form
No. 3 (Interpreters):swear in the name of GodI do that I will well and truly
interpret and explain allquestions put to and evidence given by witnesses and
translate correctly and accurately all documents given to me for
translation.Form No. 4 (Affidavits):I do that this is my name and signature
(or mark) and thatthe contents of this my affidavit are true.

