## Union of India - Act

## The Oil And Natural Gas Commission Act, 1959

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Oil And Natural Gas Commission Act, 1959

## Act 43 of 1959

  * Published on 18 September 1959 
  * Commenced on 18 September 1959 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 September 1959.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Repealed by The Oil And Natural Gas Commission (Transfer Of Undertaking And Repeal) Act,1993 (Act 65 of 1993) on 4 September 1993] 

The Oil And Natural Gas Commission Act, 1959ACT NO. 43 OF 1959

### 1351.

[18th September, 1959.]An Act to provide for the establishment of a Commission
for the development of petroleum resources and the production and sale of
petroleum and petroleum products produced by it and for matters connected
therewith.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Tenth Year of the Republic of
India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Oil and Natural Gas Commission Act, 1959.(2)It
extends to the whole of India [* * * *] [The words, "except the State of Jammu
and Kashmir" omitted by Act 38 of 1962].(3)It shall come into force on such
[date] [15th October, 1959, see Notification No. S. O. 2302, dated 14th
October, 1959, Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 1959, Pt. II, Section 3(ii),
p. 515. This Act came into force in Pondicherry on the 1st October, 1963, vide
Reg. 7 of 1963, Section 3 and Sch. I] as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Chairman" means the
chairman of the Commission(b)"Commission" means the Oil and Natural Gas
Commission established under section 3 ;(c)"existing Organisation" means the
body set up in pursuance of the resolution of the Government of India, No.
22/29/55-ONG, dated the 14th August, 1956 ;(d)"Fund" means the fund referred
to in section 19(e)"member" means a member of the Commission and includes the
chairman; (F) "petroleum" has the same meaning as in the Petroleum Act, 1934,
and includes natural gas; (30 of 1934).(g)"prescribed" means prescribed by
rules made under this Act.

15th October, 1959, see Notification No. S. O. 2303, dated 14th October.,
1959. Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 1059, Pt. 11, Section 3(ii), p. 515.  
---  
  
## Chapter II  
The Oil And Natural Gas Commission

### 3. Establishment and incorporation of the Commission.

(1)Establishment and incorporation of the Commission. With effect from such
date' as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint in this behalf, there shall be established a Commission to be called
the Oil and Natural Gas Commission.(2)The Commission shall be a body corporate
having perpetual succession and a common seal with power to acquire, hold and
dispose of property and to contract and shall by the said name sue and be
sued.

### 4. Composition of the Commission.

The Commission shall consist of a chairman and not less than two, and not more
than eight, other members appointed by the Central Government and the members
may be required to render whole-time or part-time service, as the Central
Government may direct ; Provided that one of the members shall be a whole-time
Finance Member in charge of the financial matters relating to the Commission
:Provided further that the Central Government may, if it thinks fit, appoint
one of the members as vice-chairman of the Commission.

### 5. Term of office and conditions of service of members.

(1)Term of office and conditions of service of members. The term of office and
conditions of service of the chairman and other members shall be such as may
be prescribed:[Provided that the Central Government may-(a)terminate the
appointment of any whole-time member, who is not a servant of the Government,
after giving him notice for a period of not less than three months or in lieu
thereof on payment of an amount equal to his salary and allowances, if any,
for a period of three months;(b)terminate the appointment of any part-time
member who is not a servant of the Government after giving him notice for such
period as may be prescribed; and(c)terminate at any time the appointment of
any member who is servant of the Government.](2)Any member may resign his
office by giving notice in writing [for such period as may be prescribed,]
[Inserted by Act 17 of 1981, Section 2] to the Central Government, and on such
resignation being notified in the Official Gazette by that Government, shall
be deemed to have vacated his office.(3)A casual vacancy created by the
resignation of a member under sub-section (2) or for any other reason may be
filled by fresh appointment,

### 6. Disqualifications for beining appointed, or for continuing, as member
of the Commission.

A person shall be disqualified for being appointed or for continuing as a
member, if he has, directly or indirectly, any interest in a subsisting
contract made with, or in any work being done for, the Commission.

### 7. Temporary absence of member.

If any member is by infirmity or otherwise rendered temporarily incapable of
carrying out his duties or is absent on leave or otherwise in circumstances
not involving the vacation of his appointment the Central Government may
appoint another person to act in his place during his absence.

### 8. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate acts and proceeding of the
Commission.

No act or proceeding of the Commission shall be invalid by reason only of the
existence of any vacancy among its members or any defect in, the constitution
thereof.

### 9. Meetings of the Commission.

(1)Meetings of the Commission. The Commission shall meet at such times and
places and shall, subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3),
observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at
its meetings (including the quorum at meetings) as may be provided by
regulations made under this Act.(2)The Chairman or, in his absence, the vice-
chairman, if any, or in the absence of the chairman and of the vice-chairman
if any, any member chosen by the members from among themselves, shall preside
at a meeting of the Commission.(3)All questions at a meeting of the Commission
shall be decided by a majority of the votes of the members present and voting,
and in the case of an equality of votes, the chairman or, in his absence, the
person presiding, shall have a second or casting vote :Provided that the
person presiding may in his discretion, reserve any matter for the
consideration of the Central Government.

### 10. Temporary association of persons with the commission for
particularpurpose.

(1)Temporary association of persons with the commission for particular
purpose. The Commission may associate with itself in such manner and for such
purposes, as may be provided by regulations made under this Act, any person
whose assistance or advice it may desire in performing any of its functions
under this Act.(2)A person associated with it by the Commission under sub-
section (1) for any purpose shall have a right to take part in the discussions
of the Commission relevant to that purpose, but shall not have a right to
,vote at a meeting of the Commission, and shall not be a member for any other
purpose.

### 11. Authentication of orders and other instruments of the Commission.

All orders and decisions of the Commission shall be authenticated by the
signature of the chairman or any other member authorised by the Commission in
this behalf, and all other instruments issued by the Commission shall be
authenticated by the signature of an officer of the Commission authorised in
like manner in this behalf.

### 12. Staff of the Commission.

(1)Staff of the Commission. Subject to the provisions of section 15, the
Commission may, for the purpose of enabling it efficiently to perform its
functions or exercise its powers under this Act, appoint such number of
employees as it may consider necessary (2) The functions and the terms and
conditions of service of such employees shall be such as may be provided by
regulations made under this Act.

### 13. Transfer of service of existing employees to the Commission.

(1)Transfer of service of existing employees to the Commission. Subject to the
provisions of this Act, every person employed by the existing Organisation
immediately before the date of establishment of the Commission shall, on and
from such date, become an employee of the Commission with such designation as
the Commission may determine and shall hold his office or service therein by
the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and
conditions as he would have held the same on such date if the Commission had
not been established and shall continue to do so unless and until his
employment in the Commission is terminated or until such tenure, remuneration
and terms and conditions are duly altered by the Commission Provided
that-(a)the tenure, remuneration and terms and conditions of service of any
such person shall not be altered to his disadvantage without the previous
approval of the Central Government;(b)any service rendered in the existing
Organisation by any such person shall be deemed to be service under the
Commission; and(c)all persons employed by the Commission on the date of its
establishment, who, immediately before such date, hold, in a permanent or
quasi-permanent capacity , posts in connection with the affairs of the Union
or of any State, but not posts in the existing Organisation, shall be treated
as Government servants on foreign service with the Commission.(2)The
Commission may employ any person who has become its employee under sub-section
(1), in such capacity as it thinks fit, and every such employee shall be bound
to discharge his functions accordingly.

## Chapter III  
Powers And Functions Of The Commission

### 14. Functions of the Commission.

(1)Functions of the Commission. Subject, to the provisions of this Act, the
functions of the Commission shall generally be to plan, promote, organise and
implement programmes for the development of petroleum resources and the
production and sale of petroleum and petroleum products produced by it and to
perform such functions as the Central Government may, from time to time,
assign to the Commission.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing provision, the Commission may take such steps as
it thinks fit-(a)for the carrying out of geological and geophysical surveys
for exploration of petroleum;(d)to undertake, assist or encourage and promote
the production to prove and estimate the reserves of petroleum;(c)to undertake
encourage and promote such other activities as may lead to the establishment
of such reserves;(d)to undertake, assist or encourage and promote the
production of petroleum from such reserves and its refining;(e)for the
transport and disposal of natural gas and refinery gases produced by the
Commission ;Provided that no industry, which will use any of these gases as a
raw materials shall be set up by the Commission without the previous approval
of the Central Government;(f)to undertake, encourage and, promote geological,
chemical and other scientific investigations whether in or outside the
laboratory ;(g)to undertake, assist or encourage the collection, maintenance
and publication of statistics, bulletins and monographs;(gg)[ to promoto and
from companies in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act, 1956
for any of the purposes aforesaid;] [Inserted by Act 38 of 1962, Section
3](h)to perform any other function which is supplemental, incidental or
consequential to any of the functions aforesaid or which may be prescribed.

### 15. Powers of the Commission.

The Commission may exercise all such powers as may be necessary or expedient
for the purpose of carrying out its functions under this Act :[Provided that
before exercising its powers in respect of the following matters, it shall
obtain the previous approval of the Central Government, namely: -(a)the
creation of any post, the salary or honorarium of which would either be more
than such amount as may be prescribed, or where no such amount has been
prescribed, more than rupees two thousand seven hundred and fifty or be on a
scale the maximum of which exceeds such amount as may be prescribed or where
no such amount has been prescribed, exceeds rupees two thousand seven hundred
and fifty, and the appointment of [any person other than the person referred
to in clause (aa) ] to any such post ;(aa)[ the employment, whether by fresh
appointment, re-employment, extension of service or otherwise, of any person
who has attained the age of fifty-eight years to a post, where the pay
(including pension and pensionary equivalent of retirement benefits) of the
post exceeds 2,500 rupees per mensem or where the minimum of the pay scale of
the post, proposed to be given to such person is 2,500 rupees or more per
mensem;] [Inserted by Act 38 of 1962, Section 3](b)the implementation of any
scheme or proposal which will involve a capital expenditure exceeding such
amount as may be prescribed, or where no such amount has been prescribed,
exceeding fifty lakhs of rupees;(c)the disposal of any property, right or
privilege the original or book value of which exceeds such amount as may be
prescribed, or where no such amount has been prescribed, exceeds ten lakhs of
rupees.]

## Chapter IV  
Finance, Accounts, Audit And Reports

### 16. Capital of the Commission.

(1)Capital of the Commission. All non-recurring expenditure incurred by the
Central Government for or in connection with the existing Organisation up to
the date of establishment of the Commission and declared to be capital
expenditure by that Government, shall be treated as capital expenditure
provided by that Government to the commission, and shall be brought into the
books of the Commission.(2)The Central Government may, after due appropriation
made by Parliament in this behalf, provide any further capital that may be
required by the Commission for the carrying on of the business of the
Commission or for any purpose connected therewith on such terms and conditions
as that Government may determine.

### 17. Vesting of property in the Commission.

All property acquired and all works constructed or under construction by or on
behalf of the Central Government for the purposes of the existing Organisation
up to the date of establishment,of the Commission shall, on such date, vest in
the Commission and all income derived and all expenditure incurred in this
behalf shall be brought into the books of the Commission.

### 18. Commission to have rights liabilities and obligations of the Central
Government in certain cases.

All rights, liabilities arid, obligations of the Central Government which,
whether arising out of any contract or otherwise, were acquired or incurred by
it in connection with the existing Organisation or for any of the purposes
referred to in this Act, before the date of establishment of the Commission
shall be deemed to have been acquired or incurred by the Commission and shall
be the rights, liabilities and obligations respectively of the Commission.

### 19. Fund of the Commission.

(1)Fund of the Commission. The Commission shall have its own Fund and all
receipts of the Commission, whether from grants made by the Central Government
or otherwise, shall be carried thereto and all payments by the Commission made
therefrom.(2)The Commission may expend such sums as it thinks fit for
performing its functions under this Act and such sums shall be treated as
expenditure payable out of the Fund.(3)All monies of the Commission shall be
deposited in the Reserve Bank of India or with the agents of that Bank [or in
a corresponding new bank constituted under the Banking Companies (Acquisition
and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 or in such other bank as may be
prescribed, or] [Substituted by Act 23 of 1977, Section 4, for certain words]
in a Government Treasury, or be invested in such securities as may be approved
by the Central Government.

### 20. Browing of money.

The Commission may, with the previous approval of the Central Government
borrow money in the open market or otherwise for the purposes of carrying out
its functions under this Act.

### 21. Budget.

(1)Budget.(a)The Commission shall, by such date in each year as may be
prescribed, submit to the Central Government for approval a budget in the
prescribed form for the next financial year, showing the estimated receipts
and expenditure, and the sums which would be required from the Central
Government, during that financial year.(b)If any sum granted by the Central
Government remains wholly or partly unspent in any financial year, the unspent
sum may be carried forward to the next financial year and taken into account
in determining the sum to be provided by the Central Government for that
year.(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), no sum shall be expended
by or on behalf of the Commission unless the expenditure is covered by
provision in the budget approved by the Central Government.(3)The Commission
may sanction any re-appropriation from one head of expenditure to another or
from a provision made for one scheme to that for another :Provided that,
except with the previous approval of the Central Government-(a)no re-
appropriation from the head "loan" to another head of expenditure and vice
versa in the budget shall be sanctioned by the Commission;(b)no re-
appropriation which has the effect of augmenting the provision under any head
of expenditure as approved by the Central Government by more than twenty per
cent [*] [The words "or seven and a half lakhs of rupees" whichever is less,
Omitted by Act 38 of 1962, Section 5.] shall be made.

### 22. Annual reports, accounts and audit.

(1)Annual reports, accounts and audit. The Commission shall maintain proper
accounts and other relevant records and prepare an annual statement of
accounts, including profit and loss account and balance sheet in accordance
with such general directions as may be issued, and in such form as may be
prescribed, by the Central Government in consultation with the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India.(2)The accounts of the Commission shall be audited
annually by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and any expenditure
incurred by him in connection with such audit shall be payable by the
Commission to the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.(3)The Comptroller
and Auditor-General of India and any person appointed by him in connection
with the audit of the accounts of the Commission shall have the same rights
and privileges and authority in connection with such audit as the Comptroller
and Auditor-General has in connection with the audit of Government accounts,
and in particular, shall have the right to demand the production of books,
accounts, connected vouchers and other documents and papers and to inspect any
of the offices of the Commission.(4)The accounts of the Commission as
certified by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India or any other person
appointed by him in this behalf, together with the audit report thereon, shall
be forwarded annually to the Central Government and that Government shall
cause the same to be laid before each House of Parliament.

### 23. Returns and reports.

(1)Returns and reports. The Commission shall furnish to the Central Government
at such time and in such form and in such manner, as may be prescribed or as
the Central Government may direct, such returns and statements and such
particulars in regard to any proposed or existing programme for the
development of petroleum resources and the production and sale of petroleum
and petroleum products produced by the Commission as the Central Government
may, from time to time, require.(2)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-
section (1), the Commission shall as soon as possible after the commencement
of each financial year, submit to the Central Government a report in such form
and before such date as may be prescribed, giving a true and full account of
its activities, policy and programme during the previous financial year and an
account of the activities likely to be undertaken during the current financial
year.(3)A copy of the report received under sub-section (2) shall be laid
before each House of Parliament.

## Chapter V  
Miscellaneous

### 24. [ Compulsory acquisition of land for the Commission, Any land
[Substituted by Act 19 of 1964, s, 2, for s, 24]

-required by the Commission for carrying out its functions under this Act shall be deemed to be needed for a public purpose and such land shall be acquired for the Commission under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894.] [Substituted by Act 38 of 1962, Section 3, for the proviso]

### 25. Power of entry.

Any employee of the Commission, generally or specially authorised by it, may
at all reasonable times enter upon any land or premises and there do such
things as may be reasonably necessary for the purpose of lawfully carrying out
any of its works or of making any survey, examination or investigation
preliminary or incidental to the exercise of powers or the performance of
functions by the Commission under this Act.

### 26. Deligation of powers and duties.

The Commission may, by general or special order in writing, direct that all or
any of the powers or duties which may be exercised or discharged by it shall,
in such circumstances and under such conditions, if any, as may be specified
in the order, be exercised or discharged also by any person specified in this
behalf in the order.

### 27. Members and employees of the Commission to be public servants.

All members and employees of the Commission, shall, when acting or purporting
to act in pursuance of the provisions of this Act, or of any rule or
regulation made thereunder, be deemed to be public servants within the meaning
of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.

### 28. Protection of action taken under Act.

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Commission or any member or employee of the Commission for anything which is
in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or of any
rule or regulation made thereunder.

### 29. Liability of Commission to pay taxes and fees.

The Commission shall be deemed to be a company within the meaning of any
enactment for the time being in force providing for the levy of any tax or fee
by the Central Government or a State Government and shall be liable to pay
such tax or fee accordingly.

### 30. Dissolution of the Commission.

(1)Dissolution of the Commission.The Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, direct that the Commission shall be dissolved from
such date as may be specified in the notification and thereupon the Commission
shall be deemed to be dissolved accordingly.(2)On and from the said
date-(a)all assets, liabilities and obligations acquired or incurred by the
Commission for purposes of the Commission or for any of the purposes referred
to in this Act shall vest in the Central Government, and(b)all members shall
vacate their offices as members of the Commission.

### 30A. [ Commission to comply with direction. [Inserted by Act 23 of 1977,
s, 5]

The Commission shall be bound by such directions, including directions
regarding reservation of posts for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
Tribes, as the Central Government may, from time to time, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, give to the Commission in respect of its affairs.]
[Substituted by Act 17 of 1981, Section 2, for the proviso.]

### 31. Power of Central Government to make rules.

(1)Power of Central Government to make rules. The Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make rules to give effect to the
provisions of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing provision, such rules may provide for all or any
of the following matters, namely : -(a)the term of office of, and the manner
of filling casual vacancies among, the members, and their conditions of
service including the salaries, remuneration and allowances to be paid to them
and the travelling and daily allowances to be drawn by them when they are on
tour;(b)the disqualifications for membership of the Commission and the
procedure to be followed in removing a member who is or becomes subject to any
disqualification;(c)the procedure to be followed in the discharge of functions
by members;(d)the date by which, and the form in which, the budget shall be
submitted in each year under sub-section (1) of section 21 (e) the procedure
to be followed for placing the Commission in possession of funds;(f)the
procedure to be followed and the conditions to be observed in borrowing moneys
or in granting loans;(g)the conditions subject to which, and the mode in
which, contracts may be entered into by or on behalf of the Commission ;(gl)[
the amount of salary, or honorarium, or the maximum of the scale of pay of any
post, the creation of which requires the previous approval of the Central
Government under section 15 ; [Inserted by Act 23 of 1977, Section 6.](g2)the
amount of capital expenditure in respect of any scheme or proposal the
implementation of which would require the previous approval of the Central
Government under section 15, or the original or book value of any property,
right or privilege the disposal of which would require such, approval;(g3)any
bank in which the monies of the Commission may be deposited as provided in
section 19 ;](h)the form and manner in which the accounts of the Commission
shall be maintained under sub-section (1) of section 22 ;(i)the form and
manner in which returns, reports or statements shall be submitted under
section 23 ;(j)any other matter which has to be, or may be,
prescribed.(3)Every rule made under this section shall be laid as soon as may
be after it is made before each House of Parliament while it is in session for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or [in two
or more successive sessions, and if before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid]
[Substituted by Act 23 of 1977, s. 6, for certain words], both Houses agree in
making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should
not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only ]in such modified form
or be of no effect, as the case may be; so however that any such modification
or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule.

### 32. Power of Commission to make regulations.Power of Commission to make
regulations.

(1)The Commission may, with the previous approval of the Central Government,
by notification in the Official Gazette, make regulations, not inconsistent
with this Act and the rules made thereunder, for enabling it to discharge its
functions under this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing provision, such regulations may provide for all or
any of the following matters, namely:-(a)the terms and conditions of
appointment and service and the scales of pay of-employees of the Commission,
including payment of travelling and daily allowances in respect of journeys
undertaken by such employees for the purposes of this Act ;(b)the time and
place of meetings of the Commission, the procedure to be followed in regard to
the transaction of business at such meetings and the quorum necessary for the
transaction of business at a meeting;(c)the maintenance of minutes of meetings
of the Commission and the transmission of copies thereof to the Central
Government ;(d)the persons by whom, and the manner in which payments, deposits
and investments may be made on behalf of the Commission;(e)the custody of
monies required for the current expenditure of the Commission and the
investment of monies not so required ;(f)the maintenance of accounts.(2A)The
power to make regulations conferred by this section with respect to terms and
conditions of appointment and service and the scales of pay of employees of
the Commission shall include power to give retrospective effect from a date
not earlier than the commencement of the Act, to such regulations or any of
them but no retrospective effect shall be given to any such regulation so as
to prejudicially affect the interests of any person to whom such regulations
may be applicable.](3)The Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, amend, vary or rescind any regulation which it has approved;
and thereupon the regulation shall have effect accordingly but without
prejudice to the exercise of the powers of the Commission under sub-section
(1).(4)[ Every regulation made under this section and every notifications
issued under sub-section (3) of this section shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made or issued, before each House of Parliament, while it is in
session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the regulation or
notification or both Houses agree that the regulation or notification should
not be made or issued, the regulation or notification shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that regulation or by virtue of
that notification.] [Inserted by Act 17 of 1981, Section 4.]

