## Union of India - Act

## The Public Gambling Act, 1867

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Public Gambling Act, 1867

## Act 3 of 1867

  * Published on 30 January 1952 
  * Commenced on 30 January 1952 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 January 1952.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Public Gambling Act, 1867(3 of 1867)

### 170.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The primary object of this Bill, which has
been prepared at the desire of the Lieutenant Governor of the North-Western
Provinces and of the Chief Commissioner of British Burmah, is to repress
public gambling in large towns situate in the territories respectively under
their governments, without, at the same time giving rise to oppression and
other malpractices on the part of the Police.In those territories, as the law
stands, persons cannot be prosecuted for gambling or - keeping gaming-houses
and can only be punished under the Indian Penal Code, section 290, if it can
be shown that their acts cause "common injury", danger and "annoyance to the
public". This, of course, is a matter of such difficulty that these persons
practically enjoy an immunity from punishment.The present Bill is founded on
sections 56-66 of the Towns Police Act No. XIII of 1856, which correspond with
sections 10-15 of the Act No. XXI of 1857. The Calcutta and Howrah Police and
Conservancy Act [now entitled "The Howrah Offences Act, 1857"]. These sections
10-15, have, in the form of rules, been for some years in force in Oudh, the
Central Provinces and the Punjab, and they have been found to work
satisfactorily. It is obviously desirable to convert these rules into express
legislative enactment, and this Bill, if it become law, will effect that
object. A similar Act has recently been passed by the Governor of Bombay in
Council under the present Bill, houses will only be searched by an Officer of
Police not below the rank of Inspector, and under the authority of a warrant
from a Magistrate with full powers.An Act to provide for the punishment of
public gambling and the keeping of common gaming-houses in the [United
Provinces, East Punjab, Delhi] [Substituted by A.O. 1948, for "North-Western
Provinces of the Presidency of Fort William, and in the Punjab, Oudh".] [and
the Central Provinces] [Substituted by Act 1 of 1903, for "the C.P. and
British Burma".].Preamble .Whereas it is expedient to make provision for the
punishment of public gambling and the keeping of common gaming-houses [in the
United Provinces, East Punjab, Delhi and the Central Provinces] [Substituted
by A.O. 1948, for "in the territories, respectively, subject to the
Governments of the Lieutenant-Governor of the North-Western Provinces of the
Presidency of Fort William and of the Lieutenant-Governor of the Punjab, and
to the administrations of the Chief Commissioner of Oudh, and of the Chief
Commissioner of the Central Provinces".];It is hereby enacted as follows:-

Short title given by the Amending Act, 1897 (5 of 1897).  
---  
  
[Himachal Pradesh].In the Preamble, after the words Central Provinces, insert
and Himachal PradeshH.P. (Application of Laws) Order, 1948, Cl. 3 and Sch.
(w.e.f. 25-12-1948).  
---  
  
### 1. Interpretation clause

.In this Act[- - -] [Definitions of [Lieutenant-Governor] and [Chief
Commissioner] repealed by A.O. 1937.]Common gaming-house .Common gaming-house
means any house, walled enclosure, room or place in which cards, dice, tables
or other instruments of gaming are kept or used for the profit or gain of the
person owning, occupying, using or keeping such house, enclosure, room or
place, whether by way of charge for the use of the instruments of gaming, or
of the house, enclosure, room or place or otherwise howsoever.[- - -] [The
Clauses relating to [Number] and [Gender] repealed by Act 17 of 1914, Section
3 and Sch.II.]

[Assam].Assam Game and Betting Act, 1970 (18 of 1970) extends this Act to the
whole of Assam, excluding the autonomous State of Meghalaya but including the
City of Shillong. Section 2 gives definition of bet; acceptance of bet;
Betting House; instruments of betting; records of betting; District
Magistrate; District Superintendent of Police; person; valuable security; the
Act and invitation for betting for the purposes of this Act in its application
to Assam.Assam Act 18 of 1970, Section 2.[Himachal Pradesh].In its application
to the State of Himachal Pradesh, in Section 1, substitute the following
definitions, namely:Gaming includes wagering or betting on any figures or
numbers or dates to be subsequently ascertained or disclosed, or on the
occurrence or non-occurrence of any natural event, or in any other manner
whatsoever except wagering or betting upon a horse race, when such wagering or
betting upon a horse race takes place:(a) on the day on which such race is to
be run, and(b) in an enclosure which the stewards controlling such race have,
with the sanction of the State Government, set apart for the purpose, but does
not include a lottery;Instrument of gaming includes any article used as a
means or an appurtenance of, or for the purpose, of carrying on or
facilitating gaming and any document used as a register or record or evidence
of any gaming and, in particular, satta papers, that is to say, any document
wherein may be recorded any words and/or figures evidencing bets and used or
intended to be used for in connection with gaming;Explanation.It any document
is recovered from the possession of any person containing words and, or
figures, whichprima facieappear to evidence bets, it shall be presumed that
the words and figures evidence bets and the document was used or intended to
be used for gaming unless the person aforesaid proves to the contrary;Common
gaming-house means any house or room or tent or enclosure or vehicle or vessel
or any place whatsoever in which any instruments of gaming are kept or used
for gaming purposes:(a) with a view to the profit or gain of any person
owning, occupying, or keeping such house, room, tent, enclosure, vehicle,
vessel or place whether by way of charge for the use of such house, room,
tent, enclosure, vehicle, vessel, place or instrument or otherwise
howsoever,(b) with or without a view to such profit or gain if the gaming for
the purpose of which such instruments are so kept or used in gaming on any
figures or numbers or dates to be subsequently ascertained or disclosed, or on
the occurrence or non-occurrence of any natural event.Himachal Pradesh Act 30
of 1976, Section 2.[Madhya Pradesh].In its application to the State of Madhya
Pradesh, in Section 1(1) before the definition of common gaming-house, insert
the following definitions, namely:Gaming includes wagering or betting but does
not include a lottery.Any transaction by which a person in any capacity
whatever employs another in any capacity whatever or engages for another in
any capacity whatever to wager or bet with another person shall be deemed to
be gaming.The collection or soliciting of bets receipt or distribution of
winnings or prizes in money or otherwise in respect of wagering or betting or
any act which is intended to aid or facilitate wagering or betting or such
collection, soliciting, receipt or distribution shall also be deemed to be
gaming andInstruments of gaming.The expression instruments of gaming includes
any article used or intended to be used as a subject or means of gaming, any
document used or intended to be used as a register or record or evidence of
any gaming the proceeds of any gaming and any winnings or prizes in money or
otherwise distributed or intended to be distributed in respect of any
gaming.(2) for the definition of common gaming-house, substitute the following
definition, namely:Common gaming-house means(i) in the case of gaming(a) on
the market price of cotton, opium or other commodity or on the digits of the
number used in stating such price, or(b) on the amount of variation in the
market price of any such commodity or on the digits of the number used in
stating the amount of such variation, or(c) on the market price of any stock
or share or on the digits of the number used in stating such price, or(d) on
the occurrence or non-occurrence of rain or other natural event, or(e) on the
quantity of rainfall or on the digits of the number used in stating such
quantity, any house, room, tent, enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel or any
place whatsoever in which such gaming takes place or in which instruments of
gaming are kept or used for such gaming.(ii) in the case of any other form of
gaming, any house, room, tent, enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel or any place
whatsoever in which any instruments of gaming are kept or used for the profit
or gain of the person owning, occupying, using or keeping such house, room,
tent, enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel, place or instrument or otherwise
howsoever.C.P. Act 3 of 1927, Section 2 and Madhya Pradesh Acts 12 of 1954,
Section 2 (w.e.f. 26-3-1954) and 23 of 1958, Section 3 and Sch.In its
application to the State of Madhya Pradesh, in Section 1, in the definition of
Common Gaming-House in Cl. (i),(a) in item (e), insert the word or at the end,
and(b) after item (e), insert the following item, namely:(f) on the digits or
figures or signs or symbols or pictures used in stating the opening, middle or
closing digits or figures or signs or symbols or pictures declared for or in
connection with Worli Matka Gaming or any other form of gaming.Madhya Pradesh
Act 47 of 1976, Section 2 (w.e.f. 6-10-1976).[Manipur].In its application to
the Union territory (now State) of Manipur, in Section 1,(i) after the word
enclosure, insert Tent, Space, Vehicle; and(ii) add the following definitions,
after the definition of common gaming-house, namely:Instrument of gaming
includes any article used as a means or appurtenance to or for the purpose of
carrying on or facilitating gaming,Gaming includes wagering or betting but
does not include a lottery.Note.Act as amended in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and
Madhya Pradesh, subject to certain modifications and restrictions, had been
extended to the Union territory of Manipur. Manipur is now a State and the
said amendments would continue to be in force thereat by virtue of section 77
of the Act 81 of 1971.S.R.O. 168, dated 30-1-1952, Gazette of India, dated
2-2-1952, Pt. II, Section 3, p. 149 and Act 81 of 1971, Section 3.[Punjab,
Haryana and Chandigarh].In its application to the State of Punjab, for the
definition of common gaming-house in Section 1, the following definitions
shall be deemed to be substituted, namely:Gaming includes wagering or betting
on any figures or numbers or dates to be subsequently ascertained or
disclosed, or on the occurrence or non-occurrence of any natural event, or in
any other manner whatsoever except wagering or betting upon a horse-race when
such wagering or betting upon a horse-race takes place(a) on the day on which
such race is to be run, and(b) in any enclosure which the stewards controlling
such race have with the sanction of the Provincial Government set apart for
the purpose, but does not include a lottery.Instrument of gaming includes any
article used as a means of appurtenance of, or for the purpose of carrying on
or facilitating gaming, and any document used as a register or record or
evidence of any gaming.Common gaming-house means any house or room or tent or
enclosure or vehicle or vessel or any place whatsoever in which any
instruments of gaming are kept or used for gaming purposes(a) with a view to
the profit or gain of any person owning, occupying or keeping such house,
room, tent, enclosure, vehicle, vessel, place whether by way of charge for the
use of such house, room, tent, enclosure, vehicle, vessel, place or instrument
or otherwise howsoever;(b) with or without a view to such profit or gain if
the gaming for the purpose of which such instruments are so kept or used in
gaming on any figures or numbers or dates to be subsequently ascertained or
disclosed, or on the occurrence or non-occurrence of any natural event.Punjab
Acts 1 of 1929, Section 3; 18 of 1958, Section 3 and Sch.; 9 of 1960, Section
2 (w.e.f. 28-1-1960) and Central Act 31 of 1966, Section 88.[Uttar Pradesh].In
its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh,(i) the definition of gaming is
same as that of Punjab. The definition of instruments of gaming is same as
that of Punjab, except the last words in that definition, namely, and any
document................. of any gaming which do not occur.Uttar Pradesh Act 1
of 1917, Section 2.(ii) in Section 1, for the definition of common gaming-
house substitute the following, namely:Common gaming-house means(1) in the
case of gaming on the digits of the sale price of any commodity, for example,
opium or cotton, or on the digits of papers or bales manipulated from within
jars or other receptacles, or on the occurrence or non-occurrence of any
natural event, for example, rainfall or the quantity of rainfall, any house,
room, tent, walled enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel or any place whatsoever
in which instruments of gaming are kept or used for such gaming;(2) in the
case of any other form of gaming, any house, room, tent, walled enclosure,
space, vehicle, vessel or any place whatsoever in which any instruments of
gaming are kept or used for the profit or gain of the person owning,
occupying, using or keeping such house, room, tent, enclosure, space, vehicle,
vessel or place whether by way of charge for the use of such house, room,
tent, enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel, place or instrument, or otherwise
howsoever.Uttar Pradesh Acts 1 of 1917, Section 2 and 1 of 1925, Section
2.(iii) in the definition of instruments of gaming, colon at the end shall be
deleted and the following shall be added and, in particular, satta papers,
that is to say, any document wherein may be recorded any words and/or figures
evidencing bets and used or intended to be used for or in connection with
gaming; and(iv) after the definition of instruments of gaming add the
following asExplanation.thereto,Explanation.If any document is recovered from
the possession of any person containing words and/or figures, whichprima
facieappear to evidence bets, it shall be presumed that the words and figures
evidence bets and the document was used or intended to be used for gaming,
unless the person aforesaid proves to the contrary.Uttar Pradesh Act 21 of
1961, Section 2 (w.e.f. 7-9-1961).  
---  
  
### 2. Power to extend Act

.[Sections 13 and 17] [Substituted by Act 12 of 1891, for "sections 13, 17 and
18".] of this Act shall extend to the whole of the [said States] [Substituted
by A.O. 1950, for "said Provinces".] and it shall be competent to the State
Government, whenever it may think fit, to extend, by a notification to be
published in three successive numbers of the Official Gazette, all or any of
the remaining sections of this Act to any city, town, suburb, railway,
station-house and place being not more than three miles distant from any part
of such station-house within the [States] [Substituted by A.O. 1950, for
"Provinces" which had been substituted by A.O. 1948, for "territories subject
to its Government or administration".], and in such notification to define,
for the purposes of this Act, the limits of such city, town, suburb or
station-house, and from time to time, to alter the limits so defined.From the
date of any such extension, so much of any rule having the force of law which
shall be in operation in the territories to which such extension shall have
been made, as shall be inconsistent with or repugnant to any section so
extended, shall cease to have effect in such territories.

[Assam].In its application to the State of Assam, for Section 2, substitute
the following section, namely:2\. The Act shall extend to the whole of Assam
excluding the autonomous State of Meghalaya but including the municipality of
Shillong.Assam Act 18 of 1970, Section 3 (w.e.f. 19-12-1970).[Himachal
Pradesh].In its application to the State of Himachal Pradesh, for the first
paragraph of Section 2, substitute the following paragraph, namely:Sections 13
and 17 of this Act shall extend to the whole of the State of Himachal Pradesh,
and it shall be competent to the State Government, whenever it may think fit,
to extend by a notification to be published in the Official Gazette, all or
any of the remaining sections, of this Act to any area within the territory of
Himachal Pradesh.Himachal Pradesh Act 30 of 1976, Section 3.[Madhya
Pradesh].In its application to the whole of the State of Madhya Pradesh, in
Section 2,(a) the words three successive numbers of shall be omitted.Madhya
Pradesh Act 25 of 1950, Section 2 (w.e.f. 3-11-1950).(b) for the words and
place being not more than three miles distant from any part of such station
house, substitute or local area.C.P. Act 3 of 1927, Section 3.(c) for the
words within the State, substitute within the Mahakoshal region.Madhya Pradesh
A.L.O., 1956.(d) for the words within the Mahakoshal region, substitute within
the State.Madhya Pradesh Act 23 of 1958, Section 3 and Sch.(e) for the words
or station-house, substitute a comma and the words station-house or local
area.C.P. Act 3 of 1927, Section 3.[Manipur].In its application to the Union
territory (now State) of Manipur, for the first paragraph of Section 2,
substitute the following paragraph, namely:Sections 13 and 17, as amended by
this notification, of this Act shall extend to the whole of Manipur and it
shall be competent to the Chief Commissioner whenever he may think fit to
extend, by notification to be published in three successive numbers of the
Official Gazette, all or any of the remaining sections of this Act to any
local area subject to his administration and in such notification to define,
for the purposes of this Act, limits of such area, and from time to time to
alter the limits so defined.S.R.O. 168, dated 30-1-1952, Gazette of India,
dated 2-2-1952, Pt. II, Section 3, p. 149.[Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh].In
its application to the State of Punjab, for the first paragraph of Section 2,
substitute the following paragraph, namely:Sections 13 and 17 of this Act
shall extend to the whole of the said territories, and it shall be competent
to the State Government whenever it may think fit, to extend, by notification,
all or any of the remaining sections of this Act to any area within the
territories administered by the State Government.Punjab Acts 1 of 1929,
Section 3; 18 of 1958, Section 3 and Sch. and Central Act 31 of 1966, Section
88.Sections 3, 4, 4-A, 5 to 11, 13-A, 13-B, 14, 15, 15-A, 15-B and 18 of the
said Act have been extended to the whole of Punjab.SeePunjab Gazette, dated
27-1-1964, Pt. III (L.S.), p. 121.[Uttar Pradesh].In its application to the
State of Uttar Pradesh, for the first paragraph of Section 2, substitute the
following paragraph, namely:Sections 13 and 17 of this Act shall extend to the
whole of the said territories, and it shall be competent to the State
Government whenever it may think fit, to extend, by a notification to be
published in the Official Gazette, all or any of the remaining sections of
this Act to any area within the Uttar Pradesh.Uttar Pradesh Act 5 of 1919,
Section 2.  
---  
  
### 3. Penalty for owning or keeping, or having charge of a gaming-house

.Whoever, being the owner or occupier, or having the use, of any house, walled
enclosure, room or place, situate within the limits to which this Act applies,
opens, keeps or uses the same as a common gaming-house; andwhoever, being the
owner or occupier of any such house, walled enclosure, room or place as
aforesaid, knowingly or wilfully permits the same to be opened, occupied, used
or kept by any other person as a common gaming-house; andwhoever has the care
or management of, or in any manner assists in conducting, the business of any
house, walled enclosure, room or place as aforesaid, opened, occupied, used or
kept for the purpose aforesaid; andwhoever advances or furnishes money for the
purpose of gaming with persons frequenting such house, walled enclosure, room
or place;shall be liable to a fine not exceeding two hundred rupees, or to
imprisonment of either [description,] [See Section 53 of the Indian Penal
Code.] as defined in the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), for any term not
exceeding three [months.] [As to enhanced punishment for a second conviction
of an offence under Section 3 or Section 4, see Section 15 of this Act.]

[Assam].In its application to the State of Assam, in Section 3, for the words
two hundred rupees, substitute five hundred rupees.Assam Act 18 of 1970,
Section 4 (w.e.f. 19-12-1970).[Himachal Pradesh].In its application to the
State of Himachal Pradesh, in Section 3, for the words house, walled
enclosure, room or place, substitute house, room, tent, enclosure, vehicle,
vessel or place.Himachal Pradesh Act 30 of 1976, Section 4.[Madhya Pradesh].In
its application to the State of Madhya Pradesh, in Section 3,(i) for the words
house, walled enclosure, room or place, substitute house, room, tent,
enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel or place.C.P. Act 3 of 1927, Section 4.(ii)
for the last paragraph, substitute the following, namely:shall be punished(a)
for a first offence with imprisonment which may extend to six months or with
fine which may extend to one thousand rupees;(b) for a second offence with
imprisonment which may extend to one year and, in the absence of special
reasons to the contrary to be mentioned in the judgment of the Court, shall
not be less than fourteen days, either with or without fine which may extend
to two thousand rupees; and(c) for a third or subsequent offence with
imprisonment which may extend to one year and, in the absence of special
reasons to the contrary to be mentioned in the judgment of the Court, shall
not be less than four months, together with fine which may extend to two
thousand rupees.C.P. Act 3 of 1927, Section 5 and Madhya Pradesh Act 25 of
1950, Section 3 (w.e.f. 3-11-1950).[Manipur].In its application to the State
of Manipur, in Section 3, after the words walled enclosure, insert tent,
space, vehicle.S.R.O. 168, dated 30-1-1952, Gazette of India, dated 2-2-1952,
Pt. II, Section 3, p. 149 and Act 81 of 1971, Section 3.[Punjab, Haryana and
Chandigarh].Same as that of Madhya Pradesh (i).Punjab Acts 1 of 1929, Section
4; 16 of 1958 and Central Act 31 of 1966, Section 88.[Uttar Pradesh].In its
application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, in Section 3,(i) for the words
house, walled enclosure, room or place, substitute house, room, tent, walled
enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel or place.Uttar Pradesh Act 1 of 1917,
Section 3.(ii) for the words two hundred rupees, substitute five hundred
rupees.Uttar Pradesh Act 34 of 1952, Section 2 (w.e.f. 5-12-1952).(iii) in
Section 3, delete the last paragraph and substitute therefor the following
paragraph, namely:shall be liable in case of first offence to fine not
exceeding five hundred rupees nor less than two hundred rupees and to rigorous
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months, and in the case of any
subsequent offence to a fine not exceeding two thousand rupees nor less than
five hundred rupees and to rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceeding
twelve months nor less than three months.Uttar Pradesh Act 21 of 1961, Section
3 (w.e.f. 7-9-1961).  
---  
  
### 4. Penalty for being found in gaming-house

.Whoever is found in any such house, walled enclosure, room or place playing
or gaming with cards, dice, counters, money or other instruments of gaming, or
is found there present for the purpose of gaming, whether playing for any
money, wager, stake or otherwise, shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one
hundred rupees, or to imprisonment of either [description,] [See Section 53 of
the Indian Penal Code.] as defined in the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), for
any term not exceeding one [month,] [As to enhanced punishment for a second
conviction of an offence under Section 3 or Section 4, see Section 15 of this
Act.]and any person found in any common gaming-house during any gaming or
playing therein shall be presumed, until the contrary be proved, to have been
there for the purpose of gaming.

[Himachal Pradesh].In its application to the State of Himachal Pradesh, in
Section 4, for the words house, walled enclosure, room or place, substitute
house, room, tent, enclosure, vehicle, vessel or place.Himachal Pradesh Act 30
of 1976, Section 4.[Madhya Pradesh].In its application to the State of Madhya
Pradesh, in Section 4,(i) for the words house, walled enclosure, room or
place, substitute house, room, tent, enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel or
place.C.P. Act 3 of 1927, Section 4.(ii) for the words one hundred rupees,
substitute five hundred rupees and for the words one month, substitute four
months.Madhya Pradesh Act 25 of 1950, Section 4 (w.e.f.
3-11-1950).[Manipur].Same as that of Madhya Pradesh (ii).S.R.O. 168, dated
30-1-1952, Gazette of India, dated 2-2-1952, Pt. II, Section 3, p.
149.[Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh].Same as that of Madhya Pradesh (i).Punjab
Acts 1 of 1929, Section 4; 18 of 1958, Section 3 and Sch. and Central Act 31
of 1966, Section 88.[Uttar Pradesh].In its application to the State of Uttar
Pradesh, in Section 4,(i) for the words house, walled enclosure, room or
place, substitute house, room, tent, walled enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel
or place.Uttar Pradesh Act 1 of 1917, Section 3.(ii) for the words one hundred
rupees, substitute three hundred rupees.Uttar Pradesh Act 34 of 1952, Section
3 (w.e.f. 5-12-1952).(iii) in Section 4, in the marginal note, between the
words found in and gaming-house, add or in the immediate vicinity
thereof;(iv)(a) in para. 1 of Section 4, between the words is found there
present and for the purpose of, add or in the immediate vicinity thereof;
and(b) words beginning with shall be liable to a fine and ending with
exceeding one month shall be deleted and the following shall be substituted
therefor:shall be liable in the case of a first offence to a fine not
exceeding three hundred rupees nor less than one hundred rupees or to rigorous
imprisonment for any term not exceeding one month, and in the case of any
subsequent offence to a fine not exceeding five hundred rupees nor less than
two hundred rupees and to rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months nor less than one month.(v) in para. 2, between the words common
gaming-house and during any gaming, add and any person found in the immediate
vicinity thereof with any instrument of gaming.Uttar Pradesh Act 21 of 1961,
Section 4 (w.e.f. 7-9-1961).  
---  
  
Section 4-A

[Himachal Pradesh].Same as that of Punjab.Himachal Pradesh Act 30 of 1976,
Section 4.[Madhya Pradesh].In its application to the State of Madhya Pradesh,
after Section 4, insert the following section, namely:4-A. Punishment for
printing or publishing digits, figures, signs, symbols or pictures relating to
worli matkas or other form of gaming.(1) Whoever prints or publishes in any
manner whatsoever any digits or figures or signs or symbols or pictures or
combination of any two or more of such digits or figures or signs or symbols
or pictures relating to Worli Matka or any other form of gaming under any
heading whatsoever or by adopting any form or device, or disseminates or
attempts to disseminate or abets dissemination of information relating to such
digits or figures or signs or symbols or pictures or combination of any two or
more of them shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six
months and with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.(2) Where any
person is accused of an offence under sub-section (1), any digits or figures
or signs or symbols or pictures or combinations of any two or more of such
digits or figures or signs or symbols or pictures in respect of which the
offence is alleged to have been committed shall be presumed to relate to Worli
Matka gaming or some other form of gaming unless the contrary is proved by
accused.Madhya Pradesh Act 47 of 1976, Section 3 (w.e.f. 6-10-1976).[Punjab,
Haryana and Chandigarh].In its application to the State of Punjab, after
Section 4, insert the following section, namely:4-A. Enhanced punishment if
offence under section 3 or 4 relates to gaming with figures, etc.Where an
offence committed by any person under section 3 or section 4 relates to gaming
on any figures or numbers or dates to be subsequently ascertained or
disclosed, such person shall, notwithstanding anything contained in those
sections,(a) in the case of an offence under section 3, be liable to fine not
exceeding one thousand rupees, or to imprisonment of either description for a
term not exceeding one year, or to both; and(b) in the case of an offence
under section 4, be liable to fine not exceeding five hundred rupees, or to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding six months, or to
both.Punjab Act 9 of 1960, Section 3 (w.e.f. 28-1-1960) and Central Act 31 of
1966, Section 88.  
---  
  
### 5. Power to enter and authorise police to enter and search

.If the Magistrate of a district or other officer invested with the full
powers of a Magistrate, or the District Superintendent of Police, upon
credible information, and after such enquiry as he may think necessary, has
reason to believe that any house, walled enclosure, room or place, is used as
a common gaming-house;he may either himself enter, or by his warrant authorise
any officer of police, not below such rank as the State Government shall
appoint in this behalf to enter with such assistance as may be found
necessary, by night or by day, and by force, if necessary, any such house,
walled enclosure, room or place;and may either himself take into custody, or
authorise such officer to take into custody, all persons whom he or such
officer finds therein, whether or not then actually gaming;and may seize or
authorise such officer to seize all instruments of gaming and all moneys and
securities for money, and articles of value, reasonably suspected to have been
used or intended to be used for the purpose of gaming, which are found
therein;and may search or authorise such officer to search all parts of the
house, walled enclosure, room or place which he or such officer shall have so
entered when he or such officer has reason to believe that any instruments of
gaming are concealed therein, and also the persons of those whom he or such
officer so takes into custody;and may seize or authorise such officer to seize
and take possession of all instruments of gaming found upon such search.

[Himachal Pradesh].In its application to the State of Himachal Pradesh, in
Section 5, for the words house, walled enclosure, room or place, substitute
house, room, tent, enclosure, vehicle, vessel or place.Himachal Pradesh Act 30
of 1976, Section 4.[Madhya Pradesh].In its application to the State of Madhya
Pradesh, in Section 5,(i) for the words house, walled enclosure, room or
place, substitute house, room, tent, enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel or
place.C.P. Act 3 of 1927, Section 4.(ii) in the first paragraph, after the
words or the District Superintendent of Police, insert or the Deputy or the
Assistant Superintendent of Police; and(iii) in the fourth paragraph, add at
the end the following words, namely:and also all moneys and securities for
money found on the person of such persons as are found playing or gaming or
found there present for the purpose of gaming within the meaning of section
4.Madhya Pradesh Acts 25 of 1950, Section 5 (w.e.f. 3-11-1950) and 23 of
1958.[Manipur].In its application to the State of Manipur, in Section 5, in
paragraph 1,(i) for the words Magistrate of a District, substitute District
Magistrate;(ii) after the words walled enclosure, insert tent, space,
vehicle,;(iii) same as that of Madhya Pradesh (iii).S.R.O. 168, dated
30-1-1952, Gazette of India, dated 2-2-1952, Pt. II, Section 3, p.
149.[Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh].Same as that of Madhya Pradesh (i).Punjab
Acts 1 of 1929, Section 4; 18 of 1958, Section 3 and Central Act 31 of 1966,
Section 88.[Uttar Pradesh].In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh,
in Section 5,(i) for the words house, walled enclosure, room or place,
substitute house, room, tent, walled enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel or
place.Uttar Pradesh Act 1 of 1917, Section 3.(ii) in para. 1, between the
words the District Superintendent of Police and the words upon credible
information, add or any police officer of gazetted rank especially empowered
in this behalf by the State Government;(iii) in para. 3, delete the semicolon
and add the following words at the end: and all persons found in the immediate
vicinity thereof with any instruments of gaming.Uttar Pradesh Act 21 of 1961,
Section 5 (w.e.f. 7-9-1961).  
---  
  
Section 5-A

[Madhya Pradesh].In its application to the State of Madhya Pradesh, after
Section 5, insert the following section, namely:5-A. Seizure of register,
record or writing.If the District Magistrate or the Additional District
Magistrate or a Police Officer not below the rank of Assistant Superintendent
of Police is of the opinion that any register, record or writing of any kind
whatsoever which contains digits or figures or signs or symbols or pictures or
combination of any two or more of such digits, figures, signs, symbols or
pictures relates to worli matka gaming or some other form of gaming, he shall
be entitled to seize the same and such register, record or writing shall be
presumed to be an instrument of gaming unless it is shown by the person from
whom it is seized that it is a register, record or writing of any transaction
in connection with a lawful trade industry, business, profession or vocation
of any lawful personal transaction of any person or it is otherwise not an
instrument of gaming.Madhya Pradesh Act 47 of 1976, Section 4 (w.e.f.
6-10-1976).  
---  
  
### 6. Finding cards, etc., in suspected houses, to be evidence that such
houses are common gaming-houses

.When any cards, dice, gaming tables, cloths, boards, or other instruments of
gaming are found in any house, walled enclosure, room or place, entered or
searched under the provisions of the last preceding section, or about the
person of any of those who are found therein, it shall be evidence, until the
contrary is made to appear, that such house, walled enclosure, room or place,
is used as a common gaming-house, and that the persons found therein were
there present for the purpose of gaming, although no play was actually seen by
the Magistrate or police officer, or any of his assistants.

[Himachal Pradesh].In its application to the State of Himachal Pradesh, in
Section 6, for the words house, walled enclosure, room or place, substitute
house, room, tent, enclosure, vehicle, vessel or place.Himachal Pradesh Act 30
of 1976, Section 4.[Madhya Pradesh].In its application to the State of Madhya
Pradesh, in Section 6, for the words house, walled enclosure, room or place,
substitute house, room, tent, enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel or place.C.P.
Act 3 of 1927, Section 4.[Manipur].Same as that of Madhya Pradesh.S.R.O. 168,
dated 30-1-1952, Gazette of India, dated 2-2-1952, Pt. II, Section 3, p.
149.[Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh].Same as that of Madhya Pradesh (i).Punjab
Acts 1 of 1929, Section 4; 18 of 1958, Section 3 and Central Act 31 of 1966,
Section 88.[Uttar Pradesh].In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh,
in Section 6,(i) for the words house, walled enclosure, room or place,
substitute house, room, tent, walled enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel or
place.Uttar Pradesh Act 1 of 1917, Section 3.(ii) between the words and comma
who are found therein, and the words it shall be evidence, add the words and
comma found in the immediate vicinity thereof.Uttar Pradesh Act 21 of 1961,
Section 6 (w.e.f. 7-9-1961).  
---  
  
### 7. Penalty on persons arrested for giving false name and addresses

.If any person found in any common gaming-house entered by any Magistrate or
officer of police under the provisions of this Act, upon being arrested, by
any such officer or upon being brought before any Magistrate, on being
required by such officer or Magistrate to give his name and address, shall
refuse or neglect to give the same, or shall give any false name or address,
he may, upon conviction before the same or any other Magistrate, be adjudged
to pay any penalty not exceeding five hundred rupees, together with such costs
as to such Magistrate shall appear reasonable, and on the non-payment of such
penalty and costs, or in the first instance, if to such Magistrate it shall
seem fit, may be imprisoned for any period not exceeding one month.

[Assam].In its application to the State of Assam, in Section 7, for the words
five hundred rupees, substitute one thousand rupees.Assam Act 18 of 1970,
Section 5 (w.e.f. 19-12-1970).[Madhya Pradesh].In its application to the State
of Madhya Pradesh, in Section 7, for the words five hundred rupees, substitute
one thousand rupees and for the words one month, substitute four months.Madhya
Pradesh Act 25 of 1950, Section 3 (w.e.f. 3-11-1950).[Manipur].Same as that of
Madhya Pradesh.S.R.O. 168, dated 30-1-1952, Gazette of India, dated 2-2-1952,
Pt. II, Section 3, p. 149.[Punjab].In its application to the State of Punjab,
in Section 7, for the words before the same or any other Magistrate,
substitute before any Judicial Magistrate.Punjab Act 25 of 1964, Section 2 and
Sch. (w.e.f. 2-10-1964).[Uttar Pradesh].In its application to the State of
Uttar Pradesh, in Section 7, between the words person found in and the words
any common gaming-house, add and commas or in the immediate vicinity of.Uttar
Pradesh Act 21 of 1961, Section 7 (w.e.f. 7-9-1961).  
---  
  
### 8. On conviction for keeping a gaming-house, instruments of gaming to be
destroyed

.On conviction of any person for keeping or using any such common gaming-
house, or being present therein for the purpose of gaming, the convicting
Magistrate may order all the instruments of gaming found therein to be
destroyed, and may also order all or any of the securities for money and other
articles seized, not being instruments of gaming, to be sold and converted
into money, and the proceeds thereof with all moneys seized therein to be
forfeited or, in his discretion, may order any part thereof to be returned to
the persons appearing to have been severally thereinto entitled.

[Uttar Pradesh].In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, in Section
8,(i) for the words may occurring between the word and and the words also
order, substitute shall;(ii) the words or, in his discretion, may order any
part thereof to be returned to the persons appearing to have been severally
thereinto entitled shall be deleted; and for semi colon, after forfeited,
substitute a full stop.Uttar Pradesh Act 21 of 1961, Section 8 (w.e.f.
7-9-1961).  
---  
  
### 9. Proof of playing for stakes unnecessary

.It shall not be necessary, in order to convict any person of keeping a common
gaming-house, or of being concerned in the management of any common gaming-
house, to prove that any person found playing at any game was playing for any
money, wager or stake.

### 10. Magistrate may require any person apprehended to be sworn and give
evidence

.It shall be lawful for the Magistrate before whom any persons shall be
brought, who have been found in any house, walled enclosure, room or place
entered under the provisions of this Act, to require any such persons to be
examined on oath or solemn affirmation and give evidence touching any unlawful
gaming in such house, walled enclosure, room or place, or touching any act
done for the purpose of preventing, obstructing or delaying the entry into
such house, walled enclosure, room or place or any part thereof, of any
Magistrate or officer authorised as aforesaid.No person so required to be
examined as a witness shall be excused from being so examined when brought
before such Magistrate as aforesaid, or from being so examined at any
subsequent time by or before the same or any other Magistrate, or by or before
any Court on any proceeding or trial in any ways relating to such unlawful
gaming or any such acts as aforesaid, or from answering any question put to
him touching the matters aforesaid, on the ground that his evidence will tend
to criminate himself.Any such person so required to be examined as a witness,
who refuses to make oath or take affirmation accordingly or to answer any such
question as aforesaid, shall be subject to be dealt with in all respects as
any person committing the offence described in section 178 or section 179 (as
the case may be) of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

[Himachal Pradesh].In its application to the State of Himachal Pradesh, in
Section 10, for the words house, walled enclosure, room or place, substitute
house, room, tent, enclosure, vehicle, vessel or place.Himachal Pradesh Act 30
of 1976, Section 4[Madhya Pradesh].In its application to the State of Madhya
Pradesh, in Section 10, for the words house, walled enclosure, room or place,
substitute house, room, tent, enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel or place.C.P.
Act 3 of 1927, Section 4.[Manipur].In its application to the State of Manipur,
in Section 10, after the words walled enclosure, insert tent, space,
vehicle.S.R.O. 168, dated 30-1-1952, Gazette of India, dated 2-2-1952, Pt. II,
Section 3, p. 149 and Act 81 of 1971, Section 3.[Punjab, Haryana and
Chandigarh].Same as that of Madhya Pradesh.Punjab Acts 1 of 1929, Section 4;
18 of 1958, Section 3 and Central Act 31 of 1966, Section 88.[Uttar
Pradesh].In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, in Section 10, for
the words house, walled enclosure, room or place, substitute house, room,
tent, walled enclosure, space, vehicle, vessel or place.Uttar Pradesh Act 1 of
1917, Section 3.  
---  
  
### 11. Witness indemnified

.Any person who shall have been concerned in gaming contrary to this Act, and
who shall be examined as a witness before a Magistrate on the trial of any
person for a breach of any of the provisions of this Act relating to gaming,
and who, upon such examination, shall, in the opinion of the Magistrate, make
true and faithful discovery, to the best of his knowledge, of all things as to
which he shall be so examined, shall thereupon receive from the said
Magistrate a certificate in writing to that effect and shall be freed from all
prosecutions under this Act for anything done before that time in respect of
such gaming.

### 12. Act not to apply to certain games

.Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this Act contained shall be held to
apply to any game of mere skill wherever played.

[Himachal Pradesh].In its application to the State of Himachal Pradesh,
Section 12 shall be deemed to be repealed.Himachal Pradesh Act 30 of 1976,
Section 6.[Manipur].Same as that of Uttar Pradesh.S.R.O. 168, dated 30-1-1952,
Gazette of India, dated 2-2-1952, Pt. II, Section 3, p. 149 and Act 81 of
1971, Section 3.[Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh].In its application to the
State of Punjab, Section 12 is repealed.Punjab Acts 1 of 1929, Section 5; 18
of 1958, Section 3 and Central Act 31 of 1966, Section 88.[Uttar Pradesh].In
its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, Section 12 is repealed.Uttar
Pradesh Act 1 of 1917, Section 4.  
---  
  
### 13. Gaming and setting birds and animals to fight in public streets

.A police officer may apprehend without warrant any person found playing for
money or other valuable thing, with cards, dice, counters or other instruments
of gaming, used in playing any game not being a game of mere skill, in any
public street, place or thoroughfare situated within the limits aforesaid,
orany person setting any birds or animals to fight in any public street,
place, or thoroughfare situated within the limits aforesaid, orany person
there present aiding and abetting such public fighting of birds and
animals.Such person when apprehended shall be brought without delay before a
Magistrate, and shall be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty rupees, or to
imprisonment, either simple or rigorous, for any term not exceeding one
calendar month;Destruction of instruments of gaming found in public streets
.And such police officer may seize all instruments of gaming found in such
public place or on the person of those whom he shall so arrest, and the
Magistrate may, on conviction of the offender, order such instruments to be
forthwith destroyed.

[Assam].In its application to the State of Assam, in Section 13, for the words
fifty rupees, substitute one hundred rupees.Assam Act 18 of 1970, Section 6
(w.e.f. 19-12-1970).[Himachal Pradesh].Same as that of Punjab.Himachal Pradesh
Act 30 of 1976, Section 7 (w.e.f. 5-8-1976).[Madhya Pradesh].In its
application to the State of Madhya Pradesh, in Section 13,(i) for the first
three paragraphs, substitute the following, namely:A Police Officer may
apprehend and search without warrant(a) any person found gaming or reasonably
suspected to be gaming in any public street, or thoroughfare, or in any place
to which the public have or are permitted to have access;(b) any person
setting any birds or animals to fight in any public street, thoroughfare, or
in any place to which the public have or are permitted to have access;(c) any
person there present aiding and abetting such public fighting of birds and
animals.Madhya Pradesh Act 12 of 1954, Section 3 (w.e.f. 26-3-1954).(ii) in
the fourth paragraph, for the words fifty rupees, substitute one hundred
rupees and for the words one calendar month, substitute four calendar months;
and(iii) in the fifth paragraph, after the words may seize, insert all moneys
and and after the words order such, insert moneys to be forfeited and
such.Madhya Pradesh Act 25 of 1950, Section 7 (w.e.f. 3-11-1950).[Manipur].In
its application to the State of Manipur, in Section 13, in para. 5, after the
words such police officer may seize, insert all birds and animals and and at
the end of the same paragraph, after the word destroyed, add such birds and
animals to be sold.S.R.O. 168, dated 30-1-1952, Gazette of India, dated
2-2-1952, Pt. II, Section 3, p. 149 and Act 81 of 1971, Section 3.[Punjab,
Haryana and Chandigarh].In its application to the State of Punjab, for Section
13, substitute the following sections, namely:13\. Penalty for gaming in
public street, etc.Whoever is found gaming in any public street, place or
thoroughfare or setting any bird or any animal to fight in any such street,
place or thoroughfare shall be punishable with fine not exceeding fifty rupees
or with imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding one
month.13-A. Enhanced punishment if offence under section 13 relates to gaming
with figures, etc.Where an offence committed by any person under section 13
relates to gaming on any figures or numbers or dates to be subsequently
ascertained or disclosed, such person shall, notwithstanding anything
contained in that section, be liable to fine not exceeding five hundred
rupees, or to imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding six
months, or to both.13-B. Power to arrest without warrant.Any police officer
may arrest without a warrant any person committing in his view any offence
made punishable by section 13 or section 13-A.Punjab Act 9 of 1960, Section 4
(w.e.f. 28-1-1960) and Central Act 31 of 1966, Section 88.[Uttar Pradesh].In
its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, in Section 13,(a) for the words
playing for money or other valuable thing with cards, dice, counters or other
instruments of gaming, used in playing any game not being a game of mere
skill, substitute gaming.Uttar Pradesh Act 1 of 1917, Section 5.(b) between
paras. 1 and 2, add the following new paragraph as follows:any person found in
any public street place or thoroughfare within the limits aforesaid with any
instruments of gaming, or;(c) for the words, in para. 2, or any person there
present aiding and abetting such public fighting of birds and animals,
substitute or any person there present making preparation for or aiding or
abetting such gaming or public fighting of birds or animals; and(d) in the
last para the semi-colon after the words shall be liable shall be deleted and
a dash substituted therefor and clauses (a) and (b) after the said words shall
be liable shall be deleted and the following substituted therefor:in the case
of a first offence to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty rupees nor
less than fifty rupees, or to rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceeding
one month, andin the case of any subsequent offence to a fine not exceeding
five hundred rupees nor less than one hundred rupees, and rigorous
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months nor less than one month.Uttar
Pradesh Act 21 of 1961, Section 9 (w.e.f. 7-9-1961).  
---  
  
Section 13-A

[Himachal Pradesh].In its application to the State of Himachal Pradesh, after
Section 13, insert the following section, namely:13-A. Enhanced punishment if
offence under section 13 relates to gaming with figures, etc.Where an offence
committed, by any person under section 13 relates to gaming on any figures or
numbers or dates to be subsequently ascertained or disclosed, such persons
shall, notwithstanding anything contained in that section, be liable to fine
not exceeding five hundred rupees, or to imprisonment of either description
for a term not exceeding six months, or to both.Himachal Pradesh Act 30 of
1976, Section 7 (w.e.f. 5-8-1976).[Uttar Pradesh].In its application to the
State of Uttar Pradesh, after Section 13, insert the following section,
namely:13-A. Exemption of games of mere skill.Nothing in this Act shall apply
to any game of mere skill, as distinguished from a game of chance or a game of
chance and skill combined, unless it is carried on in a common gaming-
house.Uttar Pradesh Act 10 of 1938, Section 2.  
---  
  
Section 13-B

[Himachal Pradesh].In its application to the State of Himachal Pradesh, after
Section 13-A, insert the following section, namely:13-B. Power to arrest
without warrant.Any police officer may arrest without a warrant any person
committing in his view any offence made punishable by section 13 or section
13-A.Himachal Pradesh Act 30 of 1976, Section 7 (w.e.f. 5-8-1976).  
---  
  
### 14. Offences by whom triable

.Offences punishable under this Act shall be triable by any Magistrate having
jurisdiction in the place where the offence is committed.But such Magistrate
shall be restrained within the limits of his jurisdiction under the [Code of
Criminal Procedure,] [Now see the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974).] as to the amount of fine or imprisonment he may inflict.

[Uttar Pradesh].In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, in Section
14, insert the following new paragraph between paras. 1 and 2, namely:Offences
under section 3 of this Act shall be non-bailable, anything contained to the
contrary in any other law notwithstanding.Uttar Pradesh Act 21 of 1961,
Section 10 (w.e.f. 7-9-1961).  
---  
  
Section 14-A

[Uttar Pradesh].In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, after
Section 14, insert the following section, namely:14-A. Compounding of
offences.An officer specially empowered in this behalf by the State Government
by notification may, subject to any general or special order of the State
Government in this behalf, compound any offence punishable under this Act,
either before or after the institution of the prosecution, on realisation of
such amount of composition fee as he thinks fit, not exceeding the maximum
amount of fine fixed for the offence; and where the offence is so
compounded(i) before the institution of the prosecution the offender shall not
be liable to prosecution for such offence and shall, if in custody, be set at
liberty;(ii) after the institution of the prosecution, the composition shall
amount to acquittal of the offender:Provided that nothing contained in this
section shall authorise the composition of any subsequent offence committed by
an offender who has once been convicted for any offence punishable under this
Act.Uttar Pradesh Act 35 of 1979, Section 6 (w.e.f. 21-12-1979).  
---  
  
### 15. Penalty for subsequent offence

.Whoever, having been convicted of an offence punishable under section 3 or
section 4 of this Act shall again be guilty of any offence punishable under
either of such sections, shall be subject for every such subsequent offence to
double the amount of punishment to which he would have been liable for the
first commission of an offence of the same description:Provided that he shall
not be liable in any case to a fine exceeding six hundred rupees, or to
imprisonment for a term exceeding one year.

[Himachal Pradesh].In its application to the State of Himachal Pradesh, for
Section 15, substitute the following section, namely:15\. Penalty for
subsequent offence under section 3.Whoever, having been convicted of an
offence punishable under section 3 shall again be convicted of any offence
punishable under that section shall be punished,(a) for a second offence with
imprisonment of either description which may extend to six months, or with a
fine which may extend to Rs. 1,000 or with both;(b) for a third or any
subsequent offence, with imprisonment of either description, which may extend
to one year, and in the absence of special reasons to the contrary to be
recorded in the judgment of the Court, shall not be less than one month,
together with a fine which may extend to Rs. 1,000.Himachal Pradesh Act 30 of
1976, Section 8 (w.e.f. 5-8-1976).[Madhya Pradesh].In its application to the
State of Madhya Pradesh, in Section 15, the words and figure section 3 or
shall be omitted.C.P. Act 3 of 1927, Section 7.[Punjab, Haryana and
Chandigarh].In its application to the State of Punjab, for Section 15,
substitute the following section, namely:15\. Penalty for subsequent offence
under section 3.Whoever, having been convicted of an offence punishable under
section 3 shall again be convicted of any offence punishable under that
section shall be punished(a) for a second offence with imprisonment of either
description which may extend to six months, or with a fine which may extend to
Rs. 1,000 or with both;(b) for a third or any subsequent offence, with
imprisonment of either description, which may extend to one year, and in the
absence of special reasons to the contrary to be recorded in the judgment of
the Court, shall not be less than one month, together with a fine which may
extend to Rs. 1,000.Punjab Acts 1 of 1929, Section 7; 18 of 1958, Section 3
and Central Act 31 of 1966, Section 88.[Uttar Pradesh].In its application to
the State of Uttar Pradesh, Section 15 shall be deleted.Uttar Pradesh Act 21
of 1961, Section 11 (w.e.f. 7-9-1961).  
---  
  
Sections 15-A and 15-B

[Himachal Pradesh].In its application to the State of Himachal Pradesh, after
Section 15, insert the following sections, namely:15-A. Penalty for subsequent
offence under section 4.Whoever, having been convicted of an offence
punishable under section 4 shall again be convicted of any offence punishable
under that section shall be liable for every such subsequent offence to double
the amount of punishment to which he would have been liable for the first
commission of an offence of the same description.15-B. Enhanced punishment for
subsequent offence under sections 4-A and 13-A.Whoever, having been convicted
of an offence punishable under section 4-A or section 13-A, is again convicted
of an offence punishable under either of those sections shall,(a) for a second
offence, be punished with not less than twice the punishment awarded to him on
his first conviction; and(b) for a third or any subsequent offence, be
punished with the punishment specified in clause (a):Provided that the
punishment under clause (b) shall not be less than imprisonment of either
description for six months.Himachal Pradesh Act 30 of 1976, Section 8 (w.e.f.
5-8-1976).[Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh].In its application to the State of
Punjab, after Section 15, insert the following sections, namely:15-A. Penalty
for subsequent offence under section 4.Whoever, having been convicted of an
offence punishable under section 4 shall again be convicted of any offence
punishable under that section shall be liable for every such subsequent
offence to double the amount of punishment to which he would have been liable
for the first commission of an offence of the same description.Punjab Acts 1
of 1929, Section 8; 18 of 1958, Section 3 and Central Act 31 of 1966, Section
88.15-B. Enhanced punishment for subsequent offence under sections 4-A and
13-A.Whoever, having been convicted of an offence punishable under section 4-A
or section 13-A, is again convicted of an offence punishable under either of
those sections shall,(a) for a second offence, be punished with not less than
twice the punishment awarded to him on his first conviction; and(b) for a
third or any subsequent offence, be punished with the punishment specified in
clause (a):Provided that the punishment under clause (b) shall not be less
than imprisonment of either description for six months.Punjab Acts 9 of 1960,
Section 5 (w.e.f. 28-1-1960) and Central Act 31 of 1966, Section 88.  
---  
  
### 16. Portion of fine may be paid to informer

.The Magistrate trying the case may direct any portion of any fine which shall
be levied under sections 3 and 4 of this Act, or any part of the moneys or
proceeds of articles seized and ordered to be forfeited under this Act, to be
paid to an informer.

### 17. Recovery and application of fines

.All fines imposed under this Act may be recovered in the manner prescribed by
section 61 of the [Code of Criminal Procedure,] [Now see the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).] [- - -] [The words "and such fines shall
(subject to the provisions contained in the last preceding section) be applied
as teh Lieutenant-Governor or Chief Commisssioner, as the case may be, shall
from time to time direct" repealed by A.O. 1937.].

[Manipur].In its application to the State of Manipur, in Section 17,
substitute the following section, namely:17.All fines imposed under this Act
may be recovered in the manner prescribed under the existing laws of the State
for the realisation of fines.S.R.O. 168, dated 30-1-1952, Gazette of India,
dated 2-2-1952, Pt. II, Section 3, p. 149 and Act 81 of 1971, Section 3.  
---  
  
### 18. Offences under this Act to be offences within the meaning of Penal
Code

.[Repealed by the Repealing Act, 1874 (16 of 1874), section 1 and Schedule,
Part I.]

[Himachal Pradesh].In its application to the State of Himachal Pradesh, after
Section 17, insert the following section, namely:18\. Repeal and
savings.Exemption of games of mere skill Nothing in this Act shall apply to
any game of mere skill wherever played. Himachal Pradesh Act 30 of 1976,
Section 9.[Manipur].Same as that of Punjab.S.R.O. 168, dated 30-1-1952,
Gazette of India, dated 2-2-1952, Pt. II, Section 3, p. 149 and Act 81 of
1971, Section 3.[Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh].In its application to the
State of Punjab, after Section 17, insert the following section, namely:18\.
Exemption of games of mere skill.Nothing in this Act shall apply to any game
of mere skill wherever played.Punjab Acts 1 of 1929, Section 9; 18 of 1958,
Section 3 and Central Act 31 of 1966, Section 88.  
---

