## Union of India - Act

## The Public Liability Insurance Act, 1991

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Public Liability Insurance Act, 1991

## Act 6 of 1991

  * Published in Gazette 6 on 22 January 1991 
  * Assented to on 22 January 1991 
  * Commenced on 22 January 1991 
  * [This is the version of this document as it was from 31 January 1992 to None.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Public Liability Insurance Act, 1991(6 of 1991)

### 070.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The growth of hazardous industries,
processes and operations in India has been accompanied by the growing risks
from accidents, not only to the workmen employed in such undertakings, but
also innocent members of the public who may be in the vicinity. Such accidents
lead to death and injury to human beings and other living beings and damage
private and public properties. Very often, the majority of the people affected
are from the economically weaker sections and suffer great hardships because
of delayed relief and compensation. While workers and employees of hazardous
installations are protected under separate laws, members of the public are not
assured of any relief except through long legal processes. Industrial units
seldom have the willingness to readily compensate the victims of accidents and
the only remedy now available for the victims is to go through prolonged
litigation in a Court of Law. Some units may not have the financial resources
to provide even minimum relief.2\. It is felt essential, therefore, to provide
for mandatory public liability insurance for installations handling hazardous
substances to provide minimum relief to the victims. Such an insurance, apart
from safeguarding the interests of the victims of accidents, would also
provide cover and enable the industry to discharge its liability to settle
large claims arising out of major accidents. If the objective of providing
immediate relief is to be achieved, the mandatory public liability insurance
should be on the principle of "no fault" liability as it is limited to only
relief on a limited scale. However, availability of immediate relief would not
prevent the victims to go to Courts for claiming larger compensation.Amendment
Act 11 of 1992-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Public Liability
Insurance Act, 1991 was enacted with the object of providing immediate relief
to the victims of accidents that might occur while handling hazardous
substances. The owner who has control over handling hazardous substances is
required under the Act to pay specified amounts to the victims as interim
relief based on no fault liability. It is mandatory for every owner handling
hazardous substances to take out insurance policies for the purpose.2\. The
aforesaid Act could not, however, be implemented on account of the insurance
companies not agreeing to give insurance policies for unlimited liability of
the owners. It was, therefore, felt that the liability of the insurance
companies should be limited to the amount of the insurance policy, though the
owner's liability shall continue to be unlimited under the Act. It was
considered appropriate to create an Environmental Relief Fund with the
additional money collected from the owners having control over handling of
hazardous substances. This fund would be used to meet the requirement of
providing immediate relief to the victims. The minimum and maximum limits of
the insurance amount in an insurance policy also needed to be specified for
ensuring payment of adequate relief. Certain definitions were also to be
suitably modified to make the meaning more explicit. It was felt necessary to
prevent any transfer of property by the owner in case he intended to do so for
evading his liability to pay compensation.3\. To achieve the above objective,
the Public Liability Insurance (Amendment) Ordinance, 1992, was promulgated by
the President on 31st January, 1992 as the owners handling hazardous
substances had to take insurance policies by 31st March, 1992.[22 nd January ,
1991]...An Act to provide for public liability insurance for the purpose of
providing immediate relief to the persons affected by accident occurring while
handling any hazardous substance and for matters connected therewith or
incidental thereto.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Forty-first Year of the
Republic of India as follows:

### 1. Short title and commencement

(1)This Act may be called The Public Liability Insurance Act , 1991.(2)It
shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions

.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)[ accident means an
accident involving a fortuitous or sudden or unintended occurrence while
handling any hazardous substance resulting in continuous or intermittent or
repeated exposure to death of, or injury to, any person or damage to any
property but does not include an accident by reason only of war or radio-
activity;] [Substituted by Act 11 of 1992, Section 2, for Clause (a)(w.r.e.f.
31.1.1992).](b)Collector means the Collector having jurisdiction over the area
in which the accident occurs;(c)handling, in relation to any hazardous
substance, means the manufacture, processing, treatment, package, storage,
transportation by vehicle, use, collection, destruction, conversion, offering
for sale, transfer or the like of such hazardous substance;(d)hazardous
substance means any substance or preparation which is defined as hazardous
substance under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (29 of 1986), and
exceeding such quantity as may be specified, by notification, by the Central
Government;(e)insurance means insurance against liability under sub-section
(1) of section 3;(f)notification means a notification published in the
Official Gazette;(g)[ owner means a person who owns, or has control over
handling any hazardous substance at the time of accident and includes,
[Substituted by Act 11 of 1992, Section 2, for Clause (g)(w.r.e.f.
31.1.1992).](i)in the case of a firm, any of its partners;(ii)in the case of
an association, any of its members; and(iii)in the case of a company, any of
its directors, managers, secretaries or other officers who is directly in
charge of, and is responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business
of the company;](h)prescribed means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(ha)[ Relief Fund means the Environmental Relief Fund established under
section 7-A;] [Inserted by Act 11 of 1992, Section 2 (w.r.e.f.
31.1.1992).](i)rules means rules made under this Act;(j)vehicle means any mode
of surface transport other than railways.

### 3. Liability to give relief in certain cases on principle of no fault

(1)Where death or injury to any person (other than a workman) or damage to any
property has resulted from an accident, the owner shall be liable to give such
relief as is specified in the Schedule for such death, injury or damage.(2)In
any claim for relief under sub-section (1) (hereinafter referred to in this
Act as claim for relief), the claimant shall not be required to plead and
establish that the death, injury or damage in respect of which the claim has
been made was due to any wrongful act, neglect or default of any
person.Explanation. For the purposes of this section,(i)workman has the
meaning assigned to it in the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923 (8 of
1923);(ii)injury includes permanent total or permanent partial disability or
sickness resulting out of an accident.

### 4. Duty of owner to take out insurance policies

(1)Every owner shall take out, before he starts handling any hazardous
substance, one or more insurance policies providing for contracts of insurance
whereby he is insured against liability to give relief under sub-section (1)
of section 3:Provided that any owner handling any hazardous substance
immediately before the commencement of this Act shall take out such insurance
policy or policies as soon as may be and in any case within a period of one
year from such commencement.(2)Every owner shall get the insurance policy,
referred to in sub-section (1), renewed from time to time before the expiry of
the period of validity thereof so that the insurance policies may remain in
force throughout the period during which such handling is continued.[(2-A) No
insurance policy taken out or renewed by an owner shall be for an amount less
than the amount of the paid-up capital of the undertaking handling any
hazardous substance and owned or controlled by that owner, and more than the
amount, not exceeding fifty crore rupees, as may be prescribed.Explanation.
For the purposes of this sub-section, paid-up capital means, in the case of an
owner not being a company, the market value of all assets and stocks of the
undertaking on the date of contract of insurance.(2-B) The liability of the
insurer under one insurance policy shall not exceed the amount specified in
the terms of the contract of insurance in that insurance policy.(2-C) Every
owner shall also, together with the amount of premium, pay to the insurer, for
being credited to the Relief Fund established under section 7-A, such further
amount, not exceeding the sum equivalent to the amount of premium, as may be
prescribed.(2-D) The insurer shall remit to the authority specified in sub-
section (3) of section 7-A the amount received from the owner under sub-
section (2-C) for being credited to the Relief Fund in such manner and within
such period as may be prescribed and where the insurer fails to so remit that
amount, it shall be recoverable from the insurer as arrears of land revenue or
of public demand.] [Inserted by Act 11 of 1992, Section 3 (w.r.e.f.
31.1.1992).](3)The Central Government may, by notification, exempt, from the
operation of sub-section (1), any owner, namely:(a)the Central
Government;(b)any State Government;(c)any corporation owned or controlled by
the Central Government or a State Government; or(d)any local
authority:Provided that no such order shall be made in relation to such owner
unless a fund has been established and is maintained by that owner in
accordance with the rules made in this behalf for meeting any liability under
sub-section (1) of section 3.

### 5. Verification and publication of accident by Collector

.Whenever it comes to the notice of the Collector that an accident has
occurred at any place within his jurisdiction, he shall verify the occurrence
of such accident and cause publicity to be given in such manner as he deems
fit for inviting applications under sub-section (1)of section 6.

### 6. Application for claim for relief

(1)An application for claim for relief may be made(a)by the person who has
sustained the injury;(b)by the owner of the property to which the damage has
been caused;(c)where death has resulted from the accident, by all or any of
the legal representatives of the deceased;or(d)by any agent duly authorised by
such person or owner of such property or all or any of the legal
representatives of the deceased, as the case may be:Provided that where all
the legal representatives of the deceased have not joined in any such
application for relief, the application shall be made on behalf of or for the
benefit of all the legal representatives of the deceased and the legal
representatives who have not so joined shall be impleaded as respondents to
the application.(2)Every application under sub-section (1) shall be made to
the Collector and shall be in such form, contain such particulars and shall be
accompanied by such documents as may be prescribed.(3)No application for
relief shall be entertained unless it is made within five years of the
occurrence of the accident.

### 7. Award of relief

(1)On receipt of an application under sub-section (1) of section 6, the
Collector shall, after giving notice of the application to the owner and after
giving the parties an opportunity of being heard, hold an inquiry into the
claim or, each of the claims, and may make an award determining the amount of
relief which appears to him to be just and specifying the person or persons to
whom such amount of relief shall be paid.(2)The Collector shall arrange to
deliver copies of the award to the parties concerned expeditiously and in any
case within a period of fifteen days from the date of the award.(3)[ When an
award is made under this section,(a)the insurer, who is required to pay any
amount in terms of such award and to the extent specified in sub-section (2-B)
of section 4, shall, within a period of thirty days of the date of
announcement of the award, deposit that amount in such manner as the Collector
may direct;(b)the Collector shall arrange to pay from the Relief Fund, in
terms of such award and in accordance with the scheme made under section 7-A,
to the person or persons referred to in sub-section (1) such amount as may be
specified in that scheme;(c)the owner shall, within such period, deposit such
amount in such manner as the Collector may direct.](4)In holding any inquiry
under sub-section (1), the Collector may, subject to any rules made in this
behalf, follow such summary procedure as he thinks fit.(5)The Collector shall
have all the powers of a Civil Court for the purpose of taking evidence on
oath and of enforcing the attendance of witnesses and of compelling the
discovery and production of documents and material objects and for such other
purposes as may be prescribed; and the Collector shall be deemed to be a Civil
Court for all the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).(6)Where the insurer or the owner against
whom the award is made under sub-section (1) fails to deposit the amount of
such award within the period specified under sub-section (3), such amount
shall be recoverable from the owner, or as the case may be, the insurer as
arrears of land revenue or of public demand.(7)A claim for relief in respect
of death of, or injury to, any person or damage to any property shall be
disposed of as expeditiously as possible and every endeavour shall be made to
dispose of such claim within three months of the receipt of the application
for relief under sub-section (1) of section 6.(8)[ Where an owner is likely to
remove or dispose of his property with the object of evading payment by him of
any amount of the award, the Collector may, in accordance with the provisions
of rules 1 to 4 of Order XXXIX of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), grant a temporary injunction to restrain such
act.] [Inserted by Act 11 of 1992, Section 4 (w.r.e.f. 31.1.1992).][7-A.
Establishment of Environmental Relief Fund [Inserted by Act 11 of 1992,
Section 5 (w.r.e.f. 31.1.1992).](1)The Central Government may, by
notification, establish a fund to be known as the Environmental Relief
Fund.(2)The Relief Fund shall be utilised for paying, in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and the scheme made under sub-section (3), relief under
the award made by the Collector under section 7.(3)The Central Government may,
by notification, make a scheme specifying the authority in which the Relief
Fund shall vest, the manner in which the Relief Fund shall be administered,
the form and the manner in which money shall be drawn from the Relief Fund and
for all other matters connected with or incidental to the administration of
the Relief Fund and the payment of relief therefrom.] [Substituted by Act 11
of 1992, Section 4, for sub-Section (3) (w.r.e.f. 31.1.1992).]

### 8. Provisions as to other right to claim compensation for death, etc

(1)The right to claim relief under sub-section (1) of section 3 in respect of
death of, or injury to, any person or damage to any property shall be in
addition to any other right to claim compensation in respect thereof under any
other law for the time being in force.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (1), where in respect of death of, or injury to, any person or
damage to any property, the owner, liable to give claim for relief, is also
liable to pay compensation under any other law, the amount of such
compensation shall be reduced by the amount of relief paid under this Act.

### 9. Power to call for information

.Any person authorised by the Central Government may, for the purposes of
ascertaining whether any requirements of this Act or of any rule or of any
direction given under this Act have been complied with, require any owner to
submit to that person such information as that person may reasonably think
necessary.

### 10. Power of entry and inspection

.Any person, authorised by the Central Government in this behalf, shall have a
right to enter, at all reasonable times with such assistance as he considers
necessary, any place, premises or vehicle, where hazardous substance is
handled for the purpose of determining whether any provisions of this Act or
of any rule or of any direction given under this Act is being or has been
complied with and such owner is bound to render all assistance to such person.

### 11. Power of search and seizure

(1)If a person, authorised by the Central Government in this behalf, has
reason to believe that handling of any hazardous substance is taking place in
any place, premises or vehicle, in contravention of sub-section (1) of section
4, he may enter into and search such place, premises or vehicle for such
handling of hazardous substances.(2)Where, as a result of any search under
sub-section (1) any handling of hazardous substance has been found in relation
to which contravention of sub-section (1) of section 4 has taken place, he may
seize such hazardous substance and other things which, in his opinion, will be
useful for, or relevant to, any proceeding under this Act:Provided that where
it is not practicable to seize any such substance or thing, he may serve on
the owner an order that the owner shall not remove, part with, or otherwise
deal with, the hazardous substance and such other things except with the
previous permission of that person.(3)He may, if he has reason to believe that
it is expedient so to do to prevent an accident dispose of the hazardous
substance seized under sub-section (2) immediately in such manner as he may
deem fit.(4)All expenses incurred by him in the disposal of hazardous
substances under sub-section (3) shall be recoverable from the owner as
arrears of land revenue or of public demand.

### 12. Power to give directions

.Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law but subject to the
provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, in exercise of its powers
and performance of its functions under this Act, issue such directions in
writing as it may deem fit for the purposes of this Act to any owner or any
person, officer, authority or agency and such owner, person, officer,
authority or agency shall be bound to comply with such directions.Explanation.
For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the power to issue
directions under this section includes the power to direct(a)prohibition or
regulation of the handling of any hazardous substance; or(b)stoppage or
regulation of the supply of electricity, water or any other service.

### 13. Power to make application to Courts for restraining owner from
handling hazardous substances

(1)If the Central Government or any person authorised by that Government in
this behalf has reason to believe that any owner has been handling any
hazardous substance in contravention of any of the provisions of this Act,
that Government or, as the case may be, that person may make an application to
a Court, not inferior to that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial
Magistrate of first class for restraining such owner from such handling.(2)On
receipt of the application under sub-section (1), the Court may make such
order as it deems fit.(3)Where under sub-section (2), the Court makes an order
restraining any owner from handling hazardous substance, it may, in that
order(a)direct such owner to desist from such handling;(b)authorise the
Central Government or, as the case may be, the person referred to in sub-
section (1), if the direction under clause (a) is not complied with by the
owner to whom such direction is issued, to implement the direction in such
manner as may be specified by the Court.(4)All expenses incurred by the
Central Government, or as the case may be, the person in implementing the
directions of Court under clause (b) of sub-section (3), shall be recoverable
from the owner as arrears of land revenue or of public demand.

### 14. Penalty for contravention of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) or
sub-section (2-A) or sub-section (2-C) of section 4 or failure to comply with
directions under section 12

(1)Whoever contravenes any of the provisions of [sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) or sub-section (2-A) or sub-section (2-C)] [Substituted by Act 11
of 1992, Section 6, for " sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)" (w.r.e.f.
31.1.1992).] of section 4 or fails to comply with any direction issued under
section 12, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall
not be less than one year and six months but which may extend to six years, or
with fine which shall not be less than one lakh rupees, or with
both.(2)Whoever, having already been convicted of an offence under sub-section
(1), is convicted for the second offence or any offence subsequent to the
second offence, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
shall not be less than two years but which may extend to seven years and with
fine which shall not be less than one lakh rupees.(3)Nothing contained in
section 360 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), or in the
Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 (20 of 1958), shall apply to a person
convicted of an offence under this Act unless such person is under eighteen
years of age.

### 15. Penalty for failure to comply with direction under section 9 or order
under section 11 or obstructing any person in discharge of his functions under
section 10 or 11

.If any owner fails to comply with direction issued under section 9 or fails
to comply with order issued under sub-section (2) of section 11, or obstructs
any person in discharge of his functions under section 10 or sub-section (1)
or sub-section (3) of section 11, he shall be punishable with imprisonment
which may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to ten
thousand rupees, or with both.

### 16. Offences by companies

(1)Where any offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was directly in charge of,
and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the
company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided
that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable
to any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent
or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of, any
director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director,
manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation. For the purposes of this section,(a)company means any
body corporate and includes a firm or other association of
individuals;(b)director, in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 17. Offences by Government Departments

.Where an offence under this Act has been committed by any Department of
Government, the Head of the Department shall be deemed to be guilty of the
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly:Provided that nothing contained in this section shall render such
Head of the Department liable to any punishment if he proves that the offence
was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.

### 18. Cognizance of offences

.No Court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act except on a
complaint made by(a)the Central Government or any authority or officer
authorised in this behalf by that Government; or(b)any person who has given
notice of not less than sixty days in the manner prescribed, of the alleged
offence and of his intention to make a complaint, to the Central Government or
the authority or officer authorised as aforesaid.

### 19. Power to delegate

.The Central Government may, by notification, delegate, subject to such
conditions and limitations as may be specified in the notification, such of
its powers and functions under this Act (except the power under section 23) as
it may deem necessary or expedient to any person (including any officer,
authority or other agency).

### 20. Protection of action taken in good faith

.No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Government or the person, officer, authority or other agency in respect of
anything which is done or intended to be done in good faith in pursuance of
this Act or the rules made or orders or directions issued thereunder.

### 21. Advisory Committee

(1)The Central Government may, from time to time, constitute an Advisory
Committee on the matters relating to the insurance policy under this
Act.(2)The Advisory Committee shall consist of(a)three officers representing
the Central Government;(b)two persons representing the insurers;(c)two persons
representing the owners; and(d)two persons from amongst the experts of
insurance or hazardous substances,to be appointed by the Central
Government.(3)The Chairman of the Advisory Committee shall be one of the
members representing the Central Government, nominated in this behalf by that
Government.

### 22. Effect of other laws

.The provisions of this Act and any rules made thereunder shall have effect
notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law.

### 23. Power to make rules

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, make [rules] [See the Public
Liability Insurance Rules, 1991.] for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:(a)[ the maximum amount for which an insurance policy may be taken out
by an owner under sub-section (2-A)of section 4; [Inserted by Act 11 of 1992,
Section 7 (w.r.e.f. 31.1.1992).](aa)the amount required to be paid by every
owner for being credited to the Relief Fund under sub-section (2-C) of section
4;(ab)the manner in which and the period within which the amount received from
the owner is required to be remitted by the insurer under sub-section (2-D) of
section 4;](ac)[] [Clause (a) relettered as Clause (ac) and before Clause (ac)
as so relettered, Cls (a) to (ab) inserted by Act 1 of 1992, Section 7
(w.r.e.f. 31.1.1992).] establishment and maintenance of fund under sub-section
(3) of section 4;(b)the form of application and the particulars to be given
therein and the documents to accompany such application under sub-section (2)
of section 6;(c)the procedure for holding an inquiry under sub-section (4) of
section 7;(d)the purposes for which the Collector shall have powers of a Civil
Court under sub-section (5) of section 7;(e)the manner in which notice of the
offence and of the intention to make a complaint to the Central Government
shall be given under clause (b) of section 18;(f)any other matter which is
required to be, or may be prescribed.(3)Every [rule or scheme] [Substituted by
Act 11 of 1992, Section 7, for "rule" (w.r.e.f. 31.1.1992).] made under this
Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may
be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the [rule or scheme] [Substituted by Act 11 of 1992, Section 7, for "rule"
(w.r.e.f. 31.1.1992).] or both Houses agree that the [rule or scheme]
[Substituted by Act 11 of 1992, Section 7, for "rule" (w.r.e.f. 31.1.1992).]
should not be made, the [rule or scheme] [Substituted by Act 11 of 1992,
Section 7, for "rule" (w.r.e.f. 31.1.1992).] shall thereafter have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done under that [rule or scheme] [Substituted
by Act 11 of 1992, Section 7, for "rule" (w.r.e.f. 31.1.1992).].The
ScheduleSee section 3(1)]...(i)Reimbursement of medical expenses incurred up
to a maximum of Rs. 12,500 in each case.(ii)For fatal accidents the relief
will be Rs. 25,000 per person in addition to reimbursement of medical
expenses, if any, incurred on the victim up to a maximum of Rs.
12,500.(iii)For permanent total or permanent partial disability or other
injury or sickness, the relief will be (a) reimbursement of medical expenses
incurred, if any, up to a maximum of Rs. 12,500 in each case and (b) cash
relief on the basis of percentage of disablement as certified by an authorised
physician. The relief for total permanent disability will be Rs.
25,000.(iv)For loss of wages due to temporary partial disability which reduces
the earning capacity of the victim, there will be a fixed monthly relief not
exceeding Rs. 1,000 per month upto a maximum of 3 months: provided the victim
has been hospitalised for a period exceeding 3 days and is above 16 years of
age.(v)Up to Rs. 6,000, depending on the actual damage, for any damage to
private property.

