## Union of India - Act

## The Persons With Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection Of Rights
And Full Participation) Act, 1995

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Persons With Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection Of Rights And
Full Participation) Act, 1995

## Act 1 of 1996

  * Published on 1 January 1996 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1996 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1996.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Persons With Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection Of Rights And
Full Participation) Act, 1995(1 OF 1996)

### 19.

/852Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The meeting to launch the Asian and
Pacific Decade of the Disabled Persons 1993-2002 convened by the Economic and
Social Commission for Asian and Pacific Region, held at Beijing on 1st to 5th
December, 1992, adopted the Proclamation on the Full Participation and
Equality of People with Disabilities in the Asian and the Pacific Region.
India is a signatory to the said Proclamation and it is necessary to enact a
suitable legislation to provide for the following:-(i) to spell out the
responsibility of the State towards the prevention of disabilities, protection
of rights, provision of medical care, education, training, employment and
rehabilitation of persons with disabilities;(ii) to create barrier free
environment for persons with disabilities;(iii) to remove any discrimination
against persons with disabilities in the sharing of development benefits, vis-
a-vis, non-disabled persons;(iv) to counteract any situation of the abuse and
the exploitation of persons with disabilities;(v) to lay down a strategies for
comprehensive development of programmes and services and equalisation of
opportunities for persons with disabilities; and(vi) to make special provision
for the integration of persons with disabilities into the social
mainstream.2\. Accordingly, it is proposed to provide inter alin for the
constitution of Co-ordination Committees and Executive Committees at the
Central and State levels to carry out the various functions assigned to them.
Within the limits of their economic capacity and development the appropriate
Governments and the local authorities will have to undertake various measures
for the prevention and early detection of disabilities, creation of barrier
free environment, provision for rehabilitation services, etc. The Bill also
provides for education, employment and vocational training, reservation in
identified posts, research and manpower development, establishment of homes
for persons with severe disabilities, etc. For effective implementation of the
provisions of the Bill, appointment of the Chief Commissioner for persons with
disabilities at the Central level and Commissioners for persons with
disabilities at the State level clothed with powers to monitor the funds
disbursed by the Central and State Governments and also to take steps to
safeguard the rights of the persons with disabilities is also envisaged.[1st
January, 1996]This Act Repealed by Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act,
2016An Act to give effect to the Proclamation on the Full Participation and
Equality of the People with Disabilities in the Asian and Pacific
Region.Whereas the Meeting to Launch the Asian and Pacific Decade of Disabled
Persons 1993-2002 convened by the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and
Pacific held at Beijing on 1st to 5th December, 1992, adopted the Proclamation
on the Full Participation and Equality of People with Disabilities in the
Asian and Pacific Region;And whereas India is a signatory to the said
Proclamation;And whereas it is considered necessary to implement the
Proclamation aforesaid.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Forty-sixth Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-

Brought into force on 7.2.1996 vide S.O. 107(E), dated 7.2.1996.  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The
Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full
Participation) Act, 1995.

(2)It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and
Kashmir.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government
may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"appropriate Government" means,-(i)in relation to the Central Government or
any establishment wholly or substantially financed by that Government, or a
Cantonment Board constituted under the Cantonment Act, 1924 (2 of 1924), the
Central Government;(ii)in relation to a State Government or any establishment
wholly or substantially financed by that Government, or any local authority,
other than a Cantonment Board, the State Government;(iii)in respect of the
Central Co-ordination Committee and the Central Executive Committee, the
Central Government;(iv)in respect of the State Co-ordination Committee and the
State Executive Committee, the State Government;(b)"blindness" refers to a
condition where a person suffers from any of the following conditions,
namely:-(i)total absence of sight; or(ii)visual acuity not exceeding 6/60 or
20/200 (snellen) in the better eye with correcting lenses; or(iii)limitation
of the field of vision subtending an angle of 20 degree or worse;(c)"Central
Co-ordination Committee" means the Central Co-ordination Committee constituted
under sub-section (1) of section 3;(d)"Central Executive Committee" means the
Central Executive Committee constituted under sub-section (1) of section
9;(e)"cerebral palsy" means a group of non-progressive conditions of a person
characterised by abnormal motor control posture resulting from brain insult or
injuries occurring in the pre-natal, peri-natal or infant period of
development;(f)"Chief Commissioner" means the Chief Commissioner appointed
under sub-section (1) of section 57;(g)"Commissioner" means the Commissioner
appointed under sub-section (1) of section 60;(h)"competent authority" means
the authority appointed under section 50;(i)"disability"
means-(i)blindness;(ii)low vision;(iii)leprosy-cured;(iv)hearing
impairment;(v)locomotor disability;(vi)mental retardation;(vii)mental
illness;(j)"employer" means,-(i)in relation to a Government, the authority
notified by the Head of the Department in this behalf or where no such
authority is notified, the Head of the Department; and(ii)in relation to an
establishment, the Chief Executive Officer of that
establishment;(k)"establishment" means a corporation established by or under a
Central, Provincial or State Act, or an authority or a body owned or
controlled or aided by the Government or a local authority or a Government
company as defined in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and
includes Departments of a Government;(l)"hearing impairment" means loss of
sixty decibels or more in the better year (sic) in the conversational range of
frequencies;(m)"institution for persons with disabilities" means an
institution for the reception, care, protection, education, training,
rehabilitation or any other service of persons with disabilities;(n)"leprosy
cured person" means any person who has been cured of leprosy but is suffering
from-(i)loss of sensation in hands or feet as well as loss of sensation and
paresis in the eye and eye-lid but with no manifest deformity,(ii)manifest
deformity and paresis but having sufficient mobility in their hands and feet
to enable them to engage in normal economic activity,(iii)extreme physical
deformity as well as advanced age which prevents him from undertaking any
gainful occupation, and the expression "leprosy cured" shall be construed
accordingly;(o)"locomotor disability" means disability of the bones, joints or
muscles leading to substantial restriction of the movement of the limbs or any
form of cerebral palsy;(p)"medical authority" means any hospital or
institution specified for the purposes of this Act by notification by the
appropriate Government;(q)"mental illness" means any mental disorder other
than mental retardation;(r)"mental retardation" means a condition of arrested
or incomplete development of mind of a person which is specially characterised
by subnormality of intelligence;(s)"notification" means a notification
published in the Official Gazette;(t)"person with disability" means a person
suffering from not less than forty per cent. of any disability as certified by
a medical authority;(u)"person with low vision" means a person with impairment
of visual functioning even after treatment or standard refractive correction
but who uses or is potentially capable of using vision for the planning or
execution of a task with appropriate assistive device;(v)"prescribed" means
prescribed by rules made under this Act;(w)"rehabilitation" refers to a
process aimed at enabling persons with disabilities to reach and maintain
their optimal physical, sensory, intellectual, psychiatric or social
functional levels;(x)"Special Employment Exchange" means any office or place
established and maintained by the Government for the collection and furnishing
of information, either by keeping of registers or otherwise,
respecting-(i)persons who seek to engage employees from amongst the persons
suffering from disabilities;(ii)persons with disability who seek
employment;(iii)vacancies to which person with disability seeking employment
may be appointed;(y)"State Co-ordination Committee" means the State Co-
ordination Committee constituted under sub-section (1) of section 13;(z)"State
Executive Committee" means the State Executive Committee constituted under
sub-section (1) of section 19.

## Chapter II  
The Central Co-Ordination Committee

### 3. Central Co-ordination Committee .-(1) The Central Government shall by
notification constitute a body to be known as the Central Co-ordination
Committee to exercise the powers conferred on, and to perform the functions
assigned to it, under this Act.

(2)The Central Co-ordination Committee shall consist of-(a)the Minister-in-
charge of the Department of Welfare in the Central Government, Chairperson, ex
officio ;(b)the Minister of State-in-charge of the Department of Welfare in
the Central Government, Vice-Chairperson, ex officio ;(c)Secretaries to the
Government of India in-charge of the Departments of Welfare, Education, Woman
and Child Development, Expenditure, Personnel, Training and Public Grievances,
Health, Rural Development, Industrial Development, Urban Affairs and
Employment, Science and Technology, Legal Affairs, Public Enterprises,
Members, ex officio ;(d)Chief Commissioner, Member, ex officio ;(e)Chairman
Railway Board, Member, ex officio ;(f)Director-General of Labour, Employment
and Training, Member, ex officio ;(g)Director, National Council for
Educational Research and Training, Member, ex officio ;(h)three Members of
Parliament, of whom two shall be elected by the House of the People and one by
the Council of States, Members;(i)three persons to be nominated by the Central
Government to represent the interests, which in the opinion of that Government
ought to be represented, Members;(j)Directors of the-(i)National Institute for
the Visually Handicapped, Dehradun;(ii)National Institute for the Mentally
Handicapped, Secunderabad;(iii)National Institute for the Orthopaedically
Handicapped, Calcutta;(iv)Ali Yavar Jung National Institute for the Hearing
Handicapped, Bombay, Members, ex officio ;(k)four Members to be nominated by
the Central Government by rotation to represent the States and the Union
territories in such manner as may be prescribed by the Central
Government:Provided that no appointment under this clause shall be made except
on the recommendation of the State Government or, as the case may be, the
Union territory;(l)five persons as far as practicable, being persons with
disabilities, to represent non-Governmental organisations or associations
which are concerned with disabilities, to be nominated by the Central
Government, one from each area of disability, Members:Provided that while
nominating persons under this clause, the Central Government shall nominate at
least one woman and one person belonging to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled
Tribes;(m)Joint Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of
Welfare dealing with the welfare of the handicapped, Member-Secretary, ex
officio .(3)The office of the Member of the Central Co-ordination Committee
shall not disqualify its holder for being chosen as or for being a Member of
either House of Parliament.

### 4. Term of office of Members .-(1) Save as otherwise provided by or under
this Act a Member of Central Co-ordination Committee nominated under clause
(i) or clause (l) of sub-section (2) of section 3 shall hold office for a term
of three years from the date of his nomination:

Provided that such a Member shall, notwithstanding the expiration of his term,
continue to hold office until his successor enters upon his office.(2)The term
of office of an ex officio Member shall come to an end as soon as he ceases to
hold the office by virtue of which he was so nominated.(3)The Central
Government may if it thinks fit remove any Member nominated under clause (i)
or clause (l) of sub-section (2) of section 3, before the expiry of his term
of office after giving him a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against
the same.(4)A Member nominated under clause (i) or clause (l) of sub-section
(2) of section 3 may at any time resign his office by writing under his hand
addressed to the Central Government and the seat of the said Member shall
thereupon become vacant.(5)A casual vacancy in the Central Co-ordination
Committee shall be filled by a fresh nomination and the person nominated to
fill the vacancy shall hold office only for the remainder of the term for
which the Member in whose place he was so nominated.(6)A Member nominated
under clause (i) or clause (l) of sub-section (2) of section 3 shall be
eligible for renomination.(7)Members nominated under clause (i) and clause (l)
of sub-section (2) of section 3 shall receive such allowances as may be
prescribed by the Central Government.

### 5. Disqualifications .-(1) No person shall be a Member of the Central Co-
ordination Committee, who-

(a)is, or at any time has been, adjudged insolvent or has suspended payment of
his debts or has compounded with his creditors, or(b)is of unsound mind and
stands so declared by a competent Court, or(c)is or has been convicted of an
offence which, in the opinion of the Central Government, involves moral
turpitude, or(d)is or at any time has been convicted of an offence under this
Act, or(e)has so abused in the opinion of the Central Government his position
as a Member as to render his continuance in the Central Co-ordination
Committee detrimental to the interests of the general public.(2)No order of
removal shall be made by the Central Government under this section unless the
Member concerned has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause
against the same.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or
sub-section (6) of section 4, a Member who has been removed under this section
shall not be eligible for renomination as a Member.

### 6. Vacation of seats by Members .-If a Member of the Central Co-ordination
Committee becomes subject to any of the disqualifications specified in section
5, his seat shall become vacant.

### 7. Meetings of the Central Co-ordination Committee .-The Central Co-
ordination Committee shall meet at least once in every six months and shall
observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at
its meetings as may be prescribed by the Central Government.

### 8. Functions of the Central Co-ordination Committee .-(1) Subject to the
provisions of this Act, the function of the Central Co-ordination Committee
shall be to serve as the national focal point on disability matters and
facilitate the continuous evolution of a comprehensive policy towards solving
the problems faced by persons with disabilities.

(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the
Central Co-ordination Committee may perform all or any of the following
functions, namely:-(a)review and co-ordinate the activities of all the
Departments of Government and other Governmental and non-Governmental
Organisations which are dealing with matters relating to persons with
disabilities;(b)develop a national policy to address issues faced by persons
with disabilities;(c)advise the Central Government on the formulation of
policies, programmes, legislation and projects with respect to
disability;(d)take up the cause of persons with disabilities with the
concerned authorities and the international organisations with a view to
provide for schemes and projects for the disabled in the national plans and
other programmes and policies evolved by the international agencies;(e)review
in consultation with the donor agencies their funding policies from the
perspective of their impact on persons with disabilities;(f)take such other
steps to ensure barrier-free environment in public places, work places, public
utilities, schools and other institutions;(g)monitor and evaluate the impact
of policies and programmes designed for achieving equality and full
participation of persons with disabilities;(h)to perform such other functions
as may be prescribed by the Central Government.

### 9. Central Executive Committee .-(1) The Central Government shall
constitute a Committee to be known as the Central Executive Committee to
perform the functions assigned to it under this Act.

(2)The Central Executive Committee shall consist of-(a)the Secretary to the
Government of India in the Ministry of Welfare, Chairperson, ex officio
;(b)the Chief Commissioner, Member, ex officio ;(c)the Director-General for
Health Services, Member, ex officio ;(d)the Director-General, Employment and
Training, Member, ex officio ;(e)six persons not below the rank of a Joint
Secretary to the Government of India, to represent the Ministries or
Departments of Rural Development, Education, Welfare, Personnel Public
Grievances and Pension and Urban Affairs and Employment, Science and
Technology, Members, ex officio ;(f)the Financial Advisor, Ministry of Welfare
in the Central Government, Member, ex officio ;(g)Advisor (Tariff) Railway
Board, Member, ex officio ;(h)four Members to be nominated by the Central
Government, by rotation, to represent the State Governments and the Union
territories in such manner as may be prescribed by the Central
Government;(i)one person to be nominated by the Central Government to
represent the interest, which in the opinion of the Central Government ought
to be represented, Member;(j)five persons, as far as practicable, being
persons with disabilities, to represent non-Governmental Organisations or
associations which are concerned with disabilities, to be nominated by the
Central Government, one from each area of disability, Members:-Provided that
while nominating persons under this clause, the Central Government shall
nominate at least one woman and one person belonging to Scheduled Castes or
Scheduled Tribes;(k)Joint Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry
of Welfare dealing with the welfare of the handicapped, Member-Secretary, ex
officio ;(3)Members nominated under clause (i) and clause (j) of sub-section
(2) shall receive such allowances as may be prescribed by the Central
Government.(4)A Member nominated under clause (i) and clause (j) of sub-
section (2) may at any time resign his office by writing under his hand
addressed to the Central Government and the seat of the said Member shall
thereupon become vacant.

### 10. Functions of the Central Executive Committee .-(1) The Central
Executive Committee shall be the executive body of the Central Co-ordination
Committee and shall be responsible for carrying out the decisions of the
Central Co-ordination Committee.

(2)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), the Central
Executive Committee shall also perform such other functions as may be
delegated to it by the Central Co-ordination Committee.

### 11. Meetings of the Central Executive Committee .-The Central Executive
Committee shall meet at least once in three months and shall observe such
rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at its meetings as
may be prescribed by the Central Government.

### 12. Temporary association of persons with Central Executive Committee for
particular purposes .-(1) The Central Executive Committee may associate with
itself in such manner and for such purposes as may be prescribed by the
Central Government any person whose assistance or advice it may desire to
obtain in performing any of its functions under this Act.

(2)A person associated with the Central Executive Committee under sub-section
(1) for any purpose shall have the right to take part in the discussions of
the Central Executive Committee relevant to that purpose, but shall not have a
right to vote at a meeting of the said Committee, and shall not be a Member
for any other purpose.(3)A person associated with the said Committee under
sub-section (1) for any purpose shall be paid such fees and allowances, for
attending its meetings and for attending to any other work of the said
Committee, as may be prescribed by the Central Government.

## Chapter III  
The State Co-Ordination Committee

### 13. State Co-ordination Committee .-(1) Every State Government shall, by
notification, constitute a body to be known as the State Co-ordination
Committee to exercise the powers conferred on, and to perform the function
assigned to it, under this Act.

(2)The State Co-ordination Committee shall consist of-(a)The Minister in-
charge of the Department of Social Welfare in the State Government,
Chairperson, ex officio ;(b)The Minister of State in-charge of the Department
of Social Welfare, if any, Vice-Chairperson, ex officio ;(c)Secretaries to the
State Government in-charge of the Departments of Welfare, Education, Woman and
Child Development, Expenditure, Personnel Training and Public Grievances,
Health, Rural Development, Industrial Development, Urban Affairs and
Employment, Science and Technology, Public Enterprises, by whatever name
called, Members, ex officio ;(d)Secretary of any other Department which the
State Government considers necessary, Member, ex officio ;(e)Chairman, Bureau
of Public Enterprises (by whatever name called) Member, ex officio ;(f)five
persons, as far as practicable, being persons with disabilities, to represent
non-Governmental Organisations or associations which are concerned with
disabilities, to be nominated by the State Government, one from each area of
disability, Members:Provided that while nominating persons under this clause,
the State Government shall nominate at least one woman and one person
belonging to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes;(g)three Members of State
Legislature, of whom two shall be elected by the Legislative Assembly and one
by the Legislative Council, if any;(h)three persons to be nominated by that
State Government to represent agriculture, industry or trade or any other
interest, which in the opinion of State Government ought to be represented,
Members, ex officio ;(i)the Commissioner, Member, ex officio ;(j)Secretary to
the State Government dealing with the welfare of the handicapped, Member-
Secretary, ex officio ;(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in this section,
no State Co-ordination Committee shall be constituted for a Union territory
and in relation to a Union territory, the Central Co-ordination Committee
shall exercise the functions and perform the functions of a State Co-
ordination Committee for the Union territory:Provided that in relation to a
Union territory, the Central Co-ordination Committee may delegate all or any
of its powers and functions under this sub-section to such person or body of
persons as the Central Government may specify.

### 14. Terms and conditions of service of Members .-(1) Save as otherwise
provided by or under this Act, a Member of a State Co-ordination Committee
nominated under clause (f) or clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 13
shall hold office for a term of three years from the date of his nomination:

Provided that such a Member shall, notwithstanding the expiration of his term,
continue to hold office until his successor enters upon his office.(2)The term
of office of an ex officio Member shall come to an end as soon as he ceases to
hold the office by virtue of which he was so nominated.(3)The State Government
may, if it thinks fit, remove any Member nominated under clause (f) or clause
(h) of sub-section (2) of section 13, before the expiry of his term of office
after giving him a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the
same.(4)A Member nominated under clause (f) or clause (h) of sub-section (2)
of section 13 may, at any time, resign his office by writing under his hand
addressed to the State Government and the seat of the said Member shall
thereupon become vacant.(5)A casual vacancy in the State Co-ordination
Committee shall be filled by a fresh nomination and the person nominated to
fill the vacancy shall hold office only for the remainder of the term for
which the Member in whose place he was so nominated.(6)A Member nominated
under clause (f) and clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 13 shall be
eligible for renomination.(7)Members nominated under clause (f) and clause (h)
of sub-section (2) of section 13 shall receive such allowances as may be
prescribed by the State Government.

### 15. Disqualifications .-(1) No person shall be a Member of the State Co-
ordination Committee, who-

(a)is, or at any time, has been adjudged insolvent or has suspended payment of
his debts or has compounded with his creditors, or(b)is of unsound mind and
stands so declared by a competent Court, or(c)is or has been convicted of an
offence which in the opinion of the State Government involves moral turpitude,
or(d)is or at any time has been convicted of an offence under this Act,
or(e)has so abused, in the opinion of the State Government, his position as a
Member as to render his continuance in the State Co-ordination Committee
detrimental to the interests of the general public.(2)No order of removal
shall be made by the State Government under this section unless the Member
concerned has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the
same.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub-section
(6) of section 14, a Member who has been removed under this section shall not
be eligible for renomination as a Member.

### 16. Vacation of seats .-If a Member of the State Co-ordination Committee
becomes subject to any of the disqualifications specified in section 15, his
seat shall become vacant.

### 17. Meetings of the State Co-ordination Committee .-The State Co-
ordination Committee shall meet at least once in every six months and shall
observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at
its meetings as may be prescribed.

### 18. Functions of the State Co-ordination Committee .-(1) Subject to the
provisions of this Act, the function of the State Co-ordination Committee
shall be to serve as the State focal point on disability matters and
facilitate the continuous evolution of a comprehensive policy towards solving
the problems faced by persons with disabilities.

(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
function the State Co-ordination Committee may, within the State, perform all
or any of the following functions, namely:-(a)review and co-ordinate the
activities of all the Departments of Government and other Governmental and
non-Governmental Organisations which are dealing with matters relating to
persons with disabilities;(b)develop a State policy to address issues faced by
persons with disabilities;(c)advise the State Government on the formulation of
policies, programmes, legislation and projects with respect to
disability;(d)review, in consultation with the donor agencies, their funding
policies from the perspective of their impact on persons with
disabilities;(e)take such other steps to ensure barrier-free environment in
public places, work places, public utilities, schools and other
institutions;(f)monitor and evaluate the impact of policies and programmes
designed for achieving equality and full participation of persons with
disabilities;(g)to perform such other functions as may be prescribed by the
State Government.

### 19\. State Executive Committee .-(1) The State Government shall constitute
a committee to be known as the State Executive Committee to perform the
functions assigned to it under this Act.

(2)The State Executive Committee shall consist of-(a)the Secretary, Department
of Social Welfare, Chairperson, ex officio ;(b)the Commissioner, Member, ex
officio ;(c)nine persons not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to the State
Government, to represent the Departments of the Health, Finance, Rural
Development, Education, Welfare, Personnel Public Grievances, Urban Affairs,
Labour and Employment, Science and Technology, Members, ex officio ;(d)one
person to be nominated by the State Government to represent the interest,
which in the opinion of the State Government ought to be represented,
Member;(e)five persons, as far as practicable being persons with disabilities,
to represent non-Governmental Organisations or associations which are
concerned with disabilities, to be nominated by the State Government, one from
each area of disability, Members:Provided that while nominating persons under
this clause, the State Government shall nominate at least one woman and one
person belonging to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes;(f)Joint Secretary
dealing with the disability division in the Department of Welfare, Member-
Secretary, ex officio .(3)Members nominated under clause (d) and clause (e) of
sub-section (2) shall receive such allowances as may be prescribed by the
State Government.(4)A Member nominated under clause (d) or clause (e) may at
any time resign his office by writing under his hand addressed to the State
Government and the seat of the said Member shall thereupon become vacant.

### 20. Functions of the State Executive Committee .-(1) The State Executive
Committee shall be the executive body of the State Co-ordination Committee and
shall be responsible for carrying out the decisions of the State Co-ordination
Committee.

(2)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), the State Executive
Committee shall also perform such other functions as may be delegated to it by
the State Co-ordination Committee.

### 21. Meetings of the State Executive Committee .-The State Executive
Committee shall meet at least once in three months and shall observe such
rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at its meetings as
may be prescribed by the State Government.

### 22. Temporary association of persons with State Executive Committee for
particular purposes .-(1) The State Executive Committee may associate with
itself in such manner and for such purposes as may be prescribed by the State
Government any person whose assistance or advice it may desire to obtain in
performing any of its functions under this Act.

(2)A person associated with the State Executive Committee under sub-section
(1) for any purpose shall have the right to take part in the discussions of
the State Executive Committee relevant to that purpose, but shall not have a
right to vote at a meeting of the said Committee, and shall not be a Member
for any other purpose.(3)A person associated with the said Committee under
sub-section (1) for any purpose shall be paid such fees and allowances, for
attending its meetings and for attending to any other work of the said
Committee, as may be prescribed by the State Government.

### 23. Power to give directions .-In the performance of its functions under
this Act,-

(a)the Central Co-ordination Committee shall be bound by such directions in
writing, as the Central Government may give to it; and(b)the State Co-
ordination Committee shall be bound by such directions in writing, as the
Central Co-ordination Committee or the State Government may give to
it:Provided that where a direction given by the State Government is
inconsistent with any direction given by the Central Co-ordination Committee,
the matter shall be referred to the Central Government for its decision.

### 24. Vacancies not to invalidate proceedings .-No act or proceeding of the
Central Co-ordination Committee, the Central Executive Committee, a State Co-
ordination Committee or a State Executive Committee shall be called in
question on the ground merely on the existence of any vacancy in or any defect
in the constitution of such Committees.

## Chapter IV  
Prevention And Early Detection Of Disabilities

### 25. Appropriate Governments and local authorities to take certain steps
for the prevention of occurrence of disabilities .-Within the limits of their
economic capacity and development, the appropriate Governments and the local
authorities, with a view to preventing the occurrence of disabilities, shall-

(a)undertake or cause to be undertaken surveys, investigations and research
concerning the cause of occurrence of disabilities;(b)promote various methods
of preventing disabilities;(c)screen all the children at least once in a year
for the purpose of identifying "at-risk" cases;(d)provide facilities for
training to the staff at the primary health centres;(e)sponsor or cause to be
sponsored awareness campaigns and disseminate or cause to be disseminated
information for general hygiene, health and sanitation;(f)take measures for
pre-natal, peri-natal and post-natal care of mother and child;(g)educate the
public through the pre-schools, schools, primary health centres, village level
workers and anganwadi workers;(h)create awareness amongst the masses through
television, radio and other mass media on the causes of disabilities and the
preventive measures to be adopted.

## Chapter V  
Education

### 26. Appropriate Governments and local authorities to provide children with
disabilities free education, etc .-The appropriate Governments and the local
authorities shall-

(a)ensure that every child with a disability has access to free education in
an appropriate environment till he attains the age of eighteen
years;(b)endeavour to promote the integration of students with disabilities in
the normal schools;(c)promote setting up of special schools in Government and
private sector for those in need of special education, in such a manner that
children with disabilities living in any part of the country have access to
such schools;(d)endeavour to equip the special schools for children with
disabilities with vocational training facilities.

### 27. Appropriate Governments and local authorities to make schemes and
programmes for non-formal education, etc .-The appropriate Governments and the
local authorities shall by notification make schemes for-

(a)conducting part-time classes in respect of children with disabilities who
having completed education up to class fifth and could not continue their
studies on a whole-time basis;(b)conducting special part-time classes for
providing functional literacy for children in the age group of sixteen and
above;(c)imparting non-formal education by utilizing the available manpower in
rural areas after giving them appropriate orientation;(d)imparting education
through open schools or open universities;(e)conducting class and discussions
through interactive electronic or other media;(f)providing every child with
disability free of cost special books and equipments needed for his education.

### 28. Research for designing and developing new assistive devices, teaching
aids, etc .-The appropriate Governments shall initiate or cause to be
initiated research by official and non-Governmental agencies for the purpose
of designing and developing new assistive devices, teaching aids, special
teaching materials or such other items as are necessary to give a child with
disability equal opportunities in education.

### 29. Appropriate Governments to set up teachers' training institutions to
develop trained manpower for schools for children with disabilities .-The
appropriate Governments shall set up adequate number of teachers' training
institutions and assist the national institutes and other voluntary
organisations to develop teachers' training programmes specialising in
disabilities so that requisite trained manpower is available for special
schools and integrated schools for children with disabilities.

### 30. Appropriate Governments to prepare a comprehensive education scheme
providing for transport facilities, supply of books, etc .-Without prejudice
to the foregoing provisions, the appropriate Governments shall by notification
prepare a comprehensive education scheme which shall make provision for-

(a)transport facilities to the children with disabilities or in the
alternative financial incentives to parents or guardians to enable their
children with disabilities to attend schools;(b)the removal of architectural
barriers from schools, colleges or other institutions imparting vocational and
professional training;(c)the supply of books, uniforms and other materials to
children with disabilities attending school;(d)the grant of scholarship to
students with disabilities;(e)setting up of appropriate fora for the redressal
of grievances of parents regarding the placement of their children with
disabilities;(f)suitable modification in the examination system to eliminate
purely mathematical questions for the benefit of blind students and students
with low vision;(g)restructuring of curriculum for the benefit of children
with disabilities;(h)restructuring the curriculum for benefit of students with
hearing impairment to facilitate them to take only one language as part of
their curriculum.

### 31. Educational institutions to provide amanuensis to students with visual
handicap .-All educational institutions shall provide or cause to be provided
amanuensis to blind students and students with low vision.

## Chapter VI  
Employment

### 32. Identification of posts which can be reserved for persons with
disabilities .-Appropriate Governments shall-

(a)identify posts, in the establishments, which can be reserved for the
persons with disability;(b)at periodical intervals not exceeding three years,
review the list of posts identified and up-date the list taking into
consideration the developments in technology.

### 33. Reservation of posts .-Every appropriate Government shall appoint in
every establishment such percentage of vacancies not less than three per cent.
for persons or class of persons with disability of which one per cent. each
shall be reserved for persons suffering from-

(i)blindness or low vision;(ii)hearing impairment;(iii)locomotor disability or
cerebral palsy, in the posts identified for each disability:Provided that the
appropriate Government may, having regard to the type of work carried on in
any department or establishment, by notification subject to such conditions,
if any, as may be specified in such notification, exempt any establishment
from the provisions of this section.

### 34. Special Employment Exchange .-(1) The appropriate Government may, by
notification, require that from such date as may be specified, by
notification, the employer in every establishment shall furnish such
information or return as may be prescribed in relation to vacancies appointed
for persons with disability that have occurred or are about to occur in that
establishment to such Special Employment Exchange as may be prescribed and the
establishment shall thereupon comply with such requisition.

(2)The form in which and the intervals of time for which information or
returns shall be furnished and the particulars they shall contain, shall be
such as may be prescribed.

### 35. Power to inspect record or document in possession of any establishment
.-Any person authorised by the Special Employment Exchange in writing, shall
have access to any relevant record or document in the possession of any
establishment and may enter at any reasonable time any premises where he
believes such record or document to be, and inspect or take copies of relevant
records or documents or ask any question necessary for obtaining any
information.

### 36. Vacancies not filled up to be carried forward .-Where in any
recruitment year any vacancy under section 33 cannot be filled up due to non-
availability of a suitable person with disability or, for any other sufficient
reason, such vacancy shall be carried forward in the succeeding recruitment
year and if in the succeeding recruitment year also suitable person with
disability is not available, it may first be filled by interchange among the
three categories and only when there is no person with disability available
for the post in that year, the employer shall fill up the vacancy by
appointment of a person, other than a person with disability:

Provided that if the nature of vacancies in an establishment is such that a
given category of person cannot be employed, the vacancies may be interchanged
among the three categories with the prior approval of the appropriate
Government.

### 37. Employers to maintain records .-(1) Every employer shall maintain such
record in relation to the person with disability employed in his establishment
in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed by the appropriate
Government.

(2)The records maintained under sub-section (1) shall be open to inspection at
all reasonable hours by such persons as may be authorised in this behalf by
general or special order by the appropriate Government.

### 38. Schemes for ensuring employment of persons with disabilities .-(1) The
appropriate Governments and local authorities shall by notification formulate
schemes for ensuring employment of persons with disabilities, and such schemes
may provide for-

(a)the training and welfare of persons with disabilities;(b)the relaxation of
upper age limit;(c)regulating the employment;(d)health and safety measures and
creation of a non-handicapping environment in places where persons with
disabilities are employed;(e)the manner in which and the persons by whom the
cost of operating the schemes is to be defrayed; and(f)constituting the
authority responsible for the administration of the scheme.

### 39. All educational institutions to reserve seats for persons with
disabilities .-All Government educational institutions and other educational
institutions receiving aid from the Government, shall reserve not less than
three per cent. seats for persons with disabilities.

### 40. Vacancies to be reserved in poverty alleviation schemes .-The
appropriate Governments and local authorities shall reserve not less than
three per cent. in all poverty alleviation schemes for the benefit of persons
with disabilities.

### 41. Incentives to employers to ensure five per cent. of the work force is
composed of persons with disabilities .-The appropriate Governments and the
local authorities shall, within the limits of their economic capacity and
development, provide incentives to employers both in public and private
sectors to ensure that at least five per cent. of their work force is composed
of persons with disabilities.

## Chapter VII  
Affirmative Action

### 42. Aids and appliances to persons with disabilities .-The appropriate
Governments shall by notification make schemes to provide aids and appliances
to persons with disabilities.

### 43. Schemes for preferential allotment of land for certain purposes .-The
appropriate Governments and local authorities shall by notification frame
schemes in favour of persons with disabilities, for the preferential allotment
of land at concessional rates for-

(a)house;(b)setting up business;(c)setting up of special recreation
centres;(d)establishment of special schools;(e)establishment of research
centres;(f)establishment of factories by entrepreneurs with disabilities.

## Chapter VIII  
Non-Discrimination

### 44. Non-discrimination in transport .-Establishments in the transport
sector shall, within the limits of their economic capacity and development for
the benefit of persons with disabilities, take special measures to-

(a)adapt rail compartments, buses, vessels and aircrafts in such a way as to
permit easy access to such persons;(b)adapt toilets in rail compartments,
vessels, aircrafts and waiting rooms in such a way as to permit the wheel
chair users to use them conveniently.

### 45. Non-discrimination on the road .-The appropriate Governments and the
local authorities shall, within the limits of their economic capacity and
development, provide for-

(a)installation of auditory signals at red lights in the public roads for the
benefit of persons with visually handicap;(b)causing curb cuts and slopes to
be made in pavements for the easy access of wheel chair users;(c)engraving on
the surface of the zebra crossing for the blind or for persons with low
vision;(d)engraving on the edges of railway platforms for the blind or for
persons with low vision;(e)devising appropriate symbols of
disability;(f)warning signals at appropriate places.

### 46. Non-discrimination in the built environment .-The appropriate
Governments and the local authorities shall, within the limits of their
economic capacity and development, provide for-

(a)ramps in public buildings;(b)adaptation of toilets for wheel chair
users;(c)braille symbols and auditory signals in elevators or lifts;(d)ramps
in hospitals, primary health centres and other medical care and rehabilitation
institutions.

### 47. Non-discrimination in Government employment .-(1) No establishment
shall dispense with, or reduce in rank, an employee who acquires a disability
during his service:

Provided that, if an employee, after acquiring disability is not suitable for
the post he was holding, could be shifted to some other post with the same pay
scale and service benefits:Provided further that if it is not possible to
adjust the employee against any post, he may be kept on a supernumerary post
until a suitable post is available or he attains the age of superannuation,
whichever is earlier.(2)No promotion shall be denied to a person merely on the
ground of his disability:Provided that the appropriate Government may, having
regard to the type of work carried on in any establishment, by notification
and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in such
notification, exempt any establishment from the provisions of this section.

## Chapter IX  
Research And Manpower Development

### 48. Research .-The appropriate Governments and local authorities shall
promote and sponsor research, inter alia , in the following areas:-

(a)prevention of disability;(b)rehabilitation including community based
rehabilitation;(c)development of assistive devices including their psycho-
social aspects;(d)job identification;(e)on site modifications in offices and
factories.

### 49. Financial incentives to Universities to enable them to undertake
research .-The appropriate Governments shall provide financial assistance to
Universities, other institutions of higher learning, professional bodies and
non-Governmental research units or institutions, for undertaking research for
special education, rehabilitation and manpower development.

## Chapter X  
Recognition Of Institutions For Persons With Disabilities

### 50. Competent authority .-The State Government shall appoint any authority
as it deems fit to be a competent authority for the purposes of this Act.

### 51. No person to establish or maintain an institution for persons with
disabilities except in accordance with a certificate of registration .-Save as
otherwise provided under this Act, no person shall establish or maintain any
institution for persons with disabilities except under and in accordance with
a certificate of registration issued in this behalf by the competent
authority:

Provided that a person maintaining an institution for persons with
disabilities immediately before the commencement of this Act may continue to
maintain such institution for a period of six months from such commencement
and if he has made an application for such certificate under this section
within the said period of six months, till the disposal of such application.

### 52. Certificate of registration .-(1) Every application for a certificate
of registration shall be made to the competent authority in such form and in
such manner as may be prescribed by the State Government.

(2)On receipt of an application under sub-section (1), the competent authority
shall make such enquiries as it may deem fit and where it is satisfied that
the applicant has complied with the requirements of this Act and the rules
made thereunder it shall grant a certificate of registration to the applicant
and where it is not so satisfied the competent authority shall, by order,
refuse to grant the certificate applied for:Provided that before making any
order refusing to grant a certificate the competent authority shall give to
the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard and every order of
refusal to grant a certificate shall be communicated to the applicant in such
manner as may be prescribed by the State Government.(3)No certificate of
registration shall be granted under sub-section (2) unless the institution
with respect to which an application has been made is in a position to provide
such facilities and maintain such standards as may be prescribed by the State
Government.(4)A certificate of registration granted under this
section-(a)shall, unless revoked under section 53, remain in force for such
period as may be prescribed by the State Government;(b)may be renewed from
time to time for a like period; and(c)shall be in such form and shall be
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the State Government.(5)An
application for renewal of a certificate of registration shall be made not
less than sixty days before the period of validity.(6)The certificate of
registration shall be displayed by the institution in a conspicuous place.

### 53. Revocation of certificate .-(1) The competent authority may, if it has
reasonable cause to believe that the holder of the certificate of registration
granted under sub-section (2) of section 52 has-

(a)made a statement in relation to any application for the issue or renewal of
the certificate which is incorrect or false in material particulars;
or(b)committed or has caused to be committed any breach of rules or any
conditions subject to which the certificate was granted, it may, after making
such inquiry, as it deems fit, by order, revoke the certificate:Provided that
no such order shall be made until an opportunity is given to the holder of the
certificate to show cause as to why the certificate should not be
revoked.(2)Where a certificate in respect of an institution has been revoked
under sub-section (1), such institution shall cease to function from the date
of such revocation:Provided that where an appeal lies under section 54 against
the order of revocation, such institution shall cease to function-(a)where no
appeal has been preferred immediately on the expiry of the period prescribed
for the filing of such appeal, or(b)where such appeal has been preferred, but
the order of revocation has been upheld, from the date of the order of
appeal.(3)On the revocation of a certificate in respect of an institution, the
competent authority may direct that any person with disability who is an
inmate of such institution on the date of such revocation, shall
be-(a)restored to the custody of her or his parent, spouse or lawful guardian,
as the case may be, or(b)transferred to any other institution specified by the
competent authority.(4)Every institution which holds a certificate of
registration which is revoked under this section shall, immediately after such
revocation, surrender such certificate to the competent authority.

### 54. Appeal .-(1) Any person aggrieved by the order of the competent
authority refusing to grant a certificate or revoking a certificate may,
within such period as may be prescribed by the State Government, prefer an
appeal to that Government against such refusal or revocation.

(2)The order of the State Government on such appeal shall be final.

### 55. Act not to apply to institutions established or maintained by the
Central or State Government .-Nothing contained in this Chapter shall apply to
an institution for persons with disabilities established or maintained by the
Central Government or a State Government.

## Chapter XI  
Institution For Persons With Severe Disabilities

### 56. Institutions for persons with severe disabilities .-(1) The
appropriate Government may establish and maintain institution for persons with
severe disabilities at such places as it thinks fit.

(2)Where the appropriate Government is of opinion that any institution other
than an institution, established under sub-section (1), is fit for the re-
habilitation of the persons with severe disabilities, the Government may
recognise such institution as an institution for persons with severe
disabilities for the purposes of this Act:Provided that no institution shall
be recognised under this section unless such institution has complied with the
requirements of this Act and the rules made thereunder.(3)Every institution
established under sub-section (1) shall be maintained in such manner and
satisfy such conditions as may be prescribed by the appropriate
Government.(4)For the purposes of this section "person with severe disability"
means a person with eighty per cent. or more of one or more disabilities.

## Chapter XII  
The Chief Commissioner And Commissioners For Persons With Disabilities

### 57. Appointment of Chief Commissioner for persons with disabilities .-(1)
The Central Government may, by notification, appoint a Chief Commissioner for
persons with disabilities for the purposes of this Act.

(2)A person shall not be qualified for appointment as the Chief Commissioner
unless he has special knowledge or practical experience in respect of matters
relating to rehabilitation.(3)The salary and allowances payable to and other
terms and conditions of service (including pension, gratuity and other
retirement benefits) of the Chief Commissioner shall be such as may be
prescribed by the Central Government.(4)The Central Government shall determine
the nature and categories of officers and other employees required to assist
the Chief Commissioner in the discharge of his functions and provide the Chief
Commissioner with such officers and other employees as it thinks fit.(5)The
officers and employees provided to the Chief Commissioner shall discharge
their functions under the general superintendence of the Chief
Commissioner.(6)The salaries and allowances and other conditions of service of
officers and employees provided to the Chief Commissioner shall be such as may
be prescribed by the Central Government.

### 58. Functions of the Chief Commissioner .-The Chief Commissioner shall-

(a)co-ordinate the work of the Commissioners;(b)monitor the utilisation of
funds disbursed by the Central Government;(c)take steps to safeguard the
rights and facilities made available to persons with disabilities;(d)submit
reports to the Central Government on the implementation of the Act at such
intervals as that Government may prescribe.

### 59. Chief Commissioner to look into complaints with respect to deprivation
of rights of persons with disabilities .-Without prejudice to the provisions
of section 58 the Chief Commissioner may of his own motion or on the
application of any aggrieved person or otherwise look into complaints with
respect to matters relating to-

(a)deprivation of rights of persons with disabilities;(b)non-implementation of
laws, rules, bye-laws, regulations, executive orders, guidelines or
instructions made or issued by the appropriate Governments and the local
authorities for the welfare and protection of rights of persons with
disabilities, and take up the matter with the appropriate authorities.

### 60. Appointment of Commissioners for persons with disabilities .-(1) Every
State Government may, by notification, appoint a Commissioner for persons with
disabilities for the purposes of this Act.

(2)A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Commissioner unless he
has special knowledge or practical experience in respect of matters relating
to rehabilitation.(3)The salary and allowances payable to and other terms and
conditions of service (including pension, gratuity and other retirement
benefits) of the Commissioner shall be such as may be prescribed by the State
Government.(4)The State Government shall determine the nature and categories
of officers and other employees required to assist the Commissioner in the
discharge of his functions and provide the Commissioner with such officers and
other employees as it thinks fit.(5)The officers and employees provided to the
Commissioner shall discharge their functions under the general superintendence
of the Commissioner.(6)The salaries and allowances and other conditions of
service of officers and employees provided to the Commissioner shall be such
as may be prescribed by the State Government.

### 61. Powers of the Commissioner .-The Commissioner within the State shall-

(a)co-ordinate with the departments of the State Government for the programmes
and schemes for the benefit of persons with disabilities;(b)monitor the
utilisation of funds disbursed by the State Government;(c)take steps to
safeguard the rights and facilities made available to persons with
disabilities;(d)submit reports to the State Government on the implementation
of the Act at such intervals as that Government may prescribe and forward a
copy thereof to the Chief Commissioner.

### 62. Commissioner to look into complaints with respect to matters relating
to deprivation of rights of persons with disabilities .-Without prejudice to
the provisions of section 61, the Commissioner may of his own motion or on the
application of any aggrieved person or otherwise look into complaints with
respect to matters relating to-

(a)deprivation of rights of persons with disabilities;(b)non-implementation of
laws, rules, bye-laws, regulations, executive orders, guidelines or
instructions made or issued by the appropriate Governments and the local
authorities for the welfare and protection of rights of persons with
disabilities, and take up the matter with the appropriate authorities.

### 63. Authorities and officers to have certain powers of Civil Court .-(1)
The Chief Commissioner and the Commissioners shall, for the purpose of
discharging their functions under this Act, have the same powers as are vested
in a Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) while trying a
suit, in respect of the following matters, namely:-

(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of witnesses;(b)requiring the
discovery and production of any document;(c)requisitioning any public record
or copy thereof from any Court or office;(d)receiving evidence on affidavits;
and(e)issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or
documents.(2)Every proceeding before the Chief Commissioner and Commissioners
shall be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 of
the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and the Chief Commissioner, the
Commissioner, the competent authority, shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for
the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).

### 64. Annual report to be prepared by the Chief Commissioner .-(1) The Chief
Commissioner shall prepare in such form and at such time for each financial
year as may be prescribed by the Central Government an annual report giving a
full account of his activities during the previous financial year and forward
a copy thereof to the Central Government.

(2)The Central Government shall cause the annual report to be laid before each
House of Parliament alongwith the recommendations explaining the action taken
or proposed to be taken on the recommendation made therein in so far as they
relate to the Central Government and the reasons for non-acceptance, if any,
of any such recommendation or part.

### 65. Annual reports to be prepared by the Commissioners .-(1) The
Commissioner shall prepare in such form and at such time for each financial
year as may be prescribed by the State Government an annual report giving a
full account of his activities during the previous financial year and forward
a copy thereof to the State Government.

(2)The State Government shall cause the annual report to be laid before each
State Legislature alongwith the recommendations explaining the action taken or
proposed to be taken on the recommendation made therein in so far as they
relate to the State Government and the reasons for non-acceptance, if any, of
any such recommendation or part.

## Chapter XIII  
Social Security

### 66. Appropriate Governments and local authorities to undertake
rehabilitation .-(1) The appropriate Governments and the local authorities
shall within the limits of their economic capacity and development undertake
or cause to be undertaken rehabilitation of all persons with disabilities.

(2)For purposes of sub-section (1), the appropriate Governments and local
authorities shall grant financial assistance to non-Governmental
Organisations.(3)The appropriate Governments and local authorities while
formulating rehabilitation policies shall consult the non-Governmental
Organisations working for the cause of persons with disabilities.

### 67. Insurance scheme for employees with disabilities .-(1) The appropriate
Government shall by notification frame an insurance scheme for the benefit of
its employees with disabilities.

(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, the appropriate
Government may instead of framing an insurance scheme frame an alternative
security scheme for its employees with disabilities.

### 68. Unemployment allowance .-The appropriate Governments shall within the
limits of their economic capacity and development shall by notification frame
a scheme for payment of an unemployment allowance to persons with disabilities
registered with the Special Employment Exchange for more than two years and
who could not be placed in any gainful occupation.

## Chapter XIV  
Miscellaneous

### 69. Punishment for fraudulently availing any benefit meant for persons
with disabilities .-Whoever, fraudulently avails or attempts to avail, any
benefit meant for persons with disabilities, shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or with fine which may
extend to twenty thousand rupees or with both.

### 70. Chief Commissioner, Commissioners, Officers and other staff to be
public servants .-The Chief Commissioner, the Commissioners and other officers
and staff provided to them shall be deemed to be public servants within the
meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 71. Protection of action taken in good faith .-No suit, prosecution or
other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Government, the State
Governments or the local authority or any officer of the Government in respect
of anything which is done in good faith or intended to be done in pursuance of
this Act and any rules or orders made thereunder.

### 72. Act to be in addition to and not in derogation of any other law .-The
provisions of this Act, or the rules made thereunder shall be in addition to,
and not in derogation of any other law for the time being in force or any
rules, order or any instructions issued thereunder, enacted or issued for the
benefit of persons with disabilities.

### 73. Power of appropriate Government to make rules .-(1) The appropriate
Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out the provisions of
this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
powers, such [rules] may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the manner in which a State Government or a Union territory shall
be chosen under clause (k) of sub-section (2) of section 3;(b)allowances which
Members shall receive under sub-section (7) of section 4;(c)rules of procedure
which the Central Co-ordination Committee shall observe in regard to the
transaction of business in its meetings under section 7;(d)such other
functions which the Central Co-ordination Committee may perform under clause
(h) of sub-section (2) of section 8;(e)the manner in which a State Government
or a Union territory shall be chosen under clause (h) of sub-section (2) of
section 9;(f)the allowances which the Members shall receive under sub-section
(3) of section 9;(g)rules of procedure which the Central Executive Committee
shall observe in regard to transaction of business at its meetings under
section 11;(h)the manner and purposes for which a person may be associated
under sub-section (1) of section 12;(i)fees and allowances which a person
associated with the Central Executive Committee shall receive under sub-
section (3) of section 12;(j)allowances which Members shall receive under sub-
section (7) of section 14;(k)rules of procedure which a State Co-ordination
Committee shall observe in regard to transaction of business in its meetings
under section 17;(l)such other functions which a State Co-ordination Committee
may perform under clause (g) of sub-section (2) of section 18;(m)the
allowances which Members shall receive under sub-section (3) of section
19;(n)rules of procedure which a State Executive Committee shall observe in
regard to transaction of business at its meetings under section 21;(o)the
manner and purposes for which a person may be associated under sub-section (1)
of section 22;(p)fees and allowances which a person associated with the State
Executive Committee may receive under sub-section (3) of section
22;(q)information or return which the employer in every establishment should
furnish and the Special Employment Exchange to which such information or
return shall be furnished under sub-section (1) of section 34;(r)the form and
the manner in which record shall be maintained by an employer under sub-
section (1) of section 37;(s)the form and manner in which an application shall
be made under sub-section (1) of section 52;(t)the manner in which an order of
refusal shall be communicated under sub-section (2) of section
52;(u)facilities or standards required to be provided or maintained under sub-
section (3) of section 52;(v)the period for which a certificate of
registration shall be valid under clause (a) of sub-section (4) of section
52;(w)the form in which terms and conditions subject to which a certificate of
registration shall be granted under clause (c) of sub-section (4) of section
52;(x)period within which an appeal shall lie under sub-section (1) of section
54;(y)the manner in which an institution for persons with severe disabilities
shall be maintained and conditions which have to be satisfied under sub-
section (3) of section 56;(z)the salary, allowances and other terms and
conditions of service of the Chief Commissioner under sub-section (3) of
section 57;(za)the salary, allowances and other conditions of service of
officers and employees under sub-section (6) of section 57;(zb)intervals at
which the Chief Commissioner shall report to the Central Government under
clause (d) of section 58;(zc)the salary, allowances and other terms and
conditions of service of the Commissioner under sub-section (3) of section
60;(zd)the salary, allowances and other conditions of service of officers and
employees under sub-section (6) of section 60;(ze)intervals within which the
Commissioner shall report to the State Government under clause (d) of section
61;(zf)the form and time in which annual report shall be prepared under sub-
section (1) of section 64;(zg)the form and time in which annual report shall
be prepared under sub-section (1) of section 65;(zh)any other matter which is
required to be or may be prescribed.(3)Every notification made by the Central
Government under the proviso to section 33, proviso to sub-section (2) of
section 47, every scheme framed by it under section 27, section 30, sub-
section (1) of section 38, section 42, section 43, section 67, section 68, and
every rule made by it under sub-section (1), shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule, notification or scheme,
or both Houses agree that the rule, notification or scheme should not be made,
the rule, notification or scheme shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule, notification or scheme, as the case
may be.(4)Every notification made by the State Government under the proviso to
section 33, proviso to sub-section (2) of section 47, every scheme made by it
under section 27, section 30, sub-section (1) of section 38, section 42,
section 43, section 67, section 68, and every rule made by it under sub-
section (1), shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each
House of State Legislature, where it consists of two Houses or where such
Legislature consists of one House before that House.

### 74. Amendment of Act 39 of 1987.-In section 12 of the Legal Services
Authorities Act, 1987, for clause (d), the following clause shall be
substituted, namely:-

"(d) a person with disability as defined in clause (i) of section 2 of the
Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full
Participation) Act, 1995;".

