## Union of India - Act

## The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Rules, 2012

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Rules, 2012

## Rule THE-PROTECTION-OF-CHILDREN-FROM-SEXUAL-OFFENCES-RULES-2012 of 2012

  * Published on 14 November 2012 
  * Commenced on 14 November 2012 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 November 2012.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Rules, 2012Published vide
Notification New Delhi, the 14th November, 2012Ministry of Women and Child
DevelopmentG.S.R. 823(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section
(1), read with clauses (a) to (d) of sub-section (2), of section 45 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (32 of 2012), the
Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Rules, 2012.(2)These rules shall come into force on the date of their
publication in the Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Act" means the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (32 of
2012);(b)"District Child Protection Unit" (DCPU) means the District Child
Protection Unit established by the State Government under section 62A of the
Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Act,
2006;(c)"Expert" means a person trained in mental health, medicine, child
development or other related discipline, who may be required to facilitate
communication with a child whose ability to communicate has been affected by
trauma, disability or any other vulnerability;(d)"Special educator" means a
person trained in communication with children with special needs in a way that
addresses the child's individual differences and needs, which include
challenges with learning and communication, emotional and behavioural
disorders, physical disabilities, and developmental disorders;(e)"Person
familiar with the manner of communication of the child" means a parent or
family member of a child or a member of his shared household or any person in
whom the child reposes trust and confidence, who is familiar with that child's
unique manner of communication, and whose presence may be required for or be
conducive to more effective communication with the child;(f)"Support person"
means a person assigned by a Child Welfare Committee, in accordance with sub-
rule (8) of rule 4, to render assistance to the child through the process of
investigation and trial, or any other person assisting the child in the pre-
trial or trial process in respect of an offence under the Act;(2)Words and
expressions used and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall
have the meanings respectively assigned to them under the Act.

### 3. Interpreters, translators and Special educators.

(1)In each district, the DCPU shall maintain a register with names, addresses
and other contact details of interpreters, translators and special educators
for the purposes of the Act, and this register shall be made available to the
Special Juvenile Police Unit (hereafter referred to as "SJPU"), local police,
magistrate or Special Court, as and when required.(2)The qualifications and
experience of the interpreters, translators, Special educators, and experts,
engaged for the purposes of sub-section (4) of section 19, sub-sections (3)
and (4) of section 26 and section 38 of the Act, shall be as indicated in
these rules.(3)Where an interpreter, translator, or Special educator is
engaged, otherwise than from the list maintained by the DCPU under sub-rule
(1), the requirements prescribed under sub-rules (4) and (5) of this rule may
be relaxed on evidence of relevant experience or formal education or training
or demonstrated proof of fluency in the relevant languages by the interpreter,
translator, or special educator, subject to the satisfaction of the DCPU,
Special Court or other authority concerned.(4)Interpreters and translators
engaged under sub-rule (1) should have functional familiarity with language
spoken by the child as well as the official language of the state, either by
virtue of such language being his mother tongue or medium of instruction at
school at least up to primary school level, or by the interpreter or
translator having acquired knowledge of such language through his vocation,
profession, or residence in the area where that language is spoken.(5)Sign
language interpreters, Special educators and experts entered in the register
under sub-rule (1) should have relevant qualifications in sign language or
special education, or in the case of an expert, in the relevant discipline,
from a recognized University or an institution recognized by the
Rehabilitation Council of India.(6)Payment for the services of an interpreter,
translator, Special educator or expert whose name is enrolled in the register
maintained under sub-rule (1) or otherwise, shall be made by the State
Government from the Fund maintained under section 61 of the Juvenile Justice
Act, 2000, or from other funds placed at the disposal of the DCPU, at the
rateS determined by them, and on receipt of the requisition in such format as
the State Government may prescribe in this behalf.(7)Any preference expressed
by the child at any stage after information is received under subsection (1)
of section 19 of the Act, as to the gender of the interpreter, translator,
Special educator, or expert, may be taken into consideration, and where
necessary, more than one such person may be engaged in order to facilitate
communication with the child.(8)The interpreter, translator, Special educator,
expert, or person familiar with the manner of communication of the child
engaged to provide services for the purposes of the Act shall be unbiased and
impartial and shall disclose any real or perceived conflict of interest. He
shall render a complete and accurate interpretation or translation without any
additions or omissions, in accordance with section 282 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973.(9)In proceedings under section 38, the Special Court shall
ascertain whether the child speaks the language of the court adequately, and
that the engagement of any interpreter, translator, Special educator, expert
or other person familiar with the manner of communication of the child, who
has been engaged to facilitate communication with the child, does not involve
any conflict of interest.(10)Any interpreter, translator, Special educator or
expert appointed under the provisions of the Act or its rules shall be bound
by the rules of confidentiality, as described under section 127 read with
section 126 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.

### 4. Care and Protection.

(1)Where an SJPU or the local police receives any information under sub-
section (1) of section 19 of the Act from any person including the child, the
SJPU or local police receiving report of such information shall forthwith
disclose to the person making the report, the following details :-(i)his name
and designation;(ii)the address and telephone number;(iii)the name,
designation and contact details of the officer who supervises the officer
receiving the information.(2)Where an SJPU or the local police, as the case
may be, receives information in accordance with the provisions contained under
sub-section (1) of section 19 of the Act in respect of an offence that has
been committed or attempted or is likely to be committed, the authority
concerned shall, where applicable, -(a)proceed to record and register a First
Information Report as per the provisions of section 154 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973, and furnish a copy thereof free of cost to the
person making such report, as per sub-section (2) of section 154 of the
Code;(b)where the child needs emergency medical care as described under sub-
section (5) of section 19 of the Act or under these rules, arrange for the
child to access such care, in accordance with rule 5;(c)take the child to the
hospital for the medical examination in accordance with section 27 of the
Act;(d)ensure that the samples collected for the purposes of the forensic
tests are sent to the forensic laboratory at the earliest;(e)inform the child
and his parent or guardian or other person in whom the child has trust and
confidence of the availability of support services including counselling, and
assist them in contacting the persons who are responsible for providing these
services and relief;(f)inform the child and his parent or guardian or other
person in whom the child has trust and confidence as to the right of the child
to legal advice and counsel and the right to be represented by a lawyer, in
accordance with section 40 of the Act.(3)Where the SJPU or the local police
receives information under sub-section (1) of section 19 of the Act, and has a
reasonable apprehension that the offence has been committed or attempted or is
likely to be committed by a person living in the same or shared household with
the child, or the child is living in a child care institution and is without
parental support, or the child is found to be without any home and parental
support, the concerned SJPU, or the local police shall produce the child
before the concerned Child Welfare Committee (hereafter referred to as "CWC")
within 24 hours of receipt of such report, together with reasons in writing as
to whether the child is in need of care and protection under sub-section (5)
of section 19 of the Act, and with a request for a detailed assessment by the
CWC.(4)Upon receipt of a report under sub-rule (3), the concerned CWC must
proceed, in accordance with its powers under sub-section (1) of section 31 of
the Juvenile Justice Act, 2000, to make a determination within three days,
either on its own or with the assistance of a social worker, as to whether the
child needs to be taken out of the custody of his family or shared household
and placed in a children's home or a shelter home.(5)In making determination
under sub-rule (4), the ewe shall take into account any preference or opinion
expressed by the child on the matter, together with the best interests of the
child, having regard to the following considerations:(i)the capacity of the
parents, or of either parent, or of any other person in whom the child has
trust and confidence, to provide for the immediate care and protection needs
of the child, including medical needs and counselling;(ii)the need for the
child to remain in the care of his parent, family and extended family and to
maintain a connection with them;(iii)the child's age and level of maturity,
gender, and social and economic background;(iv)disability of the child, if
any;(v)any chronic illness from which a child may suffer;(vi)any history of
family violence involving the child or a family member of the child;
and,(vii)any other relevant factors that may have a bearing on the best
interests of the child:Provided that prior to making such determination, an
inquiry shall be conducted in such a way that the child is not unnecessarily
exposed to injury or inconvenience.(6)The child and his parent or guardian or
any other person in whom the child has trust and confidence and with whom the
child has been living, who is affected by such determination, shall be
informed that such determination is being considered.(7)The CWC, on receiving
a report under sub-section (6) of section 19 of the Act or on the basis of its
assessment under sub-rule (5), and with the consent of the child and his
parent or guardian or other person in whom the child has trust and confidence,
may provide a support person to render assistance to the child through the
process of investigation and trial. Such support person may be a person or
organisation working in the field of child rights or child protection, or an
official of a children's home or shelter home having custody of the child, or
a person employed by the DCPU:Provided that nothing in these rules shall
prevent the child and his parents or guardian or other person in whom the
child has trust and confidence from seeking the assistance of any person or
organisation for proceedings under the Act.(8)The support person shall at all
times maintain the confidentiality of all information pertaining to the child
to which he has access. He shall keep the child and his parent or guardian or
other person in whom the child has trust and confidence, informed as to the
proceedings of the case, including available assistance, judicial procedures,
and potential outcomes. He shall also inform the child of the role he may play
in the judicial process and ensure that any concerns that the child may have,
regarding his safety in relation to the accused and the manner in which he
would like to provide his testimony, are conveyed to the relevant
authorities.(9)Where a support person has been provided to the child, the SJPU
or the local police shall, within 24 hours of making such assignment, inform
the Special Court in writing.(10)The services of the support person may be
terminated by the CWC upon request by the child and his parent or guardian or
person in whom the child has trust and confidence, and the child requesting
the termination shall not be required to assign any reason for such request.
The Special Court shall be given in writing such information.(11)It shall be
the responsibility of the SJPU, or the local police to keep the child and his
parent or guardian or other person in whom the child has trust and confidence,
and where a support person has been assigned, such person, informed about the
developments, including the arrest of the accused, applications filed and
other court proceedings.(12)The information to be provided by the SJPU, local
police, or support person, to the child and his parents or guardian or other
person in whom the child has trust and confidence, includes but is not limited
to the following :-(i)the availability of public and private emergency and
crisis services;(ii)the procedural steps involved in a criminal
prosecution;(iii)the availability of victims' compensation benefits;(iv)the
status of the investigation of the crime, to the extent it is appropriate to
inform the victim and to the extent that it will not interfere with the
investigation;(v)the arrest of a suspected offender;(vi)the filing of charges
against a suspected offender;(vii)the schedule of court proceedings that the
child is either required to attend or is entitled to attend;(viii)the bail,
release or detention status of an offender or suspected offender;(ix)the
rendering of a verdict after trial; and(x)the sentence imposed on an offender.

### 5. Emergency medical care.

(1)Where an officer of the SJPU, or the local police receives information
under section 19 of the Act that an offence under the Act has been committed,
and is satisfied that the child against whom an offence has been committed is
in need of urgent medical care and protection, he shall, as soon as possible,
but not later than 24 hours of receiving such information, arrange to take
such child to the nearest hospital or medical care facility centre for
emergency medical care:Provided that where an offence has been committed under
sections 3, 5, 7 or 9 of the Act, the victim shall be referred to emergency
medical care.(2)Emergency medical care shall be rendered in such a manner as
to protect the privacy of the child, and in the presence of the parent or
guardian or any other person in whom the child has trust and confidence.(3)No
medical practitioner, hospital or other medical facility centre rendering
emergency medical care to a child shall demand any legal or magisterial
requisition or other documentation as a pre-requisite to rendering such
care.(4)The registered medical practitioner rendering emergency medical care
shall attend to the needs of the child, including -(i)treatment for cuts,
bruises, and other injuries including genital injuries, if any;(ii)treatment
for exposure to sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) including prophylaxis for
identified STDs;(iii)treatment for exposure to Human Immunodeficiency Virus
(HIV), including prophylaxis for HIV after necessary consultation with
infectious disease experts;(iv)possible pregnancy and emergency contraceptives
should be discussed with the pubertal child and her parent or any other person
in whom the child has trust and confidence; and,(v)wherever necessary, a
referral or consultation for mental or psychological health or other
counselling should be made.(5)Any forensic evidence collected in the course of
rendering emergency medical care must be collected in accordance with section
27 of the Act.

### 6. Monitoring of implementation of the Act.

(1)The National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (hereafter
referred to as "NCPCR") or the State Commission for the Protection of Child
Rights (hereafter referred to as "SCPCR"), as the case may be, shall in
addition to the functions assigned to them under the Commissions for
Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005, perform the following functions for
implementation of the provisions of the Act :-(a)to monitor the designation of
Special Courts by State Governments;(b)to monitor the appointment of Public
Prosecutors by State Governments;(c)to monitor the formulation of the
guidelines described in section 39 of the Act by the State Governments, for
the use of non-governmental organisations, professionals and experts or
persons having knowledge of psychology, social work, physical health, mental
health and child development to be associated with the pre-trial and trial
stage to assist the child, and to monitor the application of these
guidelines;(d)to monitor the designing and implementation of modules for
training police personnel and other concerned persons, including officers of
the Central and State Governments, for the effective discharge of their
functions under the Act;(e)to monitor and support the Central Government and
State Governments for the dissemination of information relating to the
provisions of the Act through media including the television, radio and print
media at regular intervals, so as to make the general public, children as well
as their parents and guardians aware of the provisions of the Act.(2)The NCPCR
or the SCPCR, as the case may be, may call for a report on any specific case
of child sexual abuse falling within the jurisdiction of a CWC.(3)The NCPCR or
the SCPCR, as the case may be, may collect information and data on its own or
from the relevant agencies regarding reported cases of sexual abuse and their
disposal under the processes established under the Act, including information
on the following :-(i)number and details of offences reported under the
Act;(ii)whether the procedures prescribed under the Act and rules were
followed, including those regarding time frames;(iii)details of arrangements
for care and protection of victims of offences under this Act, including
arrangements for emergency medical care and medical examination;
and,(iv)details regarding assessment of the need for care and protection of a
child by the concerned CWC in any specific case.(4)The NCPCR or the SCPCR, as
the case may be, may use the information so collected to assess the
implementation of the provisions of the Act. The report on monitoring of the
Act shall be included in a separate chapter in the Annual Report of the NCPCR
or the SCPCR.

### 7. Compensation.

(1)The Special Court may, in appropriate cases, on its own or on an
application filed by or on behalf of the child, pass an order for interim
compensation to meet the immediate needs of the child for relief or
rehabilitation at any stage after registration of the First Information
Report. Such interim compensation paid to the child shall be adjusted against
the final compensation, if any.(2)The Special Court may, on its own or on an
application filed by or on behalf of the victim, recommend the award of
compensation where the accused is convicted, or where the case ends in
acquittal or discharge, or the accused is not traced or identified, and in the
opinion of the Special Court the child has suffered loss or injury as a result
of that offence.(3)Where the Special Court, under sub-section (8) of section
33 of the Act read with subsections (2) and (3) of section 357A of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, makes a direction for the award of compensation to the
victim, it shall take into account all relevant factors relating to the loss
or injury caused to the victim, including the following :-(i)type of abuse,
gravity of the offence and the severity of the mental or physical harm or
injury suffered by the child;(ii)the expenditure incurred or likely to be
incurred on his medical treatment for physical and or mental health;(iii)loss
of educational opportunity as a consequence of the offence, including absence
from school due to mental trauma, bodily injury, medical treatment,
investigation and trial of the offence, or any other reason;(iv)loss of
employment as a result of the offence, including absence from place of
employment due to mental trauma, bodily injury, medical treatment,
investigation and trial of the offence, or any other reason;(v)the
relationship of the child to the offender, if any;(vi)whether the abuse was a
single isolated incidence or whether the abuse took place over a period of
time;(vii)whether the child became pregnant as a result of the
offence;(viii)whether the child contracted a sexually transmitted disease
(SID) as a result of the offence;(ix)whether the child contracted human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) as a result of the offence;(x)any disability
suffered by the child as a result of the offence;(xi)financial condition of
the child against whom the offence has been committed so as to determine his
need for rehabilitation;(xii)any other factor that the Special Court may
consider to be relevant.(4)The compensation awarded by the Special Court is to
be paid by the State Government from the Victims Compensation Fund or other
scheme or fund established by it for the purposes of compensating and
rehabilitating victims under section 357A of the Code of Criminal Procedure or
any other laws for the time being in force, or, where such fund or scheme does
not exist, by the State Government.(5)The State Government shall pay the
compensation ordered by the Special Court within 30 days of receipt of such
order.(6)Nothing in these rules shall prevent a child or his parent or
guardian or any other person in whom the child has trust and confidence from
submitting an application for seeking relief under any other rules or scheme
of the Central Government or State Government.

