## Union of India - Act

## The Probation of Offenders Act, 1958

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Probation of Offenders Act, 1958

## Act 20 of 1958

  * Published in Gazette 20 on 16 May 1958 
  * Assented to on 16 May 1958 
  * Commenced on 16 May 1958 
  * [This is the version of this document as it was from 22 July 1983 to None.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Probation Of Offenders Act, 1958(20 of 1958)Last Updated 30th December,
2019Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The question of release of offenders on
probation of good conduct instead of sentencing them to imprisonment has been
under consideration for some time. In 1931, the Government of India prepared a
draft of Probation of Offenders Bill and circulated it to the then Local
Governments for their views. However, owing to pre-occupation with other more
important matters, the Bill could not be proceeded with. Later in 1934, the
Government of India informed Provincial Governments that there was no prospect
of Central legislation being undertaken at the time and there would be no
objection to the Provinces undertaking such legislation themselves. A few
Provinces accordingly enacted their own probation laws.2\. In several States,
however, there are no separate probation laws at all. Even in States where
there are probation laws, they are not uniform nor are they adequate to meet
the present requirements. In the meantime, there has been an increasing
emphasis on the reformation and rehabilitation of the offender as a useful and
self-reliant member of society without subjecting him to the deleterious
effects of jail life. In view of the widespread interest in the probation
system in the country, this question has been re-examined and it is proposed
to have a Central law on the subject which should be uniformly applicable to
all the States.3\. It is proposed to empower Courts to release an offender
after admonition in respect of certain specified offences. It is also proposed
to empower Courts to release on probation, in all suitable cases, an offender
found guilty of having committed an offence not punishable with death or
imprisonment for life. In respect of offenders under 21 years of age, special
provision has been made putting restrictions on their imprisonment. During the
period of probation, offenders will remain under the supervision of probation
officers in order that they may be reformed and become useful members of
society. The Bill seeks to achieve these objects.An Act to provide for the
release of offenders on probation or after due admonition and for matters
connected therewith .Be it enacted by Parliament in the Ninth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:{||-|The Act has been extended to the Union
territories of-(1)Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regulation 6 of 1963 (w.e.f.
1.7.1965); (2) Goa, Daman and Diu by Regulation 11 of 1963 (w.e.f. 1.2.1964).
Goa is now a State, see Act 18 of 1987, Section 3 (w.e.f. 30.5.1987); (3)
Pondicherry by Act 26 of 1968.Extended to Sikkim vide S.O. 529(E), dated
22.7.1983 read with S.O. 720(E), dated 2.10.1985 (w.e.f. 2.10.1985).|}

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement

. - (1) This Act may be called The Probation of Offenders Act , 1958.(2)It
extends to the whole of India [***] [The words 'except the State of Jammu and
Kashmir' omitted by Act 34 of 2019, s. 95 and the Fifth Schedule (w.e.f.
31-10-2019)].(3)It shall come into force in a State on such date as the State
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, and
different dates may be appointed for different parts of the State.

### 2. Definitions

. - In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)Code means the Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898);(b)probation officer means an officer
appointed to be a probation officer or recognised as such under section
13;(c)prescribed means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(d)words and
expressions used but not defined in this Act and defined in the [Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)] [Now], shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in that Code.

### 3. Power of Court to release certain offenders after admonition

. - When any person is found guilty of having committed an offence punishable
under section 379 or section 380 or section 381 or section 404 or section 420
of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or any offence punishable with
imprisonment for not more than two years, or with fine, or with both, under
the Indian Penal Code, or any other law, and no previous conviction is proved
against him and the Court by which the person is found guilty is of opinion
that, having regard to the circumstances of the case including the nature of
the offence, and the character of the offender, it is expedient so to do,
then, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being
in force, the Court may, instead of sentencing him to any punishment or
releasing him on probation of good conduct under section 4, release him after
due admonition.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, previous
conviction against a person shall include any previous order made against him
under this section or section 4.

### 4. Power of Court to release certain offenders on probation of good
conduct

. - (1) When any person is found guilty of having committed an offence not
punishable with death or imprisonment for life and the Court by which the
person is found guilty is of opinion that, having regard to the circumstances
of the case including the nature of the offence and the character of the
offender, it is expedient to release him on probation of good conduct, then,
notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, the Court may, instead of sentencing him at once to any punishment
direct that he be released on his entering into a bond, with or without
sureties, to appear and receive sentence when called upon during such period
not exceeding three years, as the Court may direct, and in the meantime to
keep the peace and be of good behaviour:Provided that the Court shall not
direct such release of an offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or
his surety, if any, has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the
place over which the Court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is
likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.(2)Before
making any order under sub-section (1), the Court shall take into
consideration the report, if any, of the probation officer concerned in
relation to the case.(3)When an order under sub-section (1) is made, the Court
may, if it is of opinion that in the interests of the offender and of the
public it is expedient so to do, in addition pass a supervision order
directing that the offender shall remain under the supervision of a probation
officer named in the order during such period, not being less than one year,
as may be specified therein, and may in such supervision order impose such
conditions as it deems necessary for the due supervision of the
offender.(4)The Court making a supervision order under sub-section (3) shall
require the offender, before he is released, to enter into a bond, with or
without sureties, to observe the conditions specified in such order and such
additional conditions with respect to residence, abstention from intoxicants
or any other matter as the Court may, having regard to the particular
circumstances, consider fit to impose for preventing a repetition of the same
offence or a commission of other offences by the offender.(5)The Court making
a supervision order under sub-section (3) shall explain to the offender the
terms and conditions of the order and shall forthwith furnish one copy of the
supervision order to each of the offenders, the sureties, if any, and the
probation officer concerned.

### 5. Power of Court to require released offenders to pay compensation and
costs

. - (1) The Court directing the release of an offender under section 3 or
section 4, may, if it thinks fit, make at the same time a further order
directing him to pay(a)such compensation as the Court thinks reasonable for
loss or injury caused to any person by the commission of the offence;
and(b)such costs of the proceedings as the Court thinks reasonable.(2)The
amount ordered to be paid under sub-section (1) may be recovered as a fine in
accordance with the provisions of sections 386 and 387 of the Code.(3)A Civil
Court trying any suit, arising out of the same matter for which the offender
is prosecuted, shall take into account any amount paid or recovered as
compensation under sub-section (1) in awarding damages.

### 6. Restrictions on imprisonment of offenders under twenty-one years of age

. - (1) When any person under twenty-one years of age is found guilty of
having committed an offence punishable with imprisonment (but not with
imprisonment for life), the Court by which the person is found guilty shall
not sentence him to imprisonment unless it is satisfied that, having regard to
the circumstances of the case including the nature of the offence and the
character of the offender, it would not be desirable to deal with him under
section 3 or section 4, and if the Court passes any sentence of imprisonment
on the offender, it shall record its reasons for doing so.(2)For the purpose
of satisfying itself whether it would not be desirable to deal under section 3
or section 4 with an offender referred to in sub-section (1) the Court shall
call for a report from the probation officer and consider the report, if any,
and any other information available to it relating to the character and
physical and mental condition of the offender.

### 7. Report of probation officer to be confidential

. - The report of a probation officer referred to in sub-section (2) of
section 4 or sub-section (2) of section 6 shall be treated as
confidential:Provided that the Court may, if it so thinks fit, communicate the
substance thereof to the offender and may give him an opportunity of producing
such evidence as may be relevant to the matter stated in the report.

### 8. Variation of conditions of probation

. - (1) If, on the application of a probation officer, any Court which passes
an order under section 4 in respect of an offender is of opinion that in the
interests of the offender and the public it is expedient or necessary to vary
the conditions of any bond entered into by the offender, it may, at any time
during the period when the bond is effective, vary the bond by extending or
diminishing the duration thereof so, however, that it shall not exceed three
years from the date of the original order or by altering the conditions
thereof or by inserting additional conditions therein:Provided that no such
variation shall be made without giving the offender and the surety or sureties
mentioned in the bond an opportunity of being heard.(2)If any surety refuses
to consent to any variation proposed to be made under sub-section (1), the
Court may require the offender to enter into a fresh bond and if the offender
refuses or fails to do so, the Court may sentence him for the offence of which
he was found guilty.(3)Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, the
Court which passes an order under section 4 in respect of an offender may, if
it is satisfied on an application made by the probation officer, that the
conduct of the offender has been such as to make it unnecessary that he should
be kept any longer under supervision, discharge the bond or bonds entered into
by him.

### 9. Procedure in case of offender failing to observe conditions of bond

. - (1) If the Court which passes an order under section 4 in respect of an
offender or any Court which could have dealt with the offender in respect of
his original offence has reason to believe, on the report of a probation
officer or otherwise, that the offender has failed to observe any of the
conditions of the bond or bonds entered into by him, it may issue a warrant
for his arrest or may, if it thinks fit, issue a summons to him and his
sureties, if any, requiring him or them to attend before it at such time as
may be specified in the summons.(2)The Court before which an offender is so
brought or appears may either remand him to custody until the case is
concluded or it may grant him bail, with or without surety, to appear on the
date which it may fix for hearing.(3)If the Court, after hearing the case, is
satisfied that the offender has failed to observe any of the conditions of the
bond or bonds entered into by him, it may forthwith(a)sentence him for the
original offence; or(b)where the failure is for the first time, then, without
prejudice to the continuance in force of the bond, impose upon him a penalty
not exceeding fifty rupees.(4)If a penalty imposed under clause (b) of sub-
section (3) is not paid within such period as the Court may fix, the Court may
sentence the offender for the original offence.

### 10. Provision as to sureties

. - The provisions of sections 122, 126, 126-A, 406-A, 514, 514-A, 514-B and
515 of the Code shall, so far as may be, apply in the case of bonds and
sureties given under this Act.

### 11. Courts competent to make order under this Act, appeal and revision and
powers of Courts in appeal and revision

. - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code or any other law, an
order under this Act, may be made by any Court empowered to try and sentence
the offender to imprisonment and also by the High Court or any other Court
when the case comes before it on appeal or in revision.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Code, where an order under section 3 or section 4 is
made by any Court trying the offender (other than a High Court), an appeal
shall lie to the Court to which appeals ordinarily lie from the sentences of
the former Court.(3)In any case where any person under twenty-one years of age
is found guilty of having committed an offence and the Court by which he is
found guilty declines to deal with him under section 3 or section 4, and
passes against him any sentence of imprisonment with or without fine from
which no appeal lies or is preferred, then, notwithstanding anything contained
in the Code or any other law, the Court to which appeals ordinarily lie from
the sentences of the former Court may, either of its own motion or on an
application made to it by the convicted person or the probation officer, call
for and examine the record of the case and pass such order thereon as it
thinks fit.(4)When an order has been made under section 3 or section 4 in
respect of an offender, the Appellate Court or the High Court in the exercise
of its power of revision may set aside such order and in lieu thereof pass
sentence on such offender according to law:Provided that the Appellate Court
or the High Court in revision shall not inflict a greater punishment than
might have been inflicted by the Court by which the offender was found guilty.

### 12. Removal of disqualification attaching to conviction

. - Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, a person found guilty
of an offence and dealt with under the provisions of section 3 or section 4
shall not suffer disqualification, if any, attaching to a conviction of an
offence under such law:Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to a
person who, after his release under section 4, is subsequently sentenced for
the original offence.

### 13. Probation officers

. - (1) A probation officer under this Act shall be(a)a person appointed to be
a probation officer by the State Government or recognised as such by the State
Government; or(b)a person provided for this purpose by a society recognised in
this behalf by the State Government; or(c)in any exceptional case, any other
person who, in the opinion of the Court, is fit to act as a probation officer
in the special circumstances of the case.(2)A Court which passes an order
under section 4 or the District Magistrate of the district in which the
offender for the time being resides may, at any time, appoint any probation
officer in the place of the person named in the supervision order.Explanation.
- For the purposes of this section, a presidency-town shall be deemed to be a
district and chief presidency magistrate shall be deemed to be the district
magistrate of that district.(3)A probation officer, in the exercise of his
duties under this Act, shall be subject to the control of the district
magistrate of the district in which the offender for the time being resides.

[Gujarat].In its application to the State of Gujarat, Section 13 renumber the
existingExplanation.asExplanation Iand insert the followingExplanation,
namely:Explanation II. - For the purposes of this section, City of Ahmedabad,
as defined in clause (2) of section 2 of the Ahmedabad City Courts Act, 1961
(Gujarat Act 19 of 1961), shall be deemed to be a District and the Chief
Magistrate appointed under that Act shall be deemed to be District Magistrate
of that District.Gujarat Act 33 of 1964, Section 2 (w.e.f.
18-12-1964).[Maharashtra]. - In its application to the State of Maharashtra,
in sub-S. (1) of Section 13, in Cl. (a), after the words Probation Officer by
the State Government, insert or by such officer as the State Government may,
subject to such restrictions and conditions (if any) as it may impose, by
order, authorise in this behalf.Maharashtra Act 31 of 1969, Section 2 (w.e.f.
13-6-1969).  
---  
  
### 14. Duties of probation officers

. - A probation officer shall, subject to such conditions and restrictions, as
may be prescribed,(a)inquire, in accordance with any directions of a Court,
into the circumstances or home surroundings of any person accused of an
offence with a view to assist the Court in determining the most suitable
method of dealing with him and submit reports to the Court;(b)supervise
probationers and other persons placed under this supervision and, where
necessary, endeavour to find them suitable employment;(c)advise and assist
offenders in the payment of compensation or costs ordered by the
Court;(d)advise and assist, in such cases and in such manner as may be
prescribed, persons who have been released under section 4; and(e)perform such
other duties as may be prescribed.

### 15. Probation officers to be public servants

. - Every probation officer and every other officer appointed in pursuance of
this Act shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section
21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 16. Protection of action taken in good faith

. - No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the State Government
or any probation officer or any other officer appointed under this Act in
respect of anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act or of any rules or orders made thereunder.

### 17. Power to make rules

. - (1) The State Government may, with the approval of the Central Government,
by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the purposes
of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely:(a)appointment of probation officers, the terms and conditions
of their service and the area within which they are to exercise
jurisdiction;(b)duties of probation officers under this Act and the submission
of reports by them;(c)the conditions on which societies may be recognised for
the purposes of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 13;(d)the payment of
remuneration and expenses to probation officers or of a subsidy to any society
which provides probation officers; and(e)any other matter which is to be, or
may be, prescribed.(3)All rules made under this section shall be subject to
the condition of previous publication and shall, as soon as may be after they
are made, be laid before the State Legislature.

### 18. Saving of operation of certain enactments

. - Nothing in this Act shall affect the provisions of section 31 of the
Reformatory Schools Act, 1897 (8 of 1897), or sub-section (2) of section 5 of
the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (2 of 1947), [- - -] [The words "or the
Suppression of Immoral Traffic in Women and Girls Act, 1956 (104 of 1956)"
omitted by Act 46 of 1978, Section 20 (w.e.f. 2.10.1979).] or of any law in
force in any State relating to juvenile offenders or Borstal Schools.

### 19. Section 562 of the Code not to apply in certain areas

. - Subject to the provisions of [section 18] [Now see the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), Sections 16 and 17.] and [section 562] [Now see
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, (2 of 1974), Section 360.] of the Code
shall cease to apply to the States or parts thereof in which this Act is
brought into force.

[Gujarat].In its application to the State of Gujarat, after Section 19, insert
the following section, namely:20\. Repeal of Bombay Act 19 of 1938.In the area
in which the Act comes into force (hereinafter referred to as the said
area),(1) if the said area forms part of the Bombay area of the State of
Gujarat, the Bombay Probation of Offenders Act, 1938 (Bom. Act 19 of 1938);(2)
if the said area forms part of the Saurashtra area of the State of Gujarat,
the Bombay Probation of Offenders Act, 1938 (Bom. Act 19 of 1938), as adapted
and applied to the said Saurashtra area; and(3) if the said area forms part of
the Kutch area of the State of Gujarat, the Bombay Probation of Offenders Act,
1938 (Bom. Act 19 of 1938), as applied to Kutch area, shall stand repealed
with effect on and from the date on which the Act comes into force in the said
area:Provided that such repeal shall not affect(a) the previous operation on
any law so repealed or anything duly done of suffered thereunder,(b) any
right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under
any law so repealed, or(c) any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred
under any law so repealed in respect of any offence, or(d) any investigation,
legal proceeding or remedy in respect of such right privilege, obligation,
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid, and any such
investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued,
enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if
this Act had not come into force:Provided further that anything done or any
action taken (including any appointment made, recognition given or rule or
order made) under the provisions of any law so repealed under this section and
in force immediately before the said date shall be deemed to have been done or
taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act, and shall continue in
force until superseded by anything done or any action taken under the
provisions of this Act.Gujarat Act 33 of 1964, Section 3 (w.e.f. 18-12-1964).  
---

