## Union of India - Act

## The Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Regulation And Prevention of misuse)
Act, 1994

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Regulation And Prevention of misuse)
Act, 1994

## Regulation 57 of 1994

  * Published on 1 January 1994 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1994 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1994.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act to provide for the regulation of the use of pre- natal diagnostic
techniques for the purpose of detecting genetic or metabolic disorders or
chromosomal abnormalities or certain congenital malformations or sex linked
disorders and for the prevention of the misuse of such techniques for the
purpose of pre- natal sex determination leading to female foeticide, and for
matters connected there with or incidental thereto.BE it enacted by Parliament
in the Forty- fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:--

## Chapter I  
PRELIMINARY

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Pre- natal Diagnostic Techniques (Regulation and
Prevention of Misuse) Act, 1944 .(2)It shall extend to the whole of India
except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.(3)It shall come into force on such date
as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint.

### 2. Definitions. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--

(a)" Appropriate Authority" means the Appropriate Authority appointed under
section 17;(b)" Board" means the Central Supervisory Board constituted under
section 7;(c)" Genetic Counselling Centre" means an institute, hospital,
nursing home or any place, by whatever name called, which provides for genetic
counselling to patients;(d)" Genetic Clinic" means a clinic, institute,
hospital, nursing home or any place, by whatever name called, which is used
for conducting pre- natal diagnostic procedures;(e)" Genetic Laboratory" means
a laboratory and includes a place where facilities are provided for conducting
analysis or tests of samples received from Genetic Clinic for pre- natal
diagnostic test;(f)" gynaecologist" means a person who possesses a post-
graduate qualification in gynaecology and obstetrics;(g)" medical geneticist"
means a person who possesses a degree or diploma or certificate in medical
genetics in the field of pre- natal diagnostic techniques or has experience of
not less than two years in such field after obtaining--(i)any one of the
medical qualifications recognised under the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956
(102 of 1956 ); or(ii)a post- graduate degree in biological sciences;(h)"
paediatrician" means a person who possesses a post- graduate qualification in
paediatrics;(i)" pre- natal diagnostic procedures" means all gynaecological or
obstetrical or medical procedures such as ultrasonography foetoscopy, taking
or removing samples of amniotic fluid, chorionic villi, blood or any tissue of
a pregnant woman for being sent to a Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic for
conducting pre- natal diagnostic test;(j)" pre- natal diagnostic techniques"
includes all pre- natal diagnostic procedures and pre- natal diagnostic
tests;(k)" pre- natal diagnostic test" means ultrasonography or any test or
analysis of amniotic fluid, chorionic villi, blood or any tissue of a pregnant
woman conducted to detect genetic or metabolic disorders or chrom somal
abnormalities or congential anomalies or naemoglobinopathies or sex- linked
diseases;(l)" prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(m)"
registered medical practitioner" means a medical practitioner who nossesses
any recognised medical qualification as defined in clause(h)of section 2 of
the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 , (102 of 1956 .) and whose name has been
entered in a State Medical Register;(n)" regulations" means regulations framed
by the Board under this Act.

## Chapter II  
REGULATION OF GENETIC COUNSELLING CENTRES GENETIC LABORATORIES AND GENETIC
CLINICS

### 3. Regulation of Genetic Counselling Centres, Genetic Laboratories and
Genetic Clinics.

On and from the commencement of this Act,--(1)no Genetic Counselling Centre,
Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic unless registered under this Act, shall
conduct or associate with, or help in, conducting activities relating to pre-
natal diagnostic techniques;(2)no Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic
Laboratory or Genetic Clinic shall employ or cause to be employed any person
who does not possess the prescribed qualifications;(3)no medical geneticist,
gynaecologist paediatrician registered medical practitioner or any other
person shall conduct or cause to be conducted or aid in conducting by himself
or through any other person, any pre- natal diagnostic techniques at a place
other than a place registered under this Act.

## Chapter III  
REGULATION OF PRE-NATAL DIAGNOSTIC TECHNIQUES

### 4. Regulation of pre- natal diagnostic techniques. On and from the
commencement of this Act,--

(1)no place including a registered Genetic Counselling Centre or Genetic
Laboratory or Genetic Clinic shall be used or caused to be used by any person
for conducting pre- natal diagnostic techniques except for the purposes
specified in clause (2) and after satisfying any of the conditions specified
in clause (3);(2)no pre- natal diagnostic techniques shall be conducted except
for the purposes of detection of any of the following abnormalities,
namely:--(i) chromosomal abnormalities;(ii)genetic metabolic
diseases;(iii)haemoglobinopathies;(iv)sex- linked genetic
diseases;(v)congenital anomalies;(vi)any other abnormalities or diseases as
may be specified by the Central Supervisory Board;(3)no pre- natal diagnostic
techniques shall be used or conducted unless the person qualified to do so is
satisfied that any of the following conditions are fulfilled, namely:--(i)age
of the pregnant woman is above thirty- five years;(ii)the pregant woman has
undergone of two or more spontaneous abortions or foetal loss;(iii)the
pregnant woman had been exposed to potentially teratogenic agents such as
drugs, radiation, infection or chemicals;(iv)the pregnant woman has a family
history of mental retardation or physical deformities such as spasticity or
any other genetic disease;(v)any other condition as may be specified by the
Central Supervisory Board;(4)no person, being a relative or the husband of the
pregnant woman shall seek or encourage the conduct of any pre- natal
diagnostic techniques on her except for the purpose specified in clause (2).

### 5. Written consent of pregnant woman and prohibition of communicating the
sex of foetus.

(1)No person referred to in clause (2) of section 3 shall conduct the pre-
natal diagnostic procedures unless--(a)he has explained all known side and
after effects of such procedures to the pregnant woman concerned;(b)he has
obtained in the prescribed form her written consent to undergo such procedures
in the language which she understands; and(c)a copy of her written consent
obtained under clause (b) is given to the pregnant woman.(2)No person
conducting pre- natal diagnostic procedures shall communicate to the pregnant
woman concerned or her relatives the sex of the foetus by words, signs or in
any other manner.

### 6. Determination of sex prohibited. On and from the commencement of this
Act,--

(a)no Genetic Counselling Centre or Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic shall
conduct or cause to be conducted in its Centre, Laboratory or Clinic, pre-
natal diagnostic techniques including ultrasonography, for the purpose of
determining the sex of a foetus;(b)no person shall conduct or cause to be
conducted any pre- natal diagnostic techniques including ultrasonography for
the purpose of determining the sex of a foetus.

## Chapter IV  
CENTRAL SUPERVISORY BOARD

### 7. Constitution of Central Supervisory Board.

(1)The Central Government shall constitute a Board to be known as the Central
Supervisory Board to exercise the powers and perform the functions conferred
on the Board under this Act.(2)The Board shall consist of--(a)the Minister in
charge of the Ministry or Department of Family Welfare, who shall be the
Chairman, ex officio;(b)the Secretary to the Government of India in charge of
the Department of Family Welfare, who shall be the Vice- Chairman, ex-
officio;(c)two members to be appointed by the Central Government to represent
the Ministries of Central Government in charge of Woman and Child Development
and of Law and Justice, ex- officio;(d)the Director General of Health Services
of the Central Government, ex officio;(e)ten members to be appointed by the
Central Government, two each from amongst--(i)eminent medical
geneticists;(ii)eminent gynaecologists and obstetricians;(iii)eminent
paediatricians;(iv)eminent social scientists; and(v)representatives of women
welfare organisations;(f)three women Members of Parliament, of whom two shall
be elected by the House of the People and one by the Council of States;(g)four
members to be appointed by the Central Government by rotation to represent the
States and the Union territories, two in the alphabetical order and two in the
reverse alphabetical order: Provided that no appointment under this clause
shall be made except on the recommendation of the State Government or, as the
case may be, the Union territory;(h)an officer, not below the rank of a Joint
Secretary or equivalent of the Central Government, in charge of Family
Welfare, who shall be the Member- Secretary, ex officio.

### 8. Term of office of members.

(1)The term of office of a member, other than an ex officio member, shall
be,--(a)in case of appointment under clause (e) or clause (f) of sub- section
(2) of section 7, three years; and(b)in case of appointment under clause (g)
of the said subsection, one year.(2)If a casual vacancy occurs in the office
of any other members, whether by reason of his death, resignation or inability
to discharge his functions owing to illness or other incapacity, such vacancy
shall be filled by the Central Government by making a fresh appointment and
the member so appointed shall hold office for the remainder of the term of
office of the person in whose place he is so appointed.(3)The Vice- Chairman
shall perform such functions as may be assigned to him by the Chairman from
time to time.(4)The procedure to be followed by the members in the discharge
of their functions shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 9. Meetings of the Board.

(1)The Board shall meet at such time and place, and shall observe such rules
of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at its meetings
(including the quorum at such meetings) as may be provided by regulations:
Provided that the Board shall meet at least once in six months.(2)The Chairman
and in his absence the Vice- Chairman shall preside at the meetings of the
Board.(3)If for any reason the Chairman or the Vice- Chairman is unable to
attend any meeting of the Board, any other member chosen by the members
present at the meeting shall preside at the meeting.(4)All questions which
come up before any meeting of the Board shall be decided by a majority of the
votes of the members present and voting, and in the event of an equality of
votes, the Chairman, or in his absence, the person presiding, shall have and
exercise a second or casting vote.(5)Members other than ex officio members
shall receive such allowances, if any, from the Board as may be prescribed.

### 10. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate proceedings of the Board.

No act or proceeding of the Board shall be invalid merely by reason of--(a)any
vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the Board; or(b)any defect
in the appointment of a person acting as a member of the Board; or(c)any
irregularity in the procedure of the Board not affecting the merits of the
case.

### 11. Temporary association of persons with the Board for particular
purposes.

(1)The Board may associate with itself, in such manner and for such purposes
as may be determined by regulations, any person whose assistance or advice it
may desire in carrying out any of the provisions of this Act.(2)A person
associated with it by the Board under sub- section (1) for any purpose shall
have a right to take part in the discussions relevant to that purpose, but
shall not have a right to vote at a meeting of the Board and shall not be a
member for any other purpose.

### 12. Appointment or officers and other employees of the Board.

(1)For the purpose of enabling it efficiently to discharge its functions under
this Act, the Board may, subject to such regulations as may be made in this
bahalf, appoint (whether on deputation or otherwise) such number of officers
and other employees as it may consider necessary:Provided that the appointment
of such category of officers, as may be specified in such regulations, shall
be subject to the approval of the Central Government.(2)Every officer or other
employee appointed by the Board shall be subject to such conditions of service
and shall be entitled to such remuneration as may be specified in the
regulations.

### 13. Authentication of orders and other instruments of the Board.

All orders and decisions of the Board shall be authenticated by the signature
of the Chairman or any other member authorised by the Board in this behalf,
and all other instruments issued by the Board shall be authenticated by the
signature of the Member- Secretary or any other officer of the Board
authorised in like manner in this behalf.

### 14. Disqualifications for appointment as member. A person shall be
disqualified for being appointed as a member if, he--

(a)has been convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for an offence which, in
the opinion of the Central Government, involves moral turpitude; or(b)is an
undischarged insolvent; or(c)is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a
competent court; or(d)has been removed or dismissed from the service of the
Government or a Corporation owned or controlled by the Government; or(e)has,
in the opinion of the Central Government, such financial or other interest in
the Board as is likely to affect prejudicially the discharge by him of his
functions as a member; or(f)has, in the opinion of the Central Government,
been associated with the use or promotion of pre- natal diagnostic technique
for determination of sex.

### 15. Eligibility of member for reappointment.

Subject to the other terms and conditions of service as may be prescribed, any
person ceasing to be a member shall be eligible for reappointment as such
member.

### 16. Functions of the Board. The Board shall have the following functions,
namely:--

(i)to advise the Government on policy matters relating to use of pre- natal
diagnostic techniques;(ii)to review implementation of the Act and the rules
made thereunder and recommend changes in the said Act and rules to the Central
Government;(iii)to create public awareness against the practice of pre- natal
determination of sex and female foeticide;(iv)to lay down code of conduct to
be observed by persons working at Genetic Counselling Centres, Genetic
Laboratories and Genetic Clinics;(v)any other functions as may be specified
under the Act.

## Chapter V  
APPROPRIATE AUTHORITY AND ADVISORY COMMITTEE

### 17. Appropriate Authority and Advisory Committee.

(1)The Central Government shall appoint, by notification in the Official
Gazette, one or more Appropriate Authorities for each of the Union territories
for the purposes of this Act.(2)The State Government shall appoint, by
notification in the Official Gazette, one or more Appropriate Authorities for
the whole or part of the State for the purposes of this Act having regard to
the intensity of the problem of pre- natal sex determination leading to female
foeticide.(3)The officers appointed as Appropriate Authorities under sub-
section (1) or sub- section (2) shall be,--(a)when appointed for the whole of
the State or the Union territory, of or above the rank of the Joint Director
of Health and Family Welfare; and(b)when appointed for any part of the State
or the Union territory, of such other rank as the State Government or the
Central Government, as the case may be, may deem fit.(4)The Appropriate
Authority shall have the following functions, namely:--(a)to grant, suspend or
cancel registration of a Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or
Genetic Clinic;(b)to enforce standards prescribed for the Genetic Counselling
Centre, Genetic Laboratory and Genetic Clinic;(c)to investigate complaints of
breach of the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder and take
immediate action; and(d)to seek and consider the advice of the Advisory
Committee, constituted under sub- section (5), on application for registration
and on complaints for suspension or cancellation of registration.(5)The
Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, shall
constitute an Advisory Committee for each Appropriate Authority to aid and
advise the Appropriate Authority in the discharge of its functions, and shall
appoint one of the members of the Advisory Committee to be its Chairman.(6)The
Advisory Committee shall consist of--(a)three medical experts from amongst
gynaecologists, obstericians, paediatricians and medical geneticists;(b)one
legal expert;(c)one officer to represent the department dealing with
information and publicity of the State Government or the Union territory, as
the case may be;(d)three eminent social workers of whom not less than one
shall be from amongst representatives of women' s organisations.(7)No person
who, in the opinion of the Central Government or the State Government, as the
case may be, has been associated with the use or promotion of pre- natal
diagnostic technique for determination of sex shall be appointed as a member
of the Advisory Committee.(8)The Advisory Committee may meet as and when it
thinks fit or on the request of the Appropriate Authority for consideration of
any application for registration or any complaint for suspension or
cancellation of registration and to give advice thereon:Provided that the
period intervening between any two meetings shall not exceed the prescribed
period.(9)The terms and conditions subject to which a person may be appointed
to the Advisory Committee and the procedure to be followed by such Committee
in the discharge of its functions shall be such as may be prescribed.

## Chapter VI  
REGISTRATION OF GENETIC COUNSELLING CENTRES, GENETIC LABORATORIES AND GENETIC
CLINICS

### 18. Registration of Genetic Counselling Centres, Genetic Laboratories or
Genetic Clinics.

(1)No person shall open any Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or
Genetic Clinic after the commencement of this Act unless such Centre,
Laboratory or Clinic is duly registered separately or jointly under this
Act.(2)Every application for registration under sub- section (1), shall be
made to the Appropriate Authority in such form and in such manner and shall be
accompanied by such fees as may be prescribed.(3)Every Genetic Counselling
Centre, Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic engaged, either partly or
exclusively, in counselling or conducting pre- natal diagnostic techniques for
any of the purposes mentioned in section 4, immediately before the
commencement of this Act, shall apply for registration within sixty days from
the date of such commencement.(4)Subject to the provisions of section 6, every
Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic engaged in
counselling or conducting pre- natal diagnostic techniques shall cease to
conduct any such counselling or technique on the expiry of six months from the
date of commencement of this Act unless such Centre, Laboratory or Clinic has
applied for registration and is so registered separately or jointly or till
such application is disposed of, whichever is earlier.(5)No Genetic
Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic shall be registered
under this Act unless the Appropriate Authority is satisfied that such Centre,
Laboratory or Clinic is in a position to provide such facilities, maintain
such equipment and standards as may be prescribed.

### 19. Certificate of registration.

(1)The Appropriate Authority shall, after holding an inquiry and after
satisfying itself that the applicant has complied with all the requirements of
this Act and the rules made thereunder and having regard to the advice of the
Advisory Committee in this behalf, grant a certificate of registration in the
prescribed form jointly or separately to the Genetic Counselling Centre,
Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic, as the case may be.(2)If, after the
inquiry and after giving an opportunity of being heard to the applicant and
having regard to the advice of the Advisory Committee, the Appropriate
Authority is satisfied that the applicant has not complied with the
requirements of this Act or the rules, it shall, for reasons to be recorded in
writing, reject the application for registration.(3)Every certificate of
registration shall be renewed in such manner and after such period and on
payment of such fees as may be prescribed.(4)The certificate of registration
shall be displayed by the registered Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic
Laboratory or Genetic Clinic in a conspicuous place at its place of business.

### 20. Cancellation or suspension of registration.

(1)The Appropriate Authority may suo moto, or on complaint, issue a notice to
the Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic to show
cause why its registration should not be suspended or cancelled for the
reasons mentioned in the notice.(2)If, after giving a reasonable opportunity
of being heard to the Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or
Genetic Clinic and having regard to the advice of the Advisory Committee, the
Appropriate Authority is satisfied that there has been a breach of the
provisions of this Act or the rules, it may, without prejudice to any criminal
action that it may take against such Centre, Laboratory or Clinic, suspend its
registration for such period as it may think fit or cancel its registration,
as the case may be.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- sections (1)
and (2), if the Appropriate Authority is, of the opinion that it is necessary
or expedient so to do in the public interest, it may, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, suspend the registration of any Genetic Counselling
Centre, Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic without issuing any such notice
referred to in sub- section (1).

### 21. Appeal.

The Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic may,
within thirty days from the date of receipt of the order of suspension or
cancellation of registration passed by the Appropriate Authority under section
20, prefer an appeal against such order to--(i)the Central Government, where
the appeal is against the order of the Central Appropriate Authority;
and(ii)the State Government, where the appeal is against the order of the
State Appropriate Authority, in the prescribed manner.

## Chapter VII  
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

### 22. Prohibition of advertisement relating to pre- natal determination of
sex and punishment for contravention.

(1)No person, organisation, Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or
Genetic Clinic shall issue or cause to be issued any advertisement in any
manner regarding facilities of pre- natal determination of sex available at
such Centre, Laboratory, Clinic or any other place.(2)No person or
organisation shall publish or distribute or cause to be published or
distributed any advertisement in any manner regarding facilites of pre- natal
determination of sex available at any Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic
Laboratory, Genetic Clinic or any other place.(3)Any person who contravenes
the provisions of sub- section (1) or sub- section (2) shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and with fine
which may extend to ten thousand rupees.Explanation.-- For the purposes of
this section," advertisement" includes any notice, circular, label wrapper or
other document and also includes any visible representation made by means of
any light, sound, smoke or gas.

### 23. Offences and penalties.

(1)Any medical geneticist, gynaecologist, registered medical practitioner or
any person who owns a Genetic Counselling Centre, a Genetic Laboratory or a
Genetic Clinic or is employed in such a Centre, Laboratory or Clinic and
renders his professional or technical services to or at such a Centre,
Laboratory or Clinic, whether on an honorary basis or otherwise, and who
contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or rules made thereunder shall
be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and
with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees and on any subsequent
conviction, with imprisonment which may extend to five years and with fine
which may extend to fifty thousand rupees.(2)The name of the registered
medical practitioner who has been convicted by the court under sub- section
(1), shall be reported by the Appropriate Authority to the respective State
Medical Council for taking necessary action including the removal of his name
from the register of the Council for a period of two years for the first
offence and permanently for the subsequent offence.(3)Any person who seeks the
aid of a Genetic Councelling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic or
of a medical geneticist, gynaecologist or registered medical practitioner for
conducting pre- natal diagnostic techniques on any pregnant woman (including
such woman unless she was compelled to undergo such diagnostic techniques) for
purposes other than those specified in clause (2) of section 4, shall, be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and
with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees and on any subsequent
conviction with imprisonment which may extend to five years and with fine
which may extend to fifty thousand rupees.

### 24. Presumption in the case of conduct of pre- natal diagnostic
techniques.

Notwithstanding anything in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872 ), the
court shall presume unless the contrary is proved that the pregnant woman has
been compelled by her husband or the relative to undergo pre- natal diagnotic
technique and such person shall be liable for abetment of offence under sub-
section (3) of section 23 and shall be punishable for the offence specified
under that section.

### 25. Penalty for contravention of the provisions of the Act or rules for
which no specific punishment is provided.

Whoever contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or any rules made
thereunder, for which no penalty has been elsewhere provided in this Act,
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
months or with fine, which may extend to one thousand rupees or with both and
in the case of continuing contravention with an additional fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees for every day during which such contravention
continues after conviction for the first such contravention.

### 26. Offences by companies.

(1)Where any offence, punishable under this Act has been committed by a
company, every person who, at the time the offence was committed was in charge
of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the
company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided
that nothing contained in this sub- section shall render any such person
liable to any punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without
his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), where any offence punishable under this Act has been committed by
a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the
consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of,
any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such
director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be
guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.Explanation.-- For the purposes of this section,--(a) "
company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of
individuals, and(b)" director", in relation to a firm, means a partner in the
firm.

### 27. Offence to be cognizable, non- bailable and non- compoundable.

Every offence under this Act shall be cognizable, non- bailable and non-
compoundable.

### 28. Cognizance of offences.

(1)No court shall take cognizance of an offence under this Act except on a
complaint made by--(a)the Appropriate Authority concerned, or any officer
authorised in this behalf by the Central Government or State Government, as
the case may be, or the Appropriate Authority; or(b)a person who has given
notice of not less than thirty days in the manner prescribed, to the
Appropriate Authority, of the alleged offence and of his intention to make a
complaint to the court. Explanation.-- For the purpose of this clause,"
person" includes a social organisation.(2)No court other than that of a
Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the first class shall try
any offence punishable under this Act.(3)Where a complaint has been made under
clause (b) of subsection (1), the court may, on demand by such person, direct
the Appropriate Authority to make available copies of the relevant records in
its possession to such person.

## Chapter VIII  
MISCELLANEOUS

### 29. Maintenance of records.

(1)All records, charts, forms, reports, consent letters and all other
documents required to be maintained under this Act and the rules shall be
preserved for a period of two years or for such period as may be
prescribed:Provided that, if any criminal or other proceedings are instituted
against any Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic,
the records and all other documents of such Centre, Laboratory or Clinic shall
be preserved till the final disposal of such proceedings.(2)All such records
shall, at all reasonable times, be made available for inspection to the
Appropriate Authority or to any other person authorised by the Appropriate
Authority in this behalf.

### 30. Power to search and seize records, etc.

(1)If the Appropriate Authority has reason to believe that an offence under
this Act has been or is being committed at any Genetic Counselling Centre,
Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic, such Authority or any officer authorised
thereof in this behalf may, subject to such rules as may be prescribed, enter
and search at all reasonable times with such assistance, if any, as such
authority or officer considers necessary, such Genetic Counselling Centre,
Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic and examine any record, register,
document, book, pamphlet, advertisement or any other material object found
therein and seize the same if such Authority or officer has reason to believe
that it may furnish evidence of the commission of an office punishable under
this Act.(2)The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974
) relating to searches and seizures shall, so far as may be, apply to every
search or seizure made under this Act.

### 31. Protection of action taken in good faith.

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
or the State Government or the Appropriate Authority or any officer authorised
by the Central or State Government or by the Authority for anything which is
in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of the provisions of
this Act.

### 32. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may make rules for carrying out the provisions of
this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice, to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for--(i)the minimum qualifications for
persons employed at a registered Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic
Laboratory or Genetic Clinic under clause (1) of section 3;(ii)the form in
which consent of a pregnant woman has to be obtained under section 5;(iii)the
procedure to be followed by the members of the Central Supervisory Board in
the discharge of their functions under sub- section (4) of section
8;(iv)allowances for members other than ex officio members admissible under
sub- section (5) of section 9;(v)the period intervening between any two
meetings of the Advisory Committee under the proviso to sub- section (8) of
section 17;(vi)the terms and conditions subject to which a person may be
appointed to the Advisory Committee and the procedure to be followed by such
Committee under sub- section (9) of section 17;(vii)the form and manner in
which an application shall be made for registration and the fee payable
thereof under sub- section (2) of section 18;(viii)the facilities to be
provided, equipment and other standards to be maintained by the Genetic
Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic under sub- section
(5) of section 18;(ix)the form in which a certificate of registration shall be
issued under sub- section (1) of section 19;(x)the manner in which and the
period after which a certificate of registration shall be renewed and the fee
payable for such renewal under sub- section (3) of section 19;(xi)the manner
in which an appeal may be preferred under section 21;(xii)the period up to
which records, charts, etc., shall be preserved under sub- section (1) of
section 29;(xiii)the manner in which the seizure of documents, records,
objects, etc., shall be made and the manner in which seizure list shall be
prepared and delivered to the person from whose custody such documents,
records or objects were seized under sub- section (1) of section 30;(xiv)any
other matter that is required to be, or may be, prescribed.

### 33. Power to make regulations.

The Board may, with the previous sanction of the Central Government, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make regulations not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act and the rules made there- under to provide
for--(a)the time and place of the meetings of the Board and the procedure to
be followed for the transaction of business at such meetings and the number of
members which shall form the quorum under sub- section (1) of section 9;(b)the
manner in which a person may be temporarily associated with the Board under
sub- section (1) of section 11;(c)the method of appointment, the conditions of
service and the scales of pay and allowances of the officer and other
employees of the Board appointed under section 12;(d)generally for the
efficient conduct of the affairs of the Board.

### 34. Rules and regulations to be laid before Parliament.

Every rule and every regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as
may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in
session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or
regulation or both Houses agree that the rule or regulation should not be
made, the rule or regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or regulation. Secy. to the Govt. of
India.

