## Union of India - Act

## The President's Emoluments And Pension Act, 1951

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The President's Emoluments And Pension Act, 1951

## Act 30 of 1951

  * Published on 13 May 1951 
  * Commenced on 13 May 1951 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 December 2008.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE PRESIDENT'S EMOLUMENTS AND PENSION (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2008 (Act 28 of 2008) on 30 December 2008] 

The President's Emoluments And Pension Act, 1951Act No. 30 Of 1951

### 27.

/1393Whereas it is desirable that some suitable financial provision should be
made for Presidents after their retirement, this Bill is introduced to provide
for a pension of Rs. 15,000 perannum, which will be subject to income-tax. The
pension will be given to all Presidents after they vacant their office. It
will also be allowed to the last Governal-General. The expenditure involved
will be a charge on the Consolidated Fund of India." - Gazette of India,
25-11-1950, Pt. II, section 2, p. 385.Amending Act 79 of 1976.- The
President's Pension Act, 1951 (30 of 1951), inter alia, provides for medical
attendance and treatment, free of charge, to a retired President. Such
facilities are, however, not available to the spouse of a retired President or
the spouse of a President who dies while holding office as such keeping in
view the dignity of the high office of the President, it is proposed to extend
the said facilities to the spouse of a President in both cases.2\. It is also
proposed to include in the Act the standard provision relating to laying of
rules before the Houses of Parliament.3\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above
objects.- Gazette of India, 10-8-1976, Pt. 2, section 2, Ext., p. 1011.[13th
May, 1951]An Act To Provide [For The Emoluments Of The President And For]
[Substituted by Act 77 of 1985 s.2 (w.e.f. 26-12-1985) ] pension To retiring
Presidents

### 1. Short title.

This Act may be called the President's [Emoluments and Pension] [Substituted
by Act 77 of 1985 s.3 (w.e.f. 26-12-1985) ] Act, 1951.

### 1A. [ Emoluments of the President. [Inserted by Act 77 of 1985, section 2]

There shall be paid to the President by way of emoluments [five lakh rupees]
per mensem.]

### 2. Pension to retiring Presidents.

[(1)] [Section 2 re-numbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 24 of 1962,
Section 2. ] Pension to retiring Presidents. There shall be paid to every
person who ceases to hold office as President, either by the expiration of his
term of office or by resignation of his office, a pension of [at the rate of
fifty per cent of the emoluments of the President per month] [Substituted by
Act 28 of 2008 for "of three lakh rupees per annum" w.e.f. 1.1.2006] for the
remainder of his life.[Provided that if any person before assuming the office
of President, has held the office of the Vice-President, such person shall not
be entitled to any pension and other benefits under the provisions of the
Vice-President's Pension Act, 1997.](2)[ Subject to any rules that may be made
in this behalf, every such person shall, for the remainder of his life, be
entitled- [Inserted by Act Inserted vide President's Emoluments and Pension
(Amendment) Act, 1998 (25 of 1998)](a)[ to the use of a furnished residence
(including its maintenance), without payment of rent, two telephones (one for
internet and broadband connectivity), one mobile phone with national roaming
facility and a motor-car, free of charge or to such car allowance as may be
specified in the rules; [Substituted by Act 28 of 2008.](b)to secretarial
staff consisting of a Private Secretary, one Additional Private Secretary, one
Personal Assistant, two Peons and office expenses up to [one lakh rupees] per
annum.](c)to medical attendance and treatment free of charge.(d)[ to travel
anywhere in India, accompanied by one person, by highest class by air, rail or
steamer.] [Inserted by Act No 79 of 1976, Section 2.]Explanation.--For the
purposes of this sub-section "residence" shall have the meaning assigned to it
in the Salaries and allowances of Ministers Act, 1953.(2A)[ Subject to any
rules that may be made in this behalf, the spouse of every such person shall,
for the remainder of life, be entitled to medical attendance and treatment,
free of charge.] [Substituted by Act No 79 of 1976 s. 2 for sub-section (3).
](3)[ Where any such person is re-elected to the office of President, such
person or the spouse of such person shall not be entitled to any benefit under
this section for the period during which such person again holds that office.]
[Substituted by Act No 79 of 1976 Section 3. ]

### 2A. [ The spouse of a person who dies -

(a)while holding the office of President, or(b)after ceasing to hold office as
president either by the expiration of his term of office or by resignation of
his office, shall be paid a family pension at the rate of fifty per cent of
pension as is admissible to a retiring President, for the remainder of her
life.]

### 3. [ Free medical attendance and treatment to spouse of President dying in
office. [Substituted by Act 79 of 1976 , s.2 (w.e.f. 25-08-1976) ]

Subject to any rules that may be made in this behalf, the spouse of a person
who dies while holding the office of President shall, for the remainder of
life, be entitled to medical attendance and treatment, free of charge.]
[Inserted vide President's Emoluments and Pension (Amendment) Act, 2000 (14 of
2000). with effect from 11-8-2000.]

### 3A.

Subject to any rules that may be made in this behalf, the spouse of a person
who dies -(a)while holding the office of President, or(b)[ after ceasing to
hold office as President, either on the expiration of his term of office or by
resignation of his office, shall be entitled, -(i)to the use of furnished
residence (including its maintenance) without payment of licence fee;(ii)to
secretarial staff consisting of a Private Secretary and a Peon and office
expenses as per actuals, the total expenditure on which shall not exceed
[twenty thousand rupees] per annum;(iii)to a telephone and a motor-car, free
of charge or such car allowance for the remainder of his life, as may be
specified in the rules;(iv)to travel anywhere in India, in a calendar year to
twelve single journeys, by the highest class, by air, rail or steamer,
accompanied by a companion or a relative.]

### 4. Sums to be charged on the Consolidated Fund of India.

Any [sum] [Substituted by Act 24 of 1962, Section 3, for "pension". ] payable
under this Act shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund of India.

### 5. [ Power to make rules. [Inserted by Act 24 of 1962, section 4]

[(1)] The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.](2)[ Every rule made by
the Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after
it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a
total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or
more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree
in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule
should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be ; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously clone under that rule.] [4 Inserted by Act 79 of 1976 s. 4
]

### 6. [ Power to remove difficulties. [Inserted by the President's Emoluments
and Pension Act, 2008 (28 of 2008). w.e.f. 30.12.2008. ]

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, as
amended by the President's Emoluments and Pension (Amendment) Act, 2008, the
Central Government may, by order, do anything not inconsistent with such
provisions for the purpose of removing the difficulty:Provided that no such
order shall be made after the expiration of two years from the date on which
this Act comes into force.(2)Every order made under sub-section (1) shall be
laid before each House of Parliament.]

