## Union of India - Act

## The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals Act, 1960

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals Act, 1960

## Act 59 of 1960

  * Published in Gazette 59 on 1 January 1980 
  * Assented to on 1 January 1980 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1980 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1980.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals Act, 1960

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.—

(1)This Act may be called the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960.(2)It
extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.(3)It
shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, and different dates may be
appointed for different States and for the different provisions contained in
this Act.

### 2. Definitions.—

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)“animal” means any
living creature other than a human being;(b)“Board” means the Board
established under section 4, and as reconstituted from time to time under
section 5A;(c)“captive animal” means any animal (not being a domestic animal)
which is in captivity or confinement, whether permanent or temporary, or which
is subjected to any appliance or contrivance for the purpose of hindering or
preventing its escape from captivity or confinement or which is pinioned or
which is or appears to be maimed;(d)“domestic animal” means any animal which
is tamed or which has been or is being sufficiently tamed to serve some
purpose for the use of man or which, although it neither has been nor is being
nor is intended to be so tamed, is or has become in fact wholly or partly
tamed;(e)“local authority” means a municipal committee, district board or
other authority for the time being invested by law with the control and
administration of any matters within a specified local area;(f)“owner”, used
with reference to an animal, includes not only the owner but also any other
person for the time being in possession or custody of the animal, whether with
or without the consent of the owner;(g)“phooka” or “doom dev” includes any
process of introducing air or any substance into the female organ of a milch
animal with the object of drawing off from the animal any secretion of
milk;(h)“prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(i)“street”
includes any way, road, lane, square, court, alley, passage or open space,
whether a thoroughfare or not, to which the public have access.

### 3. Duties of persons having charge of animals.—

It shall be the duty of every person having the care or charge of any animal
to take all reasonable measures to ensure the well-being of such animal and to
prevent the infliction upon such animal of unnecessary pain or suffering.

### 4. Establishment of Animal Welfare Board of India.—

(1)For the promotion of animal welfare generally and for the purpose of
protecting animals from being subjected to unnecessary pain or suffering, in
particular, there shall be established by the Central Government, as soon as
may be after the commencement of this Act, a Board to be called the Animal
Welfare Board of India.(2)The Board shall be a body corporate having perpetual
succession and a common seal with power, subject to the provisions of this
Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of property and may by its name sue and be
sued.

### 5. Constitution of the Board.—

(1)The Board shall consist of the following persons, namely:—(a)the Inspector-
General of Forests, Government of India, ex officio;(b)the Animal Husbandry
Commissioner to the Government of India, ex officio;(ba)two persons to
represent respectively the Ministers of the Central Government dealing with
home affairs and education, to be appointed by the Central Government;(bb)one
person to represent the Indian Board for Wild Life, to be appointed by the
Central Government;(bc)three persons who, in the opinion of the Central
Government, are or have been actively engaged in animal welfare work and are
well-known humanitarians, to be nominated by the Central Government;(c)one
person to represent such association of veterinary practitioners as in the
opinion of the Central Government ought to be represented on the Board, to be
elected by that association in the prescribed manner;(d)two persons to
represent practitioners of modern and indigenous systems of medicine, to be
nominated by the Central Government;(e)one person to represent each of such
two municipal corporations as in the opinion of the Central Government ought
to be represented on the Board, to be elected by each of the said corporations
in the prescribed manner;(f)one person to represent each of such three
organisations actively interested in animal welfare as in the opinion of the
Central Government ought to be represented on the Board, to be chosen by each
of the said organisations in the prescribed manner;(g)one person to represent
each of such three societies dealing with prevention of cruelty to animals as
in the opinion of the Central Government ought to be represented on the Board,
to be chosen in the prescribed manner;(h)three persons to be nominated by the
Central Government;(i)six members of Parliament, four to be elected by the
House of the People (Lok Sabha) and two by the Council of States (Rajya
Sabha).(2)Any of the persons referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause
(ba) or clause (bb) of sub-section (1) may depute any other person to attend
any of the meetings of the Board.(3)The Central Government shall nominate one
of the members of the Board to be its Chairman and another member of the Board
to be its Vice-Chairman.

### 5A. Reconstitution of the Board.—

(1)In order that the Chairman and other members of the Board hold office till
the same date and that their terms of office come to an end on the same date,
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
reconstitute, as soon as may be after the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
(Amendment) Act, 1982 comes into force, the Board.(2)The Board as
reconstituted under sub-section (1) shall be reconstituted from time to time
on the expiration of every third year from the date of its reconstitution
under sub-section (1)(3)There shall be included amongst the members of the
Board reconstituted under sub-section (1), all persons who immediately before
the date on which such reconstitution is to take effect, are members of the
Board but such persons shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the
term for which they would have held office if such reconstitution had not been
made and the vacancies arising as a result of their ceasing to be members of
the Board shall be filled up as casual vacancies for the remaining period of
the term of the Board as so reconstituted:Provided that nothing in this sub-
section shall apply in relation to any person who ceases to be a member of the
Board by virtue of the amendment made in sub-section (1) of section 5 by sub-
clause (ii) of clause (a) of section 5 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
(Amendment) Act, 1982.

### 6. Term of office and conditions of service of members of the Board.—

(1)The term for which the Board may be reconstituted under section 5A shall be
three years from the date of the reconstitution and the Chairman and other
members of the Board as so reconstituted shall hold office till the expiry of
the term for which the Board has been so reconstituted.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1),—(a)the term of office of an ex officio
member shall continue so long as he holds the office by virtue of which he is
such a member;(b)the term of office of a member elected or chosen under clause
(c), clause (e), clause (f), clause (g), clause (h) or clause (i) of section 5
to represent any body of persons shall come to an end as soon as he ceases to
be a member of the body which elected him or in respect of which he was
chosen;(c)the term of office of a member appointed, nominated, elected or
chosen to fill a casual vacancy shall continue for the remainder of the term
of office of the member in whose place he is appointed, nominated, elected or
chosen;(d)the Central Government may, at any time, remove for reasons to be
recorded in writing a member from office after giving him a reasonable
opportunity of showing cause against the proposed removal and any vacancy
caused by such removal shall be treated as casual vacancy for the purpose of
clause (c).(3)The members of the Board shall receive such allowances, if any,
as the Board may, subject to the previous approval of the Central Government,
provide by regulations made in this behalf.(4)No act done or proceeding taken
by the Board shall be questioned on the ground merely of the existence of any
vacancy in, or defect in the constitution of, the Board and in particular, and
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, during the period
intervening between the expiry of the term for which the Board has been
reconstituted under section 5A and its further reconstitution under that
section, the ex officio members of the Board shall discharge all the powers
and functions of the Board.

### 7. Secretary and other employees of the Board.—

(1)The Central Government shall appoint the Secretary of the Board.(2)Subject
to such rules as may be made by the Central Government in this behalf, the
Board may appoint such number of other officers and employees as may be
necessary for the exercise of its powers and the discharge of its functions
and may determine the terms and conditions of service of such officers and
other employees by regulations made by it with the previous approval of the
Central Government.

### 8. Funds of the Board.—

The funds of the Board shall consist of grants made to it from time to time by
the Government and of contributions, donations, subscriptions, bequests, gifts
and the like made to it by any local authority or by any other person.

### 9. Functions of the Board.—

The functions of the Board shall be—(a)to keep the law in force in India for
the prevention of cruelty to animals under constant study and advise the
Government on the amendments to be undertaken in any such law from time to
time;(b)to advise the Central Government on the making of rules under this Act
with a view to preventing unnecessary pain or suffering to animals generally,
and more particularly when they are being transported from one place to
another or when they are used as performing animals or when they are kept in
captivity or confinement;(c)to advise the Government or any local authority or
other person on improvements in the design of vehicles so as to lessen the
burden on draught animals;(d)to take all such steps as the Board may think fit
for ameliorating of animals by encouraging, or providing for, the construction
of sheds, water-troughs and the like and by providing for veterinary
assistance to animals;(e)to advise the Government or any local authority or
other person in the design of slaughter-houses or in the maintenance of
slaughter-houses or in connection with slaughter of animals so that
unnecessary pain or suffering, whether physical or mental, is eliminated in
the pre-slaughter stages as far as possible, as animals are killed, wherever
necessary, in as humane a manner as possible;(f)to take all such steps as the
Board may think fit to ensure that unwanted animals are destroyed by local
authorities, whenever it is necessary to do so, either instantaneously or
after being rendered insensible to pain of suffering;(g)to encourage, by the
grant of financial assistance or otherwise, the formation or establishment of
pinjrapoles, rescue homes, animal shelters, sanctuaries and the like where
animals and birds may find a shelter when they have become old and useless or
when they need protection;(h)to co-operate with, and co-ordinate the work of,
associations or bodies established for the purpose of preventing unnecessary
pain or suffering to animals or for the protection of animals and birds;(i)to
give financial and other assistance to animal welfare organisations
functioning in any local area or to encourage the formation of animal welfare
organisations in any local area which shall work under the general supervision
and guidance of the Board;(j)to advise the Government on matters relating to
the medical care and attention which may be provided in animal hospitals and
to give financial and other assistance to animal hospitals whenever the Board
thinks it necessary to do so;(k)to impart education in relation to the humane
treatment of animals and to encourage the formation of public opinion against
the infliction of unnecessary pain or suffering to animals and for the
promotion of animal welfare by means of lectures, books, posters,
cinematographic exhibitions and the like;(l)to advise the Government on any
matter connected with animals welfare or the prevention of infliction of
unnecessary pain or suffering on animals.

### 10. Power of Board to make regulations.—

The Board may, subject to the previous approval of the Central Government,
make such regulations as it may think fit for the administration of its
affairs and for carrying out its functions.

### 11. Treating animals cruelly.—

(1)If any person—(a)beats, kicks, over-rides, over-drives, over-loads,
tortures or otherwise treats any animal so as to subject it to unnecessary
pain or suffering or causes or, being the owner permits, any animals to be so
treated; or(b)employs in any work or labour or for any purpose any animal
which, by reason of its age or any disease, infirmity, wound, sore or other
cause, is unfit to be so employed or, being the owner, permits any such unfit
animal to be so employed; or(c)wilfully and unreasonably administers any
injurious drug or injurious substance to any animal or wilfully and
unreasonably causes or attempts to cause any such drug or substance to be
taken by any animal; or(d)conveys or carries, whether in or upon any vehicle
or not, any animal in such a manner or position as to subject it to
unnecessary pain or suffering; or(e)keeps or confines any animal in any cage
or other receptacle which does not measure sufficiently in height, length and
breadth to permit the animal a reasonable opportunity for movement; or(f)keeps
for an unreasonable time any animal chained or tethered upon an unreasonably
short or unreasonably heavy chain or cord; or(g)being the owner, neglects to
exercise or cause to be exercised reasonably any dog habitually chained up or
kept in close confinement; or(h)being the owner of any animal, fails to
provide such animal with sufficient food, drink or shelter; or(i)without
reasonable cause, abandons any animal in circumstances which render it likely
that it will suffer pain by reason of starvation or thirst; or(j)wilfully
permits any animal, of which he is the owner to go at large in any street
while the animal is affected with contagious or infectious disease or, without
reasonable excuse permits any diseased or disabled animal, of which he is the
owner, to die in any street; or(k)offers for sale or, without reasonable
cause, has in his possession any animal which is suffering pain by reason of
mutilation, starvation, thirst, overcrowding or other ill-treatment;
or(l)mutilates any animal or kills any animal (including stray dogs) by using
the method of strychnine injections in the heart or in any other unnecessarily
cruel manner; or;m) solely with a view to providing entertainment—(i)confines
or causes to be confined any animal (including tying of an animal as a bait in
a tiger or other sanctuary) so as to make it an object of prey for any other
animal; or(ii)incites any animal to fight or bait any other animal;
or(n)organises, keeps, uses or acts in the management of, any place for animal
fighting or for the purpose of baiting any animal or permits or offers any
place to be so used or receives money for the admission of any other person to
any place kept or used for any such purposes; or(o)promotes or takes part in
any shooting match or competition wherein animals are released from captivity
for the purpose of such shooting;he shall be punishable, in the case of a
first offence, with fine which shall not be less than ten rupees but which may
extend to fifty rupees, and in the case of a second or subsequent offence
committed within three years of the previous offence, with fine which shall
not be less than twenty-five rupees but which may extend to one hundred rupees
or with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with
both.(2)For the purposes of sub-section (1), an owner shall be deemed to have
committed an offence if he has failed to exercise reasonable care and
supervision with a view to the prevention of such offence:Provided that where
an owner is convicted of permitting cruelty by reason only of having failed to
exercise such care and supervision, he shall not be liable to imprisonment
without the option of a fine.(3)Nothing in this section shall apply to—(a)the
dehorning of cattle, or the castration or branding or nose-roping of any
animal, in the prescribed manner; or(b)the destruction of stray dogs in lethal
chambers or by such other methods as may be prescribed; or(c)the extermination
or destruction of any animal under the authority of any law for the time being
in force; or(d)any matter dealt with in Chapter IV; or(e)the commission or
omission of any act in the course of the destruction or the preparation for
destruction of any animal as food for mankind unless such destruction or
preparation was accompanied by the infliction of unnecessary pain or
suffering.

### 12. Action upon the report of Advisory Board.—

(1)In any case where the Advisory Board has reported that there is, in its
opinion, sufficient cause for the detention of a person, the appropriate
Government may confirm the detention order and continue the detention of the
concerned for such period as it thinks fit.(2)In any case where the Advisory
Board has reported that there is, in its opinion, no sufficient cause for the
detention of the person concerned, the appropriate Government shall revoke the
detention order and cause the person to be released forthwith.

### 13. Destruction of suffering animals.—

(1)Where the owner of an animal is convicted of an offence under section 11,
it shall be lawful for the court, if the court is satisfied that it would be
cruel to keep the animal alive, to direct that the animal be destroyed and to
assign the animal to any suitable person for that purpose, and the person to
whom such animal is so assigned shall, as soon as possible, destroy such
animal or cause such animal to be destroyed in his presence without
unnecessary suffering, and any reasonable expense incurred in destroying the
animal may by ordered by the court to be recovered from the owner as if it
were a fine:Provided that unless the owner assents thereto, no order shall be
made under this section except upon the evidence of a veterinary officer in
charge of the area.(2)When any magistrate, commissioner of police or district
superintendent of police has reason to believe that an offence under section
11 has been committed in respect of any animal, he may direct the immediate
destruction of the animal, if in his opinion, it would be cruel to keep the
animal alive.(3)Any police officer about the rank of a constable or any person
authorised by the State Government in this behalf who finds any animal so
diseased or so severely injured or in such a physical condition that in his
opinion it cannot be removed without cruelty, may, if the owner is absent or
refuses his consent to the destruction of the animal, forthwith summon the
veterinary officer in charge of the area in which the animal is found, and if
the veterinary officer certifies that the animal is mortally injured or so
severely injured or in such a physical condition that it would be cruel to
keep it alive, the police officer or the person authorised, as the case may
be, may, after obtaining orders from a magistrate, destroy the animal injured
or cause it to be destroyed. in such manner as may be prescribed.(4)No appeal
shall lie from any order of a magistrate for the destruction of an animal.

### 14. Experiments on animals.—

Nothing contained in this Act shall render unlawful the performance of
experiments (including experiments involving operations) on animals for the
purpose of advancement by new discovery of physiological knowledge or of
knowledge which will be useful for saving or for prolonging life or
alleviating suffering or for combating any disease, whether of human beings,
animals or plants.

### 15. Committee for control and supervision of experiments on animals.—

(1)If at any time, on the advice of the Board, the Central Government is of
opinion that it is necessary so to do for the purpose of controlling and
supervising experiments on animals, it may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, constitute a Committee consisting of such number of officials and
non-officials, as it may think fit to appoint thereto.(2)The Central
Government shall nominate one of the members of the Committee to be its
Chairman.(3)The Committee shall have power to regulate its own procedure in
relation to the performance of its duties.(4)The funds of the Committee shall
consist of grants made to it from time to time by the Government and of
contributions, donations, subscriptions, bequests gifts and the like made to
it by any person.

### 15A. Sub-committees.—

(1)The Committee may constitute as many sub-committees as it thinks fit for
exercising any power or discharging any duty of the Committee or for inquiring
into or reporting and advising on any matter which the Committee may
refer.(2)A sub-committee shall consist exclusively of the members of the
Committee.

### 16. Staff of the Committee.—

Subject to the control of the Central Government, the Committee may appoint
such number of officers and other employees as may be necessary to enable it
to exercise its powers and perform its duties, and may determine the
remuneration and other terms and conditions of service of such officers and
other employees.

### 17. Duties of the Committee and power of the Committee to make rules
relating to experiments on animals.—

(1)It shall be the duty of the Committee to take all such measures as may be
necessary to ensure that animals are not subject to unnecessary pain or
suffering before, during or after the performance of experiments on them, and
for that purpose it may, by notification in the Gazette of India and subject
to the condition of previous publication, make such rules as it may think fit
in relation to the conduct of such experiments.(1A)In particular, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
the following matters, namely:—(a)the registration of persons or institutions
carrying on experiments on animals;(b)the reports and other information which
shall be forwarded to the Committee by persons and institutions carrying on
experiments on animals.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, rules made by the Committee shall be
designed to secure the following objects, namely:—(a)that in cases where
experiments are performed in any institution, the responsibility therefor is
placed on the person in charge of the institution and that, in cases where
experiments are performed outside an institution by individuals, the
individuals are qualified in that behalf and the experiments are performed on
their full responsibility;(b)that experiments are performed with due care and
humanity, and that as far as possible experiments involving operations are
performed under the influence of some anaesthetic of sufficient power to
prevent the animals feeling pain;(c)that animals which, in the course of
experiments under the influence of anaesthetics, are so injured that their
recovery would involve serious suffering, are ordinarily destroyed while still
insensible;(d)that experiments on animals are avoided wherever it is possible
to do so; as for example, in medical schools, hospitals, colleges and the
like, if other teaching devices such as books, models, films and the like may
equally suffice;(e)that experiments on larger animals are avoided when it is
possible to achieve the same results by experiments upon small laboratory
animals like guinea-pigs, rabbits, frogs and rats;(f)that, as far as possible,
experiments are not performed merely for the purpose of acquiring manual
skill;(g)that animals intended for the performance of experiments are properly
looked after both before and after experiments;(h)that suitable records are
maintained with respect to experiments performed on animals.(3)In making any
rules under this section, the Committee shall be guided by such directions as
the Central Government (consistently with the objects for which the Committee
is set up) may give to it, and the Central Government is hereby authorised to
give such directions.(4)All rules made by the Committee shall be binding on
all individuals performing experiments outside institutions and on persons in
charge of institutions in which experiments are performed.

### 18. Power of entry and inspection.—

For the purpose of ensuring that the rules made by it are being complied with,
the Committee may authorise any of its officers or any other person in writing
to inspect any institution or place where experiments are being carried on and
report to it as a result of such inspection, and any officer of person so
authorised may—(a)enter at any time considered reasonable by him and inspect
any institution or place in which experiments on animals are being carried on;
and(b)require any person to produce any records kept by him with respect to
experiments on animals.

### 19. Power to prohibit experiments on animals.—

If the Committee is satisfied, on the report of any officer or other person
made to it as a result of any inspection under section 18 or otherwise, that
the rules made by it under section 17 are not being complied with by any
person or institution carrying on experiments on animals, the Committee may,
after giving an opportunity to the person or institution of being heard in the
matter, by order, prohibit the person or institution from carrying on any such
experiments either for a specified period or indefinitely, or may allow the
person or institution to carry on such experiments subject to such special
conditions as the Committee may think fit to impose.

### 20. Penalties.—

If any person—(a)contravenes any order made by the Committee under section 19;
or(b)commits a breach of any condition imposed by the Committee under that
section;he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to two hundred
rupees, and, when the contravention or breach of condition has taken place in
any institution, the person in charge of the institution shall be deemed to be
guilty of the offence and shall be punishable accordingly.

### 21. “Exhibit” and “train” defined.—

In this Chapter, “exhibit” means exhibit at any entertainment, to which the
public are admitted through sale of tickets and “train” means train for the
purpose of any such exhibition, and the expressions “exhibitor” and “trainer”
have respectively the corresponding meanings.

### 22. Restriction on exhibition and training of performing animals.—

No person shall exhibit or train—(i)any performing animal unless he is
registered in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter ;(ii)as a
performing animal, any animal which the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify as an animal which shall not be
exhibited or trained as a performing animal.

### 23. Procedure for registration.—

(1)Every person desirous of exhibiting or training any performing animal
shall, on making an application in the prescribed form to the prescribed
authority and on payment of the prescribed fee, be registered under this Act
unless he is a person who, by reason of an order made by the court under this
Chapter, is not entitled to be so registered.(2)An application for
registration under this Chapter shall contain such particulars as to the
animals and as to the general nature of the performances in which the animals
are to be exhibited or for which they are to be trained as may be prescribed,
and the particulars so given shall be entered in the register maintained by
the prescribed authority.(3)The prescribed authority shall give to every
person whose name appears on the register kept by them, a certificate of
registration in the prescribed form containing the particulars entered in the
register.(4)Every register kept under this Chapter shall at all reasonable
times be open for inspection on payment of the prescribed fee, and any person
shall, on payment of the prescribed fee, be entitled to obtain copies thereof
or make extracts therefrom.(5)Any person whose name is entered in the register
shall, subject to the provisions of any order made under this Act by any
court, be entitled, on making an application for the purpose, to have the
particulars entered in the register with respect to him varied, and where any
such particulars are so varied, the existing certificate shall be cancelled
and a new certificate issued.

### 24. Power of court to prohibit or restrict exhibition and training of
performing animals.—

(1)Where it is proved to the satisfaction of any magistrate on a complaint
made by a police officer or an officer authorised in writing by the prescribed
authority referred to in section 23, that the training or exhibition of any
performing animal has been accompanied by unnecessary pain or suffering and
should be prohibited or allowed only subject to conditions, the court may make
an order against the person in respect of whom the complaint is made,
prohibiting the training or exhibition or imposing such conditions in relation
thereto, as may be specified by the order.(2)Any court by which an order is
made under this section shall cause a copy of the order to be sent, as soon as
may be after the order is made, to the prescribed authority by which the
person against whom the order is made is registered, and shall cause the
particulars of the order to be endorsed upon the certificate held by that
person, and that person shall produce his certificate on being so required by
the court for the purposes of endorsement, and the prescribed authority to
which a copy of an order is sent under this section shall enter the
particulars of the order in that register.

### 25. Power to enter premises.—

(1)Any person authorised in writing by the prescribed authority referred to in
section 23 and any police officer not below the rank of a sub-inspector
may—(a)enter at all reasonable times and inspect any premises in which any
performing animals are being trained or exhibited or kept for training or
exhibition, and any such animals found therein; and(b)require any person who,
he has reason to believe, is a trainer or exhibitor of performing animals to
produce his certificate or registration.(2)No person or police officer
referred to in sub-section (1) shall be entitled under this section to go on
or behind the stage during a public performance of performing animals.

### 26. Offences.—

If any person—(a)not being registered under this Chapter, exhibits or trains
any performing animal; or(b)being registered under this Act, exhibits or
trains any performing animal with respect to which, or in a manner with
respect to which, he is not registered; or(c)exhibits or trains as a
performing animal, any animal which is not to be used for the purpose by
reason of a notification issued under clause (ii) of section 22;
or(d)obstructs or wilfully delays any person or police officer referred to in
section 25 in the exercise of powers under this Act as to entry and
inspection; or(e)conceals any animal with a view to avoiding such inspection;
or(f)being a person registered under this Act, on being duly required in
pursuance of this Act to produce his certificate under this Act, fails without
reasonable excuse so to do; or(g)applies to be registered under this Act when
not entitled to be so registered;he shall be punishable on conviction with
fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, or with imprisonment which may
extend to three months, or with both.

### 27. Exemptions.—

Nothing contained in this Chapter shall apply to—(a)the training of animals
for bona fide military or police purposes or the exhibition of any animals so
trained; or(b)any animals kept in any zoological garden or by any society or
association which has for its principal object the exhibition of animals for
educational or scientific purposes.

### 28. Saving as respects manner of killing prescribed by religion.—

Nothing contained in this Act shall render it an offence to kill any animal in
a manner required by the religion of any community.

### 29. Power of court to deprive person convicted of ownership of animal.—

(1)If the owner of any animal is found guilty of any offence under this Act,
the court, upon his conviction thereof, may, if it thinks fit, in addition to
any other punishment, make an order that the animal with respect to which the
offence was committed shall be forfeited to Government and may, further, make
such order as to the disposal of the animal as it thinks fit under the
circumstances.(2)No order under sub-section (1) shall be made unless it is
shown by evidence as to a previous conviction under this Act or as to the
character of the owner or otherwise as to the treatment of the animal that the
animal, if left with the owner, is likely to be exposed to further
cruelty.(3)Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-section (1),
the court may also order that a person convicted of an offence under this Act
shall, either permanently or during such period as is fixed by the order, be
prohibited from having the custody of any animal of any kind whatsoever, or,
as the court thinks fit, of any animal of any kind or species specified in the
order.(4)No order under sub-section (3) shall be made unless—(a)it is shown by
evidence as to a previous conviction or as to the character of the said person
or otherwise as to the treatment of the animal in relation to which he has
been convicted that an animal in the custody of the said person is likely to
be exposed to cruelty;(b)it is stated in the complaint upon which the
conviction was made that it is the intention of the complainant upon the
conviction of the accused to request that an order be made as aforesaid;
and(c)the offence for which the conviction was made was committed in an area
in which under the law for the time being in force a licence is necessary for
the keeping of any such animal as that in respect of which the conviction was
made.(5)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law for the
time being in force, any person in respect of whom an order is made under sub-
section (3) shall have no right to the custody of any animal contrary to the
provisions of the order, and if he contravenes the provisions of any order, he
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees, or with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with both.(6)Any
court which has made an order under sub-section (3) may at any time, either on
its own motion or on application made to it in this behalf, rescind or modify
such order.

### 30. Presumption as to guilt in certain cases.—

If any person is charged with the offence of killing a goat, cow or its
progeny contrary to the provisions of clause(1)of sub-section (1) of section
11, and it is proved that such person had in his possession, at the time the
offence is alleged to have been committed, the skin of any such animal as is
referred to in this section with any part of the skin of the head attached
thereto, it shall be presumed until the contrary is proved that such animal
was killed in a cruel manner.

### 31. Cognizability of offences.—

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5
of 1898), an offence punishable under clause(1), clause (n) or clause (o) of
sub-section (1) of section 11 or under section 12 shall be a cognizable
offence within the meaning of that Code.

### 32. Powers of search and seizure.—

(1)If a police officer not below the rank of sub-inspector or any person
authorised by the State Government in this behalf has reason to believe that
an offence under clause (1) of sub-section (1) of section 11 in respect of any
such animal as is referred to in section 30 is being or is about to be, or has
been, committed in any place, or that any person has in his possession the
skin of any such animal with any part of the skin of the head attached
thereto, he may enter and search such place or any place in which he has
reason to believe any such skin to be, and may seize such skin or any article
or thing used or intended to be used in the commission of such offence.(2)If a
police officer not below the rank of sub-inspector, or any person authorised
by the State Government in this behalf, has reason to believe that phooka or
doom dev or any other operation of the nature referred to in section 12 has
just been, or is being, performed on any animal within the limits of his
jurisdiction, he may enter any place in which he has reason to believe such
animal to be, and may seize the animal and produce it for examination by the
veterinary officer in charge of the area in which the animal is seized.

### 33. Search warrants.—

(1)If a magistrate of the first or second class or a presidency magistrate or
a sub-divisional magistrate or a commissioner of police or district
superintendent of police, upon information in writing, and after such inquiry
as he thinks necessary, has reason to believe that an offence under this Act
is being, or is about to be, or has been committed in any place, he may either
himself enter and search or by his warrant authorise any police officer not
below the rank of sub-inspector to enter and search the place.(2)The
provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), relating to
searches shall, so far as those provisions can be made applicable, apply to
searches, under this Act.

### 34. General power of seizure for examination.—

Any police officer above the rank of a constable or any person authorised by
the State Government in this behalf, who has reason to believe that an offence
against this Act has been or is being, committed in respect of any animal,
may, if in his opinion the circumstances to require, seize the animal and
produce the same for examination by the nearest magistrate or by such
veterinary officer as may be prescribed, and such police officer or authorised
person may, when seizing the animal, require the person in charge thereof to
accompany it to the place of examination.

### 35. Treatment and care of animals.—

(1)The State Government may, by general or special order, appoint infirmaries
for the treatment and care of animals in respect of which offences against
this Act have been committed, and may authorise the detention therein of any
animal pending its production before a magistrate.(2)The magistrate before
whom a prosecution for an offence against this Act has been instituted may
direct that the animal concerned shall be treated and cared for in an
infirmary, until it is fit to perform its usual work or is otherwise fit for
discharge, or that it shall be sent to a pinjrapole, or, if the veterinary
officer in charge of the area in which the animal is found or such other
veterinary officer as may be authorised in this behalf by rules made under
this Act certifies that it is incurable or cannot be removed without cruelty,
that it shall be destroyed.(3)An animal sent for care and treatment to an
infirmary shall not, unless the magistrate directs that it shall be sent to a
pinjrapole or that it shall be destroyed, be released from such place except
upon a certificate of its fitness for discharge issued by the veterinary
officer in charge of the area in which the infirmary is situated or such other
veterinary officer as may be authorised in this behalf by rules made under
this Act.(4)The cost of transporting the animal to an infirmary or pinjrapole,
and of its maintenance and treatment in an infirmary, shall be payable by the
owner of the animal in accordance with a scale of rates to be prescribed by
the district magistrate, or, in presidency-towns, by the commissioner of
police:Provided that when the magistrate so orders on account of the poverty
of the owner of the animal, no charge shall be payable for the treatment of
the animal.(5)Any amount payable by an owner of an animal under sub-section
(4) may be recovered in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.(6)If the
owner refuses or neglects to remove the animal within such time as a
magistrate may specify, the magistrate may direct that the animal be sold and
that the proceeds of the sale be applied to the payment of such cost.(7)The
surplus, if any, of the proceeds of such sale shall, on application made by
the owner within two months from the date of the sale, be paid to him.

### 36. Limitation of prosecutions.—

A prosecution for an offence against this Act shall not be instituted after
the expiration of three months from the date of the commission of the offence.

### 37. Delegation of powers.—

The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct
that all or any of the powers exercisable by it under this Act, may, subject
to such conditions as it may think fit to impose, be also exercisable by any
State Government.

### 38. Power to make rules.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, and
subject to the condition of previous publication, make rules to carry out the
purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality
of the forgoing power, the Central Government may make rules providing for all
or any of the following matters, namely:—(a)the conditions of service of
members of the Board, the allowances payable to them and the manner in which
they may exercise their powers and discharge their functions;(aa)the manner in
which the persons to represent municipal corporations are to be elected under
clause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 5;(b)the maximum load (including any
load occasioned by the weight of passengers) to be carried or drawn by any
animal;(c)the conditions to be observed for preventing the over-crowding of
animals;(d)the period during which, and the hours between which, any class of
animals shall not be used for draught purposes;(e)prohibiting the use of any
bit or harness involving cruelty to animals;(ea)the other methods of
destruction of stray dogs referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (3) of
section 11;(eb)the methods by which any animal which cannot be removed without
cruelty may be destroyed under sub-section (3) of section 13;(f)requiring
persons carrying on the business of a farrier to be licensed and registered by
such authority as may be prescribed and levying a fee for the purposes;(g)the
precautions to be taken in the capture of animals for purposes of sale, export
or for any other purpose, and the different appliances or devices that may
alone be used for the purpose; and the licensing of such capture and the
levying of fees for such licences;(h)the precautions to be taken in the
transport of animals, whether by rail, road, inland waterway, sea or air and
the manner in which and the cages or other receptacles in which they may be so
transported;(i)requiring persons owning or in charge of premises in which
animals are kept or milked to register such premises, to comply with such
conditions as may be laid down in relation to the boundary walls or
surroundings of such premises, to permit their inspection for the purpose of
ascertaining whether any offence under this Act is being, or has been,
committed therein, and to expose in such premises copies of section 12 in a
language or languages commonly understood in the locality;(j)the form in which
applications for registration under Chapter V may be made, the particulars to
be contained therein, the fees payable for such registration and the
authorities to whom such applications may be made;(ja)the fees which may be
charged by the Committee constituted under section 15 for the registration of
persons or institutions carrying on experiments on animals or for any other
purpose;(k)the purposes to which fines realised under this Act may be applied,
including such purposes as the maintenance of infirmaries, pinjrapole and
veterinary hospitals;(l)any other matter which has to be, or may be,
prescribed.(3)If any person contravenes, or abets the contravention of, any
rules made under this section, he shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to one hundred rupees, or with imprisonment for a term which may extend
to three months, or with both.

### 38A. Rules and regulations to be laid before Parliament.—

Every rule made by the Central Government or by the Committee constituted
under section 15 and every regulation made by the Board shall be laid, as soon
as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in
session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or
regulation, as the case may be, or both Houses agree that the rule or
regulation, as the case may be, should not be made, the rule or regulation
shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as
the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule
or regulation.

### 39. Persons authorised under section 34 to be public servants.—

Every person authorised by the State Government under section 34 shall be
deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian
Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 40. Indemnity.—

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
who is, or who is deemed to be, a public servant within the meaning of section
21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) in respect of anything in good faith
done or intended to be done under this Act.

### 41. Repeal of Act 11 of 1890.—

Where in pursuance of a notification under sub-section (3) of section 1 any
provision of this Act comes into force in any State, any provision of the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1890 (11 of 1890), which corresponds to
the provision so coming into force, shall there upon stand repealed.

