## Union of India - Act

## The Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971

## Act 69 of 1971

  * Published in Gazette 69 on 23 December 1971 
  * Assented to on 23 December 1971 
  * Commenced on 23 December 1971 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 December 2005.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Prevention Of Insults To National Honour (Amendment) Act, 2003 (Act 31 of 2003) on 1 January 2003] 
  2. [Amended by THE PREVENTION OF INSULTS TO NATIONAL HONOUR (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2005 (Act 51 of 2005) on 20 December 2005] 

The Prevention Of Insults To National Honour Act, 1971[23rd December, 1971]An
Act to prevent insults to national honour.BE it enacted by Parliament in the
Twenty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1. Short title and extent.—

(1)This Act may be called the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act,
1971.(2)It extends to the whole of India.

### 2. Insult to Indian National Flag and Constitution of India.—

Whoever in any public place or in any other place within public view burns,
mutilates, defaces, defiles, disfigures, destroys, tramples upon or otherwise
shows disrespect to or brings into contempt (whether by words, either spoken
or written, or by acts) the Indian National Flag or the Constitution of India
or any part thereof, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.Explanation 1.—Comments
expressing disapprobation or criticism of the Constitution or of the Indian
National Flag or of any measures of the Government with a view to obtain an
amendment of the Constitution of India or an alteration of the Indian National
Flag by lawful means do not constitute an offence under this
section.Explanation 2.—The expression “Indian National Flag” includes any
picture, painting, drawing or photograph, or other visible representation of
the Indian National Flag, or of any part or parts thereof, made of any
substance or represented on any substance.Explanation 3.—The expression
“public place” means any place intended for use by, or accessible to, the
public and includes any public conveyance.Explanation 4.—The disrespect to the
Indian National Flag means and includes—(a)a gross affront or indignity
offered to the Indian National Flag; or(b)dipping the Indian National Flag in
salute to any person or thing; or(c)flying the Indian National Flag at half-
mast except on occasions on which the Indian National Flag is flown at half-
mast on public buildings in accordance with the instructions issued by the
Government; or(d)using the Indian National Flag as a drapery in any form
whatsoever except in State funerals or armed forces or other para-military
forces funerals; or(e)using the Indian National Flag,—(i)as a portion of
costume, uniform or accessory of any description which is worn below the waist
of any person; or(ii)by embroidering or printing it on cushions,
handkerchiefs, napkins, undergarments or any dress material; or(f)putting any
kind of inscription upon the Indian National Flag; or(g)using the Indian
National Flag as a receptacle for receiving, delivering or carrying anything
except flower petals before the Indian National Flag is unfurled as part of
celebrations on special occasions including the Republic Day or the
Independence Day; or(h)using the Indian National Flag as covering for a statue
or a monument or a speaker’s desk or a speaker’s platform; or(i)allowing the
Indian National Flag to touch the ground or the floor or trail in water
intentionally; or(j)draping the Indian National Flag over the hood, top and
sides or back or on a vehicle, train, boat or an aircraft or any other similar
object; or(k)using the Indian National Flag as a covering for a building;
or(l)intentionally displaying the Indian National Flag with the “saffron”
down.

### 3. Prevention of singing of Indian National Anthem, etc.—

Whoever intentionally prevents the singing of the Indian National Anthem or
causes disturbance to any assembly engaged in such singing shall be punished
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or
with both.

### 3A. Enhanced penalty on second and subsequent convictions.—

Whoever, having already been convicted of an offence under section 2 or
section 3, is again convicted of any such offence shall be punishable for the
second and for every subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which
shall not be less than one year.

