## Union of India - Act

## The Public Records Rules, 1997

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Public Records Rules, 1997

## Rule THE-PUBLIC-RECORDS-RULES-1997 of 1997

  * Published on 9 January 1997 
  * Commenced on 9 January 1997 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 January 1997.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Public Records Rules, 1997Published vide vide Notification G.S.R. 43,
dated 9.1.1997, published in the Gazette of India, Part 2, Section 3(i), dated
18.1.1997.

### 21.

/925In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 17 of
the Public Records Act, 1993 (69 of 1993), the Central Government hereby makes
the following rules, namely:--

### 1. Short title and commencement

.-(1) These rules may be called The Public Records Rules, 1997.(2)They shall
come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions

.-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,--(a)"Act" means the
Public Records Act, 1993 (69 of 1993);(b)"appraisals" means the evaluation of
public records in association with the National Archives of India or Archives
of Union territory as the case may be;(c)"classified records" means the files
relating to the public records classified as top-secret, secret, confidential
and restricted in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Manual of
Departmental Security Instructions circulated by the Ministry of Home Affairs
from time to time;(d)"custody" means the possession of public
records;(e)"defunct body" means a corporate or non-corporate body which has
been wound up with no successor to carry on its functions;(f)"file" means a
collection of papers relating downgrade the security classifications after
their evaluation;(g)"file" means a collection of papers relating to the public
records on a specific subject-matter consisting of correspondence, notes and
appendix thereto and assigned with a file number;(h)"Form" means the form
appended to these rules;(i)"private records" means records lying in the
possession of a private individual or with any non-governmental
organisation;(j)"recording" means the process of closing a file after action
on all issues considered thereon has been completed;(k)"records of permanent
nature" means the public records being maintained after recording for a period
specified, under sub-rule (1) of rule 5 by the records creating agency in
accordance with the procedure laid in its Manual of Office Procedure or
Instructions on the subject;(l)"retention Schedule of records" means a
Schedule which provides the period of retention;(m)"review" means periodical
evaluation of recorded files on the expiry of the period of retention for
determining their further retention or destruction, as the case may
be;(n)"section" means the section of the Act;(o)"standing guard file" means a
compilation of papers on a particular subject-matter consisting of copies of
policy decisions, orders, instructions or any another matter incidental
thereto arranged in a chronological order;(p)words and expressions used herein
and not defined but defined in the Act, shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Nomination of Records Officer

.-The records creating agency shall by an office order issued in pursuance of
the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Act nominate one of its
officers, not below the rank or grade of a Section Officer, as the Records
Officer. A copy of such office order shall be forwarded to the Director
General or Head of the Archives, as the case may be.

### 4. Maintenance of standing guard file

.-The Records Officer shall be responsible for maintaining and keeping a
standing guard file and proper record of the directions issued by the Director
General or Head of the Archives, as the case may be, in pursuance of the
provisions of sub-section (2) of section 6 and shall produce the same for
inspection as and when required by the Director General or Head of the
Archives, as the case may be.

### 5. Acceptance of public records of permanent nature

.-(1) The Director General or Head of the Archives, as the case may be, shall
accept for deposit and preservation the public records of permanent nature
which have been retained after recording by the records creating agency in its
records room for the last twenty-five years or more.(2)Records Officer shall
intimate to the Director General or Head of the Archives, as the case may be,
each year before 31st day of January, in Form 1, the particulars of all public
records of permanent nature which are due for appraisal during the year.(3)On
receipt of an intimation under sub-rule (2), the Director General or Head of
the Archives, as the case may be, through his officers, shall assist the
Records Officer in conducting the appraisal of public records. When the
appraisal is over, the Records Officer shall prepare, in triplicate, a
transfer list in Form 2 of all public records and deposit the same for
preservation with the Director General or Head of the Archives, as the case
may be, who shall after his satisfaction, return one copy of the transfer list
to the Records Officer as a receipt of the public records.(4)If the Records
Officer after appraisal deems it necessary to retain any record or file of
permanent nature beyond the period of twenty-five years, he may do so for
reasons to be recorded in writing and under intimation to the Director General
or Head of the Archives, as the case may be.

### 6. Withdrawal of public records

.-(1) If public records deposited and preserved with the Director General or
Head of the Archives, as the case may be, is required by the records creating
agency for any official purpose, then the Records Officer shall send a duly
signed and stampted requisition slip in Form 3 to the Director General or Head
of the Archives, as the case may be.(2)The public records requisitioned under
sub-rule (1) may be returned as soon as the purpose is achieved but shall not
be retained beyond the period of six months by the Records Officer or the
record creating agency.

### 7. Down-grading of classified records

.-(1) The records creating agency shall by an office order authorise an
officer not below the rank of the Under Secretary to the Government of India
to evaluate and downgrade the classified records being maintained by it. A
copy of such office order shall be forwarded to the Director General or Head
of the Archives, as the case may be.(2)The officer so authorised under sub-
rule (1) shall evaluate the classified records every fifth year for the
purpose of down-grading.(3)After down-grading if the officer declares any
records as of permanent nature, the same shall be deposited and preserved with
the Director General or Head of the Archives, as the case may be, after its
appraisal.(4)The records deposited under this rule can be requisitioned for
any official purpose and returned to the Director General or Head of the
Archives, as the case may be, in the manner provided under rule 6.(5)Every
year in the last week of June and December, a half-yearly statement in Form 4
shall be furnished by the officer authorised under sub-rule (1) to the
Director General or Head of the Archives, as the case may be, on the action
taken for evaluation and downgrading the classified records.

### 8. Submission of Annual Report

.-(1) The Records Officer nominated under rule 3 furnish to the Director
General or Head of the Archives, as the case may be, an Annual Report in Form
5 every year in the month of March of the following year.(2)The Director
General or Head of the Archives, as the case may be, shall, thereafter, submit
a report to the Government in the Ministry of Human Resource Development every
year on the action taken by the Records Officer in pursuance to the provisions
of clauses (a) to (l) of sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Act.

### 9. Destruction of public records

.-(1) No public record shall be destroyed without being recorded and reviewed.
In the month of January every year, each records creating agency shall record
after consulting the records retention Schedule all those files on which
action has been completed. This work shall be accomplished in consultation
with the Records Officer.(2)No public record which is more than twenty-five
years old shall be destroyed by any records creating agency unless it is
appraised.(3)A list of all such public records which are proposed to be
destroyed shall be prepared by the record creating agency in Form 6 and
retained permanently for future reference.(4)The Records Officer shall furnish
a half yearly report in Form 7 on recording, indexing, reviewing and weeding
of records to the Director General or Head of the Archives, as the case may
be.(5)Records shall be destroyed either by burning or shredding in the
presence of Records Officer.

### 10. Access to private records

.-(1) Records acquired from private sources by way of gift or purchase or
otherwise shall be made available for bona fide research subject to the
conditions laid down by the donor.(2)Research scholar shall submit an
application in Form 8 to the Director General or Head of the Archives, as the
case may be, for permission to consult records. The Director General or Head
of the Archives, as the case may be, may refuse such permission in public
interest and for reasons to be recorded on the said application.(3)Where
microfilm rolls may be available, the original records shall not be supplied
for consultation to research scholars. No copy of any record shall be made by
anyone without the prior permission of the Director General or Head of the
Archives, as the case may be.

### 11. Access to public records

.-(1) The public records accepted for deposit and preservation under sub-rule
(1) of rule 5 shall be made available for bona fide consultation and research
purposes subject to the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 12 and the
following conditions, namely:-(i)a person who intends to consult the public
records shall apply to the Director General or Head of the Archives, as the
case may be, in Form 8. The Director General or Head of the Archives, as the
case may be, may refuse such permission in public interest and for reasons to
be recorded on the said application;(ii)foreign national intending to consult
the public records may be permitted only on the production of letters of
introduction from their sponsoring institution and diplomatic
Mission;(iii)records, maps and cartographic records relating to the Ministry
of External Affairs and Ministry of Defence, in respect of Arunachal Pradesh
(including Eastern Section of the Sino-Indian border), Sikkim, Bhutan, Nepal,
Tibet, China and Myanmar and areas comprising Pakistan and Bangladesh may be
made available for consultation keeping in view the security and the defence
of India or of any part of the territory thereof. Records relating to the
Ministry of External Affairs, Home Affairs and Human Resource Development in
respect of Jammu and Kashmir (including Gilgit and Chitral) may also be made
available for consultation keeping in view the security and defence of India
or of any part of the territory thereof:Provided that the Director-General or
Head of the Archives, as the case may be, may refuse such
consultation;(iv)wherever microfilm rolls may be made available, the original
records shall not be supplied for consultation to research
scholar;(v)reprographic and transcription facilities may be made available on
submission of an application in Form 9 and for such services the applicant
shall have to make the payment of such service charges as may be fixed by the
Director General or Head of the Archives, as the case may be, from time to
time;(vi)a person consulting public records for the purpose of research when
he publishes the work which is based upon the material taken from the said
records may acknowledge the same.(2)A person intending to consult the public
records shall not,--(a)write and put any marks or indications or on public
records;(b)fold, tear, cut, crease, or otherwise damage or mutilate public
records;(c)remove any public records without obtaining the permission from the
Director General or Head of the Archives, as the case may be;(d)be allowed to
take any eatable or drinking products or smoking while consulting public
records;(e)place any thing or object on any public records with a view to make
out any copy of the said records;(f)disturb or interrupt any other person
while consulting the public records; and(g)behave in a manner which, in the
opinion of the Director General or Head of the Archives, as the case may be,
is detrimental to the maintenance and preservation of public records.

### 12. Allowances to the members of the Archival Advisory Board

.-The members of the Archival Advisory Board nominated by the Central
Government under clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 13 shall draw
travelling allowance and daily allowance for attending the meetings of the
Archival Advisory Board at the rates admissible to Group `A' officers of the
Central Government.FORM 1(See sub-rule(2)of rule 5)Particulars Of Records Of
Permanent Nature Due For Appraisal During The Year..........

Total number of files of 'A' &'B' categories lying in the records rooms of the records creating agencies | Total number of files of 'A' &'B' categories transferred to records rooms by the sections during the period under report | Total No. of files referred to under column 1 and 2 | Total No. of files due for appraisal | Remarks, if any  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
FORM 2(See sub-rule (3) of rule 5)Transfer List

Name of the records creating agency, i.e., Ministry/Department/Office/Public Undertakings, etc. : | ....................................................................  
---|---  
Name and particulars of the Records Officer: | ....................................................................  
Name of the Branch/Section | ....................................................................  
Year | ....................................................................  
Sl.No. | File No. | Subject matter of the file | Remarks, if any  
|  |  |   
  
.........................................Signature and seal of the Records
OfficerFORM 3(See sub-rule (1) of rule 6)Requisition Slip

Name of the records creating agency(i.e., Ministry/Department/Office) : | ........................................................  
---|---  
Name and particulars of the Records Officer: | ........................................................  
Particulars of records or file No.requisitioned | ........................................................  
Purpose for which required | ........................................................  
  
Undertaking by the Records Officer. - I ......................hereby declare
that the records/file requisitioned shall be returned to the Director
General/the Head of the Archives before the expiry of six months as required
under sub-rule (2) of rule
6..........................................Signature and seal of the Records
OfficerFORM 4(See sub-rule (5)of rule 7)Half Yearly Statement On Periodical
Review Of Classified Records

Total No. of classified records lying at present in the organization | No. of classified records due for reviewing | No. of files reviewed and down graded during the period under report | Remarks  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  |   
  
FORM 5(See sub-rule (1) of rule 8)Form For The Submission Of Annual Report To
Director General Of Archives/head Of The Archives

### 1\. A. Setting up organised departmental records room. - Whether your
organisation has set up an organised records room, and if so, is the space
sufficient?

B. Nomination of records officers. - Whether your organisation has nominated
an officer as Departmental Records Officer; and if not, give reasons?C.
Training of Records Officer and Staff.(i)Whether Departmental Records Officer
has received training in Records Management?(ii)Whether the junior staff
working in the departmental records room are trained in various aspects of
Records Management? India?(iii)If not, are you willing to avail training
facilities existing at National Archives of India ?D. I. Sharing of space for
housing semi-current records at National Archives/Archives of the Union
territory:(i)Whether your organisation is willing to share space at National
Archives, New Delhi and its Records Centres at Jaipur, Pondicherry and
Bhubaneshwar and Regional Office at Bhopal?(ii)If yes, please state bulk of
records proposed to be' transferred.II. (i) Whether your organisation is
willing to share space at the Archives of the Union territory?

### 2\. Periodical recording, reviewing and weeding out of semi-turrent
records.

(i)Whether your organisation has taken steps for recording, reviewing and
weeding out of ephemeral records?(ii)Indicate the total number of records
recorded, reviewed and weeded out during the period under report.

### 3\. Appraisal of non-current records.

(i)Whether your organisation has initiated action to get non-current records
appraised in consultation with National Archives?(ii)State the total bulk of
records awaiting appraisal.

### 4\. Compilation/Revision of Retention Schedule of Records.

(i)Whether your organisation has compiled Record Retention Schedule of
substantive functions in consultation with National Archives and if not what
action do you propose to take?(ii)Has your organisation taken steps to revise
the above schedule after five years?

### 5\. Periodical review of classified records.

(i)Whether your organisation has de-classified the classified records during
the period under report?(ii)If not, state reasons?

### 6\. Compilation of annual indices to records.

(i)Whether your organisation has compiled annual indices?(ii)State inclusive
years with the name of the series?

### 7\. Compilation of organisational history. - Has your organisation
compiled organisational history reflecting various functions alongwith the
date of their creation and if so furnish a copy to the National Archives?

### 8\. Records of defunit bodies.

(i)Whether your organisation has got records of defunct bodies, give details
?(ii)If yes, what action have you initiated for their transfer to National
Archives ?FORM 6(See sub-rule (3) of rule 9)Particulars Of Record Destroyed
During The Year........

Sl.No. | File Nos. | Subject of the files | Remarks  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  |   
  
FORM 7(See sub-rule (4) of rule 9)Quarterly Report On Recording, Indexing,
Reviewing And Weeding Of Records During The Quarter Ending........

Sl.No. | Total number of files recorded | Total number of files indexed | Total No. of files reviewed | Total No. of files weeded out, if any | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
FORM 8(See sub-rule (2) of rule 10 and clause (i) of sub-rule (1) of rule
11)Application Form For Permission To Consult RecordsTo,The Director General
of Archives,Government of India,New Delhi-110001.Sir,I hereby apply for
enrolment as a research scholar for consulting record in the research room of
the National Archives of India. I agree to comply with the rules and
conditions in force and promise to deposit a copy of each of my work based on
the materials consulted at the National Archives of India immediately after
the publication.

1\. Name, including Surname: | Shri/Smt/Kim/Dr.____________________  
---|---  
2\. Father's/Husband's Name: | __________________________________  
3\. Date of Birth: | __________________________________  
4\. Qualifications: | __________________________________  
5\. Nationality: | __________________________________  
6\. Profession: | __________________________________  
7\. Subject of Research: | __________________________________  
8\. University/institution* registered with: | __________________________________  
9\. Period for which admission is sought: | __________________________________  
10\. Signature and date: | __________________________________  
11\. Address (i) Local: | __________________________________  
(ii) Permanent: | __________________________________  
Particulars of records to be consulted :  
  
Sl.No. | Department | Period | Remarks  
---|---|---|---  
1. |  |  |   
2. |  |  |   
3. |  |  |   
4. |  |  |   
  
*Scholars are requested to attach a letter of recommendation from their University Institution/Department. However, the foreign scholars are requested to bring a letter of accredition from the diplomatic representatives of their country in India as well.FORM 9(See clause (v) of sub-rule (1) of rule 11)Application For Reprographic/transcription FacilitiesToThe Director General of Archives,National Archives of IndiaNew DelhiDated:Sir,Kindly supply me Microfilm (NFG/POS) Photo Copies/Xerox Transcripts of the material(s) indicated in the enclosed list for my research/publication/University. The material is from the Ministry(s) Department(s) of ..................... consists of........................items and covers the period from ........................to ................

### 1\. I declare that the above material is for my
research/publication/University.

### 2\. I undertake to pay the charges as per schedule of rates prevailing at
the time of completion of work. I understand and accept that the estimated
cost, when supplied is only tentative and the rates are also liable to
revision without notice.

### 3\. The photocopies/transcripts supplied will not be sold/transferred to
any other person without prior permission of the Director General of Archives.

### 4\. The material, if published, will be suitably acknowledged and
provisions of copyright, where applicable, will be complied with.

### 5\. I hereby deposit a sum of Rs ......................... as advance

Yours faithfullySignatureName (in block letters)Permanent Address (in block
letters)Local AddressFOR OFFICE USEAdvance received vide Receipt No
...........dated...........for Rs........... Service charge have come to
Rs............... Balance receipt vide Receipt No
................dated...........Rs........... Cleared for photo
copying/transcription subject to following
:-(1).........................Signature of ArchivistDate
........................

