## Union of India - Act

## The Public Premises (Eviction Of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Public Premises (Eviction Of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971

## Act 40 of 1971

  * Published in Gazette 40 on 23 August 1971 
  * Assented to on 23 August 1971 
  * Commenced on 23 August 1971 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 March 2015.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE PUBLIC PREMISES (EVICTION OF UNAUTHORISED OCCUPANTS) AMENDMENTS ACT, 2015 (Act 02 of 2015) on 13 March 2015] 

The Public Premises (Eviction Of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971ACT NO. 40
OF 1971[23rd August, 1971.]BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-second
Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.—

An Act to provide for the eviction of unauthorised occupants from public
premises and for certain incidental matters.(1)This Act may be called the
Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971.(2)It extends
to the whole of India.(3)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the
16th day of September, 1958 except sections 11, 19 and 20 which shall come
into force at once.

### 2. Definitions.—

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—* * * *(b)“estate officer”
means an officer appointed as such by the Central Government under section
3;(c)“premises” means any land or any building or part of a building and
includes,—(i)the garden, grounds and outhouses, if any, appertaining to such
building or part of a building, and(ii)any fittings affixed to such building
or part of a building for the more beneficial enjoyment
thereof;(d)“prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(e)“public premises” means—(1)any premises belonging to, or taken on lease
or requisitioned by, or on behalf of the Central Government, and includes any
such premises which have been placed by that Government, whether before or
after the commencement of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised
Occupants) Amendment Act, 1980 (61 of 1980) under the control of the
Secretariat of either House of Parliament for providing residential
accommodation to any member of the staff of that Secretariat;(2)any premises
belonging to, or taken on lease by, or on behalf of,—(i)any company as defined
in section 3 of the 3the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), in which not less
than fifty-one per cent. of the paid-up share capital is held by the Central
Government or any company which is a subsidiary (within the meaning of that
Act) of the first-mentioned company;(ii)any corporation (not being a company
as defined in section 3 of the the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), or a
local authority) established by or under a Central Act and owned or controlled
by the Central Government;(iii)any company as defined in clause ( 20) of
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 in which not less than fifty-one per
cent. of the paid up capital is held partly by the Central Government and
partly by one or more State Governments and includes a company which is a
subsidiary (within the meaning of that Act) of the first-mentioned company and
which carries on the business of public transport including metro
railway.Explanation.— For the purposes of this item, "metro railway" shall
have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause ( i) of sub-section ( 1) of
section 2 of the Metro Railway (Operation and Maintenance) Act, 2002;(iiia)any
University established or incorporated by any Central Act,;(iv)any Institute
incorporated by the Institutes of Technology Act, 1961 (59 of 1961);(v)any
Board of Trustees or any successor company constituted under or referred to in
the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963 (38 of 1963);(vi)the Bhakra Management Board
constituted under section 79 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966 (31 of
1966), and that Board as and when re-named as the Bhakra-Beas Management Board
under sub-section (6) of section 80 of that Act, .(vii)any State Government or
the Government of any Union territory situated in the National Capital
Territory of Delhi or in any other Union territory,(viii)any Cantonment Board
constituted under the Cantonments Act, 1924 (2 of 1924); and(3)in relation to
the National Capital Territory of Delhi,—(i)any premises belonging to the
Council as defined in clause (9) of section 2 of the New Delhi Municipal
Council Act, 1994 (44 of 1994) or Corporation or Corporations notified under
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 (66
of 1957), of Delhi, or any Municipal Committee or notified area
committee,(ii)any premises belonging to the Delhi Development Authority,
whether such premises are in the possession of, or leased out by, the said
Authority; and,(iii)any premises belonging to, or taken on lease or
requisitioned by, or on behalf of any State Government or the Government of
any Union Territory,(iv)any premises belonging to, or taken on lease by, or on
behalf of any Government company as defined in clause (45) of section 2 of the
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause,
the expression “State Government” occurring in clause (45) of the said section
shall mean the Government of the National Capital Territory of
Delhi;(f)“rent”, in relation to any public premises, means the consideration
payable periodically for the authorised occupation of the premises, and
includes—(i)any charge for electricity, water or any other services in
connection with the occupation of the premises,(i)in respect of the public
premises placed under the control of the Secretariat of either House of
Parliament, the Secretariat of the concerned House of Parliament,(ii)in
respect of the public premises referred to in item (i) of sub-clause (2) and
in item (iv) of sub-clause (3) of that clause, the company or the subsidiary
company, as the case may be, referred to therein,(iii)in respect of the public
premises referred to in item (ii) of sub-clause (2) of that clause, the
corporation referred to therein,(iv)in respect of the public premises referred
to, respectively, in items (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of sub-clause (2) of that
clause, the University, Institute or Board, as the case may be, referred to
therein, and(v)in respect of the public premises referred to in sub-clause (3)
of that clause, the 3Council, Corporation or Corporations, Committee or
Authority, as the case may be, referred to in that sub-clause;(fb)“temporary
occupation” in relation to any public premises, means occupation by any person
person on the basis of an order of allotment made under the authority of the
Central Government, a State Government, the Government of a Union territory or
a statutory authority for a total period (including the extended period, if
any) which is less than thirty days;(ii)any tax (by whatever name called)
payable in respect of the premises, where such charge or tax is payable by the
Central Government or the statutory authority;(fa)“statutory authority”, in
relation to the public premises referred to in clause (e) of this section,
means,—(g)“unauthorised occupation”, in relation to any public premises, means
the occupation by any person of the public premises without authority for such
occupation, and includes the continuance in occupation by any person of the
public premises after the authority (whether by way of grant or any other mode
of transfer) under which he was allowed to occupy the premises has expired or
has been determined for any reason whatsoever.

### 3. Appointment of estate officers.—

The Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette,—(a)appoint such persons, being gazetted officers of Government or of
the Government of any Union Territory or officers of equivalent rank of the
statutory authority, as it thinks fit, to be estate estate officers for the
purposes of this Act;Provided that no officer of the Secretariat of the Rajya
Sabha shall be so appointed except after consultation with the Chairman of the
Rajya Sabha and no officer of the Secretariat of the Lok Sabha shall be so
appointed except after consultation with the Speaker of the Lok Sabha:Provided
further that an officer of a statutory authority shall only be appointed as an
estate officer in respect of the public premises controlled by that authority;
and(b)define the local limits within which, or the categories of public
premises in respect of which, the estate officers shall exercise the powers
conferred, and perform the duties imposed, on estate officers by or under this
Act. 3A. Eviction from temporary occupation.—Notwithstanding anything
contained in section 4 or section 5, if the estate officer, after making such
inquiry as he deems expedient in the circumstances of the case, is satisfied
that any persons who were allowed temporary occupation of any public premises
are in unauthorised occupation of the said premises, he may, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, make an order for the eviction of such persons forthwith
and, thereupon, if such persons refuse or fail to comply with the said order
of eviction, he may evict them from the premises and take possession thereof
and may, for that purpose, use such force as may be necessary.

### 4. Issue of notice to show cause against order of eviction.—

(1)If the estate officer has information that any person is in unauthorised
occupation of any public premises and that he should be evicted, the estate
officer shall issue in the manner hereinafter provided a notice in writing
within seven working days from the date of receipt of the information
regarding the unauthorised occupation calling upon the person concerned to
show cause why an order of eviction should not be made.(1A)If the estate
officer knows or has reasons to believe that any person is in unauthorised
occupation of the public premises, then, without prejudice to the provisions
of sub-section (1), he shall forthwith issue a notice in writing calling upon
the person concerned to show cause why an order of eviction should not be
made.(1B)Any delay in issuing a notice referred to in sub-sections (1) and
(1A) shall not vitiate the proceedings under this Act.(2)The notice
shall—(a)specify the grounds on which the order of eviction is proposed to be
made; and(b)require all persons concerned, that is to say, all persons who
are, or may be, in occupation of, or claim interest in, the public
premises,—(i)to show cause, if any, against the proposed order on or before
such date as is specified in the notice, being a date not later than seven
days from the date of issue thereof, and(ii)to appear before the estate
officer on the date specified in the notice along with the evidence which they
intend to produce in support of the cause shown, and also for personal
hearing, if such hearing is desired.(3)The estate officer shall cause the
notice to be served by having it affixed on the outer door or some other
conspicuous part of the public premises, and in such other manner as may be
prescribed, whereupon the notice shall be deemed to have been duly given to
all persons concerned.* * * *

### 5. Eviction of unauthorised occupants.—

(1)If, after considering the cause, if any, shown by any person in pursuance
of a notice under section 4 and any evidence produced by him in support of the
same and after personal hearing, if any, given under sub-clause (ii) of clause
(b) of sub-section (2) of section 4, the estate officer is satisfied that the
public premises are in unauthorised occupation, the estate officer shall make
an order of eviction, for reasons to be recorded therein, directing that the
public premises shall be vacated, on such date as may be specified in the
order but not later than fifteen days from the date of the order, by all
persons who may be in occupation thereof or any part thereof, and cause a copy
of the order to be affixed on the outer door or some other conspicuous part of
the public premises:Provided that every order under this sub-section shall be
made by the estate officer as expeditiously as possible and all endeavour
shall be made by him to issue the order within fifteen days of the date
specified in the notice under sub-section (1) or sub-section (1A), as the case
may be, of section 4.(2)If any person refuses or fails to comply with the
order of eviction on or before the date specified in the said order or within
fifteen days of the date of its publication under sub-section (1), whichever
is later, the estate officer or any other officer duly authorised by the
estate officer in this behalf may after the date so specified or after the
expiry of the period aforesaid, whichever is later, evict that person from,
and take possession of, the public premises and may, for that purpose, use
such force as may be necessary.Provided that if the estate officer is
satisfied, for reasons to be recorded in writing, that there exists any
compelling reason which prevents the person from vacating the premises within
fifteen days, the estate officer may grant another fifteen days from the date
of expiry of the order under sub-section (1) to the person to vacate the
premises.

### 5A. power to remove unauthorised constructions, etc.—

(1)No person shall—(a)erect or place or raise any building or any movable or
immovable structure or fixture(b)display or spread any goods,(c)bring or keep
any cattle or other animal,on, or against, or in front of, any public premises
except in accordance with the authority (whether by way of grant or any other
mode of transfer) under which he was allowed to occupy such premises.(2)Where
any building or other immovable structure or fixture has been erected, placed
or raised on on any public premises in contravention of the provisions of sub-
section (1), the estate officer may serve upon the person erecting such
building or other structure or fixture, a notice requiring him either to
remove, or to show cause why he shall not remove such building or other
structure or fixture from the public premises within such period, not being
less than seven days, as he may specify in the notice; and on the omission or
refusal of such person either to show cause, or to remove such building or
other structure or fixture from the public premises, or where the cause shown
is not, in the opinion of the estate officer, sufficient, the estate officer
may, by order, remove or cause to be removed the building or other structure
or fixture from the public premises and recover the cost of such removal from
the person aforesaid as an arrear of land revenue.(3)Where any movable
structure or fixture has been erected, placed or raised, or any goods have
been displayed or spread, or any cattle or other animal has been brought or
kept, on any public premises, in contravention of the provisions of sub-
section (1) by any person, the estate officer may, by order, remove or cause
to be removed without notice, such structure, fixture, goods, cattle or other
animal, as the case may be, from the public premises and recover the cost of
such removal from such person as an arrear of land revenue.

### 5B. Order of demolition of unauthorised construction.—

(1)Where the erection of any building or execution of any work has been
commenced, or is being carried on, or has been completed, on any public
premises by any person in occupation of such public premises under an
authority (whether by way of grant or any other mode of transfer), and such
erection of building or execution of work is in contravention of, or not
authorised by, such authority, then, the estate officer may, in addition to
any other action that may be taken under this Act or in accordance with the
terms of the authority aforesaid, make an order, for reasons to be recorded
therein, directing that such erection or work shall be demolished by the
person at whose instance the erection or work has been commenced, or is being
carried on, or has been completed, within such period, as may be specified in
the orderProvided that no order under this sub-section shall be made unless
the person concerned has been given, by means of a notice 6of not less than
seven days served in the prescribed manner, a reasonable opportunity of
showing cause why such order should not be made.(2)Where the erection or work
has not been completed, the estate officer may, by the same order or by a
separate order, whether made at the time of the issue of the notice under the
proviso to sub-section (1) or at any other time, direct the person at whose
instance the erection or work has been commenced, or is being carried on, to
stop the erection or work until the expiry of the period within which an
appeal against the order of demolition, if made, may be preferred under
section 9.(3)The estate officer shall cause every order made under sub-section
(1), or, as the case may be, under sub-section (2), to be affixed on the outer
door, or some other conspicuous part, of the public premises.(4)Where no
appeal has been preferred against the order of demolition made by the estate
officer under sub-section (1) or where an order of demolition made by the
estate officer under that sub-section has been confirmed on appeal, whether
with or without variation, the person against whom the order has been made
shall comply with the order within the period specified therein, or, as the
case may be, within the period, if any, fixed by the appellate officer on
appeal, and, on the failure of the person to comply with the order within such
period, the estate officer or any other officer duly authorised by the estate
officer in this behalf, may cause the erection or work to which the order
relates to be demolished.(5)Where an erection or work has been demolished, the
estate officer may, by order, require the person concerned to pay the expenses
of such demolition within such time, and in such number of instalments, as may
be specified in the order.

### 5C. Power to seal unauthorised constructions.—

(1)It shall be lawful for the estate officer, at any time, before or after
making an order of demolition under section 5B, to make an order directing the
sealing of such erection or work or of the public premises in which such
erection or work has been commenced or is being carried on or has been
completed in such manner as may be prescribed, for the purpose of carrying out
the provisions of this Act, or for preventing any dispute as to the nature and
extent of such erection or work.(2)Where any erection or work or any premises
in which any erection or work is being carried on has, or have been sealed,
the estate officer may, for the purpose of demolishing such erection or work
in accordance with the provisions of this Act, order such seal to be
removed.(3)No person shall remove such seal except—(a)under an order made by
the estate officer under sub-section (2); or(b)under an order of the appellate
officer made in an appeal under this Act.

### 6. Disposal of property left on public premises by unauthorised
occupants.—

(1)Where any persons have been evicted from any public premises under section
5 or where any building or other work has been demolished under section 5B,
the estate officer may, after giving fourteen days’ notice to the persons from
whom possession of the public premises has been taken and after publishing the
notice in at least one newspaper having circulation in the locality, remove or
cause to be removed or dispose of by public auction any property remaining on
such premises.(1A)Where any goods, materials, cattle or other animal have been
removed from any public premises under section 5A, the estate officer may,
after giving fourteen days' notice to the persons owning such goods,
materials, cattle or other animal and after publishing the notice in at least
one newspaper having circulation in the locality, dispose of, by public
auction, such goods, materials, cattle or other animal.(1B)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1) and (1A), the giving or publication of
any notice referred to therein shall not be necessary in respect of any
property which is subject to speedy and natural decay, and the estate officer
may, after recording such evidence as he may think fit, cause such property to
be sold or otherwise disposed of in such manner as he may think fit.(2)Where
any property is sold under sub-section (1), the sale proceeds thereof shall,
after deducting the expenses of the sale and the amount, if any, due to the
Central Government or the statutory authority on account of arrears of rent or
damages or costs, be paid to such person or persons as may appear to the
estate officer to be entitled to the same:Provided that where the estate
officer is unable to decide as to the person or persons to whom the balance of
the amount is payable or as to the apportionment of the same, he may refer
such dispute to the civil court of competent jurisdiction and the decision of
the court thereon shall be final.(2A)The expression “costs”, referred to in
sub-section (2), shall include the cost of removal recoverable under section
5A and the cost of demolition recoverable under section 5B.

### 7. Power to require payment of rent or damages in respect of public
premises.—

(1)Where any person is in arrears of rent payable in respect of any public
premises, the estate officer may, by order, require that person to pay the
same within such time and in such instalments as may be specified in the
order.(2)Where any person is, or has at any time been, in unauthorised
occupation of any public premises, the estate officer may, having regard to
such principles of assessment of damages as may be prescribed, assess the
damages on account of the use and occupation of such premises and may, by
order, require that person to pay the damages within such time and in such
instalments as may be specified in the order.(2A)While making an order under
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the estate officer may direct that the
arrears of rent or, as the case may be, damages shall be payable together with
compound interest at such rate as may be prescribed, not being a rate
exceeding the current rate of interest within the meaning of the Interest Act,
1978 (14 of 1978).(3)No order under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall
be made against any person until after the issue of a notice in writing to the
person calling upon him to show cause within seven days from the date of issue
thereof, why such order should not be made, and until his objections, if any,
and any evidence he may produce in support of the same, have been considered
by the estate officer.(4)Every order under this section shall be made by the
estate officer as expeditiously as possible and all endeavour shall be made by
him to issue the order within fifteen days of the date specified in the
notice.

### 8. Powers of estate officers.—

An estate officer shall, for the purpose of holding any inquiry under this
Act, have the same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) when trying a suit in respect of the
following matters, namely:—(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of any
person and examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production of
documents;(c)any other matter which may be prescribed.

### 9. Appeals.—

(1)An appeal shall lie from every order of the estate officer made in respect
of any public premises under section 5 or section 5B or section 5C or section
7 to an appellate officer who shall be the district judge of the district in
which the public premises are situate or such other judicial officer in that
district of not less than ten years standing as the district judge may
designate in this behalf.(2)An appeal under sub-section (1) shall be
preferred,—(a)in the case of an appeal from an order under section 5, within
twelve days from the date of publication of the order under sub-section (1) of
that section;(b)in the case of an appeal from an order under section 5B or
section 7, within twelve days from the date on which the order is communicated
to the appellant; and(c)in the case of an appeal from an order under section
5C, within twelve days from the date of such order:Provided that the appellate
officer may entertain the appeal in exceptional cases after the expiry of the
said period, if he is satisfied for reasons to be recorded in writing that
there was compelling reasons which prevented the person from filing the appeal
in time.(3)Where an appeal is preferred from an order of the estate officer,
the appellate officer may stay the enforcement of that order for such period
and on such conditions as he deems fit:Provided that where the construction or
erection of any building or other structure or fixture or execution of any
other work was not completed on the day on which an order was made under
section 5B for the demolition or removal of such building or other structure
or fixture, the appellate officer shall not make any order for the stay of
enforcement of such order, unless such security, as may be sufficient in the
opinion of the appellate officer, has been given by the appellant for not
proceeding with such construction, erection or work pending the disposal of
the appeal.(4)Every appeal under this section shall be disposed of by the
appellate officer as expeditiously as possible and every endeavour shall be
made to dispose of the appeal finally within one month from the date of filing
the appeal, after providing the parties an opportunity of being heard.(5)The
costs of any appeal under this section shall be in the discretion of the
appellate officer.(6)For the purposes of this section, a presidency-town shall
be deemed to be a district and the chief judge or the principal judge of the
city civil court therein shall be deemed to be the district judge of the
district.

### 10. Finality of orders.—

Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, every order made by an
estate officer or appellate officer under this Act shall be final and shall
not be called in question in any original suit, application or execution
proceeding and no injunction shall be granted by any court or other authority
in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power
conferred by or under this Act.

### 11. Offences and penalty.—

(1)If any person unlawfully occupies any public premises, he shall be be
punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months,
or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both:Provided
that a person who, having been lawfully in occupation of any public premises
by virtue of any authority (whether by way of grant, allotment or by any other
mode whatsoever) continues to be in occupation of such premises after such
authority has ceased to be valid, shall not be guilty of such offence.(2)If
any person who has been evicted from any public premises under this Act again
occupies the premises without authority for such occupation, he shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with
fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both.(3)Any magistrate
convicting a person under sub-section (2) may make an order for evicting that
person summarily and he shall be liable to such eviction without prejudice to
any other action that may be taken against him under this Act.

### 11A. Offences under section 11 to be cognizable.—

The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), shall apply to an offence
under section 11 as if it were a cognizable offence—(i)for the purposes of
investigation of such offence, and(ii)for the purposes of matters, other
than—(1)matters referred to in section 42 of that Code, and(2)arrest of a
person except on the complaint of, or upon information received from,—(a)a
Group A officer as may be appointed by the Central Government, in the case of
an offence in relation to the public premises specified in sub-clause (1) of
clause (e) of section 2;(b)an officer equivalent to the rank of a Group A
officer of the Central Government or where it is not possible to specify an
officer of such equivalent rank, such executive officer as may be appointed by
the statutory authority in the case of an offence in relation to the public
premises specified in sub-clause (2) of clause (e) of section 2;(c)such Deputy
Commissioner, in the case of an offence in relation to the public premises
belonging to the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, as may be appointed by the
Administrator of the Union territory of Delhi;(d)the Secretary, New Delhi
Municipal Committee, in the case of an offence in relation to the public
premises belonging to the New Delhi Municipal Committee;(e)the Secretary of a
notified area committee, in the case of an offence in relation to the public
premises belonging to that committee;(f)such Director, in the case of an
offence in relation to the public premises belonging to the Delhi Development
Authority, as may be appointed by the Administrator of the Union territory of
Delhi.

### 12. Power to obtain information.—

If the estate officer has reason to believe that any persons are in
unauthorised occupation of any public premises, the estate officer or any
other officer authorised by him in this behalf may require those persons or
any other person to furnish information relating to the names and other
particulars of the persons in occupation of the public premises and every
person so required shall be bound to furnish the information in his
possession.

### 13. Liability of heirs and legal representatives.—

(1)Where any person against whom any proceeding for the determination of
arrears of rent or for the assessment of damages or for the determination of
the amount payable by way of interest on such arrears of rent or damages is to
be or has been taken dies before the proceeding is taken or during the
pendency thereof, the proceeding may be taken or, as the case may be,
continued against the heirs or legal representatives of that person.(1A)Where
any person from whom any cost of removal of any building or other structure or
fixture, or, as the case may be, any goods, cattle or other animal is to be
recovered under sub-section (2) or subsection (3) of section 5A, or any
expenses of demolition are to be recovered under sub-section (5) of section
5B, dies before any proceeding is taken for the recovery of such cost or
during the pendency thereof, the proceeding may be taken or, as the case may
be, continued against the heirs or legal representatives of that person.(2)Any
amount due to the Central Government or the statutory authority from any
person whether by way of arrears of rent or damages or costs of removal
referred to in section 5A or expenses of demolition referred to in section 5B
or interest referred to in sub- section (2A) of section 7 or any other cost
shall, after the death of the person, be payable by his heirs or legal
representatives but their liability shall be limited to the extent of the
assets of the deceased in their hands.

### 14. Recovery of rent, etc., as an arrear of land revenue.—

If any person refuses or fails to pay the expenses of demolition payable under
sub-section (5) of section 5B or the arrears of rent payable under sub-section
(1) of section 7 or the damages payable under sub-section (2) or the interest
determined under sub-section (2A) of that section or the costs awarded to the
Central Government or the statutory authority under sub-section (5) of section
9 or any portion of such rent, damages, expenses, interest or costs, within
the time, if any, specified therefor in the order relating thereto, the estate
officer may issue a certificate for the amount due to the Collector who shall
proceed to recover the same as an arrear of land revenue.

### 15. Bar of jurisdiction.—

No court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in
respect of—(a)the eviction of any person who is in unauthorised occupation of
any public premises, or(b)the removal of any building, structure or fixture or
goods, cattle or other animal from any public premises under section 5A,
or(c)the demolition of any building or other structure made, or ordered to be
made, under section 5B, or(cc)the sealing of any erection or work or of any
public premises under section 5C, or(d)the arrears of rent payable under sub-
section (1) of section 7 or damages payable under sub-section (2), or interest
payable under sub-section (2A), of that section, or(e)the recovery of—(i)costs
of removal of any building, structure or fixture or goods, cattle or other
animal under section 5A, or(ii)expenses of demolition under section 5B,
or(iii)costs awarded to the Central Government or statutory authority under
sub-section (5) of section 9, or(iv)any portion of such rent, damages, costs
of removal, expenses of demolition or costs awarded to the Central Government
or the statutory authority.

### 16. Protection of action taken in good faith.—

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government or the statutory authority or the appellate officer or the estate
officer in respect of anything which is in good faith done or intended to be
done in pursuance of this Act or of any rules or orders made thereunder.

### 17. Delegation of powers.—

The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct
that any power exercisable by it under this Act shall, subject to such
conditions if any, as may be specified in the notification be exercisable also
by a State Government or an officer of the State Government or an officer of
the State Government.

### 18. Power to make rules.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely:—(a)the form of any notice
required or authorised to be given under this Act and the manner in which it
may be served;(b)the holding of inquiries under this Act;(c)the distribution
and allocation of work to estate officers and the transfer of any proceeding
pending before an estate officer to another estate officer;(d)the procedure to
be followed in taking possession of public premises;(e)the manner in which
damages for unauthorised occupation may be assessed and the principles which
may be taken into account in assessing such damages;(ee)the manner in which
the sealing of any erection or work or of any public premises shall be made
under sub-section (1) of section 5C;(ea)the rate at which interest shall be
payable on arrears of rent specified in any order made under sub-section (1)
of section 7, or damages assessed under sub-section (2) of that section;(f)the
manner in which appeals may be preferred and the procedure to be followed in
appeals;(g)any other matter which has to be or may be prescribed.(3)Every rule
made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made,
before each House of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of
thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive
sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the
session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be
made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be
of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule.

### 19. Repeal.—

The Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1958 (32 of
1958), is hereby repealed.

### 20. Validation.—

Notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court, anything done or
any action taken (including rules or orders made, notices issued, evictions
ordered or effected, damages assessed, rents or damages or costs recovered and
proceedings initiated) or purported to have been done or taken under the
public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1958 (32 of 1958)
(hereafter in this section referred to as the 1958-Act) shall be deemed to be
as valid and effective as if such thing or action was done or taken under the
corresponding provisions of this Act which, under sub-section (3) of section 1
shall be deemed to have come into force on the 16th day of September, 1958,
and accordingly—(a)no suit or other legal proceeding shall be maintained or
continued in any court for the refund of any rent or damages or costs
recovered under the 1958-Act where such refund has been claimed merely on the
ground that the said Act has been declared to be unconstitutional and void;
and(b)no court shall enforce a decree or order directing the refund of any
rent or damages or costs recovered under the 1958-Act merely on the ground
that the said Act has been declared to be unconstitutional and void.

