## Union of India - Act

## The Prisons Act, 1894

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Prisons Act, 1894

## Act 9 of 1894

  * Published on 1 November 1956 
  * Commenced on 1 November 1956 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 November 1956.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Prisons Act, 1894(9 of 1894)Statement of Objects and Reasons.-There are at
present four different Acts in force for the regulation of jails in British
India and for the enforcement of discipline therein. These Acts differ inter
se in various important points, namely, as to the jail offences enumerated in
them, as to the punishments which might be inflicted for these offences, and
as to the authorities competent to inflict these punishments. In consequence
divergent systems of jail management have grown up in the several provinces,
whereby there has been a sacrifice of that uniform enforcement of sentences of
imprisonment which effective general administration requires. The object of
this Bill is to repeal the four local Acts and to prescribe a uniform system
of prison management in India.The Bill is mainly (based) on Act XXVI of 1870,
(an Act to amend the law relating to Prisons), which is in force in the North-
Western Provinces and Oudh, the Punjab, the Central Provinces, Coorg and
Burma, with amendments embodying the conclusions arrived at by the Government
of India on the Report of the Jail Committee of 1889 and the Report of the
Prison Conference of 1892, as stated in the Resolution recorded in the Home
Department of the 9th November, 1892, and in the Circular letter to Local
Governments and Administrations, dated the 25th March, 1893, to which it
appeared necessary to give legislative form.An Act to amend the law relating
to Prisons.Whereas it is expedient to amend the law relating to prisons in
[India except the territories which, immediately before the 1st November,
1956, were comprised in Part B States] [Substituted by the Adaptation of Laws
(No.2) Order, 1956, for "Part A States and Part C States".]e rules for the
regulation of such prison; It is hereby enacted as follows:-{||-|Amended in
its application to-the Province of Madras by- (i) the Prisons and Indian
Lunacy (Madras Amendment) Act, 1938 (Madras Act 14 of 1938); (ii) the Prisons
(Madras Amendment) Act, 1940 (Madras Act 5 of 1940); (iii) the Prisons (Madras
Amendment) Act, 1947 (Madras Act 18 of 1947); and (iv) the Prisons (Madras
Amendment) No.II Act, 1947 (Madras Act 19 of 1947).Punjab by the Prisons
(Punjab Amendment) Act, 1926 (Punjab Act 9 of 1926).Delhi by Delhi Act 6 of
1956.Assam by Assam Act 12 of 1956.Orissa by Orissa Act 23 of 1956 and 29 of
1958.West Bengal by West Bengal Act 22 of 1957.Himachal Pradesh by Himachal
Pradesh Act 10 of 1974.Kerala by Kerala Act 10 of 1976.The Act has been
extended to- (1) N.E.F.A. by Regulation 30 of 1960, subject to certain
modifications, vide Section 3 and Sch.The whole of Madhya Pradesh by Madhya
Pradesh Act 40 of 1961.Goa, Daman and Diu by Regulation 11 of 1963, Section 3
and Sch. Goa is now a State, see Act 18 of 1987, Section 3 (w.e.f.
30.5.1987).Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regulation 6 of 1963, Section 2 and
Sch.I.Lakshadweep by Regulation 8 of 1965, Section 3 and Sch.The Union
territory of Pondicherry by Act 26 of 1968, Section 3 and Sch.Repealed in part
(in West Bengal) by West Bengal Act 7 of 1948.Repealed in its application to
Bellary District by Mysore Act 14 of 1955.|}{||-|[Andhra Pradesh].- In its
application to the State of Andhra Pradesh, in the Preamble, after the words
and letter comprised in Part B States, add other than the territories
specified in sub-section (1) of section 3 of the States Reorganisation Act,
1956.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of 1958, Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f.
1-2-1960).[Gujarat].- In its application to the State of Gujarat, the
amendment is the same as those of Maharashtra, except Gujarat is to be
substituted for Maharashtra.Gujarat Act 11 of 1960, Section 87.[Madhya
Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Madhya Pradesh, in the Preamble,
after the words Part B States, insert other than the Madhya Bharat and Sironja
regions of the State of Madhya Pradesh.Madhya Pradesh Act 40 of 1961, Section
3 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1961).[Maharashtra]In its application to the State of
Maharashtra, in the Preamble, after the words and letter comprised in Part B
States, insert other than any such territories forming part of the State of
Maharashtra by section 8 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956.Bombay Act 23
of 1959, Section 2 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).[Tamil Nadu]In its application to the
added territories in the State of Tamil Nadu, in the Preamble the words other
than the territories specified in sub-section (1) of section 13 of the States
Reorganisation Act, 1956, shall be deleted, which were added by Andhra Pradesh
Act 23 of 1958videTamil Nadu (Added Territories) A.L.O., 1961 (w.r.e.f.
1-4-1960).|}

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called The Prisons Act , 1894.(2)[ It extends to the whole
of India except [the territories which immediately before the 1st November,
1956, were comprised in Part B States] [Substituted by A.O. 1950.];] and(3)It
shall come into force on the first day of July, 1894.(4)Nothing in this Act
shall apply to civil jails in the [State] [Substituted by A.O. 1950, for
"Province".] of Bombay [as it existed immediately before the 1st November,
1956] [Inserted by the Adaptation of Laws (No.2) Order, 1956.] outside the
city of Bombay, and those jails shall continue to be administered under the
provisions of sections 9 to 16 (both inclusive) [of] [The Civil Jails Act,
1874.] Bombay Act 2 of 1874, as amended by subsequent enactments.

[Andhra Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Andhra Pradesh, in
sub-S. (2) of Section 1, after the words and letter comprised in Part B
States, add other than the territories specified in sub-section (1) of section
3 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of 1958,
Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1960).[Gujarat].- In its application to the
State of Gujarat, the amendments are the same as those of Maharashtra, except
in sub-S. (4), the words State of Gujarat are to be substituted for State of
Bombay outside Greater Bombay.Bombay Act 23 of 1959, Section 2; Act 11 of
1960, Section 87.[Madhya Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Madhya
Pradesh, in Section 1,(a) in sub-S. (2), after the words Part B States, insert
other than the Madhya Bharat and Sironja Regions of the State of Madhya
Pradesh; and(b) Sub-S. (4) shall be omitted. Madhya Pradesh Act 40 of 1961,
Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1962).[Maharashtra].- In its application to the
State of Maharshtra, in Section 1,(a) in sub-S. (2), after the words and
letter comprised in Part B States, insert other than any such territories
forming part of the State of Maharashtra by section 8 of the States
Reorganisation Act, 1956;(b) sub-S. (3) shall be deleted;(c) in sub-S. (4),
for the words and figures as it existed immediately before the 1st November,
1956 outside the City of Bombay, and those jails shall continue to be
administered, substitute outside Greater Bombay, and those jails shall be
administered; and(d) in the marginal note, for the word commencement,
substitute application.Bombay Act 23 of 1959, Section 2 (w.e.f.
1-6-1959).[Tamil Nadu]In its application to the State of Tamil Nadu, in sub-S.
(2) of Section 1, the words and figures other than the territories specified
in sub-section (1) of section 3 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 shall
be omitted, which were added by Andhra Pradesh 23 of 1958.Tamil Nadu (Added
Territories) A.L.O., 1961 (w.r.e.f. 1-4-1960).  
---  
  
### 2. Repeal.

\- [Repealed by the Repealing Act, 1938 (1 of 1938), section 2 and Schedule.]

### 3. Definitions.

\- In this Act,(1)prison means any jail or place used permanently or
temporarily under the general or special orders of a State Government for the
detention of prisoners, and includes all lands and buildings appurtenant
thereto, but does not include(a)any place for the confinement of prisoners who
are exclusively in the custody of the police;(b)any place specially appointed
by the State Government under section 541 of the [Code of Criminal Procedure,
1882 (10 of 1882)] [Now see the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974).]; or(c)any place which has been declared by the State Government, by
general or special order, to be a subsidiary jail;(2)criminal prisoner means
any prisoner duly committed to custody under the writ, warrant or order of any
Court or authority exercising criminal jurisdiction, or by order of a Court-
martial;(3)convicted criminal prisoner means any criminal prisoner under
sentence of a Court or Court-martial, and includes a person detained in prison
under the provisions of Chapter VIII of the [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1882
(10 of 1882)] [Now see the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).] or
under the [Prisoners Act, 1871 (5 of 1871)] [Now see the Prisoners Act, 1900
(3 of 1990).];(4)civil prisoner means any prisoner who is not a criminal
prisoner;(5)remission system means the rules for the time being in force
regulating the award of marks to, and the consequent shortening of sentences
of, prisoners in jail;(6)history ticket means the ticket exhibiting such
information as is required in respect of each prisoner by this Act or the
rules thereunder;(7)Inspector General means the Inspector General of
Prisons;(8)Medical Subordinate means an Assistant Surgeon, Apothecary or
qualified Hospital Assistant; and(9)prohibited article means an article the
introduction or removal of which into or out of a prison is prohibited by any
rule under this Act.

[Andhra Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Andhra Pradesh, in
Section 3, after Cl. (4), insert the following clause, namely:(4-A) furlough
system means the system of releasing prisoners in jails on furlough in
accordance with the rules for the time being in force.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of
1958, Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1960).[Gujarat].- Same as that of
Maharashtra.Gujarat Act 11 of 1960, Section 87; Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.)
Order, 1961.[Maharashtra].- In its application to the State of Maharashtra, in
Section 3,(i) for Cl. 5, substitute the following clauses, namely:(5)
remission system means the system of regulating the award of marks to, and the
consequent shortening of sentences of, prisoners in jail in accordance with
the rules for the time being in force;(5-A) furlough system means the system
of releasing prisoners in jail on furlough in accordance with the rules for
the time being in force.Bombay Act 27 of 1951, Section 2 (w.e.f.
13-5-1953).(5-B) parole system means the system of releasing prisoners in jail
on parole, by suspension of their sentences in accordance with the rules for
the time being in force;(ii) Cl. (8) shall be deleted.Bombay Act 23 of 1959,
Section 3, (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).[Orissa].- In its application to the State of
Orissa, in Section 3, for Cl. (5), substitute the following clauses,
namely:(5) remission system means the system of regulating the award of marks
to, and the consequent shortening of sentences of, prisoners in jail in
accordance with the rules for the time being in force;(5-A) furlough system
means the system of releasing prisoners in jail on furlough in accordance with
the rules for the time being in force;(5-B) parole system means the system of
releasing prisoners in jail on parole, by suspension of their sentences in
accordance with the rules for the time being in force.Orissa Act 29 of 1958,
Section 2 (w.e.f. 19-11-1958).[Uttar Pradesh].- In its application to the
State of Uttar Pradesh, in Section 3,(i) in Cl. (1), between the words for the
detention and of prisoners, insert and reformation.Uttar Pradesh Act 9 of
1958, Section 3 (w.e.f. 27-2-1958).(ii) for Cl. (7), substitute the following
clause, namely:(7) Inspector-General means the Inspector-General of Prisons,
and in relation to the performance of such functions of the Inspector-General
as are entrusted by or under the rules made under this Act to Deputy
Inspector-General of Prisons, includes such Deputy Inspector-General.Uttar
Pradesh Act 19 of 1966, Section 2.  
---  
  
## Chapter II  
Maintenance And Officers Of Prisons

### 4. Accommodation for prisoners.

\- The State Government shall provide for the prisoners in the territories
under such Government, accommodation in prisons constructed and regulated in
such manner as to comply with the requisitions of this Act in respect of the
separation of prisoners.

### 5. Inspector-General.

\- An Inspector General shall be appointed for the territories subject to each
State Government, and shall exercise, subject to the orders of the State
Government, the general control and superintendence of all prisons situated in
the territories under such Government.

[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Gujarat Act 11 of 1960, Section 87;
Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961.[Madhya Pradesh].- In its application to
the State of Madhya Pradesh, Section 5 shall be renumbered as sub-section (1)
thereof and after sub-section (1) as so renumbered, insert the following sub-
section, namely:(2) The State Government may also appoint an Additional
Inspector-General of Prisons and one or more Deputy Inspector-General of
Prisons for the whole of the State or any part thereof, and they shall
exercise, carry out or discharge all or any of the powers, duties and
functions of the Inspector-General under this Act, or under any law for the
time being in force, as the Inspector-General may delegate to them, with prior
approval of the State Government.Madhya Pradesh Act 2 of 1986, Section 3
(w.r.e.f. 31-12-1985).[Maharashtra].- In its application to the State of
Maharashtra, Section 5 shall be renumbered as sub-S. (1) thereof and after
sub-section (1) as so renumbered, add the following sub-section, namely:(2)
The State Government may also appoint one or more Deputy Inspectors-General of
Prisons for the whole of such territories or any part thereof, and they shall
exercise, carry out or discharge all or any of the powers, duties and
functions of the Inspector-General under this Act, or under any law for the
time being in force, as the Inspector-General may delegate to them, with the
prior approval of the State Government.Bombay Act 23 of 1959, Section 3
(w.e.f. 1-6-1959).[Uttar Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Uttar
Pradesh, Section 5 shall be renumbered as sub-S. (1) thereof and after sub-S.
(1) as so renumbered, insert the following sub-section, namely:(2) The State
Government may also appoint one or more Deputy Inspectors-General of Prisons,
and they shall perform such of the functions of the Inspector-General under
this Act or under any other law for the time being in force as may be
entrusted to them by or under the rules made under this Act.Uttar Pradesh Act
19 of 1966, Section 3.  
---  
  
### 6. Officers of prisons.

\- For every prison there shall be a Superintendent, a Medical Officer (who
may also be the Superintendent), a Medical Subordinate, a Jailer and such
other officers as the State Government thinks necessary:Provided that [the
State Government of Bombay] [Substituted by A.O. 1937, for certain words.] may
[- - -] [The words "with previous sanction of the G.G. in C." omitted by A.O.
1937.] declare by order in writing that in any prison specified in the order
the office of Jailer shall be held by the person appointed to be
Superintendent.

[Delhi].- Same as that of Punjab Delhi Laws Act, 1912, Section 7 and
Notification No. 189/38, dated 30-5-1939.[Gujarat].- In its application to the
State of Gujarat, in proviso to sub-S. (1) of Section 6, for State Government
of Bombay the words State Government of Gujarat are to be substituted, the
rest of the amendments are the same as those of Maharashtra.Bombay Act 45 of
1959, as adapted by Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961; Act 11 of 1960,
Section 87.[Madhya Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Madhya
Pradesh, in the proviso to Section 6, for the words the State Government of
Bombay, substitute the State Government of Madhya Pradesh.Madhya Pradesh Act
40 of 1961, Section 3 and Sch., Part A (w.e.f. 1-2-1961).[Maharashtra].- In
its application to the State of Maharashtra, in Section 6,(a) renumber the
section 6 as sub-S. (1) thereof;(b) in sub-S. (1) as so renumbered, after the
words as Superintendent, insert (who may be a Deputy Inspector-General of
Prisons);(c) the words a Medical Subordinate shall be deleted;(d) in the
proviso, for State Government of Bombay, substitute State Government of
Maharashtra;(e) after sub-S. (1), insert the following sub-section, namely:(2)
Where one or more Deputy Superintendents are appointed for a prison, they
shall, subject to the general or special orders of the Inspector-General,
exercise, carry out or discharge all or any of the powers, duties and
functions of a Superintendent under this Act, or any law for the being in
force, as the Superintendent may delegate to them.Bombay Act 45 of 1959,
Section 3 (w.e.f. 21-9-1959) and Maharashtra A.L.A.O., 1960 (w.e.f.
1-5-1960).[Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh].- In its application to the States
of Punjab and Haryana and Union territory of Chandigarh, in Section 6, at the
end, add the following proviso, namely:Provided further that in the Punjab the
State Government may appoint for any prison a Deputy Superintendent instead of
a Jailer, and an Assistant Superintendent instead of a Deputy or Assistant
Jailer, and these officers when so appointed, shall exercise the same powers,
shall discharge the same duties and shall be subject to the same disabilities
as Jailers and Deputy or Assistant Jailers, respectively.Punjab Act 9 of 1926
(w.e.f. 1-9-1926); Punjab Act 5 of 1957, Section 4 and Central Act 31 of 1966,
Section 88.  
---  
  
### 7. Temporary accommodation for prisoners.

\- Whenever it appears to the Inspector General that the number of prisoners
in any prison is greater than can conveniently or safely be kept therein, and
it is not convenient to transfer the excess number to some other prison, or
whenever from the outbreak of epidemic disease within any prison, or for any
other reason, it is desirable to provide for the temporary shelter and safe
custody of any prisoner, provision shall be made, by such officer and in such
manner as the State Government may direct, for the shelter and safe custody in
temporary prisons of so many of the prisoners as can be conveniently or safely
kept in the prison.

## Chapter III  
Duties Of Officers

Generally

### 8. Control and duties of officers of prisons.

\- All officers of a prison shall obey the directions of the Superintendent;
all officers subordinate to the Jailer shall perform such duties as may be
imposed on them by the Jailer with the sanction of the Superintendent or be
prescribed by rules under section [59] [Substituted by A.O. 1937, for "60".].

### 9. Officers not to have business dealings with prisoners.

\- No officer of a prison shall sell or let, nor shall any person in trust for
or employed by him sell or let, or derive any benefit from selling or letting,
any article to any prisoner or have any money or other business dealings,
directly or indirectly, with any prisoner.

### 10. Officers not to be interested in prison contracts.

\- No officer of a prison shall, nor shall any person in trust for or employed
by him, have any interest, direct or indirect, in any contract for the supply
of the prison; nor shall he derive any benefit, directly or indirectly, from
the sale or purchase of any article on behalf of the prison or belonging to a
prisoner.Superintendent

### 11. Superintendent.

(1)Subject to the orders of the Inspector General, the Superintendent shall
manage the prison in all matters relating to discipline, labour, expenditure,
punishment and control.(2)Subject to such general or special directions as may
be given by the State Government, the Superintendent of a prison other than a
Central prison or a prison situated in Presidency-town shall obey all orders
not inconsistent with this Act or any rule thereunder which may be given
respecting the prison by the District Magistrate, and shall report to the
Inspector General all such orders and the action taken thereon.

[Andhra Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Andhra Pradesh, in
sub-S. (2) of Section 11, for the words the District Magistrate, substitute
the District Collector.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of 1958, Section 3 and Sch.
(w.e.f. 1-2-1960).[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Gujarat Act 11 of
1960, Section 87; Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961.[Maharashtra].- In its
application to the State of Maharashtra, in Section 11, in sub-S. (2), the
words a central prison or shall be deleted.Bombay Act 45 of 1959, Section 4
(w.e.f. 21-9-1959); and Act 23 of 1959, Section 2 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).  
---  
  
### 12. Records to be kept by Superintendent.

\- The Superintendent shall keep, or cause to be kept, the following
records:(1)a register of prisoners admitted;(2)a book showing when each
prisoner is to be released;(3)a punishment book for the entry of the
punishments inflicted on prisoners for prison-offences;

### 4\.

) a visitors book for the entry of any observation made by the visitors
touching any matters connected with the administration of the prison;(5)a
record of the money and other articles taken from prisoners;and all such other
records as may be prescribed by rules under section 59 [- - -] [The words and
figures [or section 60] omitted by A.O. 1937.].Medical Officer

### 13. Duties of Medical Officer.

\- Subject to the control of the Superintendent, the Medical Officer shall
have charge of the sanitary administration of the prison, and shall perform
such [duties as may be prescribed by rules made by the State Government under
section [59] [for rules as to Medical Officer's duties under Section 13, see
different local Rules and Orders.].]

### 14. Medical Officer to report in certain cases.

\- Whenever the Medical Officer has reason to believe that the mind of a
prisoner is, or is likely to be, injuriously affected by the discipline or
treatment to which he is subjected, the Medical Officer shall report the case
in writing to the Superintendent, together with such observations as he may
think proper.This report, with the orders of the Superintendent thereon, shall
forthwith be sent to the Inspector General for information.

### 15. Report on death of prisoner.

\- On the death of any prisoner, the Medical Officer shall forthwith record in
a register the following particulars, so far as they can be ascertained,
namely:(1)the day on which the deceased first complained of illness or was
observed to be ill,(2)the labour, if any, on which he was engaged on that
day,(3)the scale of his diet on that day,(4)the day on which he was admitted
to hospital,(5)the day on which the Medical Officer was first informed of the
illness,(6)the nature of the disease,(7)when the deceased was last seen before
his death by the Medical Officer or Medical Subordinate,(8)when the prisoner
died, and(9)(in cases where a post-mortem examination is made) an account of
the appearances after death, together with any special remarks that appear to
the Medical Officer to be required.

[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Gujarat Act 11 of 1960, Section 87 and
Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961.[Maharashtra].- In its application to the
State of Maharashtra, in Section 15, Cl. (7), the words or Medical Subordinate
shall be deleted.Bombay Act 45 of 1959, Section 5 (w.e.f. 21-9-1959); Act 23
of 1959, Section 2 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).  
---  
  
Jailer

### 16. Jailer.

(1)The Jailer shall reside in the prison, unless the Superintendent permits
him in writing to reside elsewhere.(2)The Jailer shall not, without the
Inspector Generals sanction in writing, be concerned in any other employment.

### 17. Jailer to give notice of death of prisoner.

\- Upon the death of a prisoner, the Jailer shall give immediate notice
thereof to the Superintendent and the Medical Subordinate.

### 18. Responsibility of Jailer.

\- The Jailer shall be responsible for the safe custody of the records to be
kept under section 12, for the commitment warrants and all other documents
confined to his care, and for the money and other articles taken from
prisoners.

### 19. Jailer to be present at night.

\- The Jailer shall not be absent from the prison for a night without
permission in writing from the Superintendent; but, if absent without leave
for a night from unavoidable necessity, he shall immediately report the fact
and the cause of it to the Superintendent.

### 20. Powers of Deputy and Assistant Jailers.

\- Where a Deputy Jailer or Assistant Jailer is appointed to a prison, he
shall, subject to the orders of the Superintendent, be competent to perform
any of the duties, and be subject to all the responsibilities, of a Jailer
under this Act or any rule thereunder.Subordinate Officers

### 21. Duties of gate-keeper.

\- The officer acting as gate-keeper, or any other officer of the prison, may
examine anything carried in or out of the prison, and may stop and search or
cause to be searched any person suspected of bringing any prohibited article
into or out of the prison, or of carrying out any property belonging to the
prison, and, if any such article or property be found, shall give immediate
notice thereof to the Jailer.

### 22. Subordinate officers not to be absent without leave.

\- Officers subordinate to the Jailer shall not be absent from the prison
without leave from the Superintendent or from the Jailer.

### 23. Convict officers.

\- Prisoners who have been appointed as officers of prisons shall be deemed to
be public servants within the meaning of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

## Chapter IV  
Admission, Removal And Discharge Of Prisoners

### 24. Prisoners to be examined on admission.

(1)Whenever a prisoner is admitted into prison, he shall be searched, and all
weapons and prohibited articles shall be taken from him.(2)Every criminal
prisoner shall also, as soon as possible after admission, be examined under
the general or special orders of the Medical Officer, who shall enter or cause
to be entered in a book, to be kept by the Jailer, a record of the state of
the prisoners health, and of any wounds or marks on his person, the class of
labour he is fit for if sentenced to rigorous imprisonment, and any
observations which the Medical Officer thinks fit to add.(3)In the case of
female prisoners the search and examination shall be carried out by the matron
under the general or special orders of the Medical Officer.

### 25. Effects of prisoners.

\- All money or other articles in respect whereof no order of a competent
Court has been made, and which may with proper authority be brought into the
prison by any criminal prisoner or sent to the prison for his use, shall be
placed in the custody of the Jailer.

### 26. Removal and discharge of prisoners.

(1)All prisoners, previously to being removed to any other prison, shall be
examined by the Medical Officer.(2)No prisoner shall be removed from one
prison to another unless the Medical Officer certifies that the prisoner is
free from any illness rendering him unfit for removal.(3)No prisoner shall be
discharged against his will from prison, if labouring under any acute or
dangerous distemper, nor until, in the opinion of the Medical Officer, such
discharge is safe.

## Chapter V  
Discipline Of Prisoners

### 27. Separation of prisoners.

\- The requisitions of this Act with respect to the separation of prisoners
are as follows:(1)in a prison containing female as well as male prisoners, the
females shall be imprisoned in separate buildings, or separate parts of the
same building, in such manner as to prevent their seeing, or conversing or
holding any inter-course with the male prisoners;(2)in a prison where male
prisoners under the age of [twenty-one] [Substituted by Act 6 of 1930, Section
2, for "eighteen".] are confined, means shall be provided for separating them
altogether from the other prisoners and for separating those of them who have
arrived at the age of puberty from those who have not;(3)unconvicted criminal
prisoners shall be kept apart from convicted criminal prisoners; and(4)civil
prisoners shall be kept apart from criminal prisoners.

### 28. Association and segregation of prisoners.

\- Subject to the requirements of the last foregoing section, convicted
criminal prisoners may be confined either in association or individually in
cells or partly in one way and partly in the other.

### 29. Solitary confinement.

\- No cell shall be used for solitary confinement unless it is furnished with
the means of enabling the prisoner to communicate at any time with an officer
of the prison, and every prisoner so confined in a cell for more than twenty-
four hours, whether as a punishment or otherwise, shall be visited at least
once a day by the Medical Officer or Medical Subordinate.

[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Gujarat Act 11 of 1960, Section 87,
Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961.[Maharashtra].- In its application to the
State of Maharashtra, in Section 29 for the words or Medical Subordinate,
substitute or any officer authorised by the Medical Officer in this
behalf.Bombay Acts 45 of 1959, Section 7 (w.e.f. 21-9-1959); 23 of 1959,
Section 2 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).  
---  
  
### 30. Prisoners under sentence of death.

(1)Every prisoner under sentence of death shall, immediately on his arrival in
the prison after sentence, be searched by, or by order of, the Jailer and all
articles shall be taken from him which the Jailer deems it dangerous or
inexpedient to leave in his possession.(2)Every such prisoner shall be
confined in a cell apart from all other prisoners, and shall be placed by day
and by night under the charge of a guard.

## Chapter VI  
Food, Clothing And Bedding Of Civil And Unconvicted Criminal Prisoners

### 31. Maintenance of certain prisoners from private sources.

\- A civil prisoner or an unconvicted criminal prisoner shall be permitted to
maintain himself, and to purchase, or receive from private sources at proper
hours, food, clothing, bedding or other necessaries, but subject to
examination and to such rules, as may be approved by the Inspector General.

### 32. Restriction on transfer of food and clothing between certain
prisoners.

\- No part of any food, clothing, bedding or other necessaries belonging to
any civil or unconvicted criminal prisoner shall be given, hired or sold to
any other prisoner; and any prisoner transgressing the provisions of this
section shall lose the privilege of purchasing food or receiving it from
private sources, for such time as the Superintendent thinks proper.

### 33. Supply of clothing and bedding to civil and unconvicted criminal
prisoners.

(1)Every civil prisoner and unconvicted criminal prisoner unable to provide
himself with sufficient clothing and bedding shall be supplied by the
Superintendent with such clothing and bedding as may be necessary.(2)When any
civil prisoner has been committed to prison in execution of a decree in favour
of a private person, such person, or his representative, shall, within forty-
eight hours after the receipt by him of a demand in writing, pay to the
Superintendent the cost of the clothing and bedding so supplied to the
prisoner, and in default of such payment the prisoner may be released.

[Andhra Pradesh].- Same as that of Tamil Nadu.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of 1958,
Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1960).[Tamil Nadu].- In its application to the
State of Tamil Nadu, in Section 33, for sub-section (2), substitute the
following, namely: -(2) When a civil prisoner has been committed to prison by
a Court in execution of any decree or order in favour of a private person,
such person shall immediately deposit or cause to be deposited in Court, to
meet the cost of the prisoners clothing and bedding, such amount as may be
fixed by the Court in accordance with the rules, if any, made by the State
Government in that behalf; and, in default of such deposit, the prisoner may
be released. [Tamil Nadu Acts 19 of 1947, Section 2 (w.e.f. 7-11-1947) and 35
of 1949.]  
---  
  
## Chapter VII  
Employment Of Prisoners

### 34. Employment of civil prisoners.

(1)Civil prisoners may, with the Superintendents permission, work and follow
any trade or profession.(2)Civil prisoners finding their own implements, and
not maintained at the expense of the prison, shall be allowed to receive the
whole of their earnings; but the earnings of such as are furnished with
implements or are maintained at the expense of the prison shall be subject to
a deduction, to be determined by the Superintendent, for the use of implements
and the cost of maintenance.

### 35. Employment of criminal prisoners.

(1)No criminal prisoner sentenced to labour or employed on labour at his own
desire shall, except on an emergency with the sanction in writing of the
Superintendent, be kept to labour for more than nine hours in any one
day.(2)The Medical Officer shall, from time to time, examine the labouring
prisoners while they are employed, and shall at least once in every fortnight
cause to be recorded upon the history-ticket of each prisoner employed on
labour the weight of such prisoner at the time.(3)When the Medical Officer is
of opinion that the health of any prisoner suffers from employment on any kind
or class of labour, such prisoner shall not be employed on that labour but
shall be placed on such other kind or class of labour as the Medical Officer
may consider suited for him.

[Andhra Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Andhra Pradesh, in
sub-S. (1) of Section 35, for the words nine hours, substitute eight
hours.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of 1958, Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1960).  
---  
  
### 36. Employment of criminal prisoners sentenced to simple imprisonment.

\- Provision shall be made by the Superintendent for the employment (as long
as they so desire) of all criminal prisoners sentenced to simple imprisonment;
but no prisoner not sentenced to rigorous imprisonment shall be punished for
neglect of work excepting by such alteration in the scale of diet as may be
established by the rules of the prison in the case of neglect of work by such
a prisoner.

## Chapter VIII  
Health Of Prisoners

### 37. Sick prisoners.

(1)The names of prisoners desiring to see the Medical Subordinate or appearing
out of health in mind or body shall, without delay, be reported by the officer
in immediate charge of such prisoners to the Jailer.(2)The Jailer shall,
without delay, call the attention of the Medical Subordinate to any prisoner
desiring to see him, or who is ill, or whose state of mind or body appears to
require attention, and shall carry into effect all written directions given by
the Medical Officer or Medical Subordinate respecting alterations of the
discipline or treatment of any such prisoner.

[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Gujarat Act 11 of 1960, Section
87.[Maharashtra].- In its application to the State of Maharashtra, in Section
37,(1) in sub-S. (1), for the words Medical Subordinate, substitute Medical
Officer;(2) in sub-S. (2)(a) for the words Medical Subordinate, where they
occur for the first time, substitute Medical Officer;(b) the words or Medical
Subordinate shall be deleted.Bombay Act 45 of 1959, Section 8 (w.e.f.
21-9-1959).  
---  
  
### 38. Record of directions of Medical Officers.

\- All directions given by the Medical Officer or Medical Subordinate in
relation to any prisoner, with the exception of orders for the supply of
medicines or directions relating to such matters as are carried into effect by
the Medical Officer himself or under his superintendence, shall be entered day
by day in the prisoners history-ticket or in such other record as the State
Government may by rule direct, and the Jailer shall make an entry in its
proper place stating in respect of each direction the fact of its having been
or not having been complied with, accompanied by such observations, if any, as
the Jailer thinks fit to make, and the date of the entry.

[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Act 11 of 1960, Section 87; Gujarat
A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961.[Maharashtra].- In its application to the State
of Maharashtra, in Section 38,(1) the words or Medical Subordinate shall be
deleted;(2) in the marginal note, for the word Officers, substitute
Officer.Bombay Act 45 of 1959, Section 9 (w.e.f. 21-9-1959); 23 of 1959,
Section 2 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).  
---  
  
### 39. Hospital.

\- In every prison a hospital or proper place for the reception of sick
prisoners shall be provided.

[Andhra Pradesh].- Same as that of Tamil Nadu.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of 1958,
Section 3 and Sch.[Madhya Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Madhya
Pradesh, after Section 39, insert the following sections, namely:39-A. Power
of Superintendent to send a prisoner to hospital or asylum for special
treatment.(1) The Superintendent may, if in his opinion, a prisoner requires
special treatment in a hospital outside the prison or in an asylum as defined
in the Indian Lunacy Act, 1912, send him to such hospital or asylum subject to
the prisoner or any relative or friend of the prisoner executing such bond and
abiding by such other conditions, if any, as the State Government may by rule
or order prescribe.(2) The period spent by the prisoner for such treatment in
the hospital or asylum or in going thereto or return therefrom shall be deemed
to be part of the period of his detention in the prison.Explanation I.-
Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to affect the operation of
section 30 of the Prisoners Act, 1900, in cases to which that section
applies.Explanation II.- In this section prisoner means a convicted criminal
prisoner.39-B. Punishment for escape or attempt to escape from hospital or
asylum.- (1) If any prisoner dealt with under section 39-A escapes or attempts
to escape from the hospital or asylum to which he has been sent or when going
thereto or returning therefrom, he shall be punished with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.(2) Such
punishment shall be in addition to the punishment for which the prisoner was
liable for the offence of which he was already convicted.39-C. Provisions
applicable to bonds referred to in section 39-A.- The provisions of Chapter
XLII of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, shall, so far as may be, apply
to the bonds referred to in section 39-A.Madhya Pradesh Act 40 of 1961,
Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1962).[Tamil Nadu].- In its application to the
State of Tamil Nadu, after Section 39, insert the following section,
namely:39A. Power of Superintendent to send a prisoner to hospital or asylum
for special treatment.- The Superintendent may, if in his opinion, a prisoner
requires special treatment in a hospital outside the prison or in an asylum as
defined in the Indian Lunacy Act, 1912, send him to such hospital or asylum
subject to the prisoner or any relative or friend of the prisoner executing
such bond and abiding by such other conditions, if any, as the State
Government may by rule or order prescribe. Any period during which the
prisoner is undergoing treatment in such hospital or asylum or spent by him in
going thereto or returning therefrom shall be deemed to be part of the period
of his detention in the prison.Explanation I.- Nothing contained in this
section shall be deemed to affect the operation of section 30 of the Prisoners
Act, 1900, in cases to which that section applies. [Tamil Nadu Act No. 14 of
1938, dated 3.10.1938].[Tamil Nadu].- In section 39-A of the Prisons Act, 1894
(herein after referred to as the said Act), the Explanation shall be
renumbered as Explanation I and the following shall be added as Explanation
II, namely -Explanation II.- In this section 'prisoner' means a convicted
criminal prisoner. [Tamil Nadu Act 14 of 1938, Section 2 (w.e.f. 25-10-1938),
as amended by Tamil Nadu Act 5 of 1940, Section 3 (w.e.f. 9-4-1940).][Tamil
Nadu].- After section 39-A of the said Act, the following sections shall be
inserted, namely: -39B. Punishment for escape or attempt to escape from
hospital or asylum.- If any prisoner dealt with under section 39-A escapes or
attempts to escape from the hospital or asylum to which he has been sent or
when going thereto or returning therefrom, he shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with
both.The punishment under this section shall be in addition to the punishment
for which the prisoner was liable for the offence of which he was already
convicted.39C. Provisions applicable to bonds referred to in section 39-A.-
The provisions of Chapter XLII of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, shall,
so far as may be, apply to the bonds referred to in section 39-A. [Tamil Nadu
Acts 5 of 1940, Section 3 (w.e.f. 9-4-1940); 35 of 1949 and 22 of 1957.]  
---  
  
## Chapter IX  
Visits To Prisoners

### 40. Visits to civil and unconvicted criminal prisoners.

\- Due provision shall be made for the admission, at proper times and under
proper restrictions, into every prison of persons with whom civil or
unconvicted criminal prisoners may desire to communicate, care being taken
that so far as may be consistent with the interests of justice, prisoners
under trial may see their duly qualified legal advisers without the presence
of any other person.

### 41. Search of visitors.

\- The Jailer may demand the name and address of any visitor to a prisoner,
and, when the Jailer has any ground for suspicion, may search any visitor, or
cause him to be searched, but the search shall not be made in the presence of
any prisoner or of another visitor.(2)In case of any such visitor refusing to
permit himself to be searched, the Jailer may deny him admission; and the
grounds of such proceeding, with the particulars thereof, shall be entered in
such record as the State Government may direct.

## Chapter X  
Offences In Relations To Prisons

### 42. Penalty for introduction or removal of prohibited articles into or
from prison and communication with prisoners.

\- Whoever, contrary to any rule under section [59] [Substituted by A.O. 1937,
for "60".] introduces or removes or attempts by any means whatever to
introduce or remove, into or from any prison, or supplies or attempts to
supply to any prisoner outside the limits of a prison, any prohibited article,
and every officer of a prison who, contrary to any such rule, knowingly
suffers any such article to be introduced into or removed from any prison, to
be possessed by any prisoner, or to be supplied to any prisoner outside the
limits of a prison, and whoever, contrary to any such rule, communicates or
attempts to communicate with any prisoner, and whoever abets any offence made
punishable by this section, shall, on conviction before a Magistrate, be
liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to fine not
exceeding two hundred rupees, or to both.

### 43. Power to arrest for offence under section 42.

\- When any person, in the presence of any officer of a prison, commits any
offence specified in the last foregoing section, and refuses on demand of such
officer to state his name and residence, or gives a name or residence which
such officer knows, or has reason to believe, to be false, such officer may
arrest him, and shall without unnecessary delay make him over to a police
officer, and thereupon such police officer shall proceed as if the offence had
been committed in his presence.

### 44. Publication of penalties.

\- The Superintendent shall cause to be affixed, in a conspicuous place
outside the prison, a notice in English and the Vernacular setting forth the
acts prohibited under section 42 and the penalties incurred by their
commission.

[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Act 11 of 1960, Section 87; Gujarat
A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961.[Madhya Pradesh].- In its application to the
State of Madhya Pradesh, in Section 44, for the word Vernacular, substitute
Hindi in Devnagri script.Madhya Pradesh Act 40 of 1961, Section 3 and Sch.
(w.e.f. 1-2-1961).[Maharashtra].- In its application to the State of
Maharashtra, in Section 44, for the word Vernacular, substitute regional
language.Bombay Act 23 of 1959, Section 3 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).  
---  
  
## Chapter XI  
Prison Offences

### 45. Prison offences.

\- The following acts are declared to be prison-offences when committed by a
prisoner:(1)such wilful disobedience to any regulation of the prison as shall
have been declared by rules made under section 59 to be a prison-
offence;(2)any assault or use of criminal force;(3)the use of insulting or
threatening language;(4)immoral or indecent or disorderly
behaviour;(5)wilfully disabling himself from labour;(6)contumaciously refusing
to work;(7)filling, cutting, altering or removing handcuffs, fetters or bars
without due authority;(8)wilful idleness or negligence at work by any prisoner
sentenced to rigorous imprisonment;(9)wilful mismanagement of work by any
prisoner sentenced to rigorous imprisonment;(10)wilful damage to prison
property;(11)tampering with or defacing history-tickets, records or
documents;(12)receiving, possessing or transferring any prohibited
article;(13)feigning illness;(14)wilfully bringing a false accusation against
any officer or prisoner;(15)omitting or refusing to report, as soon as it
comes to his knowledge, the occurrence of any fire, any plot or conspiracy,
any escape, attempt or preparation to escape, and any attack or preparation
for attack upon any prisoner or prison official; and(16)conspiring to escape,
or to assist in escaping, or to commit any other of the offences
aforesaid.[46] [For rules issued with reference to clauses (4), (6) and (7) of
section 46, see Gazette of India, 1923, Pt.I, p.1751.]. Punishment of such
offences.\- The Superintendent may examine any person touching any such
offence, and determine thereupon, and punish such offence by(1)a formal
warning.Explanation. A formal warning shall mean a warning personally
addressed to a prisoner by the Superintendent and recorded in the punishment
book and on the prisoners history ticket;(2)change of labour to some more
irksome or severe form [for such period as may be prescribed by rules made by
the [State Government] [Inserted by Act 17 of 1925, Section 2.];(3)hard labour
for a period not exceeding seven days in the case of convicted criminal
prisoners not sentenced to rigorous imprisonment;(4)such loss of privileges
admissible under the remission system for the time being in force as may be
prescribed by rules made by the [State Government] [Substituted by A.O. 1950,
for "Provincial Government".];(5)the substitution of gunny or other coarse
fabric for clothing of other material, not being woollen, for a period which
shall not exceed three months;(6)imposition of handcuffs of such pattern and
weight, in such manner and for such period, as may be prescribed by rules made
by the [State Government] [Substituted by A.O. 1950, for "Provincial
Government".];(7)imposition of fetters of such pattern and weight, in such
manner and for such period, as may be prescribed by rules made by the [State
Government] [Substituted by A.O. 1950, for "Provincial
Government".];(8)separate confinement for any period not exceeding [three] [
Substituted by Act 17 of 1925, Section 2, for "six".] months.Explanation.
Separate confinement means such confinement with or without labour as secludes
a prisoner from communication with, but not from sight of, other prisoners,
and allows him not less than one hours exercise per diem and to have his meals
in association with one or more other prisoners;(9)penal diet, that is,
restriction of diet in such manner and subject to such conditions regarding
labour as may be prescribed by the State Government:Provided that such
restriction of diet shall in no case be applied to a prisoner for more than
ninety-six consecutive hours, and shall not be repeated except for a fresh
offence nor until after an interval of one week;(10)cellular confinement for
any period not exceeding fourteen days:Provided that after each period of
cellular confinement an interval of not less duration than such period must
elapse before the prisoner is again sentenced to cellular or solitary
confinement.Explanation. Cellular confinement means such confinement with or
without labour as entirely secludes a prisoner from communication with, but
not from sight of, other prisoners;[- - -] [Clause (11) was repealed and
Clauses (12) and (13) renumbered as Clauses (11) and (12), respectively by Act
17 of 1925, Section 2.](11)[] [Clause (11) was repealed and Clauses (12) and
(13) renumbered as Clauses (11) and (12), respectively by Act 17 of 1925,
Section 2.] penal diet as defined in clause (9) combined with [cellular]
[Substituted by Act 17 of 1925, Section 2, for "solitary".] confinement [- -
-] [The words "as defined in clause (11)" repealed by Act 17 of 1925, Section
2.];(12)[] [Clause (11) was repealed and Clauses (12) and (13) renumbered as
clauses (11) and (12), respectively by Act 17 of 1925, Section 2.] whipping,
provided that the number of stripes shall not exceed thirty:Provided that
nothing in this section shall render any female or civil prisoner liable to
the imposition of any form of handcuffs or fetters, or to whipping.

[Andhra Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Andhra Pradesh, in
Section 46,(a) in Cl. (4), after the words the remission system, insert or
furlough system;(b) Cl. (5) shall be omitted;(c) in Cl. (8), for the words
three months, substitute two months;(d) Cl. (12) shall be omitted;(e) in the
Proviso, the words or to whipping or render any prisoner on hunger-strike
liable to whipping shall be omitted.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of 1958, Section 3
and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1960).[Assam].- In its application to the State of Assam,
in Section 46(1) omit Cl. (12), and the words or to whipping appearing in the
Proviso to the said section and substitute a full stop for the comma appearing
after the word fetter in the said Proviso;(2) after Cl. (11), add the
following clauses, namely:(12) forfeiture of class, grade, or prison
privileges for a period not exceeding three months;(13) permanent or temporary
reduction from a higher to a lower class or grade.Assam Act 12 of 1956,
Section 2 (w.e.f. 2-5-1956).[Bihar].- In its application to the State of
Bihar, in Section 46,(i) Cl. (12) shall be omitted; and(ii) in the proviso,
the words or to whipping shall be omitted.Bihar Act 31 of 1956, Section 2
(w.e.f. 24-11-1956).[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Gujarat Act 11 of
1960, Section 87, Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961.[Himachal Pradesh].- In
its application to the State of Himachal Pradesh, in Section 46(4), substitute
and deemed always to have been substituted as under:(4)(a) temporary
forfeiture of class, grade or prison privileges,(b) temporary or permanent
reduction from a higher to a lower class or grade,(c) such loss of privileges
admissible under the remission system time being in force as may be prescribed
by rules made by the State Government.Himachal Pradesh Act 10 of 1974, Section
2.[Madhya Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Madhya Pradesh, in
Section 46,(i) Cl. (12) shall be omitted; and(ii) in the proviso, the words or
to whipping shall be omitted.Madhya Pradesh Act 40 of 1961, Section 3 and
Sch.[Maharashtra].- In its application to the State of Maharashtra, in Section
46,(a) in Cl. (4), for the words the remission system, substitute the
remission or furlough system.Bombay Act 27 of 1953, Section 3 (w.e.f.
13-5-1953); Act 23 of 1959, Section 3 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).(b) for Cl. (5),
substitute the following clauses, namely:(5) exclusion from the privilege of
earning wages for a specified period;(5-A) temporary or permanent reduction
from a higher to lower grade or class, or forfeiture of the grade or class, or
of all or specified prison privileges:;(c) Cls. (9) and (11) shall be
omitted.Bombay Act 23 of 1959, Section 3 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).(d) Cl. (12) shall
be omitted and in the Proviso, the words or to whipping shall be
omitted.Bombay Act 39 of 1957, Section 4 (w.e.f. 28-9-1957).[Orissa].- In its
application to the State of Orissa, in Section 46,(a) in Cl. (4), for the
words the remission system, substitute the remission or furlough system.Orissa
Act 29 of 1958, Section 3 (w.e.f. 19-11-1958).(b) after Cl. (4), insert the
following clause, namely:(4)(a) temporary forfeiture of class, grade or prison
privileges or temporary or permanent reduction from a higher to a lower class
or grade.Orissa Act 23 of 1956, Section 2 (w.e.f. 31-10-1956).(c) Cl. (5)
shall be omitted.Orissa Act 29 of 1958, Section 3 (w.e.f. 19-11-1958).[Punjab,
Haryana and Chandigarh].- In its application to the States of Punjab and
Haryana and Union territory of Chandigarh, in Section 46, for Cl. (4), the
following shall be, and shall be deemed always to have been substituted,
namely:(4)(a) temporary forfeiture of class, grade or prison privileges,(b)
temporary or permanent reduction from a higher to a lower class or grade,(c)
such loss of privileges admissible under the remission system for the time
being in force as may be prescribed by rules made by the State
Government.Punjab Act 37 of 1957, Section 2 (w.e.f. 6-11-1957) and Central Act
31 of 1966.[Tamil Nadu].- In its application to the State of Tamil Nadu, in
Section 46, add at the end of the proviso 'or render any prisoner on hunger-
strike liable to whipping'. [Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1947, Section 2 (w.e.f.
6-11-1947).][Uttar Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Uttar
Pradesh, in Section 46, after Cl. (4), insert the following clause,
namely:(4-A) forfeiture or reduction of grade, either temporarily or
permanently, and temporary forfeiture of prison privileges.Uttar Pradesh Act 9
of 1958, Section 3 (w.e.f. 27-2-1958).[West Bengal].- In its application to
the State of West Bengal, in Section 46,(a) Cls. (5) and (9) with the Proviso
thereof, (11) and (12) shall be omitted; and(b) at the end of the Proviso, the
words or to whipping shall be omitted.West Bengal Act 22 of 1957, Section 3 (
w.e.f. 6-1-1958).  
---  
  
### 47. Plurality of punishment under section 46.

\- [(1)] [Section 47 renumbered as sub-Section (1) thereof and sub-Section (2)
inserted by Act 17 of 1925, Section 3.] Any two of the punishments enumerated
in the last foregoing section may be awarded for any such offence in
combination, subject to the following exceptions, namely:(1)formal warning
shall not be combined with any other punishment except loss of privileges
under clause (4) of that section;(2)penal diet shall not be combined with
change of labour under clause (2) of that section, nor shall any additional
period of penal diet awarded singly be combined with any period of penal diet
awarded in combination with [cellular] [Substituted by Act 17 of 1925, Section
3, for "solitary".] confinement;(3)[ cellular confinement shall not be
combined with separate confinement, so as to prolong the total period of
seclusion to which the prisoner shall be liable;] [Substituted by Act 17 of
1925, Section 3, for exception (3).](4)whipping shall not be combined with any
other form of punishment except cellular or separate confinement and loss of
privileges admissible under the remission system;(5)[ no punishment will be
combined with any other punishment in contravention of rules made by the State
Government.] [Inserted by Act 17 of 1925, Section 3.](2)[ No punishment shall
be awarded for any such offence so as to combine with the punishment awarded
for any other such offence, two of the punishment which may not be awarded in
combination for any such offence.] [Section 47 renumbered as sub-Section (1)
thereof and sub-Section (2) inserted by Act 17 of 1925, Section 3.]

[Andhra Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Andhra Pradesh, in
sub-S. (1) of Section 47, Cl. (4) shall be omitted.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of
1958, Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1960).[Assam].- Same as that of Andhra
Pradesh.Assam Act 12 of 1956, Section 3 (w.e.f. 2-5-1956).[Bihar].- Same as
that of Andhra Pradesh.Bihar Act 31 of 1956, Section 3 (w.e.f.
24-11-1956).[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Act 11 of 1960, Section
87; Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961.[Madhya Pradesh].- In its application
to the State of Madhya Pradesh, in Section 47(1), the words clause (4) shall
be omitted.Madhya Pradesh Act 40 of 1961, Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f.
1-2-1962).[Maharashtra].- In its application to the State of Maharashtra, in
Section 47, in sub-S. (1),(a) Cl. (2) shall be omitted.Bombay Act 23 of 1959,
Section 3 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).(b) Cl. (4) shall be omitted.Bombay Act 39 of
1957, Section 4 (w.e.f. 28-9-1957).[Orissa].- In its application to the State
of Orissa, in Cl. (4) of Section 47(1), for the words the remission system,
substitute the remission or furlough system.Orissa Act 29 of 1958, Section 4
(w.e.f. 19-11-1958).[West Bengal].- In its application to the State of West
Bengal, in sub-S. (1) of Section 47, Cls. (2) and (4) shall be omitted.West
Bengal Act 22 of 1957, Section 4 (w.e.f. 6-1-1959).  
---  
  
### 48. Award of punishments under sections 46 and 47.

(1)The Superintendent shall have power to award any of the punishments
enumerated in the two last foregoing sections, subject, in the case of
separate confinement for a period exceeding one month, to the previous
confirmation of the Inspector-General.(2)No officer subordinate to the
Superintendent shall have power to award any punishment whatever.

[Andhra Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Andhra Pradesh, after
Section 48, insert the following section, namely:48-A. Punishment for breach
of conditions of suspension or remission of sentence or grant of furlough.If
any prisoner fails without sufficient cause to observe any of the conditions
on which his sentence was suspended or remitted or furlough was granted to
him, he shall be deemed to have committed a prison offence and the
Superintendent may, after obtaining his explanation, punish such offence by(1)
a formal warning as provided in clause (1) of section 46;(2) reduction in
grade if such prisoner has been appointed an officer of prison;(3) loss of
privileges admissible under the remission or furlough system; or(4) loss of
such other privileges as the State Government may by general or special order,
direct.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of 1958, Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f.
1-2-1960).[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.)
Order, 1961.[Maharashtra].- In its application to the State of Maharashtra, in
Section 48-A, add same as that of Andhra Pradesh, except :(i) after the word
furlough where it occurs for the first time, insert the words or release on
parole;(ii) after the word furlough where it occurs for the second time,
insert the words or parole.Bombay Act 27 of 1953, Section 5 (w.e.f.
13-5-1953); Act 23 of 1959, Section 3 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).[Orissa].- In its
application to the State of Orissa, Section 48-A same as that of Andhra
Pradesh except that the marginal note reads as follows:Punishment for breach
of conditions of suspension of sentence.Orissa Act 29 of 1958, Section 5
(w.e.f. 19-11-1958).  
---  
  
### 49. Punishments to be in accordance with foregoing sections.

\- Except by order of a Court of Justice, no punishment other than the
punishments specified in the foregoing sections shall be inflicted on any
prisoner, and no punishment shall be inflicted on any prisoner otherwise than
in accordance with the provisions of those sections.

### 50. Medical Officer to certify to fitness of prisoner for punishment.

(1)No punishment of penal diet, either singly or in combination, or of
whipping, or of change of labour under section 46, clause (2), shall be
executed until the prisoner to whom such punishment has been awarded, has been
examined by the Medical Officer, who, if he considers the prisoner fit to
undergo the punishment, shall certify accordingly in the appropriate column of
the punishment book prescribed in section 12.(2)If he considers the prisoner
unfit to undergo the punishment, he shall in like manner record his opinion in
writing and shall state whether the prisoner is absolutely unfit for
punishment of the kind awarded, or whether he considers any modification
necessary.(3)In the latter case he shall state what extent of punishment he
thinks the prisoner can undergo without injury to his health.

[Andhra Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Andhra Pradesh, in
sub-S. (1) of Section 50, the words or of whipping shall be omitted.Andhra
Pradesh Act 23 of 1958, Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1960).[Assam].- Same as
that of Andhra Pradesh.Assam Act 12 of 1956, Section 4 (w.e.f.
2-5-1956).[Bihar].- Same as that of Andhra Pradesh.Bihar Act 31 of 1956,
Section 4 (w.e.f. 24-11-1956).[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Gujarat
Act 11 of 1960, Section 87, Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961.[Madhya
Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Madhya Pradesh, in Section 50,
for sub-S. (1), substitute the following sub-section, namely:(1) No punishment
of penal diet, either singly or in combination, or of change of labour under
section 46, clause (2), shall be executed until the prisoner to whom such
punishment has been awarded, has been examined by the Medical Officer, who, if
he considers the prisoner fit to undergo the punishment, shall certify
accordingly in the appropriate column of the punishment book prescribed in
section 12.Madhya Pradesh Act 12 of 1968, Section 2 (w.e.f.
18-5-1968).[Maharashtra].- In its application to the State of Maharashtra, in
sub-S. (1) of Section 50,(a) the words or of whipping shall be omitted.Bombay
Act 39 of 1957, Section 4 (w.e.f. 28-9-1957).(b) the words of penal diet,
either singly or combination, or shall be omitted.Bombay Act 23 of 1959,
Section 3 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).[West Bengal].- In its application to the State of
West Bengal, in sub-S. (1) of Section 50, the words of penal diet, either
singly or in combination, or of whipping, or shall be omitted.West Bengal Act
22 of 1957, Section 5 (w.e.f. 6-1-1958).  
---  
  
### 51. Entries in punishment books.

(1)In the punishment book prescribed in section 12 there shall be recorded, in
respect of every punishment inflicted, the prisoners name, register number and
the class (whether habitual or not) to which he belongs, the prison offence of
which he was guilty, the date on which such prison offence was committed, the
number of previous prison-offences recorded against the prisoner, and the date
of his last prison-offence, the punishment awarded, and the date of
infliction.(2)In the case of every serious prison-offence, the names of the
witnesses proving the offence shall be recorded, and, in the case of offences
for which whipping is awarded, the Superintendent shall record the substance
of the evidence of the witnesses, the defence of the prisoner, and the finding
with the reasons therefor.(3)Against the entries relating to each punishment
the Jailer and Superintendent shall affix their initials as evidence of the
correctness of the entries.

[Andhra Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Andhra Pradesh, for
sub-S. (2) of Section 51, substitute the following sub-section, namely:(2) In
the case of every serious prison offence, the names of the witnesses providing
the offence shall be recorded.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of 1959, Section 3 and
Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1960).[Assam].- In its application to the State of Assam, in
sub-S. (2) of Section 51, the words in the cases of offences for which
whipping is awarded and the commas before these words and thereafter shall be
omitted.Assam Act 12 of 1956, Section 5 (w.e.f. 2-5-1956).[Bihar].- In its
application to the State of Bihar, in sub-S. (2) of Section 51, the beginning
with and, in the cases of offences and ending with with the reasons therefor
shall be omitted.Bihar Act 31 of 1956, Section 5 (w.e.f.
24-11-1956).[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Gujarat Act 11 of 1960,
Section 87 and Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961.[Madhya Pradesh].- In its
application to the State of Madhya Pradesh, for sub-S. (2) of Section 51,
substitute the following sub-section, namely:(2) In the case of very serious
prison offences, the name of the witnesses proving the offence shall be
recorded.Madhya Pradesh Act 12 of 1963, Section 3 (w.e.f.
18-5-1968).[Maharashtra].- Same as that of Bihar.Bombay Act 39 of 1957,
Section 4 (w.e.f. 28-9-1957); Act 23 of 1959 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).[West Bengal].-
Same as that of Bihar.West Bengal Act 22 of 1957, Section 6 (w.e.f. 1-6-1958).  
---  
  
Sections 51-A and 51-B

[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Gujarat Act 11 of 1960, Section 87 and
Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961.[Maharashtra].- In its application to the
State of Maharashtra, after Section 51, insert the following sections,
namely:51-A. Power to arrest without warrant person committing breach of
conditions of suspension of sentence, etc.If any condition on or subject to
which a sentence has been suspended or remitted or release on parole or
furlough is granted is, in the opinion of the authority exercising such power,
not fulfilled, such authority may cancel its order granting such suspension,
remission or release on parole or furlough, and thereupon the person in whose
favour such order was made may, if at large, be arrested by any Police Officer
without warrant, and remanded to undergo the unexpired portion of his
sentence.51-B. Criminal liability for breach of conditions of suspension of
sentence, etc.- (1) If any prisoner fails without sufficient cause to observe
any of the conditions on or subject to which his sentence was suspended or
remitted, or release on parole or furlough was granted to him, he shall, on
conviction, be punished (such punishment being in addition to any punishment
which such prisoner was undergoing when he committed such offence) with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.(2) No Court shall take cognizance
of an offence under this section except with the previous sanction of the
State Government or the authority which granted suspension or remission of the
sentence.Bombay Act 23 of 1959, Section 3 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).  
---  
  
### 52. Procedure on committal of heinous offence.

\- If any prisoner is guilty of any offence against prison discipline which,
by reason of his having frequently committed such offences or otherwise, in
the opinion of the Superintendent, is not adequately punishable by the
infliction of any punishment which he has power under this Act to award, the
Superintendent may forward such prisoner to the Court of the District
Magistrate or of any Magistrate of the first class [or Presidency Magistrate]
[Inserted by Act 13 of 1910, Section 2.] having jurisdiction, together with a
statement of the circumstances, and such Magistrate shall thereupon inquire
into and try the charge so brought against the prisoner, and, upon conviction,
may sentence him to imprisonment which may extend to one year, such term to be
in addition to any term for which such prisoner was undergoing imprisonment
when he committed such offence, or may sentence him to any of the punishments
enumerated in section 46:[Provided that any such case may be transferred for
inquiry and trial by the District Magistrate to any Magistrate of the first
class and by a Chief Presidency Magistrate to any other Presidency Magistrate:
and] [Substituted by Act 13 of 1910, Section 2, for the first
proviso.]Provided also that no person shall be punished twice for the same
offence.

[Andhra Pradesh].- Same as that of Tamil Nadu.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of 1958,
Section 3.[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Gujarat Act 11 of 1960,
Section 87; Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961.[Madhya Pradesh].- In its
application to the State of Madhya Pradesh, in Section 52,(a) the words the
District Magistrate or of and or Presidency Magistrate shall be omitted;(b)
these provisos shall be omitted.Madhya Pradesh Act 40 of 1961, Section 3 and
Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1962).[Maharashtra].- In its application to the State of
Maharashtra, in Section 52,(a) the words of the District Magistrate or shall
be omitted;(b) in the first proviso, the words by the District Magistrate or
to any Magistrate of the first class and shall be omitted.Bombay Acts 23 of
1951, Section 2 and Sch.; Act 23 of 1959, Section 2.[Punjab, Haryana and
Chandigarh].- In its application to the States of Punjab and Haryana and Union
territory of Chandigarh, in Section 52,(a) for the words District Magistrate
or of any Magistrate of the first class or Presidency Magistrate, substitute
Chief Judicial Magistrate or any other Judicial Magistrate of the first class;
and(b) for the first proviso, substitute the following proviso,
namely:Provided that any such case may be transferred for inquiry and a trial
by the Chief Judicial Magistrate to any other Judicial Magistrate of the first
class.Punjab Act 25 of 1964, Section 2 and Sch. (w.e.f. 2-10-1964) and Central
Act 31 of 1966, Section 88 (w.e.f. 1-11-1966).[Tamil Nadu].- In its
application to the State of Tamil Nadu, in Section 52, for the words and
figures 'sentence him to any of the punishments enumerated in section 46', the
words and figures 'sentence him to any of the punishments to which he is
liable under section 46' shall be substituted. [Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1947,
Section 2 (w.e.f. 6-11-1947)].  
---  
  
### 53. Whipping.

(1)No punishment of whipping shall be inflicted in instalments, or except in
the presence of the Superintendent and Medical Officer or Medical
Subordinate.(2)Whipping shall be inflicted with a light ratan not less than
half an inch in a diameter on the buttocks, and in case of prisoners under the
age of sixteen it shall be inflicted, in the way of school discipline, with a
lighter ratan.

[Andhra Pradesh].- It its application to the State of Andhra Pradesh, Section
53 shall be omitted.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of 1958, Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f.
1-2-1960).[Assam].- Same as that of Andhra Pradesh.Assam Act 12 of 1956,
Section 6 (w.e.f. 2-5-1956).[Bihar].- Same as that of Andhra Pradesh.Bihar Act
31 of 1956, Section 6 (w.e.f. 24-11-1956).[Gujarat].- Same as that of
Maharashtra.Gujarat Act 11 of 1960, Section 87; Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.)
Order, 1961.[Madhya Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Madhya
Pradesh, Section 53 shall be omitted.Madhya Pradesh Act 40 of 1961, Section 3
and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1962).[Maharashtra].- In its application to the State of
Maharashtra, Section 53 shall be deleted.Bombay Act 39 of 1957, Section 4 read
with Act 23 of 1959 (w.e.f 1-6-1959).[West Bengal].- Same as that of Andhra
Pradesh.West Bengal Act 22 of 1957, Section 7 (w.e.f. 6-1-1958).  
---  
  
### 54. Offences by prison subordinates.

(1)Every Jailer or officer of a prison subordinate to him who shall be guilty
of any violation of duty or wilful breach or neglect of any rule or regulation
or lawful order made by competent authority, or who shall withdraw from the
duties of his office without permission, or without having given previous
notice in writing of his intention for the period of two months, or who shall
wilfully overstay any leave granted to him, or who shall engage without
authority in any employment other than his prison duty, or who shall be guilty
of cowardice, shall be liable, on conviction before a Magistrate, to fine not
exceeding two hundred rupees, or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding
three months, or to both.(2)No person shall under this section be punished
twice for the same offence.

[Madhya Pradesh]In its application to the State of Madhya Pradesh, in Section
54, sub-S. (2) shall be omitted.Madhya Pradesh Act 40 of 1961, Section 3 and
Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1962).  
---  
  
## Chapter XII  
Miscellaneous

### 55. Extramural custody, control and employment of prisoners.

\- A prisoner, when being taken to or from any prison in which he may be
lawfully confined, or whenever he is working outside or is otherwise beyond
the limits of any such prison in or under the lawful custody or control of a
prison officer belonging to such prison, shall be deemed to be in prison and
shall be subject to all the same incidents as if he were actually in prison.

### 56. Confinement in irons.

\- Whenever the Superintendent considers it necessary (with reference either
to the state of the prison or the character of the prisoners) for the safe
custody of any prisoners that they should be confined in irons, may, subject
to such rules and instructions as may be laid down by the Inspector-General
with the sanction of the State Government, so confine them.

### 57. Confinement of prisoners under sentence of transportation in irons.

(1)Prisoners under sentence of transportation may, subject to any rules made
under section [59] [Substituted by A.O. 1937, for "60".], be confined in
fetters for the first three months after admission to prison.(2)Should the
Superintendent consider it necessary, either for the safe custody of the
prisoner himself or for any other reason, that fetters should be retained on
any such prisoner for more than three months, he shall apply to the Inspector-
General for sanction to their retention for the period for which he considers
their retention necessary, and the Inspector-General may sanction such
retention accordingly.

.[Bihar].- In is application to the State of Bihar, in sub-S. (1) of Section
57, for the word transportation, substitute imprisonment for life.Bihar Act 31
of 1956, Section 7 (w.e.f. 24-11-1956).[Uttar Pradesh].- In its application to
the State of Uttar Pradesh, in Section 57, sub-S. (1), substitute the
following sub-section, namely:(1) The sentence of imprisonment for life shall
be regarded as a sentence of rigorous imprisonment and the prisoners
undergoing such sentence may, subject to any rules made under section 59, be
confined in fetters for the first three months after admission to prison.Uttar
Pradesh Act 11 of 1962, Section 2 (w.e.f. 11-10-1962).[West Bengal].- In its
application to the State of West Bengal, Section 57 shall be omitted.West
Bengal Act 22 of 1957, Section 8 (w.e.f. 6-1-1958).  
---  
  
### 58. Prisoners not to be ironed by Jailer except under necessity.

\- No prisoner shall be put in irons or under mechanical restraint by the
Jailer of his own authority, except in case of urgent necessity, in which case
notice thereof shall be forthwith given to the Superintendent.

[Andhra Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Andhra Pradesh, after
Section 58, insert the following section, namely:58-A. Power to release a
prisoner on furlough.The State Government or any authority empowered by it may
release a prisoner on furlough in accordance with rules for the time being in
force.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of 1958, Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f.
1-2-1960).[Goa, Daman and Diu].- In its application to the Union territory of
Goa, Daman and Diu, after Section 58, insert the following section,
namely:58-A. Release of prisoners on parole.The State Government or any
authority empowered by it may release a prisoner on parole or furlough in
accordance with such rules as may be made in this behalf.58-B. Surrender of
prisoners on the expiry of the period of temporary release.- (1) Any prisoner
released on parole or furlough shall surrender himself to the officer-in-
charge of the prison from which he was released, on the expiry of the period
of parole or furlough or at such earlier time as he may be directed by the
State Government or any authority empowered by it in this behalf.(2) Any
prisoner who does not surrender himself as required by sub-section (1) or
fails to comply with any other conditions upon which he is released, may be
arrested by any police officer without a warrant, and shall be liable upon
conviction to be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to two years or to a fine which may extend to Rs. 1,000 or
both.Goa, Daman and Diu Act 5 of 1968, Section 2 (w.e.f. 21-3-1968).  
---  
  
### 59. Power to make rules.

\- [(1)] [Section 59 renumbered as sub-Section (1) thereof by Act 4 of 1986,
Section 2 and Sch. (w.e.f. 15.5.1986).] [The State Government may]
[Substituted by A.O. 1937, for certain words.] [, by notification in the
Official Gazette,] [Inserted by Act 4 of 1986, Section 2 and Sch. (w.e.f.
15.5.1986).] make rules consistent with this Act(1)defining the acts which
shall constitute prison-offences;(2)determining the classification of prison-
offences into serious and minor offences;(3)fixing the punishments admissible
under this Act which shall be awardable for commission of prison-offences or
classes thereof;(4)declaring the circumstances in which acts constituting both
a prison-offence and an offence under the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) may
or may not be dealt with as a prison-offence;(5)for the award of marks and the
shortening of sentences;(6)regulating the use of arms against any prisoner or
body of prisoners in the case of an outbreak or attempt to escape;(7)defining
the circumstances and regulating the conditions under which prisoner in danger
of death may be released;(8)[ for the classification of prisons, and
description and construction of wards, cells and other places of detention;
[Substituted by A.O. 1937, for Clauses (8) and (9).](9)for the regulation by
numbers, length or character of sentences, or otherwise, of the prisoners to
be confined in each class of prisons;](10)for the Government of prisons and
for the appointment of all officers appointed under this Act;(11)as to the
food, bedding and clothing of criminal prisoners and of civil prisoners
maintained otherwise than at their own cost;(12)for the employment,
instruction and control of convicts within or without prisons;(13)for defining
articles the introduction or removal of which into or out of prisons without
due authority is prohibited;(14)for classifying and prescribing the forms of
labour and regulating the periods of rest from labour;(15)for regulating the
disposal of the proceeds of the employment of prisoners;(16)for regulating the
confinement in fetters of prisoners sentenced to transportation;(17)for the
classification and the separation of prisoners;(18)for regulating the
confinement of convicted criminal prisoners under section 28;(19)for the
preparation and maintenance of history-tickets;(20)for the selection and
appointment of prisoners as officers of prisons;(21)for rewards for good
conduct;(22)for regulating the transfer of prisoners whose term of
transportation or imprisonment is about to expire subject, however, to the
consent of the State Government of any other State to which a prisoner is to
be transferred;(23)for the treatment, transfer and disposal of criminal
lunatics or recovered criminal lunatics confined in prisons;(24)for regulating
the transmission of appeals and petitions from prisoners and their
communications with their friends;(25)for the appointment and guidance of
visitors of prisons;(26)for extending any or all of the provisions of this Act
and of the rules thereunder to subsidiary jails or special places of
confinement appointed under section 541 of the [Code of Criminal Procedure,
1882 (10 of 1882)] [Now see the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974).], and to the officers employed, and the prisoners confined,
therein;(27)in regard to the admission, custody, employment, dieting,
treatment and release of prisoners; and(28)generally for carrying into effect
the purposes of this Act.(2)[ Every rule made under this section shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before the State Legislature.]
[Inserted by Act 4 of 1986, Section 2 and Sch. (w.e.f. 15.5.1986).]

[Andhra Pradesh].- In its application to the State of Andhra Pradesh, in
Section 59, for Cl. (5), substitute the following clause, namely:(5) for the
award of marks, granting remission or furlough, determining the conditions on
which and the authority by which such remission or furlough shall be granted
and the consequent shortening of the sentence.Andhra Pradesh Act 23 of 1958,
Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-2-1960).[Assam].- In its application to the State
of Assam, in Section 59, for Cl. (5), substitute the following clause,
namely:(5) for the award of marks, the suspension or remission and consequent
shortening of sentences, and the grant of leave or emergency release and
determining the conditions on which and the authority by which the sentences
may be suspended or remitted and the prisoner may be granted leave or
emergency release.Assam Act 1 of 1968, Section 2 (w.e.f. 16-2-1968).[Bihar].-
In its application to the State of Bihar, in Section 59,(i) in Cl. (16), for
the word transportation, substitute imprisonment for life; and(ii) in Cl.
(22), the words transportation or shall be omitted.Bihar Act 31 of 1956,
Section 8 (w.e.f. 24-11-1956).[Goa, Daman and Diu].- In its application to the
Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu, in Section 59, after Cl. (28), insert
the following clauses, namely:(29) for release on parole or furlough and
determining the conditions on which and the authority by which prisoners may
be released on parole or furlough;(30) All rules made under this section shall
be laid on the table of the Legislative Assembly as soon as may be, after they
are made and shall be subject to such modifications as the Assembly may make
during the session in which they are laid or the one immediately
following.Goa, Daman and Diu Act 5 of 1968, Section 3 (w.e.f.
21-3-1968).[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Gujarat Act 11 of 1960,
Section 87; Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961.[Kerala].- In its application
to the State of Kerala, in Section 59, after the words the State Government
may make rules consistent with this Act, insert either prospectively or
retrospectively.Kerala Act 10 of 1976, Section 2 (w.r.e.f.
10-10-1972).[Maharashtra].- In its application to the State of Maharashtra, in
Section 59, for Cl. (5), substitute the following clause, namely:(5) for the
award of marks, the suspension, or remission and consent shortening of
sentences, and the grant of release on parole or furlough and determining the
conditions on which and the authority by which the sentences may be suspended
or remitted and the prisoners may be released on parole or furlough.Bombay Act
23 of 1959, Section 3 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).[Orissa].- In its application to the
State of Orissa, in Section 59, for Cl. (5), substitute the following clause,
namely:(5) for the award of marks, granting remission or furlough, determining
the conditions on which and the authority by which such remission or furlough
shall be granted and the consent shortening of the sentence.Orissa Act 29 of
1958, Section 6 (w.e.f. 19-11-1958).[West Bengal].- In its application to the
State of West Bengal, in Section 59,(a) Cl. (16) shall be omitted;(b) in Cl.
(22), the words transportation or shall be omitted.West Bengal Act 22 of 1957,
Section 9 (w.e.f. 6-1-1958).  
---  
  
[60] [This section had been incorporated with slight modifications in clauses
(8) to (27) of section 59.]. Power of Local Government to make rules.\-
[Repealed by the Government of India (Adaptation of Indian Laws) Order, 1937.]

### 61. Exhibition of copies of rules.

\- Copies of rules, under [section 59] [Substituted by A.O. 1937, for
"sections 59 and 60".] so far as they affect the Government of prisons, shall
be exhibited, both in English and in the Vernacular, in some place to which
all persons employed within a prison have access.

[Gujarat].- Same as that of Maharashtra.Gujarat Act 11 of 1960, Section 87;
Gujarat A.L. (8th Amdt.) Order, 1961.[Madhya Pradesh].- In its application to
the State of Madhya Pradesh, in Section 61, for the words both in English and
in Vernacular, in some place to which all persons employed within a prison
have access, substitute both in English and in Hindi in Devanagri script, in
some conspicuous place and to which all persons employed within a prison have
access.Madhya Pradesh Act 40 of 1961, Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f.
1-2-1961).[Maharashtra].- In its application to the State of Maharashtra, in
Section 61, for the word Vernacular, substitute regional language.Bombay Act
23 of 1959, Section 3 (w.e.f. 1-6-1959).  
---  
  
### 62. Exercise of powers of Superintendent and Medical Officer.

\- All or any of the powers and duties conferred and imposed by this Act on a
Superintendent or Medical Officer may in his absence be exercised and
performed by such other officer as the State Government may appoint in this
behalf either by name or by his official designation.The scheduleEnactments
Repealed .[Repealed by the Repealing Act, 1938 (1 of 1938), section 2 and
Schedule.]

