## Union of India - Act

## The Public Wakfs (Extension Of Limitation) Act, 1959

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Public Wakfs (Extension Of Limitation) Act, 1959

## Act 29 of 1959

  * Published on 1 September 1959 
  * Commenced on 1 September 1959 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 September 1959.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Public Wakfs (Extension Of Limitation) Act, 1959ACT NO. 29 OF 1959

### 1353.

Following the partition of the country in August, 1947, a number of wakf
properties passed into unauthorised hands. Many of the mutawallis who were in
charge of these properties had migrated to Pakistan and the few who stayed
behind could not for various reasons institute civil proceedings for the
recovery of possession of unauthorised occupants. Under the law as it stands
at present the title of the true owners would be extinguished of the
properties are in adverse possession for twelve years or more. It is,
therefore, proposed to extend the period of limitation up to the 15th August,
1967, in respect of suits for the recovery of possession of any immovable
property forming part of a public wakf in any case where the dispossession has
taken place at any time between the 15th August, 1947 (date of partition) and
the 7th May, 1954 (the date from which power to declare any property as
evacuee property under the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950,
ceased). This would enable the Wakf Boards constituted under the Wakf Act and
other interested persons to institute such suits.Since the period of
limitation in some cases would expire in August, 1959, an ordinance was
promulgated for making the necessary alteration in the law of limitation. The
present Bill seeks to replace the Ordinance by an Act of Parliament. - Gazette
of India, 1959, Extra Pt. II, section 2, page 583.The Public Wakfs (Extension
of Limitation) Act, 1959 (C.A. 29 of 1959) had provided for and extended
period of limitation for suits to recover possession of wakfs properties which
expired on 31-12-1970. The Government of India has informed that it would not
be possible for it to move for further extension of the period of limitation
and that the State Wakf Boards may approach the State Governments concerned to
amend the Act locally of the number of wakf properties yet to be recovered
from unauthorised occupation necessities further expansion of the peroid of
limitation. Accordingly, the Commissioner of Wakfs, West Bengal, has moved the
State Government with a proposal for further extension of the period of
limitation beyond 31-12-1970, on the ground that in West Bengal a large number
of wakf properties are still in unauthorised occupation for the recovery of
which suits have to be filed. Considering all the aspects of the matter it has
been proposed that the period of limitation may be extended upto 31st
December, 1976, by amending the Public Wakfs (Extension of Limitation) Act,
1959. The Bill has been prepared to give effect to this proposal. - Cal. Gaz.
28-7-1972, Pt. IV-A, p. 1566-b.[1st September, 1959.]An Act to extend the
period of limitation in certain cases for suits to recover possession of
immovable property forming part of Public Wakfs.BE it enacted by Parliament in
the Tenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the Public Wakfs (Extension of Limitation) Act,
1959.(2)It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and
Kashmir.

### 2. Definition.

In this Act, "public wakf" means the permanent dedication by a person
professing Islam of any immovable property for any purpose recognised by
Muslim law as a public purpose of a pious, religious or charitable nature.

### 3. Extension of period of limitation in certain cases for suits to recover
possession of immovable property forming part of public wakfs.

Where a person entitled to institute a suit of the description referred to in
article 142 or article 144 of the First Schedule to the Indian Limitation Act,
1908, (9 of 1908.) for possession of any immovable property forming part of a
public wakf or any interest therein has been dispossessed, or has discontinued
the possession, at any time after the 14th day of August, 1947, and before the
7th day of May, 1954, or, as the case may be, the possession of the defendant
in such a suit has become adverse to such person at any time during the said
period, then, notwithstanding anything contained in the said Act, the period
of limitation in respect of such a suit shall extend up to [the 31st day of
December, 1970] [Substituted by Act 9 of 1969, s, 2, for "the 31st day of
December, 1968"].

### 4. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Public Wakfs (Extension of Limitation) Ordinance, 1959(2 of 1959.), is
hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action
taken under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken
under this Act as if this Act had commenced on the 20th day of July, 1959.

In its application to the below mentioned States and Union Territory, the
period of limitation prescribed in Section 3 has been extended as under
:-Andhra Pradesh - 31-12-1996 - A.P. Act 26 of 1994, S.2 (w.e.f. 1-1-87).Bihar
- Section 3 substituted and deemed always to have been substituted as under
-"3. Extension of period of limitation in certain cases for suits to recovers
possession of immovable property forming part of Public Wakfs. - Where a
person entitled to institute a suit of the description referred to in Article
65 of the Schedule to the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963) for possession of
any immovable property forming part of a Public Wakf or any interest therein
has been dispossessed or has discontinued the possession at any time after the
14th day of August, 1947 and before the 7th day of May, 1954, or, as the case
may be, the possession of the defendant in such a suit has become adverse to
such person at any time during the said period, then notwithstanding anything
contained in the said Act, the period of limitation in respect of such a suit
shall extend upto 31st day of December, 1990."\- Bihar Act 10 of 1986,
S.2.U.T. of Delhi - 31-12-1985 - Cen. Act 39 of 1982, S.2 (w.e.f.
1-1-1981)Haryana - 31-12-1975 - Har. Act 6 of 1975, S.3 (24-1-1975).Himachal
Pradesh - 31-10-1985, H.P. Act 17 of 1984, S.2 (w.e.f. 1-1-1979).Karnataka -
31-12-1987 - Deemed and always deemed to have been substituted by Karnataka
Act 26 of 1987, S.2.Kerala - 31-12-1987, Kerala Act 1 of 1975, S.2 (w.e.f.
1-1-1973).Madhya Pradesh - 31-12-1983 - M.P. Act 22 of 1982, S.2 (w.e.f.
31-12-1980).Orissa - 31-12-1986 - Orissa Act 12 of 1982, S.2 (w.e.f.
1-1-1982).Punjab - 31-12-1985 - Punjab Act 15 of 1981, S.2 (w.e.f.
1-1-1977).Rajasthan - 31-12-1986 - Rajasthan Act 15 of 1983, S.2 (w.e.f.
1-1-1981).Tamil Nadu - Act repealed by T.N. Act 34 of 1982, S.4.West Bengal -
31-12-1976 - W.B. Act 33 of 1972, S.3 (w.e.f. 1-1-1971).  
---

