## Union of India - Act

## The Parliamentary Proceedings (Protection Of Publication) Act, 1977

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Parliamentary Proceedings (Protection Of Publication) Act, 1977

## Act 15 of 1977

  * Published on 18 April 1977 
  * Commenced on 18 April 1977 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 April 1977.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Parliamentary Proceedings (Protection Of Publication) Act, 1977(15 OF
1977)

### 18.

/826Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The basic of a democratic Government is
the opinion of the people. It is, therefore, of paramount importance that
proceedings in Parliament shall be communicated to the public. For this
purpose, newspapers and other mass publicity media should be afforded the
privilege of publising substantially true reports of proceedings in Parliament
without being exposed to any civil or criminal action. The press and other
publicity media were deprived of this privilege during the Emergency when the
Parliamentary Proceedings (Protection of Publication) Act, 1956, was repealed.
It is now proposed to restore this privilege. Hence this Bill.2\. The
provisions of the Bill are on the same lines as the provisions of the
Parliamentary Proceedings (Protection of Publication) Act, 1956.[18th April,
1977]An Act to protect the publication of reports of proceedings of
Parliament.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-eighth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The
Parliamentary Proceedings (Protection of Publication) Act, 1977.

(2)It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and
Kashmir.(3)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 25th day of
March, 1977.

### 2. Definition .-In this Act, "newspaper" means any printed periodical work
containing public news or comments on public news, and includes a news agency
supplying material for publication in a newspaper.

### 3. Publication of reports of Parliamentary proceedings privileged .-(1)
Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (2), no person shall be liable to
any proceedings, civil or criminal, in any Court in respect of the publication
in a newspaper of a substantially true report of any proceedings of either
House of Parliament unless the publication is proved to have been made with
malice.

(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be construed as protecting the publication
of any matter, the publication of which is not for the public good.

### 4. Act also to apply to Parliamentary proceedings broadcast by wireless
telegraphy .-This Act shall apply in relation to reports or matters broadcast
by means of wireless telegraphy as part of any programme or service provided
by means of a broadcasting station situate within the territories to which
this Act extends as it applies in relation to reports or matters published in
a newspaper.

