## Union of India - Act

## The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988

## Act 49 of 1988

  * Published in Gazette 49 on 9 September 1988 
  * Assented to on 9 September 1988 
  * Commenced on 9 September 1988 
  * [This is the version of this document at 26 July 2018.] 

The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988(49 of 1988)Last Updated 30th December,
2019Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Bill is intended to make the
existing anti-corruption laws more effective by widening their coverage and by
strengthening the provisions.2\. The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, was
amended in 1964 based on the recommendations of the Santhanam Committee. There
are provisions in Chapter IX of the Indian Penal Code to deal with public
servants and those who abets them by way of criminal misconduct. There are
also provisions in the Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1944, to enable
attachment of ill-gotten wealth obtained through corrupt means, including from
transferees of such wealth. The Bill seeks to incorporate all these provisions
with modifications so as to make the provisions more effective in combating
corruption among public servants.3\. The Bill, inter alia, envisages widening
the scope of the definition of the expression "public servant", incorporation
of offences under sections 161 to 165-A of the Indian Penal Code, enhancement
of penalties provided for these offences and incorporation of a provision that
the order of the trial Court upholding the grant of sanction for prosecution
would be final if it has not already been challenged and the trial has
commenced. In order to expedite the proceedings, provisions for day-to-day
trial of cases and prohibitory provisions with regard to grant of stay and
exercise of powers of revision on interlocutory orders have also been
included.4\. Since the provisions of sections 161 to 165-A are incorporated in
the proposed legislation with an enhanced punishment, it is not necessary to
retain those sections in the Indian Penal Code. Consequently, it is proposed
to delete those sections with the necessary saving provision.5\. The Notes on
Clauses explain in detail the provisions of the Bill.An Act to consolidate and
amend the law relating to the prevention of corruption and for matters
connected therewith .Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-ninth Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-{||-|Received the assent of the President on
9.9.1988 and published in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt.II, Section 1, dated
12.9.1988.|}

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called The Prevention of Corruption Act , 1988.(2)It
extends to the whole of India [***] [The words 'except the State of Jammu and
Kashmir' omitted by Act 34 of 2019, s. 95 and the Fifth Schedule (w.e.f.
31-10-2019)] and it applies also to all citizens of India outside India.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)election means any
election, by whatever means held under any law for the purpose of selecting
Members of Parliament or of any Legislature, local authority or other public
authority;(aa)[ "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act and
the expression "prescribe" shall be construed accordingly;] [Inserted by Act
No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.](b)public duty means a duty in the discharge
of which the State, the public or the community at large has an
interest;Explanation. - In this clause State includes a corporation
established by or under a Central, Provincial or State Act, or an authority or
a body owned or controlled or aided by the Government or a Government company
as defined in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);(c)public
servant means,(i)any person in the service or pay of the Government or
remunerated by the Government by fees or commission for the performance of any
public duty;(ii)any person in the service or pay of a local authority;(iii)any
person in the service or pay of a corporation established by or under a
Central, Provincial or State Act, or an authority or a body owned or
controlled or aided by the Government or a Government company as defined in
section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);(iv)any Judge, including
any person empowered by law to discharge, whether by himself or as a member of
any body of persons, any adjudicatory functions;(v)any person authorised by a
Court of justice to perform any duty, in connection with the administration of
justice, including a liquidator, receiver or commissioner appointed by such
Court;(vi)any arbitrator or other person to whom any cause or matter has been
referred for decision or report by a Court of justice or by a competent public
authority;(vii)any person who holds an office by virtue of which he is
empowered to prepare, publish, maintain or revise an electoral roll or to
conduct an election or part of an election;(viii)any person who holds an
office by virtue of which he is authorised or required to perform any public
duty;(ix)any person who is the president, secretary or other office-bearer of
a registered co-operative society engaged in agriculture, industry, trade or
banking, receiving or having received any financial aid from the Central
Government or a State Government or from any corporation established by or
under a Central, Provincial or State Act, or any authority or body owned or
controlled or aided by the Government or a Government company as defined in
section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);(x)any person who is a
chairman, member or employee of any Service Commission or Board, by whatever
name called, or a member of any selection committee appointed by such
Commission or Board for the conduct of any examination or making any selection
on behalf of such Commission or Board;(xi)any person who is a Vice-Chancellor
or member of any governing body, professor, reader, lecturer or any other
teacher or employee, by whatever designation called, of any University and any
person whose services have been availed of by a University or any other public
authority in connection with holding or conducting examinations;(xii)any
person who is an office-bearer or an employee of an educational, scientific,
social, cultural or other institution, in whatever manner established,
receiving or having received any financial assistance from the Central
Government or any State Government, or local or other public
authority.Explanation 1. - Persons falling under any of the above sub-clauses
are public servants, whether appointed by the Government or not.Explanation 2.
- Wherever the words public servant occur, they shall be understood of every
person who is in actual possession of the situation of a public servant,
whatever legal defect there may be in his right to hold that situation.(d)[
"undue advantage" means any gratification whatever, other than legal
remuneration. [Inserted by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.]Explanation. -
For the purposes of this clause,-(a)the word "gratification" is not limited to
pecuniary gratifications or to gratifications estimable in money;(b)the
expression "legal remuneration" is not restricted to remuneration paid to a
public servant, but includes all remuneration which he is permitted by the
Government or the organisation, which he serves, to receive.]

## Chapter II  
Appointment Of Special Judges

### 3. Power to appoint special Judges.

(1)The Central Government or the State Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint as many special Judges as may be necessary for such
area or areas or for such case or group of cases as may be specified in the
notification to try the following offences, namely:(a)any offence punishable
under this Act; and(b)any conspiracy to commit or any attempt to commit or any
abetment of any of the offences specified in clause (a).(2)A person shall not
be qualified for appointment as a special Judge under this Act unless he is or
has been a Sessions Judge or an Additional Sessions Judge or an Assistant
Sessions Judge under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).

### 4. Cases triable by special Judges.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974), or in any other law for the time being in force, the offences
specified in sub-section (1) of section 3 shall be tried by special Judges
only.(2)Every offence specified in sub-section (1) of section 3 shall be tried
by the special Judge for the area within which it was committed, or, as the
case may be, by the special Judge appointed for the case, or, where there are
more special Judges than one for such area, by such one of them as may be
specified in this behalf by the Central Government.(3)When trying any case, a
special Judge may also try any offence, other than an offence specified in
section 3, with which the accused may, under the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 (2 of 1974), be charged at the same trial.(4)[ Notwithstanding anything
contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, the trial of an offence
shall be held, as far as practicable, on day-to-day basis and an endeavour
shall be made to ensure that the said trial is concluded within a period of
two years:Provided that where the trial is not concluded within the said
period, the special Judge shall record the reasons for not having done
so:Provided further that the said period may be extended by such further
period, for reasons to be recorded in writing but not exceeding six months at
a time; so, however, that the said period together with such extended period
shall not exceed ordinarily four years in aggregate.] [Substituted by Act No.
16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.]

### 5. Procedure and powers of special Judge.

(1)A special Judge may take cognizance of offences without the accused being
committed to him for trial and, in trying the accused persons, shall follow
the procedure prescribed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974),
for the trial of warrant cases by the Magistrates.(2)A special Judge may, with
a view to obtaining the evidence of any person supposed to have been directly
or indirectly concerned in, or privy to, an offence, tender a pardon to such
person on condition of his making a full and true disclosure of the whole
circumstances within his knowledge relating to the offence and to every other
person concerned, whether as principal or abettor, in the commission thereof
and any pardon so tendered shall, for the purposes of sub-sections (1) to (5)
of section 308 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), be deemed
to have been tendered under section 307 of that Code.(3)Save as provided in
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the provisions of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), shall, so far as they are not inconsistent with
this Act, apply to the proceedings before a special Judge; and for purposes of
the said provisions, the Court of the special Judge shall be deemed to be a
Court of Session and the person conducting a prosecution before a special
Judge shall be deemed to be a public prosecutor.(4)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the provisions contained in sub-section (3),
the provisions of sections 326 and 475 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974), shall, so far as may be, apply to the proceedings before a
special Judge and for the purposes of the said provisions, a special Judge
shall be deemed to be a Magistrate.(5)A special Judge may pass upon any person
convicted by him any sentence authorised by law for the punishment of the
offence of which such person is convicted.(6)A special Judge, while trying an
offence punishable under this Act, shall exercise all the powers and functions
exercisable by a District Judge under the Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance,
1944 (Ordinance 38 of 1944).

### 6. Power to try summarily.

(1)Where a special Judge tries any offence specified in sub-section (1) of
section 3, alleged to have been committed by a public servant in relation to
the contravention of any special order referred to in sub-section (1) of
section 12-A of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955) or of an
order referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (2) of that section, then,
notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 5 of this Act
or section 260 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), the
special Judge shall try the offence in a summary way, and the provisions of
sections 262 to 265 (both inclusive) of the said Code shall, as far as may be,
apply to such trial:Provided that, in the case of any conviction in a summary
trial under this section, it shall be lawful for the special Judge to pass a
sentence of imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year:Provided further
that when at the commencement of, or in the course of, a summary trial under
this section, it appears to the special Judge that the nature of the case is
such that a sentence of imprisonment for a term exceeding one year may have to
be passed or that it is, for any other reason, undesirable to try the case
summarily, the special Judge shall, after hearing the parties, record an order
to that effect and thereafter recall any witnesses who may have been examined
and proceed to hear or re-hear the case in accordance with the procedure
prescribed by the said Code for the trial of warrant cases by
Magistrates.(2)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act
or in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), there shall be no
appeal by a convicted person in any case tried summarily under this section in
which the special Judge passes a sentence of imprisonment not exceeding one
month, and of fine not exceeding two thousand rupees whether or not any order
under section 452 of the said Code is made in addition to such sentence, but
an appeal shall lie where any sentence in excess of the aforesaid limits is
passed by a special Judge.

## Chapter III  
Offences And Penalties

### 7. [ Offence relating to public servant being bribed. [Substituted by Act
No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.]

\- Any public servant who,-(a)obtains or accepts or attempts to obtain from
any person, an undue advantage, with the intention to perform or cause
performance of public duty improperly or dishonestly or to forbear or cause
forbearance to perform such duty either by himself or by another public
servant; or(b)obtains or accepts or attempts to obtain, an undue advantage
from any person as a reward for the improper or dishonest performance of a
public duty or for forbearing to perform such duty either by himself or
another public servant; or(c)performs or induces another public servant to
perform improperly or dishonestly a public duty or to forbear performance of
such duty in anticipation of or in consequence of accepting an undue advantage
from any person, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall
not be less than three years but which may extend to seven years and shall
also be liable to fine.Explanation 1. - For the purpose of this section, the
obtaining, accepting, or the attempting to obtain an undue advantage shall
itself constitute an offence even if the performance of a public duty by
public servant, is not or has not been improper.Illustration. - A public
servant, 'S' asks a person, 'P' to give him an amount of five thousand rupees
to process his routine ration card application on time. 'S' is guilty of an
offence under this section.Explanation 2. - For the purpose of this
section,-(i)the expressions "obtains" or "accepts" or "attempts to obtain"
shall cover cases where a person being a public servant, obtains or "accepts"
or attempts to obtain, any undue advantage for himself or for another person,
by abusing his position as a public servant or by using his personal influence
over another public servant; or by any other corrupt or illegal means;(ii)it
shall be immaterial whether such person being a public servant obtains or
accepts, or attempts to obtain the undue advantage directly or through a third
party.

### 7A. Taking undue advantage to influence public servant by corrupt or
illegal means or by exercise of personal influence.

\- Whoever accepts or obtains or attempts to obtain from another person for
himself or for any other person any undue advantage as a motive or reward to
induce a public servant, by corrupt or illegal means or by exercise of his
personal influence to perform or to cause performance of a public duty
improperly or dishonestly or to forbear or to cause to forbear such public
duty by such public servant or by another public servant, shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three years but
which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.

### 8. Offence relating to bribing of a public servant.

(1)Any person who gives or promises to give an undue advantage to another
person or persons, with intention-(i)to induce a public servant to perform
improperly a public duty; or(ii)to reward such public servant for the improper
performance of public duty;shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to seven years or with fine or with both:Provided that the
provisions of this section shall not apply where a person is compelled to give
such undue advantage:Provided further that the person so compelled shall
report the matter to the law enforcement authority or investigating agency
within a period of seven days from the date of giving such undue
advantage:Provided also that when the offence under this section has been
committed by commercial organisation, such commercial organisation shall be
punishable with fine.Illustration. - A person, 'P' gives a public servant, 'S'
an amount of ten thousand rupees to ensure that he is granted a license, over
all the other bidders. 'P' is guilty of an offence under this sub-
section.Explanation. - It shall be immaterial whether the person to whom an
undue advantage is given or promised to be given is the same person as the
person who is to perform, or has performed, the public duty concerned, and, it
shall also be immaterial whether such undue advantage is given or promised to
be given by the person directly or through a third party.(2)Nothing in sub-
section (1) shall apply to a person, if that person, after informing a law
enforcement authority or investigating agency, gives or promises to give any
undue advantage to another person in order to assist such law enforcement
authority or investigating agency in its investigation of the offence alleged
against the later.

### 9. Offence relating to bribing a public servant by a commercial
organisation.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a commercial
organisation, such organisation shall be punishable with fine, if any person
associated with such commercial organisation gives or promises to give any
undue advantage to a public servant intending-(a)to obtain or retain business
for such commercial organisation; or(b)to obtain or retain an advantage in the
conduct of business for such commercial organisation:Provided that it shall be
a defence for the commercial organisation to prove that it had in place
adequate procedures in compliance of such guidelines as may be prescribed to
prevent persons associated with it from undertaking such conduct.(2)For the
purposes of this section, a person is said to give or promise to give any
undue advantage to a public servant, if he is alleged to have committed the
offence under section 8, whether or not such person has been prosecuted for
such offence.(3)For the purposes of section 8 and this section,-(a)"commercial
organisation" means-(i)a body which is incorporated in India and which carries
on a business, whether in India or outside India;(ii)any other body which is
incorporated outside India and which carries on a business, or part of a
business, in any part of India;(iii)a partnership firm or any association of
persons formed in India and which carries on a business whether in India or
outside India; or(iv)any other partnership or association of persons which is
formed outside India and which carries on a business, or part of a business,
in any part of India;(b)"business" includes a trade or profession or providing
service;(c)a person is said to be associated with the commercial organisation,
if such person performs services for or on behalf of the commercial
organisation irrespective of any promise to give or giving of any undue
advantage which constitutes an offence under sub-section (1).Explanation 1. -
The capacity in which the person performs services for or on behalf of the
commercial organisation shall not matter irrespective of whether such person
is employee or agent or subsidiary of such commercial organisation.Explanation
2. - Whether or not the person is a person who performs services for or on
behalf of the commercial organisation is to be determined by reference to all
the relevant circumstances and not merely by reference to the nature of the
relationship between such person and the commercial organisation.Explanation
3. - If the person is an employee of the commercial organisation, it shall be
presumed unless the contrary is proved that such person is a person who has
performed services for or on behalf of the commercial
organisation.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973, (2 of 1974) the offence under sections 7A, 8 and this section
shall be cognizable.(5)The Central Government shall, in consultation with the
concerned stakeholders including departments and with a view to preventing
persons associated with commercial organisations from bribing any person,
being a public servant, prescribe such guidelines as may be considered
necessary which can be put in place for compliance by such organisations.

### 10. Person in charge of commercial organisation to be guilty of offence.

\- Where an offence under section 9 is committed by a commercial organisation,
and such offence is proved in the court to have been committed with the
consent or connivance of any director, manager, secretary or other officer
shall be of the commercial organisation, such director, manager, secretary or
other officer shall be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
shall not be less than three years but which may extend to seven years and
shall also be liable to fine.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section,
"director", in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.]

### 11. Public servant obtaining [undue advantage] [Substituted 'valuable
thing' by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.], without consideration from
person concerned in proceeding or business transacted by such public servant.

\- Whoever, being a public servant, accepts or obtains [***] [Omitted 'or
agrees to accept' by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.], or attempts to
obtain for himself, or for any other person, any [undue advantage]
[Substituted 'valuable thing' by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.] without
consideration, or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate, from
any person whom he knows to have been, or to be, or to be likely to be
concerned in any proceeding or business transacted or about to be transacted
by such public servant, or having any connection with the [official functions
or public duty] [Substituted 'official functions' by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated
26.7.2018.] of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate, or
from any person whom he knows to be interested in or related to the person so
concerned, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall be not
less than six months but which may extend to five years and shall also be
liable to fine.

### 12. [ Punishment for abetment of offences. [Substituted by Act No. 16 of
2018, dated 26.7.2018.]

\- Whoever abets any offence punishable under this Act, whether or not that
offence is committed in consequence of that abetment, shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which shall be not less than three years, but which
may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.]

### 13. Criminal misconduct by a public servant.

\- [(1) A public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal
misconduct,-(a)if he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriates or otherwise
converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or any property under
his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do; or(b)if
he intentionally enriches himself illicitly during the period of his
office.Explanation 1. - A person shall be presumed to have intentionally
enriched himself illicitly if he or any person on his behalf, is in possession
of or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession of
pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of
income which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account for.Explanation
2. - The expression "known sources of income" means income received from any
lawful sources.] [Substituted by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.](2)Any
public servant who commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which shall be not less than one year but which may
extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.

### 14. [ Punishment for habitual offender. [Substituted by Act No. 16 of
2018, dated 26.7.2018.]

\- Whoever convicted of an offence under this Act subsequently commits an
offence punishable under this Act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which shall be not less than five years but which may extend to ten years
and shall also be liable to fine.]

### 15. Punishment for attempt.

\- Whoever attempts to commit an offence referred to in [clause (a)]
[Substituted 'clause (c) or clause (d)' by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated
26.7.2018.] of sub-section (1) of section 13 shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and with fine.

### 16. Matters to be taken into consideration for fixing fine.

\- Where a sentence of fine is imposed under [section 7 or section 8 or
section 9 or section 10 or section 11 or sub-section (2) of section 13 or
section 14 or section 15] [Substituted 'sub-section (2) of section 13 or
section 14' by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.], the Court in fixing the
amount of the fine shall take into consideration the amount or the value of
the property, if any, which the accused person has obtained by committing the
offence or where the conviction is for an offence referred to in [clause (b)]
[Substituted 'clause (e)' by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.] of sub-
section (1) of section 13, the pecuniary resources or property referred to in
that clause for which the accused person is unable to account satisfactorily.

## Chapter IV  
Investigation Into Cases Under The Act

### 17. Persons authorised to investigate.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974), no police officer below the rank,(a)in the case of the Delhi
Special Police Establishment, of an Inspector of Police;(b)in the metropolitan
areas of Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and Ahmedabad and in any other metropolitan
area notified as such under sub-section (1) of section 8 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), of an Assistant Commissioner of
Police;(c)elsewhere, of a Deputy Superintendent of Police or a police officer
of equivalent rank, shall investigate any offence punishable under this Act
without the order of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first
class, as the case may be, or make any arrest therefor without a
warrant:Provided that if a police officer not below the rank of an Inspector
of Police is authorised by the State Government in this behalf by general or
special order, he may also investigate any such offence without the order of a
Metropolitan Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may
be, or makes arrest therefor without a warrant:Provided further that an
offence referred to in [clause (b) of sub-section (1)] [Substituted 'clause
(e) of sub-section (1)' by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.] of section 13
shall not be investigated without the order of a police officer not below the
rank of a Superintendent of Police.

### 17A. [ Enquiry or Inquiry or investigation of offences relatable to
recommendations made or decision taken by public servant in discharge of
official functions or duties. [Inserted by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated
26.7.2018.]

(1)No police officer shall conduct any enquiry or inquiry or investigation
into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant under this
Act, where the alleged offence is relatable to any recommendation made or
decision taken by such public servant in discharge of his official functions
or duties, without the previous approval-(a)in the case of a person who is or
was employed, at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed,
in connection with the affairs of the Union, of that Government;(b)in the case
of a person who is or was employed, at the time when the offence was alleged
to have been committed, in connection with the affairs of a State, of that
Government;(c)in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to
remove him from his office, at the time when the offence was alleged to have
been committed:Provided that no such approval shall be necessary for cases
involving arrest of a person on the spot on the charge of accepting or
attempting to accept any undue advantage for himself or for any other
person:Provided further that the concerned authority shall convey its decision
under this section within a period of three months, which may, for reasons to
be recorded in writing by such authority, be extended by a further period of
one month.]

### 18. Power to inspect bankers books.

\- If from information received or otherwise, a police officer has reason to
suspect the commission of an offence which he is empowered to investigate
under section 17 and considers that for the purpose of investigation or
inquiry into such offence, it is necessary to inspect any bankers books, then
notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, he
may inspect any bankers books insofar as they relate to the accounts of the
persons suspected to have committed that offence or of any other person
suspected to be holding money on behalf of such person, and take or cause to
be taken certified copies of the relevant entries therefrom, and the bank
concerned shall be bound to assist the police officer in the exercise of his
powers under this section:Provided that no power under this section in
relation to the accounts of any person shall be exercised by a police officer
below the rank of a Superintendent of Police, unless he is specially
authorised in this behalf by a police officer of or above the rank of a
Superintendent of Police.Explanation. In this section, the expressions banks
and bankers books shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the
Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891.[Chapter IV A] [Inserted by Act No. 16 of
2018, dated 26.7.2018.] Attachment and Forfeiture of Property

### 18A. Provisions of Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance , 1944 to apply to
attachment under this Act.

(1)Save as otherwise provided under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,
2002,(15 of 2003) the provisions of the Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1944
(38 of 1944) shall, as far as may be, apply to the attachment, administration
of attached property and execution of order of attachment or confiscation of
money or property procured by means of an offence under this Act.(2)For the
purposes of this Act, the provisions of the Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance,
1944 (38 of 1944) shall have effect, subject to the modification that the
references to "District Judge" shall be construed as references to "Special
Judge".

## Chapter V  
Sanction for Prosecution and other Miscellaneous Provisions

### 19. Previous sanction necessary for prosecution.

(1)No Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under [sections 7,
11, 13 and 15] [Substituted 'sections 7, 10, 11, 13 and 15' by Act No. 16 of
2018, dated 26.7.2018.] alleged to have been committed by a public servant,
except with the previous sanction,(a)in the case of a person [who is employed,
or as the case may be, was at the time of commission of the alleged offence
employed] [Substituted 'who is employed' by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated
26.7.2018.] in connection with the affairs of the Union and is not removable
from his office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government, of
that Government;(b)in the case of a person [who is employed, or as the case
may be, was at the time of commission of the alleged offence employed]
[Substituted 'who is employed' by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.] in
connection with the affairs of a State and is not removable from his office
save by or with sanction of the State Government, of that Government;(c)in the
case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his
office.[Provided that no request can be made, by a person other than a police
officer or an officer of an investigation agency or other law enforcement
authority, to the appropriate Government or competent authority, as the case
may be, for the previous sanction of such Government or authority for taking
cognizance by the court of any of the offences specified in this sub-section,
unless-(i)such person has filed a complaint in a competent court about the
alleged offences for which the public servant is sought to be prosecuted;
and(ii)the court has not dismissed the complaint under section 203 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and directed the complainant to obtain the
sanction for prosecution against the public servant for further
proceeding:Provided further that in the case of request from the person other
than a police officer or an officer of an investigation agency or other law
enforcement authority, the appropriate Government or competent authority shall
not accord sanction to prosecute a public servant without providing an
opportunity of being heard to the concerned public servant:Provided also that
the appropriate Government or any competent authority shall, after the receipt
of the proposal requiring sanction for prosecution of a public servant under
this sub-section, endeavour to convey the decision on such proposal within a
period of three months from the date of its receipt:Provided also that in case
where, for the purpose of grant of sanction for prosecution, legal
consultation is required, such period may, for the reasons to be recorded in
writing, be extended by a further period of one month:Provided also that the
Central Government may, for the purpose of sanction for prosecution of a
public servant, presecribe such guidelines as it considers
necessary.Explanation. - For the purposes of sub-section (1), the expression
"public servant" includes such person-(a)who has ceased to hold the office
during which the offence is alleged to have been committed; or(b)who has
ceased to hold the office during which the offence is alleged to have been
committed and is holding an office other than the office during which the
offence is alleged to have been committed.](2)Where for any reason whatsoever
any doubt arises as to whether the previous sanction as required under sub-
section (1) should be given by the Central Government or the State Government
or any other authority, such sanction shall be given by that Government or
authority which would have been competent to remove the public servant from
his office at the time when the offence was alleged to have been
committed.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974),(a)no finding, sentence or order passed by a
special Judge shall be reversed or altered by a Court in appeal, confirmation
or revision on the ground of the absence of, or any error, omission or
irregularity in, the sanction required under sub-section (1), unless in the
opinion of that Court, a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned
thereby;(b)no Court shall stay the proceedings under this Act on the ground of
any error, omission or irregularity in the sanction granted by the authority,
unless it is satisfied that such error, omission or irregularity has resulted
in a failure of justice;(c)no Court shall stay the proceedings under this Act
on any other ground and no Court shall exercise the powers of revision in
relation to any interlocutory order passed in any inquiry, trial, appeal or
other proceedings.(4)In determining under sub-section (3) whether the absence
of, or any error, omission or irregularity in, such sanction has occasioned or
resulted in a failure of justice, the Court shall have regard to the fact
whether the objection could and should have been raised at any earlier stage
in the proceedings.Explanation. For the purposes of this section,(a)error
includes competency of the authority to grant sanction;(b)a sanction required
for prosecution includes reference to any requirement that the prosecution
shall be at the instance of a specified authority or with the sanction of a
specified person or any requirement of a similar nature.

### 20. [ Presumption where public servant accepts any undue advantage.
[Substituted by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.]

\- Where, in any trial of an offence punishable under section 7 or under
section 11, it is proved that a public servant accused of an offence has
accepted or obtained or attempted to obtain for himself, or for any other
person, any undue advantage from any person, it shall be presumed, unless the
contrary is proved, that he accepted or obtained or attempted to obtain that
undue advantage, as a motive or reward under section 7 for performing or to
cause performance of a public duty improperly or dishonestly either by himself
or by another public servant or, as the case may be, any undue advantage
without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate
under section 11.] [Inserted by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.]

### 21. Accused person to be a competent witness.

\- Any person charged with an offence punishable under this Act, shall be a
competent witness for the defence and may give evidence on oath in disproof of
the charges made against him or any person charged together with him at the
same trial:Provided that(a)he shall not be called as a witness except at his
own request;(b)his failure to give evidence shall not be made the subject of
any comment by the prosecution or give rise to any presumption against himself
or any person charged together with him at the same trial;(c)he shall not be
asked, and if asked shall not be required to answer, any question tending to
show that he has committed or been convicted of any offence other than the
offence with which he is charged, or is of bad character, unless(i)the proof
that he has committed or been convicted of such offence is admissible evidence
to show that he is guilty of the offence with which he is charged, or(ii)he
has personally or by his pleader asked any question of any witness for the
prosecution with a view to establish his own good character, or has given
evidence of his good character, or the nature or conduct of the defence is
such as to involve imputations on the character of the prosecutor or of any
witness for the prosecution, or(iii)he has given evidence against any other
person charged with the same offence.

### 22. The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 to apply subject to certain
modifications.

\- The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), shall
in their application to any proceeding in relation to an offence punishable
under this Act have effect as if,(a)in sub-section (1) of section 243, for the
words The accused shall then be called upon, the words The accused shall then
be required to give in writing at once or within such time as the Court may
allow, a list of persons (if any) whom he proposes to examine as his witnesses
and of the documents (if any) on which he proposes to rely and he shall then
be called upon had been substituted;(b)in sub-section (2) of section 309,
after the third proviso, the following proviso had been inserted,
namely:Provided also that the proceeding shall not be adjourned or postponed
merely on the ground that an application under section 397 had been made by
the party to the proceeding.;(c)after sub-section (2) of section 317, the
following sub-section had been inserted, namely:(3)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the Judge may, if he thinks
fit and for reasons to be recorded by him, proceed with enquiry or trial in
the absence of the accused or his pleader and record the evidence of any
witness subject to the right of the accused to recall the witness for cross-
examination.;(d)in sub-section (1) of section 397, before the Explanation, the
following proviso had been inserted, namely:Provided that where the powers
under this section are exercised by a Court on an application made by a party
to such proceedings, the Court shall not ordinarily call for the record of the
proceedings,(a)without giving the other party an opportunity of showing cause
why the record should not be called for; or(b)if it is satisfied that an
examination of the record of the proceedings may be made from the certified
copies..

### 23. Particulars in a charge in relation to an offence under [section 13
(1) (A).] [Substituted 'section 13(1)(c)' by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated
26.7.2018.]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974), when an accused is charged with an offence under [clause (a)]
[Substituted 'clause (c)' by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.] of sub-
section (1) of section 13, it shall be sufficient to describe in the charge
the property in respect of which the offence is alleged to have been committed
and the dates between which the offence is alleged to have been committed,
without specifying particular items or exact dates, and the charge so framed
shall be deemed to be a charge of one offence within the meaning of section
219 of the said Code:Provided that the time included between the first and
last of such dates shall not exceed one year.

### 24. [ [Omitted by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated 26.7.2018.]

***.]

24\. Statement by bribe giver not to subject him to prosecution.-
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, a
statement made by a person in any proceeding against a public servant for an
offence under sections 7 to 11 or under section 13 or section 15, that he
offered or agreed to offer any gratification (other than legal remuneration)
or any valuable thing to the public servant, shall not subject such person to
a prosecution under section 12.  
---  
  
### 25. Military, Naval and Air Force or other law not to be affected.

(1)Nothing in this Act shall affect the jurisdiction exercisable by, or the
procedure applicable to, any Court or other authority under the Army Act, 1950
(45 of 1950), the Air Force Act, 1950 (46 of 1950), the Navy Act, 1957 (62 of
1957), the Border Security Force Act, 1968 (47 of 1968), the Coast Guard Act,
1978 (30 of 1978) and the National Security Guard Act, 1986 (47 of
1986).(2)For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that for the
purposes of any such law as is referred to in sub-section (1), the Court of a
special Judge shall be deemed to be a Court of ordinary criminal justice.

### 26. Special Judges appointed under Act 46 of 1952 to be special Judges
appointed under this Act.

\- Every special Judge appointed under the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1952
for any area or areas and is holding office on the commencement of this Act
shall be deemed to be a special Judge appointed under section 3 of this Act
for that area or areas and, accordingly, on and from such commencement, every
such Judge shall continue to deal with all the proceedings pending before him
on such commencement in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

[West Bengal].- In its application to the State of West Bengal, after Section
26, insert the following section, namely:26-A. Judges appointed to preside
over Special Courts under West Bengal Act 21 of 1949 to be deemed to be
special Judges appointed under this Act.(1) Every Judge appointed to preside
over a Special Court under the West Bengal Criminal Law Amendment (Special
Courts) Act, 1949 (West Bengal Act 21 of 1949) for any area or areas and
holding office on the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be a special
Judge appointed under section 3 of this Act for that area or areas and,
accordingly, on and from such commencement every such Judge shall continue to
deal with all the proceedings pending before him on such commencement in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.(2) Every Judge appointed to
preside over a Special Court under the West Bengal Criminal Law Amendment
(Special Courts) Act, 1949, for any area or areas, holding office on any date
after the commencement of this Act but before the commencement of the
Prevention of Corruption (West Bengal Amendment) Act, 1994 (hereinafter
referred to as the said date) and purporting to act under the provisions of
this Act, shall be deemed to be a Special Judge appointed under section 3 of
this Act for that area or areas and, accordingly, on and from the said date,
every such Judge shall continue to deal with all the proceedings pending
before him on the said date in accordance with the provisions of this Act.West
Bengal Act 56 of 1994, Section 3.  
---  
  
### 27. Appeal and revision.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the High Court may exercise, so far
as they may be applicable, all the powers of appeal and revision conferred by
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) on a High Court as if the
Court of the special Judge were a Court of Session trying cases within the
local limits of the High Court.

### 28. Act to be in addition to any other law.

\- The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of, any other law for the time being in force, and nothing contained herein
shall exempt any public servant from any proceeding which might, apart from
this Act, be instituted against him.

### 29. Amendment of the Ordinance 38 of 1944.

\- In the Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1944,(a)in sub-section (1) of
section 3, sub-section (1) of section 9, clause (a) of section 10, sub-section
(1) of section 11 and sub-section (1) of section 13, for the words State
Government, wherever they occur, the words State Government or, as the case
may be, the Central Government shall be substituted.(b)in section 10, clause
(a), for the words, three months, the words one year shall be
substituted;(c)in the Schedule,(i)paragraph 1 shall be omitted;(ii)in
paragraphs 2 and 4,(a)after the words a local authority, the words and figures
or a corporation established by or under a Central, Provincial or State Act,
or an authority or a body owned or controlled or aided by Government or a
Government company as defined in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
1956) or a society aided by such corporation, authority, body or Government
company shall be inserted;(b)after the words or authority, the words or
corporation or body or Government company or society shall be
inserted;(iii)for paragraph 4-A, the following paragraph shall be substituted,
namely:

### 4\.

-A. An offence punishable under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.;(iv)in paragraph 5, for the words and figures items 2, 3 and 4, the words, figures and letter items 2, 3, 4 and 4-A shall be substituted.

### 29A. [ Power to make rules. [Inserted by Act No. 16 of 2018, dated
26.7.2018.]

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-(a)guidelines which
can be put in place by commercial organisation under section 9;(b)guidelines
for sanction of prosecution under sub-section (1) of section 19;(c)any other
matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Every rule made under
this Act, shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House
of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule, or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule
shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as
the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule.]

### 30. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (2 of 1947) and the Criminal Law
Amendment Act, 1952 (46 of 1952) are hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such
repeal, but without prejudice to the application of section 6 of the General
Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), anything done or any action taken or purported
to have been done or taken under or in pursuance of the Acts so repealed
shall, insofar as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, be
deemed to have been done or taken under or in pursuance of the corresponding
provision of this Act.

### 31. Omission of certain sections of Act 45 of 1860.

\- Sections 161 to 165-A (both inclusive) of the Indian Penal Code (45 of
1860) shall be omitted, and section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of
1897), shall apply to such omission as if the said sections had been repealed
by a Central Act.

