## Union of India - Act

## The Prevention Of Damage To Public Property Act, 1984

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Prevention Of Damage To Public Property Act, 1984

## Act 3 of 1984

  * Published on 16 March 1984 
  * Commenced on 16 March 1984 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 March 1984.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Prevention Of Damage To Public Property Act, 1984(3 of 1984)Last Updated
30th December, 2019An Act to provide for prevention of damage to public
property and for matters connected therewith .Be it enacted by Parliament in
the Thirty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement

(1)This Act may be called The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act,
1984.(2)It extends to the whole of India [***] [The words 'except the State of
Jammu and Kashmir' omitted by Act 34 of 2019, s. 95 and the Fifth Schedule
(w.e.f. 31-10-2019)].(3)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 28th
day of January, 1984.

Received the assent of the President on 16.3.1984, and published in the
Gazette of India, Ext., Pt.II, Section 1, dated 16.3.1984, pp.1.3.  
---  
  
### 2. Definitions

.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)mischief shall have the
same meaning as in section 425 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860);(b)public
property means any property, whether immovable or movable (including any
machinery) which is owned by, or in the possession of, or under the control
of(i)the Central Government; or(ii)any State Government; or(iii)any local
authority; or(iv)any corporation established by, or under, a Central,
Provincial or State Act; or(v)any company as defined in section 617 of the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); or(vi)any institution, concern or undertaking
which the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify in this behalf:Provided that the Central Government shall not specify
any institution, concern or undertaking under this sub-clause unless such
institution, concern or undertaking is financed wholly or substantially by
funds provided directly or indirectly by the Central Government or by one or
more State Governments, or partly by the Central Government and partly by one
or more State Governments.

### 3. Mischief causing damage to public property

(1)Whoever commits mischief by doing any act in respect of any public
property, other than public property of the nature referred to in sub-section
(2), shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five
years and with fine.(2)Whoever commits mischief by doing any act in respect of
any public property being(a)any building, installation or other property used
in connection with the production, distribution or supply of water, light,
power or energy;(b)any oil installations;(c)any sewage works;(d)any mine or
factory;(e)any means of public transportation or of tele-communications, or
any building, installation or other property used in connection therewith,
shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be
less than six months, but which may extend to five years and with
fine:Provided that the Court may, for reasons to be recorded in its judgment,
award a sentence of imprisonment for a term of less than six months.

### 4. Mischief causing damage to public property by fire or explosive
substance

.Whoever commits an offence under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of
section 3 by fire or explosive substance shall be punished with rigorous
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year, but which may
extend to ten years and with fine:Provided that the Court may, for special
reasons to be recorded in its judgment, award a sentence of imprisonment for a
term of less than one year.

### 5. Special provisions regarding bail

.No person accused or convicted of an offence punishable under section 3 or
section 4 shall, if in custody, be released on bail or on his own bond unless
the prosecution has been given an opportunity to oppose the application for
such release.

### 6. Saving

.The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of,
the provisions of any other law for the time being in force, and nothing
contained in this Act shall exempt any person from any proceeding (whether by
way of investigation or otherwise) which might, apart from this Act, be
instituted or taken against him.

### 7. Repeal and saving

(1)The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Ordinance, 1984 (3 of 1984), is
hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action
taken under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken
under the corresponding provisions of this Act.

