## Union of India - Act

## The Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968

## Rule THE-PUBLIC-PROVIDENT-FUND-SCHEME-1968 of 1968

  * Published on 1 July 1968 
  * Commenced on 1 July 1968 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 July 1968.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968Last Updated 21st August, 2018In
exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Public Provident Fund
Act, 1968 (23 of 1968), the Central Government hereby makes the following
Scheme,

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Scheme may be called the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968: -(2)It
shall come into force on 1st July, 1968.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Scheme unless the context otherwise requires:-(a)[ `Aadhaar number'
means an identification number as defined in clause (a) of section 2 of the
Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and
Services) Act, 2016 (18 of 2016); [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R.
1243(E), dated 29.9.2017.](aa)`Account' means a Public Provident Fund Account
under this Scheme;](b)'Accounts Office' means an office or branch of the State
Bank of India, any subsidiary bank of the State Bank of India (excluding a pay
office, a sub pay-office or any other office managed by single officer or
clerk) and any other office authorised by the Central Government to receive
subscriptions under the Scheme;(c)'Accounts Officer' means the person who for
the time being is incharge of an Accounts Office;(d)'Act' means the Public
Provident Fund Act, 1968 (23 of 1968)(e)'Form' means a form appended to this
Scheme;(ee)'Guardian' in relation to a minor, means(i)Father or mother;
and(ii)Where neither parent is alive, or where the only living parent is
incapable of acting; a person entitled under the law for the time being in
force to have care of the property of minor;(f)'Year' means the financial year
(1st April to 31st March).

### 3. Limit of subscription.

(1)Any individual may, on his own behalf or on behalf of a minor of whom he is
the guardian, subscribe to the Public Provident Fund (thereafter referred to
as the Fund) any amount not less than Rs. 100 and not more than Rs. 60,000 in
a year.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-paragraph (1), an
individual may also subscribe to the Fund on behalf of(a)A Hindu Undivided
Family, or(b)An association of persons or a body of individuals consisting in
either case, only of husband and wife governed by the system of community of
property in force in the State of Goa and the Union territories of Dadra and
Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, by whom, or on whose behalf money is deposited
in an account and the deposit means money so deposited.Out of the income of
the Hindu Undivided Family or an association of persons or body of
individuals, as the case may be, any amount not less than Rs. 100 and not more
than Rs. 60,000 in a year.(3)[ Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) are not eligible to
open an account under the Public Provident Fund Scheme:] [Inserted by
Notification No. G.S.R. 585(E), dated 25.7.2003.][Provided that if a resident
who opened an account under this scheme, subsequently becomes a non Resident
during the currency of the maturity period, the account shall be deemed to be
closed with effect from the day he becomes a non-resident and interest with
effect from that date shall be paid at the rate applicable to the Post Office
Saving Account up to the last day of the month preceding the month in which
the account is actually closed.] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R.
1237(E), dated 3.10.2017.]

### 4. Manner of making the subscription.

(1)Every individual desirous of subscribing to Fund under the Scheme for the
first time either in his own behalf or on behalf of a minor of whom he is the
guardian or on behalf of a Hindu Undivided Family of which is is a member or
on behalf of an association of persons or a body of individuals as referred to
in sub rule 2(b) of Rule 3 above shall apply to the Accounts Office in Form A,
or as near thereto a possible, together with the amount of initial
subscription which shall be in integral multiples of Rs. 5.(2)On receipt of an
application under sub-paragraph (1), the Accounts Office shall open an account
in the name of the subscriber and issue a pass book to him wherein all amount
of deposits, withdrawals, loans and repayment thereof together with interest
due shall be entered over the signature of the Accounts Officer with the date
stamp.(3)The subscriber shall deposit his subscription with the Accounts
Office with challan in Form B, or as near thereto as possible. The
counterfoils of the challan shall be returned to the depositor by the Accounts
Office, duly evidenced by receipt. In the case of deposits made by cheque or
draft or postal order, the Accounts Office may issue a paper token to the
depositor pending realisation of the proceeds.(4)Every subscription shall be
made in cash or by crossed cheque or draft or postal order in favour of the
Accounts Office at the place at which that office is situated, and shall in
the case of any cheque, draft or postal order, as the case may be, be drawn on
a bank or post office at the said place.

### 4A. [ Identification of Account holders. [Inserted by Notification No.
G.S.R. 1243(E), dated 29.9.2017.]

\- The Aadhaar number shall be the unique identifier for the purpose of
establishing the identity of an account holder:Provided that where Aadhaar
number has not been assigned, the depositor shall submit proof of application
of enrolment for Aadhaar:Provided further that every depositor under this
scheme who has not given his Aadhaar number at the time of application for
such deposit shall submit his Aadhaar number to the Post Office Savings Bank
or Accounts Office concerned, on or before the 31st day of December, 2017.]

### 5. Number of subscription.

\- The subscription, which shall be, in multiples of Rs. 5 may, for any year,
be paid into the account in one lump sum or instalments not exceeding twelve
in a year.

### 6. Transfer of accounts.

\- A subscriber may apply for transfer of his account from one "Accounts
Office" to another "Accounts Office".

### 7. Issue of duplicate pass book, etc.

(1)In the event of loss or destruction of a pass book issued by an Accounts
Office, the Accounts Office may, on an application made to it in this behalf,
and on payment of rupee one by the subscriber, issue a duplicate thereof to
him.(2)Condonation of default :- A subscriber who fails to subscribe in any
year according to the limits specified in paragraph 3, may approach the
Accounts Office for condonation of the default, on payment, for each year of
default, a fee of Rs. 10 alongwith arrear subscription of Rs. 100 for each
year.

### 8. Interest.

\- Interest at the rate, notified by the Central Government in the official
gazette from time to time, shall be allowed for calendar month on the lowest
balance at credit of an account between the close of the fifth day and the end
of the month and shall be credited to the account at the end of each
year.Provided that where the interest to be credited contains a part of a
rupee, then, if such part is fifty paise or more, it shall be increased to one
complete rupee, and if such part is less than fifty paise, it shall be
ignored.Note :- In cases where withdrawals are made during the year from
1986-87 to 1988-89, an amount equivalent to one per cent of the amount
withdrawn, rounded to the nearest rupee, shall be deducted from the interest
creditable to the account of the subscriber. This recovery has been
discontinued w.e.f. 1.4.1989.

### 9. Withdrawals from the Fund.

(1)Any time after the expiry of five years from the end of the year in which
the initial subscription was made, a subscriber may, if he so desires, apply
in Form C or as near thereto as possible, together with his pass book to the
Accounts Office withdrawing from the balance to his credit, an amount not
exceeding fifty per cent of the amount that stood to his credit at the end of
the fourth year immediately preceding the year of withdrawal or at the end of
the preceding year, whichever is lower, less the amount of loan, if any, drawn
by him under paragraph 10 and which remains to be repaid :Provided that not
more than one withdrawal shall be permissible during any one year.(2)On
receipt of ail application under sub paragraph (1) the Accounts Office may,
after satisfying itself that the amount of withdrawal applied for is not in
excess of the limit prescribed in sub-paragraph (1) and that the applicant
has, till the date of application, been subscribing according to the limit
specified in paragraph 3, subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (4),
permit the withdrawal and enter the amount withdrawn in the pass
book.(3)Closure of account or continuation of account without deposits after
maturity :- Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (1), any time
after the expiry of 15 years from the end of the year in which the initial
subscription was made by him, a subscriber may, if he so desires, apply in
Form C or as near thereto as possible together with his pass book to the
Accounts Office for the withdrawal of the entire balance standing to his
credit and the Accounts Office, on receipt of such an application from the
subscriber, shall subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (4) allow the
withdrawal of the entire balance (together with interest upto the last day of
the month preceding the month in which the application for withdrawal is made)
after making adjustments, if any, in respect of any interest due from the
subscriber on loans taken by him and close his account.Provided that a
subscriber may, if he so desires, make withdrawal of the amount standing to
his credit, from time to time, in instalments not exceeding one in a
year.(3A)Continuation of account with deposits after maturity :- Subject to
the provisions of sub-paragraph (3) a subscriber may, on the expiry of 15
years from the end of the year in which the initial subscription was made but
before the expiry of one year thereafter, may exercise an option with the
Accounts Office in Form H, or as near thereto as possible, that he would
continue to subscribe for a further block period of 5 years according to the
limits of subscription specified in paragraph 3.(3B)In the event of a
subscriber opting to subscribe for the aforesaid block period he shall be
eligible to make partial withdrawals not exceeding one every year by applying
to the Accounts Office in Form C, or as near thereto as possible, subject to
the condition that the total of the withdrawals, during the 5 year block
period, shall not exceed 60 per cent of the balance at his credit at the
commencement of the said period.Note :- A subscriber may at his option (to be
exercised before the expiry of the first year of every extended block period)
avail of this facility for a further block of 5 years on expiry of 20 years or
on expiry of 25 years and so on, from the end of the year in which the initial
subscription was made.(3C)[ A subscriber shall be allowed premature closure of
his account or the account of a minor of whom he is the guardian, on a written
application to the Accounts Office, on any of the following grounds
namely:(i)that the amount is required for the treatment of serious ailments or
life threatening diseases of the account holder, spouse or dependent children
or parents, on production of supporting documents from competent medical
authority;(ii)that the amount is required for higher education of the account
holder or the minor account holder, on production of documents and fee bills
in confirmation of admission in a recognised institute of higher education in
India or abroad:Provided that such premature closure shall be allowed only
after the account has completed five financial years:Provided further that
premature closure under this sub-paragraph shall be subject to deduction of
such amount which shall be equivalent to one percent less interest on the
interest rates as applicable from time to time in the table payable on the
deposits held in the account from the date of opening of the account till the
date of such premature closure, calculated in accordance with the sample
calculation as shown in the table on next page:Calculation showing the
interest payable to depositor

Year(1) | Opening Balance(2) | Assumed Fresh Deposit(3) | Total Amount(4) | Rate of Interest(5) | 1% less on the applicable rate of interest(6) | Interest accrued(7) | Outstanding Balance(8)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
2006-07 | 1000.00 |  | 1000.00 | 8.0 | 7.0 | 70.00 | 1070.00  
2007-08 | 1070.00 | 500.00 | 1570.00 | 8.0 | 7.0 | 109.90 | 1679.90  
2008-09 | 1679.90 | 500.00 | 2179.90 | 8.0 | 7.7 | 167.85 | 2347.75  
2009-10 | 2347.75 | 700.00 | 3047.75 | 8.0 | 7.0 | 213.34 | 3261.09  
2010-11 | 3261.09 | 600.00 | 3861.09 | 8.0 | 7.0 | 270.28 | 4131.37  
2011-12 | 4131.37 | 1000.00 | 5131.37 | 8.6 | 7.6 | 389.98 | 5521.36  
2012-13 | 5521.36 | 1200.00 | 6721.36 | 8.8 | 7.8 | 524.27 | 7245.62  
2013-14 | 7245.62 | 1500.00 | 8745.62 | 8.7 | 7.7 | 673.41 | 9419.03  
2014-15 | 9419.03 | 1500.00 | 10919.03 | 8.7 | 7.7 | 840.77 | 11759.80  
2015-16 | 11759.80 | 1000.00 | 12759.80 | 8.7 | 7.7 | 982.50 | 13742.30  
Total |  | 9500.00 |  |  |  |  | 13742.30]  
  
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 613(E), dated 18.6.2016.](4)Where the
application is made by a person who has made subscription to the Fund on
behalf of a minor of whom he is the guardian, he shall furnish a certificate
in the following form, namely......."Certified that the amount sought to be
withdrawn is required for the use of............... who is alive and is still
a minor"

### 10. Loans.

(1)Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 9, any time after the expiry of
one year from the end of the year in which the initial subscription was made
but before expiry of five years from the end of the year in which the initial
subscription was made, a subscriber may, if he so desires, apply in Form D or
as near thereto as possible, together with his pass book to the Accounts
Office for obtaining a loan consisting of a sum of whole rupees not exceeding
twenty five per cent of amount that stood to his credit at the end of the
second year immediately preceding the year in which the loan is applied
for.(2)On receipt of an application under sub-paragraph (1) the Accounts
Office may, after satisfying itself that the amount of loan applied for is not
in excess of the limit prescribed in sub-paragraph (1) and that the applicant
has, till the date of application, been subscribing according to the limit
specified in paragraph 3, subject to the provisions of sub paragraph (3),
sanction the loan and enter the amount in the pass book.(3)Where the
application is made by a person who has made subscriptions to the Fund on
behalf of a minor of whom he is the guardian, he shall furnish a certificate
in the following form, namely :-"Certified that the amount for which loan is
applied for is required for the use of......................... who is alive
and is still a minor".(4)A subscriber shall not be entitled to get a fresh
loan so long as earlier loan has not been repaid in full together with
interest thereon.

### 11. Repayment of loan and interest.

(1)The principal amount of a loan under this Scheme shall be repaid by the
subscriber before the expiry of thirty six months from the first day of the
month following the month in which the loan is sanctioned. The repayment may
be made either in one lump sum or in two or more monthly instalments within
the prescribed period of thirty six months. The repayment will be credited to
the subscriber's account.(2)After the principal of the loan is fully repaid,
the subscriber shall pay interest thereon in not more than two monthly
instalments at the rate of one per cent per annum of the principal for the
period commencing from the first day of the month following the month in which
the loan is drawn upto the last day of the month in which the last instalment
of the loan is repaid.Provided that where the loan is not or is repaid only in
part within the prescribed period of thirty six months, interest on the amount
of loan outstanding shall be charged at six per cent per annum instead of at
one per cent per annum from the first day of the month following the month in
which the loan was obtained to the last day of the month in which the loan is
finally repaid.(3)The interest on the amount of loan outstanding under the
proviso to sub-paragraph (2) and any portion of interest payable, but not
paid, on any loan, the principal amount of which has already been repaid
within the prescribed period of thirty six months, may, on becoming due, be
debited to the subscriber's account.(4)The interest recoverable shall accrue
to the Central Government.

### 12. Nomination and repayment after death of subscriber.

(1)A subscriber to the Fund may nominate in Form E or, as near thereto as
possible, one or more persons to receive the amount standing to his credit in
the event of his death before the amount has become payable or, having become
payable, has not been paid.Note :- Nomination may also be made in respect of
an account opened on behalf of a Hindu Undivided Family (HUF).(2)No nomination
shall be made in respect of an account opened on behalf of a minor.(3)A
nomination made by a subscriber may be cancelled or varied by a fresh
nomination in Form F or, as near thereto as possible, by giving notice in
writing to the Accounts Office in which the account stands.(4)Every nomination
and every cancellation or variation thereof shall be registered in the
Accounts Office and shall be effective from the date of such registration, the
particulars of which shall be entered in the pass book.(5)If any nominee is a
minor, the subscriber may appoint any person to receive the amount due under
the account in the event of the death of the subscriber during the minority of
the nominee.(6)Notwithstanding the provisions contained in paragraph 9 -(i)If
a subscriber to an account in respect of which a nomination is in force dies,
the nominee or nominees may make an application in Form G or, as near thereto
as possible, to the Accounts Office together with proof of death of the
subscriber and on receipt of such application all amounts standing to the
credit of the subscriber after making adjustment, if any, in respect of
interest on loans taken by the subscriber shall be repaid by the Accounts
Office itself to the nominee or nominees.Provided that if any nominee is dead,
the surviving nominee or nominees shall, in addition to the proof of death of
the subscriber, also ftimish proof of the death of the decreased
nominee.(ii)Where there is no nomination in force at time of death of the
subscriber, the amount standing to the credit of the deceased after making
adjustment, if any, in respect of interest on loans taken by the subscriber,
shall be repaid by the Accounts Office to the legal heirs of the deceased on
receipt of application in Form G in this behalf from them.Provided that the
balance upto Rs. 1 lakh may be paid to the legal heirs on production of (i) a
letter of indemnity, (ii) an affidavit, (iii) a letter of disclaimer on
affidavit, and (iv) a certificate of death of subscriber, on stamped paper, in
the firms as in Annexures to Form G.

### 13. Power to relax.

\- When the Central Government is satisfied that the operation of any of the
provisions of this Scheme causes undue hardship to a subscriber, it may, by
order for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax the requirements of that
provision in a manner not inconsistent with the provisions of the
Act.FormsForm A[See sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 4]Serial
No................Application for opening a Public provident Fund, Account
under the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968.ToThe Agent/Manager,State Bank
of..........I................ hereby apply for opening an account under the
Public Provident Fund ,scheme, 1968, in my name/in the name of
Kumar/Kumari.............. of whom I am the guardian and tender herewith
Rs............ (Rupees............ in cash/cheque as the initial
subscription.Permanent address of subscriber/guardianI agree to abide by the
provisions of the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968, and amendments issued
thereto from time to time.Account in the Name of a MinorDate of birth of
minor.....................................Application's relationship with
minor, if any,...............................(i)I hereby declare that I am not
maintaining any other Public Provident Fund Account.(ii)I hereby declare that
I am not maintaining any other Public Provident Fund Account, except an
account on behalf of a minor or a Hindu Undivided Family or an association of
persons.

Date........... |  Signature or thumb impression ofsubscriber/guardianAdditional specimen signatures  
---|---  
  
Note 1 :- Where an account is opened on behalf of a Hindu Undivided Family or
an association of persons, the letters "HUF" or "Association", as the case may
be, shall be added after the name of the subscriber.Note 2 :- Delete whichever
is not applicable.For the use of Accounts OfficeThe account has been opened on
----------with Rs.----------under Public Provident Fund Account No-----------
--------------------------.Pass Book No-------------------------has been
issued.

Date........... | Accounts Officer  
---|---  
  
Counterfoil (1) | Counterfoil (2)  
---|---  
Subscriber's CopyPublic Provident Fund Scheme, 1968. |  Agent's CopyName ofAgent----------------------------CodeNo----------------------------------Public Provident FundScheme, 1968.  
Name of Accounts OfficeAccount No.------ Date------LedgerFolio-----Name of Subscriber-------Amount deposited(Cash/Cheque) Rs. Subscription-----------------LoanRepayment------------------Interest onLoan---------------------Fee--------------------------------Total----------------------------Rupees(inwords)----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |  Name of Accounts OfficeAccount No.------ Date------LedgerFolio-----Name of Subscriber-------Amount deposited(Cash/Cheque) Rs. Subscription-----------------LoanRepayment------------------Interest onLoan---------------------Fee--------------------------------Total----------------------------Rupees(inwords)-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
For Deposit OfficeAmount in figures :Cashier'sScroll No.Date Stamp of Deposit Officer CashierheadCashier/ Accounts Officer |  For Deposit OfficeAmount in figures :Cashier'sScroll No.Date Stamp of Deposit Officer CashierheadCashier/ Accounts OfficerN.B.This counterfoil may bescored out by subscribers not utilising the services of an agent.  
  
Form BCentral[See sub paragraph (3) of paragraph 4]Name of Agent
--------------------------Paper Toke No.---------------Code No.-------Public
Provident Fund Scheme, 1968.Challan for deposit of money into Government
Account-----------------(name of Accounts Office) Account No-----------------
Date----------------Name of Subscriber-------------------Ledger Folio
------------------
Address---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cash | Amount Rs | Amount (in figures) | Head of Govt. Account  
---|---|---|---  
100 x |  | Subscription | '8006-Public Provident Fund'  
50 x |  | Loan  
20 x |  | Repayment  
10 x |  |   
5 x |  |   
*Cheque/draft/ Postal Order | Interest on Loan fee | '2049-Interest Receipts'  
Total |  |  |   
  
* Bank/PO on which drawn -----------------Number--------------- Rupees (in words)------------By (Depositor's Signature)---------------------------------Cashier's Scroll No.---------------------- Transfer Scroll No.-----------------------Cashier----------------------- Scroll Clerk-----------------------------------Head Cashier------------- M.T. No --------------- Accounts Officer----------------------------Note (1) The cheque/draft should be in favour of the Accounts Office. The PPF Accounts No. should be indicated in brackets there after to ensure quick and proper adjustment.Note (2) In the case of deposits made by cheque/draft/ postal order, the counterfoils of the challan will be returned by the Accounts Office to the depositor on realisation of the proceeds.Form C[See sub-paragraphs (1) and (3) of paragraph 9]Application form for withdrawal under the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968.ToThe Agent/Manager,State Bank of ----------------\---------------------------I wish to withdraw from Public Provident Fund Account No........... a sum of Rs........... (Rupees.........). A period of............ years has expired from the end of the year in which the initial subscription was made.

### 1A. I have not made any withdrawal in the current year.

*2. Certified that the amount sought to be withdrawn is required for the use of.......... who is alive and is still a minor.

### 3\. The Pass Book is enclosed.

Date............ |  Signature or thumb impression of subscriber/guardian  
---|---  
  
*Score out whichever is not applicable.Received a sum of Rs.......... (Rupees..........) by way of withdrawal from Provident Fund Account No............

Date............ |  Date...............Signature or thumb impression of subscriber/guardian  
---|---  
  
Form D[See Paragraph 10]Application for a Loan under the Public Provident Fund
Scheme, 1968ToThe Agent) Manager,State Bank
of.....................................Sir

### 1\. I wish-to take a loan from Public Provident Fund Account
No............. of a sum of Rs (Rupees..............) which I undertake to
repay with interest within the period of thirty six months as prescribed in
paragraph 11 of the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968.

### 2\. I had taken a loan of............. (Rupees..........)
on.............(date), which has been repaid in full with interest
on....................... (date).

*3. Certified that the amount for which, loan is applied for is required for the use of ...............who is alive and is still a minor.

### 4\. The pass book is enclosed.

Date............ |  Signature or thumb impression of subscriber/guardian  
---|---  
  
*To be given only when a loan is sought from a minor's, account.To be Used by the Accounts OfficeDate of initial subscription.............................Amount available in the Public Provident Fund..........................Account..............................Amount available for loan in accordance with para 10, of the Public Provident Fund Scheme..............................Amount of loan actually sanctioned...................................

Date............ | Signature of Accounts Officer  
---|---  
  
Received a sum of Rs............. (Rupees.....................) by way of loan
from Public Provident Fund Account No...............

Date............ |  Signature or thumb impression of subscriber/guardian  
---|---  
  
Form E[See sub-paragraph (1) paragraph 12]Nomination Under the Public
Provident Fund Scheme, 1968.ToThe Agent/Manager,State Bank
of..........................I.................. hereby nominate the person (s)
mentioned below to whom to the exclusion of all other persons, in the event of
my death, the amount standing to my credit in the Public Provident Fund
Account No........... at the time of my death would be payable.

Serial No. | Name(s) of the nominee(s) | Full address(es) | Date of birth of nominee(s) in case of minor | Proportionate amount for each nominee  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
  
* As the nominee(s) at serial No. (s).............. specified above is/are minor(s), I appoint Shri/Smt./Kumari............. address.................. to receive the sum due under the said account in the event of my death during the minority of their nominee(s).

Signature of witness: | Signature or thumb impression of subscriber  
---|---  
Name and address:Date: |   
  
For the Use of Accounts OfficeThe above nomination has been registered
on................ and an entry made in the pass book.

Date............ | Signature of Accounts Officer  
---|---  
  
* Delete if not applicableForm F[See sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph 12]Cancellation or Variation of Nomination previously made in respect of Account No.____Under Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968.

To | Date-----------------  
---|---  
  
The Agent/Manager,State Bank of--------\------------------------I----------the
subscriber of Public Provident Fund Account No-----------hereby cancel the
nomination, dated-----------made by me in respect of the aforesaid Public
Provident Fund Account.*In place of the cancelled nomination, I hereby
nominate the person (a) mentioned below who shall on my death, become entitled
to the payment of the sum due an the above account to the exclusion of all
other persons.

Serial No. | Name(s) of the nominee(s) | Full address(es) | Date of birth of nominee(s) in case of minor | Proportionate amount for each nominee  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
  
* To be filled in case of variation only.@As the nominee (s) at Serial No. (s)--------is/are minor (s), I appoint Shri/Shrimati/Kumar--------------- (Name and full address) as the person to receive the sum due on the account in the event of my death during the minority of the nominee (s).@ Delete if not applicable.

| Subscriber's Address | Signature or thumb impression of subscriber  
---|---|---  
(1) | Witness :Name :Address: |   
(2) | Witness :Name :Address: |   
  
For the Use of Accounts OfficeThe above cancellation/variation/ of the
nomination has been registered in the ledger and entered in the pass book.

Date............ | Signature of Accounts Officer  
---|---  
  
Form G(See sub-paragraph (6) of paragraph 12)Application for Withdrawal by
Nominees/Legal heirs under the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968ToThe
Agent/Manager/Post Master...................(Name of the Bank/Head Post
Office)I/We............... the nominee(s)/legal heir(s) of
late...............the subscriber to Public Provident Fund Account
No............., wish to withdraw the entire amount standing to the credit of
the deceased in the said account.Please find enclosed :(i)A certificate in
regard to the death of subscriber.*(ii) Certificate in regard to the death of
Shri...........also the nominee(s) appointed by the subscriber.**(iii)
Succession Certificate/Lettersm of Administration with attested copy of
probated will of the deceased subscriber issued by ...............High
Court.(iv)Pass book of the subscriber.@(v) Letter of indemnity.@(vi)
Affidavit.@(vii) Letter of disclaimer on affidavit.

Place............... | Signature or thumb impression of claimant(s)  
---|---  
Date.............. |   
  
For Use of Accounts OfficeWithdrawal of Rs....................
(Rupees..............) is sanctioned.

Date.............. | Accounts Officer  
---|---  
  
Receipt to be Signed by the Claimant (s)Received the sum of
Rs...........(Rupees.............) from the State Bank of........../Post
office............. in full settlement of our claim.

Place............... | Signature or thumb impression of claimant(s)  
---|---  
Date.............. |   
  
* Delete if not applicable.** Strike off if there is a valid nomination.@ To be produced by legal heirs, in the absence of nominations for claims upto Rs. 1 lakh.Annexure I toForm G(Letter of indemnity)ToThe Manager/Post Master................................................................................(Name of the Bank/Head Post Office)In consideration of your paying or agreeing to pay me/us....................... (Names of Legal heirs) the sum of Rs................. standing in Public Provident Fund Account No............... with your Bank in the name of...................... without production of letters of administration or a succession certificate to the estate of the deceased.................... (Name of the subscriber) or a certificate from the Controller of Estate Duty to the effect that estate duty has been paid or will be paid or none is due. If We.................. and we........................ (sureties) do hereby for ourselves and our heirs, legal representatives, executors and administrators jointly and severally undertake and agree to indemnify you and your successors and assigns against all claims, demands, proceedings, losses damages, charges and expenses which may be raised against or incurred by you by reason or in consequence of having agreed to pay/or paying me/us the sum as aforesaid.In witness whereof we have hereunto set my/or hands at...................... on this................... day of................... in the presence of witnesses.Signed and delivered by the above named heir/heirs of the deceased.Signed and delivered by the above named sureties

### 1\.

### 2\.

Signature, names and addresses of witnesses

### 1\.

Attested 2.Notary PublicAnnexure II toForm G(Affidavit)ToThe Manager/Post
Master,................................................ (Name of the Bank/Head
Post Office)I/We.................... Husband of/wife of late................
aged..........., agedd .........., agerd............... Sons/daughters of the
said late.................. resident of.............. do hereby declare and
solemnly affirm as under:-(1)That I/we am/are only heir(s) of the
deceased.......... who died at......... on............ I/We alone represent
the estate of Shri/Smt...............(2)That the deceased................ did
not leave any will and therefore I/we am/are the only successor(s) to the
estate of the said deceased.

### 1\.

### 2\.

### 3\.

### 4\.

DeponentsVerification: I/We, the above-named deponents do hereby verify on
solemn affirmation in .............. (name of place) that the contents of this
affidavit are true to my/our knowledge and nothing material has been
concealed.Dated:-

### 1\.

### 2\.

### 3\.

### 4\.

DeponentsAttestedOath CommissionerAnnexure III toForm G(Letter of disclaimer
on Affidavit)ToThe Manager/Post
Master,.............................................................................
(Name of the Bank/Head Post Office)I/We, (i)............husband of/wife
of................... Resident of............... (ii)................... son
of/daughter of.................. (iii)..................... son of/daughter
of......................... do hereby solemnly affirm as follows :-(1)That
Shri/Smt......... died intestate on.......... leaving behind
us..............his/her only heirs.(2)That we heirs of our late father/mother
for ourselves and on behalf of our heirs, executors, representatives and
assigns do hereby relinquish our claims to the balance of Rs............ which
may be credited to the account sought by our mother/father to be opened in
your Branch in the name of the estate of the said............ deceased
father/mother after the realisation of Draft No...... on.......... issued
by................. (name of Bank) and we have no objection whatsover in the
balance in the above-referred account No............ together with interest,
if any, accrued thereon being paid by the Bank to our said mother/father
Mrs./Mr...................

### 1\.

### 2\.

### 3\.

Deponent(s)Verification : I/We, the above-named deponents do hereby verify on
solemn affirmation that the contents of this affidavit are true to our
knowledge.Dated : ................Deponent(s)I identify the deponent(s) who
is/are personally known to me and who has/have signed in my presence.Dated :
.................AttestedOath CommissionerForm H[See Sub-paragraph (3A) of
Paragraph 9]Application for continuance of account under Public Provident Fund
Scheme, 1968 beyond 15 years.ToThe Agent/Manager/Post
Master,\---------------------------------------\--------------------------------------My
Public Provident Fund Account No.---------------------------has completed 15
years after the initial year of its commencement, on-------------------I wish
to continue to subscribe to my above referred account for a further block
period of 5 years according to the limits prescribed in paragraph 3 of the
Scheme.

Date.............. | Signature or thumb impression of claimant(s)  
---|---  
  
For Use in Accounts OfficeThe account completed 15 years after the year of
initial subscription on --------------------------- Subscriber's request has
been noted.

Date.............. | Accounts Officer/Postmaster  
---|---

