## Union of India - Act

## The Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993

## Act 10 of 1994

  * Published in Gazette 10 on 28 September 1993 
  * Assented to on 28 September 1993 
  * Commenced on 28 September 1993 
  * [This is the version of this document as it was from 27 July 2019 to None.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Protection Of Human Rights (Amendment) Act, 2000 (Act 49 of 2000) on 1 January 2000] 
  2. [Amended by THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2006 (Act 43 of 2006) on 13 September 2006] 

The Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993(10 of 1994)Last Updated 3rd August,
2019Statement of Objects and Reasons.-India is a party to the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, adopted by the General Assembly of the
United Nations on the 16th December, 1966. The human rights embodied in the
aforesaid Covenants stand substantially protected by the Constitution.2\.
However, there has been growing concern in the country and abroad about issues
relating to human rights. Having regard to this, changing social realities and
the emerging trends in the nature of crime and violence, Government has been
reviewing the existing laws, procedures and system of administration of
justice; with a view to bringing about greater accountability and transparency
in them, and devising efficient and effective methods of dealing with the
situation.3\. Wide ranging discussions were held on the subject at various
fora such as the Chief Ministers' Conference on Human Rights, seminars
organised in various parts of the country and meeting with leaders of various
political parties. Taking into account the views expressed in these
discussions, the Human Rights Commission Bill, 1993 was introduced in the Lok
Sabha on 14th May, 1993. The Bill was referred by the Speaker to the Standing
Committees of Parliament on Home Affairs. In view of the urgency of the
matter, the Protection of Human Rights Ordinance, 1993, was promulgated by the
President on 28th September, 1993, after incorporating certain amendments
having regard to the discussions in the said Standing Committee.4\. The
salient features of the present Bill are(1) the Constitution of the National
Human Rights Commission consisting of five members appointed by the President
with a Chairperson who has been a Chief Justice of the Supreme Court;(2) the
Chairpersons of the National Commission for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes and the National Commission for Women and the National Commission for
Minorities, will be deemed to be Members of the Commission for the discharge
of certain functions;(3) the Commission will be a fact-finding body with
powers to conduct inquiry into complaints of violation of human rights;(4) the
Commission will be assisted by investigating agencies of the Central and State
Governments the Government may also constitute one or more special
investigation teams;(5) the State Government may set up Human Rights Courts
for speedy trial of offences, arising out of violations of human rights and
may also specify a Public Prosecutor or appoint an advocate as Special Public
Prosecutor for the purpose of conducting cases in such Courts;(6) the
Commission may make recommendations for the effective implementation of the
existing laws and treaties on human rights;(7) the Commission may undertake
research in the field of human rights and take measures to promote awareness
of human rights among all sections of society;(8) the Constitution of the
State Human Rights Commission on the lines of the National Human Rights
Commission.5\. The Bill seeks to replace the aforesaid Ordinance.Amendment Act
49 of 2000-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-Section 11 of the Protection of
Human Rights Act, 1993 provides that the salaries and allowances payable to,
and the other terms and conditions of service of the officers and other staff
appointed by the Commission shall be prescribed by rules. Accordingly, the
Central Government notified the National Human Rights Commission (Conditions
of Service of Officers and Staff) Rules, 2000. While examining the question of
revising the salary and allowances payable to the officers and other staff of
the said Commission with effect from 1st January, 1996 on the basis of the
recommendations of the Fifth Central Pay Commission by suitably amending the
relevant rules, it has been observed that there is no enabling provision in
the said Act to give retrospective effect to these recommendations. In order
to overcome this difficulty, it is proposed to amend the Protection of Human
Rights Act, 1993 to provide for an enabling provision to make rules with
retrospective effect not earlier than the date of commencement of the said
Act.Amendment Act 43 of 2006-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The National
Human Rights Commission was set up in October, 1993 under the Protection of
Human Rights Act, 1993 for promotion and better protection of human rights.
The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) set up an Advisory Committee under
the Chairmanship of Justice A.H. Ahmedi, former Chief Justice of India to
assess the need for amendments to the Act. Based on the recommendations of the
Justice Ahmedi Committee, the NHRC has suggested various amendments to the
said Act. The various amendments proposed by the NHRC and certain other issues
relating to the scope and ambit of the Act have been examined and it has been
decided to amend the Act.2\. The Bill, inter alia, seeks to-(a) clarify that
the Chairpersons of NHRC and State Human Rights Commission (SHRCs) are
distinct from the Members of the respective Commission;(b) make Judges of the
Supreme Court with at least three years service as such to be eligible to be
appointed as the Chairperson of the NHRC;(c) make Judges of the High Courts
with at least five years of service as such to be eligible to be appointed as
Chairperson of the SHRCs; and a District Judge with a least seven years of
experience in that capacity to be a Member of the SHRC;(d) enable the NHRC to
transfer complaints received by it to the concerned SHRC;(e) enable the NHRC
to visit any jail or detention centre without prior intimation to the State
Government;(f) enable the Chairperson and Members of the NHRC to address their
resignations in writing to the President and the Chairperson and Members of
the SHRCs to the Governor of the State concerned;(g) clarify that absence of
any member in the Selection Committee for selection of the Chairperson and
Members of the NHRC or the SHRCs will not vitiate the decisions taken by such
Committees;(h) enable the NHRC and the SHRCs to make interim recommendations
during an inquiry;(i) empower the NHRC and its Chairperson of the National
Commission for the Scheduled Castes and the Chairperson of the National
Commission of the Scheduled Tribes shall be deemed to be Members of the
NHRC;(j) enable the Central Government to notify future international
covenants and conventions to which the Act would be applicable.3\. The Bill
seeks to achieve the above objects.An Act to provide for the constitution of a
National Human Rights Commission, State Human Rights Commissions in States and
Human Rights Courts for better protection of human rights and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by Parliament in the
Forty-fourth year of Republic of India as follows:

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called The Protection of Human Rights Act , 1993.(2)It
extends to the whole of India:Provided that it shall apply to the State of
Jammu and Kashmir only insofar as it pertains to the matters relatable to any
of the entries enumerated in List I or List III in the Seventh Schedule to the
Constitution as applicable to that State.(3)It shall be deemed to have come
into force on the 28th day of September, 1993.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)armed forces means
the naval, military and air forces and includes any other armed forces of the
Union;(b)Chairperson means the Chairperson of the Commission or of the State
Commission, as the case may be;(ba)[ "Chief Commissioner" means the Chief
Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities referred to in sub-section (1) of
section 74 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016;] [Inserted by
Act No. 19 of 2019, dated 27.7.2019.](c)Commission means the National Human
Rights Commission constituted under section 3;(d)human rights means the rights
relating to life, liberty, equality and dignity of the individual guaranteed
by the Constitution or embodied in the International Covenants and enforceable
by Courts in India;(e)Human Rights Court means the Human Rights Court
specified under section 30;(f)[ International Covenants means the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights adopted by the General
Assembly of the United Nations on the 16th December, 1966 and such other
Covenant or Convention adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations
as the Central Government may, by notification, specify;] [Substituted by Act
43 of 2006, Section 2, for Clause (f) (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).](g)[ Member means a
Member of the Commission or of the State Commission, as the case may be;]
[Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 2, for Clause 9g) (w.e.f.
23.11.2006).](ga)[ "National Commission for Backward Classes" means the
National Commission for Backward Classes constituted under section 3 of the
National Commission for Backward Classes Act, 1993;] [Inserted by Act No. 19
of 2019, dated 27.7.2019.](h)National Commission for Minorities means the
National Commission for Minorities constituted under section 3 of the National
Commission for Minorities Act, 1992 (19 of 1992);(ha)[ "National Commission
for Protection of Child Rights" means the National Commission for Protection
of Child Rights constituted under section 3 of the Commissions for Protection
of Child Rights Act, 2005;] [Inserted by Act No. 19 of 2019, dated
27.7.2019.](i)[ National Commission for the Scheduled Castes means the
National Commission for the Scheduled Castes referred to in article 338 of the
Constitution; [Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 2, for Clause (i)
(w.e.f. 23.11.2006).](ia)National Commission for the Scheduled Tribes means
the National Commission for the Scheduled Tribes referred to in article 338-A
of the Constitution;](j)National Commission for Women means the National
Commission for Women constituted under section 3 of the National Commission
for Women Act, 1990 (20 of 1990);(k)notification means a notification
published in the Official Gazette;(l)prescribed means prescribed by rules made
under this Act;(m)public servant shall have the meaning assigned to in section
21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860);(n)State Commission means a State
Human Rights Commission constituted under section 21.(2)Any reference in this
Act to a law, which is not in force in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, shall,
in relation to the State, be construed as a reference to a corresponding law,
if any, in force in that State.

## Chapter II  
The National Human Rights Commission

### 3. Constitution of a National Human Rights Commission.

(1)The Central Government shall constitute a body to be known as the National
Human Rights Commission to exercise the powers conferred upon, and to perform
the functions assigned to, it under this Act.(2)The Commission shall consist
of(a)a Chairperson who shall been a [Chief Justice ofIndia or a Judge]
[Substituted 'Chief Justice' by Act No. 19 of 2019, dated 27.7.2019.] of the
Supreme Court;(b)one Member who is, or has been, a Judge of the Supreme
Court;(c)one Member who is, or has been the Chief Justice of a High
Court;(d)[three Members, out of which at least one shall be a woman,]
[Substituted 'two Members' by Act No. 19 of 2019, dated 27.7.2019.] to be
appointed from amongst persons having knowledge of, or practical experience
in, matters relating to human rights.(3)The Chairpersons of [,the National
Commission for Backward Classes, the National Commission for Minorities, the
National Commission for Protection of Child Rights] [Substituted 'the National
Commission for Minorities' by Act No. 19 of 2019, dated 27.7.2019.] [the
National Commission for the Scheduled Castes, the National Commission for the
Scheduled Tribes] [Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 3, for "the National
Commission for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes" (w.e.f. 23.11.2006)]
[the National Commission for Women and the Chief Commissioner for Persons with
Disabilities] [Substituted 'and the National Commission for Women' by Act No.
19 of 2019, dated 27.7.2019.] shall be deemed to be Members of the Commission
for the discharge of functions specified in clauses (b) to (j) of section
12.(4)There shall be a Secretary-General who shall be the Chief Executive
Officer of the Commission and [shall, subject to control of the Chairperson,
exercise all administrative and financial powers (except judicial functions
and the power to make regulations under section 40B).] [Substituted by Act No.
19 of 2019, dated 27.7.2019.](5)The headquarters of the Commission shall be at
Delhi and the Commission may, with previous approval of the Central
Government, establish offices at other places in India.

### 4. Appointment of Chairperson and other Members.

(1)The Chairperson and [the Members] [Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section
4, for "other Members" (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).] shall be appointed by the
President by warrant under his hand and seal:Provided that every appointment
under this sub-section shall be made after obtaining the recommendations of a
Committee consisting of(a)the Prime Minister(b)Speaker of the House of the
People (c) Minister in-charge of the Ministry of Home Affairs in the
Government of India Member;(d)Leader of the Opposition in the House of the
People(e) Leader of the Opposition in the Council of States Member;(f)Deputy
Chairman of the Council of States Member:Provided further that no sitting
Judge of the Supreme Court or sitting Chief Justice of a High Court shall be
appointed except after consultation with the Chief Justice of India.(2)No
appointment of a Chairperson or a Member shall be invalid merely by reason of
any [vacancy of any Member in the Committee referred to in the first proviso
to sub-section (1)] [Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 4, for "vacancy in
the Committee" (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).].

### 5. [ Resignation and removal of Chairperson and Members. [Substituted by
Act 43 of 2006, Section 5, for Section 5 (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).]

(1)The Chairperson or any Member may, by notice in writing under his hand
addressed to the President of India, resign his office.(2)Subject to the
provisions of sub-section (3), the Chairperson or any Member shall only be
removed from his office by order of the President of India on the ground of
proved misbehaviour or incapacity after the Supreme Court, on reference being
made to it by the President, has, on inquiry held in accordance with the
procedure prescribed in that behalf by the Supreme Court, reported that the
Chairperson or the Member, as the case may be, ought on any such ground to be
removed.(3)Notwithstanding anything in sub-section (2), the President may, by
order, remove from office the Chairperson or any Member if the Chairperson or
such Member, as the case may be,(a)is adjudged an insolvent; or(b)engages
during his term of office in any paid employment outside the duties of his
office; or(c)is unfit to continue in office by reason of infirmity of mind or
body; or(d)is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent Court;
or(e)is convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for an offence which in the
opinion of the President involves moral turpitude.]

### 6. [ Term of office of Chairperson and Members. [Substituted by Act 43 of
2006, Section 6, for Section 6 (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).]

(1)A person appointed as Chairperson shall hold office for a term of [three
years] from the date on which he enters upon his office or until he attains
the age of seventy years, whichever is earlier [and shall be eligible for re-
appointment] [Inserted by Act No. 19 of 2019, dated 27.7.2019.].(2)A person
appointed as a Member shall hold office for a term of [three years]
[Substituted 'five years' by Act No. 19 of 2019, dated 27.7.2019.] from the
date on which he enters upon his office and shall be eligible for re-
appointment [***] [Omitted 'for another term of five years' by Act No. 19 of
2019, dated 27.7.2019.]:Provided that no Member shall hold office after he has
attained the age of seventy years.(3)On ceasing to hold office, a Chairperson
or a Member shall be ineligible for further employment under the Government of
India or under the Government of any State.]

### 7. Member to act as Chairperson or to discharge his functions in certain
circumstances.

(1)In the event of the occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the
Chairperson by reason of his death, resignation or otherwise, the President
may, by notification, authorise one of the Members to act as the Chairperson
until the appointment of a new Chairperson to fill such vacancy.(2)When the
Chairperson in unable to discharge his functions owing to absence or leave or
otherwise, such one of the Members as the President may, by notification,
authorise in this behalf, shall discharge the functions of the Chairperson
until the date on which the Chairperson resumes his duties.

### 8. [ Terms and conditions of service of Chairperson and Members.
[Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 7, for Section 8 (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).]

\- The salaries and allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions
of service of, the Chairperson and Members shall be such as may be
prescribed:Provided that neither the salary and allowances nor the other terms
and conditions of service of the Chairperson or a Member shall be varied to
his disadvantage after his appointment.]

### 9. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate the proceedings of the Commission.

\- No act or proceedings of the Commission shall be questioned or shall be
invalidated merely on the ground of existence of any vacancy or defect in the
constitution of the Commission.

### 10. Procedure to be regulated by the Commission.

(1)The Commission shall meet at such time and place as the Chairman may think
fit.(2)[ Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder,
the Commission shall have the power to lay down by regulations its own
procedure.] [Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 8, for sub-Section (2)
(w.e.f. 23.11.2006).](3)All orders and decisions of the Commission shall be
authenticated by the Secretary-General or any other officer of the Commission
duly authorised by the Chairperson in this behalf.

### 11. Officers and other staff of the Commission.

(1)The Central Government shall make available to the Commission(a)an officer
of the rank of the Secretary to the Government of India who shall be the
Secretary-General of the Commission; and(b)such police and investigative staff
under an officer not below the rank of a Director General of Police and such
other officers and staff as may be necessary for the efficient performance of
the functions of the Commission.(2)Subject to such rules as may be made by the
Central Government in this behalf, the Commission may appoint such other
administrative, technical and scientific staff as it may consider
necessary.(3)The salaries, allowances and conditions of service of the
officers and other staff appointed under sub-section (2) shall be such as may
be prescribed.

## Chapter III  
Functions And Powers Of The Commission

### 12. Functions of the Commission.

\- The Commission shall perform all or any of the following functions,
namely:(a)inquire, suo motu or on a petition presented to it by a victim or
any person on his behalf [or on a direction or order of any Court] [Inserted
by Act 43 of 2006, Section 9 (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).], into complaint
of(i)violation of human rights or abetment thereof; or(ii)negligence in the
prevention of such violation by a public servant;(b)intervene in any
proceeding involving any allegation of violation of human rights pending
before a Court with the approval of such Court;(c)[ visit, notwithstanding
anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, any jail or
other institution under the control of the State Government, where persons are
detained or lodged for purposes of treatment, reformation or protection, for
the study of the living conditions of the inmates thereof and make
recommendations thereon to the Government;] [Substituted byd Act 43 of 2006,
Section 9, for Clause (c) (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).](d)review the safeguards
provided by or under the Constitution or any law for the time being in force
for the protection of human rights and recommend measures for their effective
implementation;(e)review the factors, including acts of terrorism, that
inhibit the enjoyment of human rights and recommend appropriate remedial
measures;(f)study treaties and other international instruments on human rights
and make recommendations for their effective implementation;(g)undertake and
promote research in the field of human rights;(h)spread human rights literacy
among various sections of society and promote awareness of the safeguards
available for the protection of these rights through publications, the media,
seminars and other available means;(i)encourage the efforts of non-
governmental organisations and institutions working in the field of human
rights;(j)such other functions as it may consider necessary for the promotion
of human rights.

### 13. Powers relating to inquiries.

(1)The Commission shall, while inquiring into complaints under this Act, have
all the powers of a civil Court trying a suit under the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), and in particular in respect of the following
matters, namely:(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of witnesses and
examining them on oath;(b)discovery and production of any
document;(c)receiving evidence on affidavits;(d)requisitioning any public
record or copy thereof from any Court or office;(e)issuing commissions for the
examination of witnesses or documents;(f)any other matter which may be
prescribed.(2)The Commission shall have power to require any person, subject
to any privilege which may be claimed by that person under any law for the
time being in force, to furnish information on such points or matters as, in
the opinion of the Commission, may be useful for, or relevant to, the subject-
matter of the inquiry and any person so required shall be deemed to be legally
bound to furnish such information within the meaning of section 176 and
section 177 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).(3)The Commission or any
other officer, not below the rank of a Gazetted Officer, specially authorised
in this behalf by the Commission may enter any building or place where the
Commission has reason to believe that any document relating to the subject-
matter of the inquiry may be found, and may seize any such document or take
extracts or copies therefrom subject to the provisions of section 100 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), insofar as it may be
applicable.(4)The Commission shall be deemed to be a civil Court and when any
offence as is described in section 175, section 178, section 179, section 180
or section 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) is committed in the view
or presence of the Commission, the Commission may, after recording the facts
constituting the offence and the statement of the accused as provided for in
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) forward the case to a
Magistrate having jurisdiction to try the same and the Magistrate to whom any
such case is forwarded shall proceed to hear the complaint against the accused
as if the case has been forwarded to him under section 346 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).(5)Every proceeding before the Commission
shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193
and 228, and for the purposes of section 196, of the Indian Penal Code, and
the Commission shall be deemed to be a civil Court for all the purposes of
section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974).(6)[ Where the Commission considers it necessary or expedient so to do,
it may, by order, transfer any complaint filed or pending before it to the
State Commission of the State from which the complaint arises, for disposal in
accordance with the provisions of this Act:Provided that no such complaint
shall be transferred unless the same is one respecting which the State
Commission has jurisdiction to entertain the same.(7)Every complaint
transferred under sub-section (6) shall be dealt with and disposed of by the
State Commission as if it were a complaint initially filed before it.]
[Inserted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 10 (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).]

### 14. Investigation.

(1)The Commission may, for the purpose of conducting any investigation
pertaining to the inquiry, utilise the services of any officer or
investigation agency of the Central Government or any State Government with
the concurrence of the Central Government or the State Government, as the case
may be.(2)For the purpose of investigating into any matter pertaining to the
inquiry, any officer or agency whose services are utilised under sub-section
(1) may, subject to the direction and control of the Commission,(a)summon and
enforce the attendance of any person and examine him;(b)require the discovery
and production of any document; and(c)requisition any public record or copy
thereof from any office.(3)The provisions of section 15 shall apply in
relation to any statement made by a person before any officer or agency whose
services are utilised under sub-section (1) as they apply in relation to any
statement made by a person in the course of giving evidence before the
Commission.(4)The officer or agency whose services are utilised under sub-
section (1) shall investigate into any matter pertaining to the inquiry and
submit a report thereon to the Commission within such period as may be
specified by the Commission in this behalf.(5)The Commission shall satisfy
itself about the correctness of the facts stated and the conclusion, if any,
arrived at in the report submitted to it under sub-section (4) and for this
purpose the Commission may make such inquiry (including the examination of the
person or persons who conducted or assisted in the investigation) as it thinks
fit.

### 15. Statement made by persons to the Commission.

\- No statement made by a person in the course of giving evidence before the
Commission shall subject him to, or be used against him in, any civil or
criminal proceeding except a prosecution for giving false evidence by such
statement:Provided that the statement(a)is made in reply to the question which
he is required by the Commission to answer; or(b)is relevant to the subject-
matter of the inquiry.

### 16. Persons likely to be prejudicially affected to be heard.

\- If, at any stage of the inquiry, the Commission(a)consider it necessary to
inquire into the conduct of any person; or(b)is of the opinion that the
reputation of any person is likely to be prejudicially affected by the
inquiry, it shall give to that person a reasonable opportunity of being heard
in the inquiry and to produce evidence in his defence:Provided that nothing in
this section shall apply where the credit of a witness is being impeached.

## Chapter IV  
Procedure

### 17. Inquiry into complaints.

\- The Commission while inquiring into the complaints of violations of human
rights may(i)call for information or report from the Central Government or any
State Government or any other authority or organisation subordinate thereto
within such time as may be specified by it:Provided that(a)if the information
or report is not received within the time stipulated by the Commission, it may
proceed to inquire into the complaint on its own;(b)if, on receipt of
information or report, the Commission is satisfied either that no further
inquiry is required or that the required action has been initiated or taken by
the concerned Government or authority, it may not proceed with the complaint
and inform the complainant accordingly;(ii)without prejudice to anything
contained in clause (i), if it considers necessary, having regard to the
nature of the complaint, initiate an inquiry.

### 18. [ Steps during and after inquiry. [Substituted by Act 43 of 2006,
Section 11, for Section 18 (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).]

\- The Commission may take any of the following steps during or upon the
completion of an inquiry held under this Act, namely:(a)where the inquiry
discloses the commission of violation of human rights or negligence in the
prevention of violation of human rights or abetment thereof by a public
servant, it may recommend to the concerned Government or authority(i)to make
payment of compensation or damages to the complainant or to the victim or the
members of his family as the Commission may consider necessary;(ii)to initiate
proceedings for prosecution or such other suitable action as the Commission
may deem fit against the concerned person or persons;(iii)to take such further
action as it may think fit;(b)approach the Supreme Court or the High Court
concerned for such directions, orders or writs as that Court may deem
necessary;(c)recommend to the concerned Government or authority at any stage
of the inquiry for the grant of such immediate interim relief to the victim or
the members of his family as the Commission may consider necessary;(d)subject
to the provisions of clause (e), provide a copy of the inquiry report to the
petitioner or his representative;(e)the Commission shall send a copy of its
inquiry report together with its recommendations to the concerned Government
or authority and the concerned Government or authority shall, within a period
of one month, or such further time as the Commission may allow, forward its
comments on the report, including the action taken or proposed to be taken
thereon, to the Commission;(f)the Commission shall publish its inquiry report
together with the comments of the concerned Government or authority, if any,
and the action taken or proposed to be taken by the concerned Government or
authority on the recommendations of the Commission.]

### 19. Procedure with respect to armed forces.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, while dealing with
complaints of violation of human rights by members of the armed forces, the
Commission shall adopt the following procedure, namely:(a)it may, either on
its own motion or on receipt of a petition, seek a report from the Central
Government;(b)after the receipt of the report, it may, either not proceed with
the complaint or, as the case may be, make its recommendations to that
Government.(2)The Central Government shall inform the Commission of the action
taken on the recommendations within three months or such further time as the
Commission may allow.(3)The Commission shall publish its report together with
its recommendations made to the Central Government and the action taken by the
Government on such recommendations.(4)The Commission shall provide a copy of
the report published under sub-section (3) to the petitioner or his
representative.

### 20. Annual and special reports of the Commission.

(1)The Commission shall submit an annual report to the Central Government and
to the State Government concerned and may at any time submit special reports
on any matter which, in its opinion, is of such urgency or importance that it
should not be deferred till submission of the annual report.(2)The Central
Government and the State Government, as the case may be, shall cause the
annual and special reports of the Commission to be laid before each House of
Parliament or the State Legislature respectively, as the case may be,
alongwith a memorandum of action taken or proposed to be taken on the
recommendations of the Commission and the reasons for non-acceptance of the
recommendations, if any.

## Chapter V  
State Human Rights Commissions

### 21. Constitution of State Human Rights Commissions.

(1)A State Government may constitute a body to be known as the ..........
(name of the State) Human Rights Commission to exercise the powers conferred
upon, and to perform the functions assigned to, a State Commission under this
Chapter.(2)[ The State Commission shall, with effect from such date as the
State Government may by notification specify, consist of(a)a Chairperson who
has been a [Chief Justice or a Judge] of a High Court;(b)one Member who is, or
has been, a Judge of a High Court or District Judge in the State with a
minimum of seven years experience as District Judge;(c)one Member to be
appointed from among persons having knowledge of or practical experience in
matters relating to human rights.](3)There shall be a Secretary who shall be
the Chief Executive Officer of the State Commission and [shall, subject to
control of the Chairperson, exercise all administrative and financial powers
of the State Commission] [Substituted 'shall exercise such powers and
discharge such functions of the State Commission as it may delegate to him' by
Act No. 19 of 2019, dated 27.7.2019.].(4)The headquarters of the State
Commission shall be at such place as the State Government may, by
notification, specify.(5)A State Commission may inquire into violation of
human rights only in respect of matters relatable to any of the entries
enumerated in List II and List III in the Seventh Schedule to the
Constitution:Provided that if any such matter is already being inquired into
by the Commission or any other Commission duly constituted under any law for
the time being in force, the State Commission shall not inquire into the said
matter:Provided further that in relation to the Jammu and Kashmir Human Rights
Commission, this sub-section shall have effect as if for the words and figures
List II and List III in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, the words
and figures List III in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution as applicable
to the State of Jammu and Kashmir and in respect of matters in relation to
which the Legislature of that State has power to make laws has been
substituted.(6)[ Two or more State Governments may, with the consent of a
Chairperson or Member of a State Commission, appoint such Chairperson or, as
the case may be, such Member of another State Commission simultaneously if
such Chairperson or Member consents to such appointment:Provided that every
appointment made under this sub-section shall be made after obtaining the
recommendations of the Committee referred to in sub-section (1) of section 22
in respect of the State for which a common Chairperson or Member, or both, as
the case may be, is to be appointed.] [Inserted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 12
(w.e.f. 23.11.2006).](7)[ Subject to the provisions of section 12, the Central
Government may, by order, confer upon the State Commission the functions
relating to human rights being discharged by the Union territories, other than
the Union territory of Delhi.(8)The functions relating to human rights in case
of Union territory of Delhi shall be dealt with by the Commission.] [Inserted
by Act No. 19 of 2019, dated 27.7.2019.]

### 22. Appointment of Chairperson and [Members] [Substituted by Act 43 of
2006, Section 13, for "other Members" (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).] of State
Commission.

(1)The Chairperson and [Members] [Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 13,
for "other Members" (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).] shall be appointed by the Governor
by warrant under his hand and seal:Provided that every appointment under this
sub-section shall be made after obtaining the recommendation of a Committee
consisting of,(a)the Chief Minister Chairperson;(b)Speaker of the Legislative
Assembly (c) Minister in-charge of the Department of Home in that State (d)
Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Member:Provided further
that where there is a Legislative Council in a State, the Chairman of that
Council and the Leader of the Opposition in that Council shall also be members
of the Committee:Provided also that no sitting Judge of a High Court or a
sitting District Judge shall be appointed except after consultation with the
Chief Justice of the High Court of the concerned State.(2)No appointment of a
Chairperson or a Member of the State Commission shall be invalid merely by
reason of [any vacancy of any Member in the Committee referred to in sub-
section (1)] [Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 13, for "any vacancy in
the Committee" (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).].

### 23. [Resignation and removal of Chairperson or a Member of the State
Commission] [Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 14, for "Removal of a
Member of the State Commission" (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).].

\- [(1) The Chairperson or a Member of a State Commission may, by notice in
writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his office.(1-A)
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), the Chairperson or any Member of
the State Commission shall only be removed from his office by order of the
President on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity after the Supreme
Court, on a reference being made to it by the President, has, on inquiry held
in accordance with the procedure prescribed in that behalf by the Supreme
Court, reported that the Chairperson or such Member, as the case may be, ought
on any such ground to be removed.] [Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 14,
for sub-Section (1) (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).](2)Notwithstanding anything in [sub-
section (1-A)] [Substituted by Act 43 of 2006,Section 14, for the word,
brackets, figure and letter [sub-Section (1)] (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).], the
President may by order remove from office of the Chairperson or any [Member]
[Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 14, for "other Member" (w.e.f.
23.11.2006).] if the Chairperson or such [Member] [Substituted by Act 43 of
2006, Section 14, for "other Member" (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).], as the case may
be,(a)is adjudged an insolvent; or(b)engages during his term of office in any
paid employment outside the duties of his office; or(c)is unfit to continue in
office by reason of infirmity of mind or body; or(d)is of unsound mind and
stands so declared by a competent Court; or(e)is convicted and sentenced to
imprisonment for an offence which in the opinion of the President involves
moral turpitude.

### 24. [ Term of office of Chairperson and Members of the State Commission.
[Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 15, for Section 24 (w.e.f.
23.11.2006).]

(1)A person appointed as Chairperson shall hold office for a term of [three
years] [Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 12, for sub-Section (2) (w.e.f.
23.11.2006).] from the date on which he enters upon his office or until he
attains the age of seventy years, whichever is earlier [and shall be eligible
for re-appointment] [Inserted by Act No. 19 of 2019, dated 27.7.2019.].(2)A
person appointed as a Member shall hold office for a term of [three years]
[Substituted 'five years' by Act No. 19 of 2019, dated 27.7.2019.] from the
date on which he enters upon his office and shall be eligible for re-
appointment [***] [Omitted 'for another term of five years' by Act No. 19 of
2019, dated 27.7.2019.]:Provided that no Member shall hold office after he has
attained the age of seventy years.(3)On ceasing to hold office, a Chairperson
or a Member shall be ineligible for further employment under the Government of
a State or under the Government of India.]

### 25. Member to act as Chairperson or to discharge his functions in certain
circumstances.

(1)In the event of the occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the
Chairperson by reason of his death, resignation or otherwise, the Governor
may, by notification, authorise one of the Members to act as the Chairperson
until the appointment of new Chairperson to fill such vacancy.(2)When the
Chairperson in unable to discharge his functions owing to absence on leave or
otherwise, such one of the Members as the Governor may, by notification,
authorise in this behalf, shall discharge the functions of the Chairperson
until the date on which the Chairperson resumes his duties.

### 26. [ Terms and conditions of service of Chairperson and Members of State
Commissions. [Substituted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 16, for Section 26
(w.e.f. 23.11.2006).]

\- The salaries and allowances payable to, and other terms and conditions of
service of, the Chairperson and Members shall be such as may be prescribed by
the State Government:Provided that neither the salary and allowances nor the
other terms and conditions of service of the Chairperson or a Member shall be
varied to his disadvantage after his appointment.]

### 27. Officers and other staff of the State Commission.

(1)The State Government shall make available to the Commission(a)an officer
not below the rank of a Secretary to the State Government who shall be the
Secretary of the State Commission; and(b)such police and investigative staff
under an officer not below the rank of an Inspector General of Police and such
other officers and staff as may be necessary for the efficient performance of
the functions of the State Commission.(2)Subject to such rules as may be made
by the State Government in this behalf, the State Commission may appoint such
other administrative, technical and scientific staff as it may consider
necessary.(3)The salaries, allowances and conditions of service of the
officers and other staff appointed under sub-section (2) shall be such as may
be prescribed by the State Government.

### 28. Annual and special reports of State Commission.

(1)The State Commission shall submit an annual report to the State Government
and may at any time submit special reports on any matter which, in its
opinion, is of such urgency or importance that it should not be deferred till
submission of the annual report.(2)The State Government shall cause the annual
and special reports of the State Commission to be laid before each House of
State Legislature where it consists of two Houses, or where such Legislature
consists of one House, before that House alongwith a memorandum of action
taken or proposed to be taken on the recommendations of the State Commission
and the reasons for non-acceptance of the recommendations, if any.

### 29. Application of certain provisions relating to National Human Rights
Commission to State Commissions.

\- The provisions of sections 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 shall apply
to a State Commission and shall have effect, subject to the following
modifications, namely:(a)references to Commission shall be construed as
references to State Commission;(b)in section 10, in sub-section (3), for the
word Secretary-General, the word Secretary shall be substituted;(c)in section
12, clause (f) shall be omitted;(d)in section 17, in clause (i), the words
Central Government or any shall be omitted.

## Chapter VI  
Human Rights Courts

### 30. Human Rights Courts.

\- For the purpose of providing speedy trial of offences arising out of
violation of human rights, the State Government may, with the concurrence of
the Chief Justice of the High Court, by notification, specify for each
district a Court of Session to be a Human Rights Court to try the said
offences:Provided that nothing in this section shall apply if(a)a Court of
Session is already specified as a special Court; or(b)a special Court is
already constituted, for such offences under any other law for the time being
in force.

### 31. Special Public Prosecutor.

\- For every Human Rights Court, the State Government shall, by notification,
specify a Public Prosecutor or appoint an advocate who has been in practice as
an advocate for not less than seven years, as a Special Public Prosecutor for
the purpose of conducting cases in that Court.

## Chapter VII  
Finance, Accounts And Audit

### 32. Grants by the Central Government.

(1)The Central Government shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by
law in this behalf, pay to the Commission by way of grants such sums of money
as the Central Government may think fit for being utilised for the purposes of
this Act.(2)The Commission may spend such sums as it thinks fit for performing
the functions under this Act, and as such sums shall be treated as expenditure
payable out of the grants referred to in sub-section (1).

### 33. Grants by the State Government.

(1)The State Government shall, after due appropriation made by Legislature by
law in this behalf, pay to the State Commission by way of grants such sums of
money as the State Government may think fit for being utilised for the
purposes of this Act.(2)The State Commission may spend such sums as it thinks
fit for performing the functions under Chapter V, and such sums shall be
treated as expenditure payable out of the grants referred to in sub-section
(1).

### 34. Accounts and audit.

(1)The Commission shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records
and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form as may be prescribed
by the Central Government in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India.(2)The accounts of the Commission shall be audited by the
Comptroller and Auditor-General at such intervals as may be specified by him
and any expenditure incurred in connection with such audit shall be payable by
the Commission to the Comptroller and Auditor-General.(3)The Comptroller and
Auditor-General and any person appointed by him in connection with the audit
of the accounts of the Commission under this Act shall have the same rights
and privileges and the authority in connection with such audit as the
Comptroller and Auditor-General generally has in connection with the audit of
Government accounts and, in particular, shall have the right to demand the
production of books, accounts, connected vouchers and other documents and
papers and to inspect any of the offices of the Commission.(4)The accounts of
the Commission, as certified by the Comptroller and Auditor-General or any
other person appointed by him in this behalf, together with the audit report
thereon shall be forwarded annually to the Central Government by the
Commission and the Central Government shall cause the audit report to be laid,
as soon as may be, after it is received, before each House of Parliament.

### 35. Accounts and audit of State Commission.

(1)The State Commission shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant
records and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form as may be
prescribed by the State Government in consultation with the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India.(2)The accounts of the State Commission shall be
audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-General at such intervals as may be
specified by him and any expenditure incurred in connection with such audit
shall be payable by the State Commission to the Comptroller and Auditor-
General.(3)The Comptroller and Auditor-General and any person appointed by him
in connection with the audit of the accounts of the State Commission under
this Act shall have the same rights and privileges and the authority in
connection with such audit as the Comptroller and Auditor-General generally
has in connection with the audit of Government accounts and, in particular,
shall have the right to demand the production of books, accounts, connected
vouchers and other documents and papers and to inspect any of the offices of
the State Commission.(4)The accounts of the State Commission, as certified by
the Comptroller and Auditor-General or any other person appointed by him in
this behalf, together with the audit report thereon, shall be forwarded
annually to the State Government by the State Commission and the State
Government shall cause the audit report to be laid, as soon as may be after it
is received, before the State Legislature.

## Chapter VIII  
Miscellaneous

### 36. Matters not subject to jurisdiction of the Commission.

(1)The Commission shall not inquire into any matter which is pending before a
State Commission or any other Commission duly constituted under any law for
the time being in force.(2)The Commission or the State Commission shall not
inquire into any matter after the expiry of one year from the date on which
the act constituting violation of human rights is alleged to have been
committed.

### 37. Constitution of special investigation teams.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, where the Government considers it necessary so to do, it may constitute
one or more special investigation teams, consisting of such police officers as
it thinks necessary for purposes of investigation and prosecution of offences
arising out of violation of human rights.

### 38. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Government,
State Government, Commission, the State Commission or any Member thereof or
any person acting under the direction either of the Central Government, State
Government, Commission or the State Commission in respect of anything which is
in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or of any
rules or any order made thereunder or in respect of the publication by or
under the authority of the Central Government, State Government, Commission or
the State Commission of any report, paper or proceedings.

### 39. Members and officers to be public servants.

\- Every member of the Commission, State Commission and every officer
appointed or authorised by the Commission or the State Commission to exercise
functions under this Act shall be deemed to be a public servant within the
meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 40. Power of Central Government to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the
provisions of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:(a)the salaries and allowances and other terms
and conditions of service of the [Chairperson and Members] [Substituted by Act
43 of 2006, Section 17, for "Members" (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).] under section
8;(b)the conditions subject to which other administrative, technical and
scientific staff may be appointed by the Commission and the salaries and
allowances of officers and other staff under sub-section (3) of section
11;(c)any other power of a civil Court required to be prescribed under clause
(f) of sub-section (1) of section 13;(d)the form in which the annual statement
of accounts is to be prepared by the Commission under sub-section (1) of
section 34; and(e)any other matter which has to be, or may be,
prescribed.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule.[40-A. Power to make rules
retrospectively. [Inserted by Act 49 of 2000, Section 2 (w.e.f.
11.12.2000).]\- The power to make rules under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of
section 40 shall include the power to make such rules or any of them
retrospectively from a date not earlier than the date on which this Act
received the assent of the President, but no such retrospective effect shall
be given to any such rule so as to prejudicially affect the interests of any
person to whom such rule may be applicable.][40-B. Power of Commission to make
regulations. [Inserted by Act 43 of 2006, Section 18 (w.e.f.
23.11.2006).](1)Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder, the Commission may, with the previous approval of the Central
Government, by notification, make regulations to carry out the provisions of
this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely:(a)the procedure to be followed by the Commission under sub-
section (2) of section 10;(b)the returns and statistics to be furnished by the
State Commissions;(c)any other matter which has to be, or may be, specified by
regulations.(3)Every regulation made by the Commission under this Act shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament,
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be
comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before
the expiry of the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses
agree in making any modification in the regulation or both Houses agree that
the regulation should not be made, the regulation shall thereafter have effect
only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that regulation.]

### 41. Power of State Government to make rules.

(1)The State Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the
provisions of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:(a)the salaries and allowances and other terms
and conditions of service of [the Chairperson and Members] [Substituted by Act
43 of 2006, Section 19, for "the Members" (w.e.f. 23.11.2006).] under section
26;(b)the conditions subject to which other administrative, technical and
scientific staff may be appointed by the State Commission and the salaries and
allowances of officers and other staff under sub-section (3) of section
27;(c)the form in which the annual statement of accounts is to be prepared
under sub-section (1) of section 35.(3)Every rule made by the State Government
under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before
each House of the State Legislature where it consists of two Houses, or where
such Legislature consists of one House, before that House.

### 42. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as appear to
it to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty:Provided that no
such order shall be made after the expiry of the period of two years from the
date of commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this section shall,
as soon as may be after it is made, be laid before each House of Parliament.

### 43. Repeal and savings.

(1)The Protection of Human Rights Ordinance, 1993 is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken
under the said Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the
corresponding provisions of this Act.

