## Union of India - Act

## The Produce Cess Act, 1966

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Produce Cess Act, 1966

## Act 15 of 1966

  * Published on 21 May 1966 
  * Commenced on 21 May 1966 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 May 1966.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Produce Cess Act, 1966ACT NO. 15 OF 1966

### 1307.

Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923, the Indian Lac Cess Act. 1930, the Indian
Coconut Committee Act. 1944, the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946. will
cease to have effect from 1st April, 1966 on which elate the Indian Central
Cotton Committee, and the Indian Lac Cell Committee. the Indian Central
Coconut Committee and the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee constituted under
those Acts will stand dissolved. and there will he no legislative sanction for
the continuance of the levy of the Cess on these produce alter 31st March,
1966.2\. Although the conunittecs have been abolished, the work done by the
Committees will continue to he carried out even after 31st March, 1966. The
Research Institutes and Stations and usher research protects of these
Committees will come under the administrative control of the Indian Council of
Agricultural Research and the work relating to development. marketing and
other functions will he directly looked after by the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture, Department of Agriculture, assisted by Development Councils
forted fur this purpose by the Government. Suitable grants will he given to
the Indian Council of Agricultural Research for the iriaintcnance of the
Research Institutes and fur carrying on the research activities. Under the
revised set-up, larger investments will he necessry on these produce in order
to have an effective programme of research and development. It is thereli to
very necessary that the cesses on the produce are continued to be levied even
after the Commodity Committees have been abolished.3\. The Bill accordingly
seeks to continue the levy of cess on these produce.4\. Opportunity has also
been taken to simplify the nature of cess levied on the produce and to
reassess the rate of cess to he levied, in conformity with the present prices
of the produce. - Gazette of India, 1-4-1966. Pt. II. Section 2, Ext.. p.
189.[21st May, 1966]An Act to provide for the imposition of cess on certain
produce for the improvement and development of the methods of cultivation and
marketing of such produce and for matters connected therewith.BE it enacted by
Parliament in the Seventeenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the Produce Cess Act, 1966.(2)It extends to the
whole of India.

### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--(a)"Collector" means the
officer appointed by the Central Government to perform in any specified area
the duties of a Collector under the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder, and includes any officer subordinate to that officer whom he may,
by order in writing, authorise to perform his duties under those
provisions;(b)[* * * * *] [Omitted by Act 4 of 1987, Section 2.](c)[ "customs
airport", "customs port" and "customs station" have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Customs Act, 1962] [Substituted by Act 49 of 1966,
Section 2, for cl. (c) (retrospectively)] (52 of 1962);(d)"Indian Council of
Agricultural Research" means the body registered in that name under the
Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860);(e)"lac" includes any form of
manufactured or unmanufactured lac other than refuse lac;(f)"managing agent"
has the meaning assigned to it in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);[* * * *
*] [Omitted by Act 4 of 1987, Section 2][* * * * *] [Omitted by Act 30 of
1983, Section 7 (w.e.f. 1-1-1984)](j)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules
made under this Act;(k)"produce" means any goods specified in the First
Schedule [***] [Omitted by Act 4 of 1987, Section 2]

For such appointments see G.S.R. 884, published in Gazette of India, 1969, Pt.
II, Section 3 (i), Ext., p. 243 (as amended by G.S.R. 2319, dt. 23-9-1969, p.
631). For conferment of duties of a collector under the Act to Collectors of
Customs, see G.S.R. 885, Gazette of India, 1969, Pt. II, S.3(), Ext., p. 245;
for appointment of District Collectors and Dy. Commissioners in the States of
Mysore and Orissa as Collectors unde this Act, see G.S.R. 813, published in
Gazette of India, 1969,, Pt. II, Section 3(i), Ext., p. 231 and for similar
authorisations of the said officers in the State of A.P., Haryana, Kerala,
M.P., Punjab, Rajasthan, Nagaland and U.P. and of the Director of Handlooms in
the State of Madras (Tamil Nadu), see G.S.R. 2241), published in Gazette of
India, 1968, Pt. II. S.3(i), Ext., p. 651.  
---  
  
### 3. Imposition of cess.

(1)There shall be levied and collected as a cess, for the purposes of this
Act, on every produce specified in column 2 of the First Schedule, which is
exported from any [customs station to any place] [Substituted by Act 49 of
1966, Section 3, for "customs port to any port" (retrospectively)] beyond the
limits of India, a duty of customs at such rate, not exceeding the rate
specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 thereof, as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify:Provided that
until such rate is specified by the Central Government, the duty of customs
shall be levied and collected at the rate specified in the corresponding entry
in column 4 of the said Schedule.[* * * * *] [Omitted by act 49 of 1966 s. 3]

### 4. Persons who shall be liable to pay duty.

Every duty of customs leviable under this Act on any produce shall be payable
by the person by whom such produce is exported from India [* * * *] [Omitted
by Act 4 of 1987, Section 4]

### 5. Application of proceeds of cess.

(1)An amount equivalent to the proceeds of the duty levied and collected under
this Act, reduced by the cost of collection as determined by the Central
Government, together with any moneys received by the Central Government for
the purposes of this Act, shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by
law, be utilized by the Central Government to meet the expenditure incurred in
connection with measures which, in the opinion of that Government, are
necessary or expedient to promote the improvement, development and marketing
of produce.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the
provisions of sub-section (1), the proceeds of the duty levied and collected
under this Act may be utilized by the Central Government for all or any of the
following purposes, namely:--(a)undertaking, assisting or encouraging,
agricultural, industrial, technological and economic research, including
research on the utilization of the products obtained from any
produce;(b)supplying technical advice to cultivators, growers and
millers;(c)encouraging the adoption of improved methods of cultivation and
storage of crops;(d)producing, testing and distributing improved varieties of
crops or assisting such work;(e)assisting in the control of insects and other
pests and diseases of the crops, both in the field and in storage;(f)promoting
the improvement of the marketing of produce and the products obtained
therefrom in India and abroad including the setting up and adoption of grade
standards for the produce and the products obtained therefrom;(g)collecting
statistics from cultivators, growers, dealers and occupiers of mills on all
relevant matters and promoting improvement in the forecasting of crops and the
preparation of all relevant statistics relating to the crops and the products
obtained therefrom;(h)maintaining, and assisting in the maintenance of, such
institutes, farms and stations as the Central Government may consider
necessary;(i)advising and providing assistance on all matters connected with
the improvement of the cultivation of crops (including advising on the best
and most suitable varieties of the crops to be cultivated) and the improvement
of the industries using the crops and the products obtained
therefrom;(j)promoting and encouraging the co-operative movement in any
connected industry;(k)adopting such measures as may be practicable for
ensuring remunerative returns to the growers;(l)organising the establishment
of cultivators', growers', millers' and consumers' organisations;(m)aiding and
encouraging the establishment of exhibitions for demonstrating the uses of the
produce and the products obtained therefrom;(n)adopting any other measures
which the Central Government may deem to be necessary or advisable to carry
out the purposes of this Act.(3)In this section, "crops" means crops or plants
from which any produce is obtained [and "produce" includes cotton.]

### 6. Refund of cess on oils exported from India.

\- There Shall be refunded from out of the proceeds of cess levied and
collected under this Act, on such conditions as may be prescribed, all sums
collected as cess on the qauntity of oils exported from India, if such oils
have been extracted from oil - seed [* *] [Words " or Copra" omitted by the
Copra Cess Act 1979 (4 of 1979),section 20 (1-4-1979)] crushed in a mill in
India, irrespective of whether, the oil - seed [* *] [Words " or Copra"
omitted by the Copra Cess Act 1979 (4 of 1979),section 20 (1-4-1979)] is
produced in, or imported into India.

### 7. Occupier to Supply certain particulars to Collector.

\- [Omitted by the Cotton, Copra and Vegetable Oils Cess (Abolition) Act (4 of
1987), S.3 (21-3-87)].

### 8. Delivery of monthly returns.

\- [Omitted by the Cotton, Copra and Vegetable Oils Cess (Abolition) Act (4 of
1987), S.3 (21-3-87)].

### 9. Collection of Cess leviable on produce specified in Second Schedule.

\- [Omitted by the Cotton, Copra and Vegetable Oils Cess (Abolition) Act, (4
of 1987), S.3 (21-3-87)].

### 10. Finality of assessment

.- [Omitted by the Cotton, Copra and Vegetable oils Cess (Abolition) Act (4 of
1987), S.3 (21-3-87)].

### 11. Collection of cess on any produce specified in First Schedule.

(1)The Collector shall in respect of any produce specified in the First
Schedule which is exported by sea [or air] [Inserted by Act 49 of 1966,
Section 4 (retrospectively)] assess and collect the duty of customs at the
customs port [or customs airport] [Inserted by Act 49 of 1966, Section 4
(retrospectively)] of export.(2)Where any produce specified in the First
Schedule is exported [by land or inland water] [Substituted by act 49 of 1966,
Section 4, for "by land" (retrospectively)], the duty of customs leviable
under this Act on such produce shall be assessed and collected by such
authority and in such manner as may be prescribed, and, until so prescribed,
such duty of customs shall be levied and collected in accordance with the law
in force immediately before the commencement of this Act.(3)The Central Board
of Excise and Customs constituted under the Central Boards of Revenue Act,
1963 (54 of 1963), may, be rules, specify the conditions and restrictions
subject to which--(a)refund may be made of the duty of customs levied on any
produce specified in the First Schedule which is exported [by land or inland
water] [Substituted by act 49 of 1966, Section 4, for "by land"
(retrospectively)], where such produce is subsequently imported into
India,(b)export may be made [by land or inland water] [Substituted by act 49
of 1966, Section 4, for "by land" (retrospectively)], without payment of any
duty of customs, of any produce specified in the First Schedule which is
intended to be brought back to India.

### 12. Recovery of sums due to Government.

Where any duty of customs [***] [ Omitted by Act 4 of 1987, Section 6]
demanded from any persons or any penalty payable by any person under this Act
is not paid--(a)the Collector may deduct the amount so payable from any money
owing to such person which may be under the control of the Collector or any
other officer; or(b)the Collector may recover the amount so payable by
detaining and selling any goods belonging to such person which are under the
control of the Collector or any other officer; or(c)if the amount cannot be
recovered from such person in the manner provided in clause (a) or clause (b),
the Collector may prepare a certificate signed by him specifying the amount
due from such person and send it to the Collector of the district in which
such person owns any property or resides or carries on his business and the
said Collector shall, on receipt of such certificate, proceed to recover from
the said person the amount specified therein as if it were an arrear of land
revenue. [* * * * *] [Omitted by Act 4 of 1987 s. 3]

### 13.

Power of inspect mills and take copies of acount.\- [Omitted by Cotton, Copra
and Vegetable Oils Cess (Abolition) Act, (4 of 1987), S.3 (21-3-87)].

### 14. Information acquired to be confidential.

\- [Omitted by Cotton, Copra and Vegatable Oils Cess (Abolition) Act (4 of
1987), S.3 (21-3-87)].

### 15. Provisions of certain Acts to apply.

(1)The provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), and the rules and
regulations made thereunder, including those relating to refunds and
exemptions from duty, shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the levy
and collection of duties of customs on any produce specified in the First
Schedule as they apply in relation to the levy and collection of duty payable
to the Central Government under that Act.[* * * * *] [Omitted by Act 4 of
1987, Section 3]

### 16. Offences.

(1)Whoever--(a)evades the payment of any duty of customs [***] [Omitted by Act
4 of 1987, Section 7] payable under this Act, or(b)fails to furnish any return
or information which it is his duty to furnish under this Act or furnishes a
return or information which is false in material particulars or which he does
not believe to be true, or(c)obstructs the Collector or any other officer in
the performance of his duties under this Act or any rules made thereunder,
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months, or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with
both.(2)Any court trying an offence under this Act may direct that any produce
in respect of which it is satisfied that an offence punishable under this Act
has been committed shall be forfeited to Government and may also direct that
all packages, coverings or receptacles in which such produce is contained and
every animal, vehicle, vessel or other conveyance used in carrying such
produce shall be forfeited to Government.

### 17. Limitation of prosecution.

No prosecution for any offence punishable under this Act shall be instituted
against any person except by, or with the consent of, the Collector.

### 18. Composition of offences.

Any offence punishable under this Act may, either before or after the
institution of the prosecution, be compounded by the Collector or any other
officer authorised by him in this behalf on payment to the Central Government,
for the purposes of this Act, of such sum as the Collector or such officer, as
the case may be, thinks fit.

### 19. Protection of action taken in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Central Government or any person authorized by the Central Government for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of
this Act or any rule or order made thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal
proceeding shall lie against the Central Government or any person authorized
by the Central Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused by
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of
any of the provisions of this Act or any rule or order made thereunder.

### 20. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely--[* * * * *] [Omitted by Act 4 of
1987, Section 8.](e)the authority by which and the manner in which the duties
of customs leviable under this Act shall be collected on any produce specified
in the First Schedule which is exported [by land or inland water] [Substituted
by Act 49 of 1966, Section 5, for "by land" (retrospectively)]; and(f)any
other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.

### 21. Power to remove difficulties.

If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the
Central Government may, be order, make such directions, not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act, as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for
the removal of the difficulty:Provided that no such directions shall be made
after the expiry of a period of three years from the date of commencement of
this Act.

### 22. Rules of be laid before Parliament.

Every rule made under this Act shall be laid as soon as may be after it is
made, before each House of Parliament while it is in session for a total
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in [two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session] [Substituted by Act 4 of 1987, Section 9. ] or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under the
rule.THE FIRST SCHEDULE[See section 3(1)]

S. No. | Name of the produce. | The maximum rate at which duty of customs may be collected. | Actual rate at which duty of customs is to be collected until a different rate is specified by the Central Government.  
---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
1 | Lac produced in India | Rupees two and thirty paisa per quintal. | Rupees two and thirty paisa per quintal.  
2 | Refuse lac produced in India, | Rupees one and seventy paisa per quintal. | Rupees one and seventy paisa per quintal.  
[3 [Inserted by Act 49 of 1966, S.6 (15-12-1966)] | Cashew Kernal | 1-1/2 per cent of the tariff value. | 1 per cent of the tariff value.]  
  
[Explanation [Added by Act 49 of 1966, Section 6 (w.e.f. 15-12-1966)] \- In
this schedule, the expression "tariff value" has the meaning assigned to it in
the Customs Act, 1962.]THE SECOND SCHEDULE[See Section 3(2)][Omitted by
Cotton, Copra and Vegetable Oils Cess (Abolition) Act (4 of 1987), S.3
(21-3-1987)]

