## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Prevention Of Insults To National Honour Act, 1957

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Prevention Of Insults To National Honour Act, 1957

## Act 14 of 1957

  * Published in Gazette 14 on 18 November 1957 
  * Assented to on 18 November 1957 
  * Commenced on 18 November 1957 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 November 1957.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Prevention Of Insults To National Honour Act, 1957Act No. 14 of 1957[18th
November, 1957]An Act to prevent insults to National Honour.Whereas it is
expedient and necessary to prevent certain offences against the Indian
National Flag, pictures, effigies and statues of the Father of the Nation, or
the Constitution of India;Be it enacted in the Eighth Year of the Republic of
India as follows:--

### 1. Short title

This Act may be called the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1957.

### 2. Burning, etc., of effigy, picture, portrait of Mahatma Gandhi an
offence

Whoever wilfully burns or desecrates or insults, any effigy, picture or
portrait of Mahatma Gandhi shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to three years or with fine or with
both.Explanation.--In this section, "picture" includes any print, drawing,
painting or other representation, of the figure of Mahatma Gandhi.

### 3. Destruction of the statue of Mahatma Gandhi an offence

Whoever wilfully causes damage to, or destruction of, any statue or bust of
Mahatma Gandhi or any such change in such statue or bust or in the situation
thereof, as destroy or diminish its value or appearance or otherwise affects
it injuriously, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for
a term which may extend to three years or with fine or with both.

### 4. Burnig, etc., of Indian National Flag an offence

Whoever wilfully burns or desecrates or insults the Indian National Flag shall
be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to three years or with fine or with both.Explanation. In this section,
"Indian National Flag" includes any pictorial representation thereof.

### 5. Burning, etc., of the Constitution to be act of offence

Whoever wilfully burns or desecrates or insults any copy or a copy of a part
of the Constitution of India, shall be punishable with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to three years or with fine or with
both.

### 6. Attempts to be offences

Whoever attempts to commit any offence punishable under this Act shall be
deemed to have committed that offence.

### 7. Savings

Nothing in this Act shall exempt any person from any proceeding which might,
apart from this Act, be brought against him.

