## Union of India - Act

## The Plantations Labour Act, 1951

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Plantations Labour Act, 1951

## Act 69 of 1951

  * Published on 2 November 1951 
  * Commenced on 2 November 1951 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 May 2010.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE PLANTATIONS LABOUR (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2010 (Act 17 of 2010) on 18 May 2010] 

The Plantations Labour Act, 1951(69 OF 1951)

### 19.

/865Statement of Objects and Reasons.-Inspite of the fact that the plantation
industry provides employment for more than a million workers, there is at
present no comprehensive legislation regulating the conditions of labour in
the industry. The Tea Districts Emigrant Labour Act, 1932, which applies only
to Assam, regulates merely the conditions of recruitment of labour for
employment in the tea gardens of Assam. The Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923,
which applies to estates growing cinchona, coffee, rubber or tea also does not
confer any substantial benefit on plantation labour as accidents in
plantations are few. The other Labour Acts, like the Payment of Wages Act,
1936, the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 and the Industrial
Disputes Act, 1947, benefit plantation labour only to a very limited extent.
In its report the Labour Investigation Committee observed "that as the
conditions of life and employment on plantations were different from those in
other industries, it would be very difficult to fit plantation labour in the
general framework of the Industrial Labour Legislation without creating
serious anomalies" and recommended a Plantation Labour Code covering all
plantation areas.2\. The present Bill, drafted as an all-India measure, seeks
to regulate the conditions of plantation labour generally. It applies in the
first instance to tea, coffee, rubber and cinchona plantations, but the State
Government may apply it to any other plantation. Provision is made in the Bill
for assuring to the worker reasonable amenities, as for example, the supply of
wholesome drinking water or suitable medical and educational facilities or
provision for canteens and creches in suitable cases, or provision for
sufficient number of latrines and urinals separately for males and females.
Housing accommodation is also to be provided for every worker and standards
and specifications of such housing accommodation will be prescribed after due
consultation. The Bill also regulates the working hours of workers employed in
the plantations.3\. Children under 12 are prohibited from employment in any
plantation and State Governments are empowered to make rules regulating the
payment of sickness or maternity benefits.4\. Necessary provision is made in
the Bill for the appointment of a suitable inspecting, medical or other staff
for the purpose of securing the implementation of the various provisions in
the Bill.Amendment Act 34 of 1960-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The
Plantations Labour Act, 1951, which provides for the welfare of labour and
regulates the conditions of work in plantations has been in operation since
the 1st April, 1954. The Act is applicable to gardens admeasuring twenty-five
acres or more and whereon thirty or more persons are employed. Some employers
are fragmenting their plantations into small units with a view to evading
their liabilities under the Act. The amendments mentioned in the Bill are
proposed to check fragmentation of plantations and to ensure more effective
working of the Act.[2nd November, 1951]An Act to provide for the welfare of
labour, and to regulate the conditions of work, in plantations.Be it enacted
by Parliament as follows:-

1\. The Act has been extended to the Union Territory of Pondicherry by
Regulation 7 of 1963.2\. Brought into force on 1.4.1954.  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent, commencement and application .-(1) This Act may be
called The Plantations Labour Act, 1951.

(2)It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and
Kashmir.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may
by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.(4)[ It applies to the
following plantations, that is to say,-(a)to any land used or intended to be
used for growing tea, coffee, rubber] [,cinchona or cardamom] [ Substituted by
Act 58 of 1981, Section 2, for " or cinchona" (w.e.f. 26.1.1982).][which
admeasures ] [Substituted by Act 34 of 1960, Section 2, for sub-Section (4)
(w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ][5 hectares] [[ Substituted by Act 58 of 1981, Section
2, for " 10.117 hectares" (w.e.f.26.1.1982).]] [or more and in which ]
[Substituted by Act 34 of 1960, Section 2, for sub-Section (4) (w.e.f.
21.11.1960). ] [fifteen] [ Substituted by Act 58 of 1981, Section 2, for "
thirty" (w.e.f. 26.1.1982).][or more persons are employed or were employed on
any day of the preceding twelve months; [Substituted by Act 34 of 1960,
Section 2, for sub-Section (4) (w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ](b)to any land used or
intended to be used for growing any other plant, which admeasures ][5
hectares] [[ Substituted by Act 58 of 1981, Section 2, for " 10.117 hectares"
(w.e.f.26.1.1982).]] [or more and in which ] [Substituted by Act 34 of 1960,
Section 2, for sub-Section (4) (w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ] [fifteen] [Substituted
by Act 58 of 1981, Section 2, for " thirty" (w.e.f. 26.1.1982). ][or more
persons are employed or were employed on any day of the preceding twelve
months, if, after obtaining the approval of the Central Government, the State
Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, so directs.] [Substituted
by Act 34 of 1960, Section 2, for sub-Section (4) (w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ][
Explanation .-Where any piece of land used for growing any plant referred to
in clause (a) or clause (b) of this sub-section admeasures less than 5
hectares and is contiguous to any other piece of land not being so used, but
capable of being so used, and both such pieces of land are under the
management of the same employer, then, for the purposes of this sub-section,
the piece of land first mentioned shall be deemed to be a plantation, if the
total area of both such pieces of land admeasures 5 hectares or more. ] [
Inserted by Act 58 of 1981, Section 2 (w.e.f. 26.1.1982).](5)[ The State
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that all or
any of the provisions of this Act shall apply also to any land used or
intended to be used for growing any plant referred to in clause (a) or clause
(b) of sub-section (4), notwithstanding that-(a)it admeasures less than ][5
hectares] [[ Substituted by Act 58 of 1981, Section 2, for " 10.117 hectares"
(w.e.f.26.1.1982).]][, or [Substituted by Act 34 of 1960, Section 2, for sub-
Section (4) (w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ](b)the number of persons employed therein is
less than ][fifteen] [ Substituted by Act 58 of 1981, Section 2, for " thirty"
(w.e.f. 26.1.1982).]:[Provided that no such declaration shall be made in
respect of such land which admeasured less than ] [Substituted by Act 34 of
1960, Section 2, for sub-Section (4) (w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ][5 hectares]
[Substituted by Act 58 of 1981, Section 2, for " 10.117 hectares" (w.e.f.
26.1.1982). ][or in which less than ] [Substituted by Act 34 of 1960, Section
2, for sub-Section (4) (w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ] [fifteen] [Substituted by Act 58
of 1981, Section 2, for " thirty" (w.e.f. 26.1.1982). ][persons were employed,
immediately before the commencement of this Act.] [Substituted by Act 34 of
1960, Section 2, for sub-Section (4) (w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ][Substituted by Act
34 of 1960, Section 2, for sub-Section (4) (w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ]

### 2. Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"adolescent" means a person who has completed his [fourteenth] year but has
not completed his eighteenth year;(b)"adult" means a person who has completed
his eighteenth year;(c)"child" means a person who has not completed his
[fourteenth] [Substituted by Act 61 of 1986, Section 24, for " fifteenth"
(w.e.f. 23.12.1986). ] year;(d)"day" means a period of twenty-four hours
beginning at midnight;(e)"employer", when used in relation to a plantation,
means the person who has the ultimate control over the affairs of the
plantation, and where the affairs of any plantation are entrusted to any other
person (whether called a managing agent, manager, superintendent or by any
other name) such other person shall be deemed to be the employer in relation
to that plantation;Explanation. - For the purposes of this clause, "the person
who has the ultimate control over the affairs of the plantation" means in the
case of a plantation owned or controlled by-(i)a company, firm or other
association of individuals, whether incorporated or not, every director,
partner or individual;(ii)the Central Government or State Government or any
local authority, the person or persons appointed to manage the affairs of the
plantation; and(iii)a lessee, the lessee;';(ee)[ "family", when used in
relation to a worker, means- [ Inserted by Act 34 of 1960, Section 3 (w.e.f.
21.11.1960).](i)his or her spouse, and(ii)the legitimate and adopted children
of the worker dependent upon him or her, who have not completed their
eighteenth year,[and includes parents and widow sister, dependent upon him or
her] [Added by Act 17 of 2010 (w.e.f. 18.5.2010) ]](eee)[ "inspector" means an
inspector of plantations appointed under sub-section (1) of section 4 and
includes an additional inspector of plantations appointed under sub-section
(1-A) of that section;] [ Inserted by Act 58 of 1981, Section 3 (w.e.f.
26.1.1982).](f)[ "plantation" means any plantation to which this Act, whether
wholly or in part, applies and includes offices, hospitals, dispensaries,
schools, and any other premises used for any purpose connected with such
plantation, but does not include any factory on the premises to which the
provisions of the Factories Act, 1948 (63 of 1948), apply;] [ Substituted by
Act 34 of 1960, Section 3, for Clauses (f), (h) and (k) (w.e.f.
21.11.1960).](g)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(h)[ "qualified medical practitioner" means a person holding a
qualification granted by an authority specified or notified under section 3 of
the Indian Medical Degrees Act, 1916 (7 of 1916), or specified in the
Schedules to the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), and includes
any person having a certificate granted under any Provincial or State Medical
Council Act;] [Substituted by Act 34 of 1960, Section 3, for Clauses (f), (h)
and (k) (w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ](i)"wages" has the meaning assigned to it in
clause (h) of section 2 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948);(j)"week"
means a period of seven days beginning at midnight on Saturday night or such
other night as may be fixed by the State Government in relation to plantations
in any area after such consultation as may be prescribed with reference to the
plantations concerned in that area;(k)[ "worker" means a person employed in a
plantation for hire or reward, whether directly or through any agency, to do
any work, skilled, unskilled, manual or clerical, [Substituted by Act 34 of
1960, Section 3, for Clauses (f), (h) and (k) (w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ][and
includes a person employed on contract for more than sixty days in a year]
[Inserted by Act 17 of 2010 (w.e.f. 18.5.2010) ] but does not include-(i)a
medical officer employed in the plantation;(ii)any person employed in the
plantation (including any member of the medical staff) whose monthly wages
exceed ][rupees ten thousand] [Substitution for the words 'rupees seven
hundred and fifty' by Act 17 of 2010 (w.e.f. 18.5.2010) ](iii)[ any person
employed in the plantation primarily in a] [Substituted by Act 34 of 1960,
Section 3, for Clauses (f), (h) and (k) (w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ][managerial or
administrative capacity, notwithstanding that his monthly wages do not exceed
rupees ten thousand] [Substitution for the words 'managerial capacity,
notwithstanding that his monthly wages do not exceed rupees seven hundred and
fifty' by Act 17 of 2010 (w.e.f. 18.5.2010) ][; or [Substituted by Act 34 of
1960, Section 3, for Clauses (f), (h) and (k) (w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ](iv)any
person temporarily employed in the plantation in any work relating to the
construction, development or maintenance of buildings, roads, bridges, drains
or canals;](l)"young person" means a person who is either a child or an
adolescent.

### 3. Reference to time of day .-In this Act, references to time of day are
references to Indian Standard Time being five and a half hours ahead of
Greenwich Mean Time:

Provided that for any area in which the Indian Standard Time is not ordinarily
observed, the State Government may make rules-(a)specifying the
area;(b)defining the local mean time ordinarily observed therein;
and(c)permitting such time to be observed in all or any of the plantations
situated in that area.[CHAPTER I-A] Registration Of Plantations

### 3A. Appointment of registering officers .-The State Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette,-

(a)appoint such persons, being Gazetted Officers of Government, as it thinks
fit, to be registering officers for the purposes of this Chapter, and(b)define
the limits within which a registering officer shall exercise the powers and
discharge the functions conferred or imposed on him by or under this Chapter.

### 3B. Registration of plantations .-(1) Every employer of a plantation,
existing at the commencement of the Plantations Labour (Amendment) Act, 1981
shall, within a period of sixty days of such commencement, and every employer
of any other plantation coming into existence after such commencement shall,
within a period of sixty days of the coming into existence of such plantation,
make an application to the registering officer for the registration of such
plantation:

Provided that the registering officer may entertain any such application after
the expiry of the period aforesaid if he is satisfied that the applicant was
prevented by sufficient cause from making the application within such
period.(2)Every application made under sub-section (1) shall be in such form
and shall contain such particulars and shall be accompanied by such fees as
may be prescribed.(3)After the receipt of an application under sub-section
(1), the registering officer shall register the plantation.(4)Where a
plantation is registered under this section, the registering officer shall
issue a certificate of registration to the employer thereof in such form as
may be prescribed.(5)Where, after the registration of a plantation under this
section, any change occurs in the ownership or management or in the extent of
the area or other prescribed particulars in respect of such plantation, the
particulars regarding such change shall be intimated by the employer to the
registering officer within thirty days of such change in such form as may be
prescribed.(6)Where as a result of any intimation received under sub-section
(5), the registering officer is satisfied that the plantation is no longer
required to be registered under this section, he shall, by order in writing,
cancel the registration thereof and shall, as soon as practicable, cause such
order to be published in any one newspaper in the language of, and having
circulation in, the area where the plantation is situated.

### 3C. Appeals against orders of registering officer .-(1) Any person
aggrieved by the order of a registering officer under sub-section (6) of
section 3-B may, within thirty days of the publication of such order in the
newspaper under that sub-section, prefer an appeal to such authority as may be
prescribed:

Provided that the appellate authority may entertain an appeal under this sub-
section after the expiry of the aforesaid period if it is satisfied that the
appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from preferring the appeal within
such period.(2)After the receipt of an appeal under sub-section (1), the
appellate authority may, after giving the appellant, the employer referred to
in sub-section (5) of section 3-B and the registering officer an opportunity
of being heard in the matter, dispose of the appeal as expeditiously as
possible.

### 3D. Power to make rules .-(1) The State Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the purposes of this Chapter.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the form of application for the registration of a plantation, the
particulars to be contained in such application and the fees to be accompanied
alongwith such application;(b)the form of the certificate of
registration;(c)the particulars regarding any change in respect of which
intimation shall be given by the employer to the registering officer under
sub-section (5) of section 3-B and the form in which such change shall be
intimated;(d)the authority to which an appeal may be preferred under section
3-C and the fees payable in respect of such appeal;(e)the registers to be kept
and maintained by a registering officer.

## Chapter II  
Inspecting Staff

### 4. Chief Inspector and Inspectors .-

(1)The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint
for the State a duly qualified person to be the Chief Inspector of Plantations
and so many duly qualified persons to be Inspectors of Plantations subordinate
to the Chief Inspector as it thinks fit.[(1-A) The State Government may also,
by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint such officers of the State
Government or of any local authority under its control, as it thinks fit, to
be additional Inspectors of Plantations for all or any of the purposes of this
Act.](2)Subject to such rules as may be made in this behalf by the State
Government, the Chief Inspector may declare the local area or areas within
which, or the plantations with respect to which, Inspectors shall exercise
their powers under this Act, and may himself exercise the powers of an
Inspector within such limits as may be assigned to him by the State
Government.(3)The Chief Inspector and all Inspectors shall be deemed to be
public servants within the meaning of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 5. Powers and functions of Inspectors .-

Subject to any rules made by the State Government in this behalf, an Inspector
may within the local limits for which he is appointed-(a)make such examination
and inquiry as he thinks fit in order to ascertain whether the provisions of
this Act and of the rules made thereunder are being observed in the case of
any plantation;(b)with such assistants, if any, as he thinks fit, enter,
inspect and examine any plantation or part thereof at any reasonable time for
the purpose of carrying out the objects of this Act;(c)examine the crops grown
in any plantation or any worker employed therein or require the production of
any register or other document maintained in pursuance of this Act, and take
on the spot or otherwise statements of any person which he may consider
necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act;(d)exercise such other
powers as may be prescribed:Provided that no person shall be compelled under
this section to answer any question or make any statement tending to
incriminate himself.

### 6. Facilities to be afforded to Inspectors .-

Every employer shall afford the Inspector all reasonable facilities for making
any entry, inspection, examination or inquiry under this Act.

### 7. Certifying surgeons .-

(1)The State Government may appoint qualified medical practitioners to be
certifying surgeons for the purposes of this Act within such local limits or
for such plantation or class of plantations as it may assign to them
respectively.(2)The certifying surgeon shall carry out such duties as may be
prescribed in connection with-(a)the examination and certification of
workers;(b)the exercise of such medical supervision as may be prescribed where
adolescents [are] employed in any work in any plantation which is likely to
cause injury to their health.

## Chapter III  
Provisions As To Health

### 8. Drinking water .-

In every plantation effective arrangements shall be made by the employer to
provide and maintain at convenient places in the plantation a sufficient
supply of wholesome drinking water for all workers.

### 9. Conservancy .-

(1)There shall be provided separately for males and females in every
plantation a sufficient number of latrines and urinals of prescribed types so
situated as to be convenient and accessible to workers employed therein.(2)All
latrines and urinals provided under sub-section (1) shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition.

### 10. Medical facilities .-*

(1)In every plantation there shall be provided and maintained so as to be
readily available such medical facilities for the workers [and their families]
as may be prescribed by the State Government.(2)If in any plantation medical
facilities are not provided and maintained as required by sub-section (1) the
[State Government upon a request by the chief inspector] [Substitution for the
words 'chief inspector' by Act 17 of 2010 (w.e.f. 18.5.2010) ] may cause to be
provided and maintained therein such medical facilities, and recover the cost
thereof from the defaulting employer.(3)For the purposes of such recovery the
Chief Inspector may certify the costs to be recovered to the Collector, who
may recover the amount as an arrear of land revenue.

## Chapter IV  
Welfare

### 11. Canteens .-

(1)The State Government may make rules requiring that in every plantation
wherein one hundred and fifty workers are ordinarily employed, one or more
canteens shall be provided and maintained by the employer for the use of the
workers.(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such
rules may provide for-(a)the date by which the canteen shall be
provided;(b)the number of canteens that shall be provided and the standards in
respect of construction, accommodation, furniture and other equipment of the
canteens;(c)the foodstuffs which may be served therein and the charges which
may be made therefor;(d)the constitution of a managing committee for the
canteen and the representation of the workers in the management of the
canteen;(e)the delegation to the chief inspector, subject to such conditions
as may be prescribed, of the power to make rules under clause (c).

### 12. Creches .-

[(1) In every plantation wherein fifty or more women workers (including women
workers employed by any contractor) are employed or were employed on any day
of the preceding twelve months, or where the number of children of women
workers (including women workers employed by any contractor) is twenty or
more, there shall be provided and maintained by the employer suitable rooms
for the use of children of such women workers.Explanation .-For the purposes
of this sub-section and sub-section (1-A), "children" means persons who are
below the age of six years.][(1-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), if, in respect of any plantation wherein less than fifty women
workers (including women workers employed by any contractor) are employed or
were employed on any day of the preceding twelve months, or where the number
of children of such women workers is less than twenty, the State Government,
having regard to the number of children of such women workers deems it
necessary that suitable rooms for the use of such children should be provided
and maintained by the employer, it may, by order, direct the employer to
provide and maintain such rooms and thereupon the employer shall be bound to
comply with such direction.] [ Inserted by Act 58 of 1981, Section 6 (w.e.f.
26.1.1982).](2)[The rooms referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (1-A)]
[ Substituted by Act 58 of 1981, Section 6, for " such rooms" (w.e.f.
26.1.1982).] shall-(a)provide adequate accommodation;(b)be adequately lighted
and ventilated;(c)be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition; and(d)be
under the charge of a woman trained in the care of children and infants.(3)The
State Government may make rules prescribing the location and the standards of
[the rooms referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (1-A)] [ Substituted
by Act 58 of 1981, Section 6, for " such rooms" (w.e.f. 26.1.1982).] in
respect of their construction and accommodation and the equipment and
amenities to be provided therein.

### 13. Recreational facilities .-

The State Government may make rules requiring every employer to make provision
in his plantation for such recreational facilities for the workers and
children employed therein as may be prescribed.

### 14. Educational facilities .-

Where the children between the ages of six and twelve of workers employed in
any plantation exceed twenty-five in number, the State Government may make
rules requiring every employer to provide educational facilities for the
children in such manner and of such standard as may be prescribed.

### 15. [ Housing facilities.-

It shall be the duty of every employer to provide and maintain necessary
housing accommodation-(a)for every worker (including his family) residing in
the plantation;(b)for every worker (including his family) residing outside the
plantation, who has put in six months of continuous service in such plantation
and who has expressed a desire in writing to reside in the plantation:Provided
that the requirement of continuous service of six months under this clause
shall not apply to a worker who is a member of the family, of a deceased
worker who, immediately before his death, was residing in the plantation.]

### 16. Power to make rules relating to housing .-

The State Government may make rules for the purposes of giving effect to the
provisions of section 15 and, in particular providing for-(a)the standard and
specification of the accommodation to be provided;(b)the selection and
preparation of sites for the construction of houses and the size of such
plot;(c)the constitution of advisory boards consisting of representatives of
the State Government, the employer and the workers for consultation in regard
to matters connected with housing and the exercise by them of such powers,
functions and duties in relation thereto as may be specified;(d)the fixing of
rent, if any, for the housing accommodation provided for workers;(e)the
allotment to workers and their families of housing accommodation and of
suitable strips of vacant land adjoining such accommodation for the purpose of
maintaining kitchen gardens, [* * *], and for the eviction of workers and
their families from such accommodation;(f)access to the public to those parts
of the plantation wherein the workers are housed.[16-A. Liability of employer
in respect of accidents resulting from collapse of houses provided by
him.-(1)If death or injury is caused to any worker or a member of his family
as a result of the collapse of a house provided under section 15, and the
collapse is not solely and directly attributable to a fault on the part of any
occupant of the house or to a natural calamity, the employer shall be liable
to pay compensation.(2)The provisions of section 4 of, and Schedule IV to, the
Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923 (8 of 1923), as in force for the time being,
regarding the amount of compensation payable to a workman under that Act
shall, so far as may be, apply for the determination of the amount of
compensation payable under sub-section (1).

### 16\. B. Appointment of Commissioners .-

The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint as
many persons, possessing the prescribed qualifications, as it thinks fit, to
be Commissioners to determine the amount of compensation payable under section
16-A and may define the limits within which each such Commissioner shall
exercise the powers and discharge the functions conferred or imposed on him by
or under this Act.

### 16C. Application for compensation .-

(1)An application for payment of compensation under section 16-A may be made
to the Commissioner-(a)by the person who has sustained the injury; or(b)by any
agent duly authorised by the person who has sustained the injury; or(c)where
the person who has sustained the injury is a minor, by his guardian;
or(d)where death has resulted out of the collapse of the house, by any
dependant of the deceased or by any agent duly authorised by such dependant
or, if such dependant is a minor, by his guardian.(2)Every application under
sub-section (1) shall be in such form and shall contain such particulars as
may be prescribed.(3)No application for compensation under this section shall
be entertained unless it is made within six months of the collapse of the
house:Provided that the Commissioner may, if he is satisfied that the
applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from making the application within
the aforesaid period of six months, entertain such application within a
further period of six months.Explanation .-In this section, the expression
"dependant" has the meaning assigned to it in clause (d) of section 2 of the
Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923 (8 of 1923).

### 16\. D. Procedure and powers .-

(1)On receipt of an application under section 16-C, the Commissioner may make
an inquiry into the matter covered by the application.(2)In determining the
amount of compensation payable under section 16-A, the Commissioner may,
subject to any rules that may be made in this behalf, follow such summary
procedure as he thinks fit.(3)The Commissioner shall have all the powers of a
Civil Court while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908) in respect of the following matters, namely:-(a)summoning and enforcing
the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;(b)requiring the
discovery and production of any document;(c)receiving evidence on
affidavits;(d)requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any Court
or office;(e)issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or
documents;(f)any other matter which may be prescribed.(4)Subject to any rules
that may be made in this behalf, the Commissioner may, for the purpose of
determining any claim or compensation, choose one or more persons possessing
special knowledge of any matter relevant to the inquiry to assist him in
holding the inquiry.

### 16\. E. Liability to pay compensation, etc., to be decided by Commissioner
.-

(1)Any question as to the liability of an employer to pay compensation under
section 16-A, or as to the amount thereof, or as to the person to whom such
compensation is payable, shall be decided by the Commissioner.(2)Any person
aggrieved by a decision of the Commissioner refusing to grant compensation, or
as to the amount of compensation granted to him, or to the apportionment
thereof, may prefer an appeal to the High Court having jurisdiction over the
place where the collapse of the house has occurred, within ninety days of the
communication of the order of the Commissioner to such person:Provided that
the High Court may entertain any such appeal after the expiry of the period
aforesaid if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient
cause from preferring the appeal within such period:Provided further that
nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to authorise the High Court to
grant compensation in excess of the amount of compensation payable under
section 16-A.(3)Subject to the decision of the High Court in cases in which an
appeal is preferred under sub-section (2), the decision of the Commissioner
under sub-section (1) shall be final and shall not be called in question in
any Court.

### 16\. F. Saving as to certain rights .-

The right of any person to claim compensation under section 16-A shall be
without prejudice to the right of such person to recover compensation payable
under any other law for the time being in force; but no person shall be
entitled to claim compensation more than once in respect of the same collapse
of the house.

### 16\. G. Power to make rules .-

(1)The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for giving effect to the provisions of sections 16-A to 16-F (both
inclusive).(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for-(i)the qualifications and
conditions of service of Commissioners;(ii)the manner in which claims for
compensation may be inquired into and determined by the Commissioner;(iii)the
matters in respect of which any person may be chosen to assist the
Commissioner under section 16-D and the functions that may be performed by
such person;(iv)generally for the effective exercise of any powers conferred
on the Commissioner.]

### 17. Other facilities .-

The State Government may make rules requiring that in every plantation the
employer shall provide the workers with such number and type of umbrellas,
blankets, rain coats or other like amenities for the protection of workers
from rain or cold as may be prescribed.

### 18. Welfare officers .-

(1)In every plantation wherein three hundred or more workers are ordinarily
employed the employer shall employ such number of welfare officers as may be
prescribed.(2)The State Government may prescribe the duties, qualifications
and conditions of service of officers employed under sub-section (1).[CHAPTER
IV A Provisions As To Safety

### 18A. Safety. -

(1)In every plantation, effective arrangements shall be made by the employer
to provide for the safety of workers in connection with the use, handling,
storage and transport of insecticides, chemicals and toxic substances.(2)The
State Government may make rules for prohibiting or, restricting employment of
women or adolescents in using or handling hazardous chemicals.(3)The employer
shall appoint persons possessing the prescribed qualifications to supervise
the use, handling, storage and transportation of insecticides, chemicals and
toxic substances in his plantation.(4)Every employer shall ensure that every
worker in plantation employed for handling, mixing, blending and applying
insecticides, chemicals and toxic substances, is trained about the hazards
involved in different operations in which he is engaged, the various safety
measures and safe work practices to be adopted in emergencies arising from
spillage of such insecticides chemicals and toxic substances and such other
matters as may be prescribed by the State Government.(5)Every worker who is
exposed to insecticides, chemicals and toxic substances shall be medically
examined periodically, in such manner as may be prescribed, by the State
Government.(6)Every employer shall maintain health record of every worker who
is exposed to insecticides, chemicals and toxic substances which are used,
handled, stored or transported in a plantation, and every such worker shall
have access to such record.(7)Every employer shall provide-(a)washing, bathing
and clock room facilities; and(b)protective clothing and equipment, to every
worker engaged in handling insecticides, chemicals or toxic substances in such
manner as may be prescribed by the State Government.(8)Every employer shall
display in the plantation a list of permissible concentrations of
insecticides, chemicals and toxic substances in the breathing zone of the
workers engaged in the handling and application of such insecticides,
chemicals and toxic substances.(9)Every employer shall exhibit such
precautionary notices as may be prescribed by the State Government indicating
the hazards of insecticides, chemicals and toxic substances.

### 18B. Power of State Government to make rules. - (1) The State Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the
purposes of this Chapter.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the restriction on employment of women and adolescents for handling
hazardous chemicals under sub-section (2) of section 18A;(b)the qualifications
of supervisor appointed under sub-section (3) of section 18A;(c)the matters
for training of workers under sub-section (4) of section 18A;(d)the medical
examination of workers under sub-section (5) of section 18A;(e)the facilities
and equipment to be provided to the workers engaged in handling insecticides,
chemicals and toxic substances under sub-section (7) of section 18A;(f)the
precautionary notices to be exhibited under sub-section (9) of section 18A.]

## Chapter V  
Hours And Limitation Of Employment

### 19\. Weekly hours .-

[(1)] [Added by Act 17 of 2010 (w.e.f. 18.5.2010)] Save as otherwise expressly
provided in this Act, no adult worker shall be required or allowed to work on
any plantation in excess of [forty-eight hours] [ Substituted by Act 58 of
1981, Section 9, for " fifty-four hours" (w.e.f. 26.1.1982).] a week and no
adolescent [* *] [Certain words [or child] omitted by Act 17 of 2010 (w.e.f.
18.5.2010) ] for more than [twenty-seven hours] [ Substituted by Act 58 of
1981, Section 9, for " forty hours" (w.e.f. 26.1.1982).] a week.(2)[ Where an
adult worker works in any plantation on any day in excess of the number of
hours constituting a normal working day or for more than forty-eight hours in
any week, he shall, in respect of such overtime work, be entitled to twice the
rates of ordinary wages:Provided that no such worker shall be allowed to work
for more than nine hours on any day and more than fifty-four hours in any
week.(3)For any work done on any closed holiday in the plantation or on any
day of rest, a worker shall be entitled to twice the rates of ordinary wages
as in the case of overtime work.] [ Inserted by Act 58 of 1981, Section 9
(w.e.f. 26.1.1982).]

### 20. Weekly holidays .-

(1)The State Government may by rules made in this behalf-(a)provide for a day
of rest in every period of seven days which shall be allowed to all
workers;(b)[ provide for the conditions subject to which, and the
circumstances in which, an adult worker may be required or allowed to work
overtime.](2)Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (a) of sub-section
(1) where a worker is willing to work on any day of rest which is not a closed
holiday in the plantation, nothing contained in this section shall prevent him
from doing so:Provided that in so doing a worker does not work for more than
ten days consecutively without a holiday for a whole day
intervening.Explanation 1.-Where on any day a worker has been prevented from
working in any plantation by reason of tempest, fire, rain or other natural
causes, that day, may, if he so desires, be treated as his day of rest for the
relevant period of seven days within the meaning of sub-section
(1).Explanation 2.-Nothing contained in this section shall apply to any worker
whose total period of employment including any day spent on leave is less than
six days.

### 21. Daily intervals for rest .-

The period of work on each day shall be so fixed that no period shall exceed
five hours and that no worker shall work for more than five hours before he
has had an interval for rest for at least half an hour.

### 22. Spread-over .-

The period of work of an adult worker in a plantation shall be so arranged
that inclusive of his interval for rest under section [21] it shall not
spread-over more than twelve hours including the time spent in waiting for
work on any day.

### 23. Notice of period of work .-

(1)There shall be displayed and correctly maintained in every plantation a
notice of periods of work in such form and manner as may be prescribed showing
clearly for every day the periods during which the workers may be required to
work.(2)Subject to the other provisions contained in this Act, no worker shall
be required or allowed to work in any plantation otherwise than in accordance
with the notice of periods of work displayed in the plantation.(3)An employer
may refuse to employ a worker for any day if on that day he turns up for work
more than half an hour after the time fixed for the commencement of the day's
work.

### 24. [ Prohibition of employment of Children.-

No child shall be employed to work in any plantation.]

Prior to addition section 24 read as -24\. Prohibition of employment of young
children.-[Omitted by the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act,1986
(61of1986),section24 (w.e.f.23-12-1986)].  
---  
  
### 25. Night work for women [* *].-

Except with the permission of the State Government, no woman [* * ] [Certain
words [or child] omitted by Act 17 of 2010 (w.e.f. 18.5.2010) ] worker shall
be employed in any plantation otherwise than between the hours of 6 a.m. and 7
p.m.:Provided that nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to
midwives and nurses employed as such in any plantation.

### 26. Non-adult workers to carry tokens .-

No [* * ] [* * *] [ The words " who has completed his twelfth year" omitted by
Act 61 of 1986, Section 26 (w.e.f. 23.12.1986).] [* * ] [The words [and
no]omitted by Act 17 of 2010 (w.e.f. 18.5.2010) ] adolescent shall be required
or allowed to work in any plantation unless-(a)a certificate of fitness
granted with reference to him under section 27 is in the custody of the
employer; and(b)such [* * ] [The words [child or] omitted by Act 17 of 2010
(w.e.f. 18.5.2010) ] adolescent carries with him while he is at work a token
giving a reference to such certificate.

### 27. Certificate of fitness .-

(1)A certifying surgeon shall, on the application of any young person or his
parent or guardian accompanied by a document signed by the employer or any
other person on his behalf that such person will be employed in the plantation
if certified to be fit for work, or on the application of the employer or any
other person on his behalf with reference to any young person intending to
work, examine such person and ascertain his fitness for work [* * ] as an
adolescent.(2)A certificate of fitness granted under this section shall be
valid for a period of twelve months from the date thereof, but may be
renewed.(3)Any fee payable for a certificate under this section shall be paid
by the employer and shall not be recoverable from the young person, his
parents or guardian.

### 28. Power to require medical examination .-

An Inspector may, if he thinks necessary so to do, cause any young person
employed in a plantation to be examined by a certifying surgeon.

## Chapter VI  
Leave With Wages

### 29. Application of Chapter .-

The provisions of this Chapter shall not operate to the prejudice of any
rights to which a worker may be entitled under any other law or under the
terms of any award, agreement, or contract of service:Provided that where such
award, agreement or contract of service provides for a longer leave with wages
than provided in this Chapter the worker shall be entitled only to such longer
leave.Explanation .-For the purpose of this Chapter leave shall not, except as
provided in section 30, include weekly holidays or holidays for festivals or
other similar occasions.

### 30. Annual leave with wages .-

(1)Every worker shall be allowed leave with wages for a number of days
calculated at the rate of-(a)if an adult, one day for every twenty days of
work performed by him, and(b)if a young person, one day for every fifteen days
of work performed by him:[* * *][ Explanation ] [Inserted by Act 34 of 1960,
Section 6 (w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ][1] [ Explanation renumbered as Explanation 1
thereof by Act 58 of 1981, Section 11 (w.e.f. 26.1.1982).][.-For the purposes
of calculating leave under this sub-section,-(a)any day on which no work or
less than half a day's work is performed shall not be counted, and(b)any day
on which half or more than half a day's work is performed shall be counted as
one day.][ Explanation 2.-The leave admissible under this sub-section shall be
exclusive of all holidays, whether occurring during, or at either end of, the
period of leave.] [ Inserted by Act 58 of 1981, Section 11 (w.e.f.
26.1.1982).](2)If a worker does not in any one period of twelve months take
the whole of the leave allowed to him under sub-section (1), any leave not
taken by him shall be added to the leave to be allowed to him under that sub-
section in the succeeding period of twelve months.(3)A worker shall cease to
earn any leave under this section when the earned leave due to him amounts to
thirty days.(4)[ If the employment of a worker who is entitled to leave under
this section is terminated by the employer before he has taken the entire
leave to which he is entitled, the employer shall pay him the amount payable
under section 31 in respect of the leave not taken, and such payment shall be
made before the expiry of the second working day after such termination.] [
Inserted by Act 34 of 1960, Section 6 (w.e.f. 21.11.1960).]

### 31. Wages during leave period .-

[(1) For the leave allowed to a worker under section 30, he shall be
paid,-(a)if employed wholly on a time-rate basis, at a rate equal to the daily
wage payable to him immediately before the commencement of such leave under
any law or under the terms of any award, agreement or contract of service,
and(b)in other cases, including cases where he is, during the preceding twelve
calendar months, paid partly on a time-rate basis and partly on a piece-rate
basis, at the rate of the average daily wage calculated over the preceding
twelve calendar months.Explanation .-For the purposes of clause (b) of sub-
section (1), the average daily wage shall be computed on the basis of his
total full-time earnings during the preceding twelve calendar months,
exclusive of any overtime earnings or bonus, if any, but inclusive of dearness
allowance.(1-A) In addition to the wages for the leave period at the rates
specified in sub-section (1), a worker shall also be paid the cash value of
food and other concessions, if any, allowed to him by the employer in addition
to his daily wages unless these concessions are continued during the leave
period.] [Inserted by Act 34 of 1960, Section 6 (w.e.f. 21.11.1960). ](2)A
worker who has been allowed leave for [any period not less than] [ Substituted
by Act 42 of 1953, Section 4 and Schedule III, for " any period less than"
(w.e.f. 23.12.1953).] four days in the case of an adult and five days in the
case of a young person under section 30 shall, before his leave begins, be
paid his wages for the period of the leave allowed.

### 32. [ Sickness and maternity benefits.-

(1)Subject to any rules that may be made in this behalf, every worker shall be
entitled to obtain from his employer,-][*] [ Letter and brackets " (a)"
omitted by Act 53 of 1961, Section 29.][ in the case of sickness certified by
a qualified medical practitioner, sickness allowance, ] [[On the enforcement
of the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 (53 of 1961) in a State in relation to
establishments in that State referred to in Section 1(3) thereof, Section 32
will stand amended as follows:-(a)In sub-Section (1), the letter and brackets
" (a)" before the words " in the case of sickness" , the word and after the
words " sickness allowance" and clause (b) shall be omitted;(b)in sub-Section
(2), the words " or maternity" shall be omitted; ]][*] [ The word " and" and
Clause (b) omitted by Act 53 of 1961, Section 29.][* * *] [The word " and" and
Clause (b) omitted by Act 53 of 1961, Section 29. ][at such rate, for such
period and at such intervals as may be prescribed.(2)The State Government may
make rules regulating the payment of sickness ] [[On the enforcement of the
Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 (53 of 1961) in a State in relation to
establishments in that State referred to in Section 1(3) thereof, Section 32
will stand amended as follows:-(a)In sub-Section (1), the letter and brackets
" (a)" before the words " in the case of sickness" , the word and after the
words " sickness allowance" and clause (b) shall be omitted;(b)in sub-Section
(2), the words " or maternity" shall be omitted; ]][* * *] [ The words " or
maternity" omitted by Act 53 of 1961, Section 29.][ allowance and any such
rules may specify the circumstances in which such allowance shall not be
payable or shall cease to be payable, and in framing any rules under this
section the State Government shall have due regard to the medical facilities
that may be provided by the employer in any plantation.] [[On the enforcement
of the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 (53 of 1961) in a State in relation to
establishments in that State referred to in Section 1(3) thereof, Section 32
will stand amended as follows:-(a)In sub-Section (1), the letter and brackets
" (a)" before the words " in the case of sickness" , the word and after the
words " sickness allowance" and clause (b) shall be omitted;(b)in sub-Section
(2), the words " or maternity" shall be omitted; ]][CHAPTER VI-A] [ Inserted
by Act 58 of 1981, Section 12 (w.e.f. 26.1.1982).] Accidents

### 32\. A. Notice of accident .-

Where in any plantation, an accident occurs which causes death or which causes
any bodily injury to a worker by reason of which the worker injured is
prevented from working for a period of forty-eight hours or more immediately
following the accident, or which is of such a nature as may be prescribed in
this behalf, the employer thereof shall send notice thereof to such
authorities, in such form, and within such time, as may be prescribed.

### 32B. Register of accidents .-

The employer shall maintain a register of all accidents which occur in the
plantation in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed.[32-C.
Compensation. -The employer shall give compensation to a worker in plantation
in case of accident and the memorandum relating to such compensation shall be
got registered by the employer with the Commissioner in accordance with the
provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923.]

## Chapter VII  
Penalties And Procedure

### 33. Obstruction .-

(1)Whoever obstructs an Inspector in the discharge of his duties under this
Act or refuses or wilfully neglects to afford the Inspector any reasonable
facility for making any inspection, examination or inquiry authorised by or
under this Act in relation to any plantation, shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to [six months, or with fine which
may extend to ten thousand rupees, or with both](2)Whoever wilfully refuses to
produce on the demand of an Inspector any register or other document kept in
pursuance of this Act, or prevents or attempts to prevent or does anything
which he has reason to believe is likely to prevent any person from appearing
before or being examined by an Inspector acting in pursuance of his duties
under this Act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to [six months, or with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees,
or with both] [Substitution for the words 'three months, or with fine which
may extend to five hundred rupees, or with both' by Act 17 of 2010 (w.e.f.
18.5.2010) ]

### 34. Use of false certificate of fitness .-

Whoever knowingly uses or attempts to use as a certificate of fitness granted
to himself under section 27 a certificate granted to another person under that
section, or having been granted a certificate of fitness to himself, knowingly
allows it to be used, or allows an attempt to use it to be made by another
person, shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to [two months,
or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both]

### 35. Contravention of provisions regarding employment of labour .-

Whoever, except as otherwise permitted by or under this Act, contravenes any
provision of this Act or of any rules made thereunder, prohibiting,
restricting or regulating the employment of persons in a plantation, shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to [six months, or
with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees, or with both]

### 36. Other offences .-

Whoever contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or of any rules made
thereunder for which no other penalty is elsewhere provided by or under this
Act shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to [six
months, or with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees, or with both]

### 37. Enhanced penalty after previous conviction .-

If any person who has been convicted of any offence punishable under this Act
is again guilty of an offence involving a contravention of the same provision,
he shall be punishable on a subsequent conviction with imprisonment which may
extend to [one year, or with fine which shall not be less than ten thousand
rupees but which may extend to one lakh rupees, or with both]:Provided that
for the purposes of this section no cognizance shall be taken of any
conviction made more than two years before the commission of the offence which
is being punished.[37-A. Power of Court to make orders.-(1)Where an employer
is convicted of an offence punishable under section 36, the Court may, in
addition to awarding any punishment, by order in writing, require him within
such period as may be specified in the order (which the Court may, if it
thinks fit and on an application made in this behalf by the employer, from
time to time, extend) to take such measures as may be so specified for
remedying the matters in respect of which the offence was committed.(2)Where
an order is made under sub-section (1), the employer shall not be liable under
this Act in respect of the continuation of the offence during the period or
extended period, as the case may be, specified by the Court, but if, on the
expiry of such period or extended period, the order of the Court has not been
fully complied with, the employer shall be deemed to have committed a further
offence and he shall, on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to six months and with fine which may extend to three
hundred rupees for every day after such expiry.]

### 38. Exemption of employer from liability in certain cases .-

Where an employer charged with an offence under this Act, alleges that another
person is the actual offender, he shall be entitled upon complaint made by him
in this behalf to have, on giving to the prosecutor in this behalf three clear
days' notice in writing of his intention so to do, that other person brought
before the Court on the day appointed for the hearing of the case and if,
after the commission of the offence has been proved, the employer proves to
the satisfaction of the Court that-(a)he has used due diligence to enforce the
execution of the relevant provisions of this Act; and(b)that the other person
committed the offence in question without his knowledge, consent or
connivance, the said other person shall be convicted of the offence and shall
be liable to the like punishment as if he were the employer and the employer
shall be acquitted:Provided that-(a)the employer may be examined on oath and
his evidence and that of any witness whom he calls in his support shall be
subject to cross-examination on behalf of the person he charges to be the
actual offender and by the prosecutor, and(b)if, in spite of due diligence,
the person alleged as the actual offender cannot be brought before the Court
on the day appointed for the hearing of the case, the Court shall adjourn the
hearing thereof from time to time so, however, that the total period of such
adjournment does not exceed three months, and if, by the end of the said
period, the person alleged as the actual offender cannot still be brought
before the Court, the Court shall proceed to hear the case against the
employer.

### 39. [ Cognizance of offences.-

No court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act except on a
complaint made by any worker or an office bearer of a trade union of which
such worker is a member or an inspector and no court inferior to that of a
metropolitan magistrate or a judicial magistrate of the first class shall try
any offence punishable under this Act.]

Prior to substitution section 39 read as -39\. Cognizance of offences.-No
Court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act except on complaint
made by, or with the previous sanction in writing of, the Chief Inspector and
no Court inferior to that of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the
second class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.  
---  
  
### 39A. [ Protection of action taken in good faith.-

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this
Act]

### 40. Limitation of prosecutions .-

No Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this Act unless
the complaint thereof has been made or is made within three months from the
date on which the alleged commission of the offence came to the knowledge of
an inspector:Provided that where the offence consists of disobeying a written
order made by an Inspector, complaint thereof may be made within six months of
the date on which the offence is alleged to have been committed.

## Chapter VIII  
Miscellaneous

### 41. Power to give directions .-

The Central Government may give directions to the Government of any State as
to the carrying into execution in the State of the provisions contained in
this Act.

### 42. Power to exempt .-

The State Government may, by order in writing, exempt, subject to such
conditions and restrictions as it may think fit to impose, any employer or
class of employers from all or any of the provisions of this Act:Provided that
no such exemption [other than an exemption from section 19] shall be granted
except with the previous approval of the Central Government.

Additional Information6  
---  
  
All employees in Tamil Nadu have been exempted from the provisions of Sections
19 and 20 of this Act. Hospitals and medical staff, domestic servants, nursery
men, watchmen, cattle keepers, scavengers and sweepers employed in plantations
in Tamil Nadu have been exempted from the provisions of Sections 19, 20, 21
and 22.  
---  
  
### 43. General power to make rules .-

(1)The State Government may, subject to the condition of previous publication,
make [rules] to carry out the purposes of this Act:Provided that the date to
be specified under clause (3) of section 23 of the General Clauses Act, 1897
(10 of 1897) shall not be less than six weeks from the date on which the draft
of the proposed rules was published.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to
the generality of the foregoing power, any such rules may provide for-(a)the
qualifications required in respect of the Chief Inspector and Inspector;(b)the
powers which may be exercised by Inspectors and the areas in which and the
manner in which such powers may be exercised;(c)the medical supervision which
may be exercised by certifying surgeons;(d)the examination by Inspectors or
other persons of the supply and distribution of drinking water in
plantations;(e)appeals from any order of the Chief Inspector or Inspector and
the form in which, the time within which and the authorities to which, such
appeals may be preferred;(f)the time within which housing, recreational,
educational or other facilities required by this Act to be provided and
maintained may be so provided;(g)the types of latrines and urinals that should
be maintained in plantations;(h)the medical, recreational and educational
facilities that should be provided in plantations;(i)the form and manner in
which notices of periods of work shall be displayed and maintained;(j)the
registers which should be maintained by employers and the returns, whether
occasional or periodical, as in the opinion of the State Government may be
required for the purposes of this Act; [*] [ The word " and" omitted by Act 58
of 1981, Section 14 (w.e.f. 26.1.1982).](k)the hours of work for a normal
working day for the purpose of wages and overtime;(l)[ any other matter which
is required to be or may be, prescribed.] [ Added by Act 58 of 1981, Section
14 (w.e.f. 26.1.1982).](3)[ Every rule made by the State Government under this
Act shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid before the State
Legislature.] [Substituted by Act 17 of 2010 (w.e.f. 18.5.2010) ](4)[ Every
rule made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may
be after it is made, before the State Legislature.] [ Added by Act 4 of 2005,
Section 2 and Schedule (w.e.f. 11.1.2005).]

