## Union of India - Act

## The Protection Of Civil Rights Act, 1955

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Protection Of Civil Rights Act, 1955

## Act 22 of 1955

  * Published on 1 January 1955 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1955 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1955.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Protection Of Civil Rights Act, 1955(22 of 1955)

### 167.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-Under article 17 of the Constitution,
untouchability is abolished and its practice in any form is forbidden. The
enforcement of any disability arising out of untouchability shall be an
offence punishable in accordance with the law. As no Central law exists on the
subject, a law has to be enacted by Parliament as required by sub-clause (ii)
of clause (a) of article 35 of the Constitution and the Bill has been prepared
in pursuance of this requirement.It is not possible to define untouchability
and, therefore, the scheme of the draft Bill is to make express provisions
with respect to the more common forms of untouchability which are practised in
India. The special features of this Bill, as compared with tie existing State
laws on the subject, are that-(a) the Bill is not, confined to Hindus;(b) an
untouchable shall not cease to be an untouchable if he resides in any locality
other than the locality mentioned in relation to him under the Constitution
(Schedule Castes) Order, 1950;(c) whoever takes any part in the
excommunication of, or imposition of any social disability on, any person who
refuses to practise untouchability or does any act in furtherance of the
objects of this new law will also be guilty of an offence;(d) in addition to
the normal penalty for an offence, the Court may also cancel or suspend, any
licence in respect of profession, trade, calling or employment when an offence
is committed under this law during the course of any such profession, trade,
calling or employment.Offences under this new law are to be
cognizable.Statement of Objects and Reasons-Amendment Act 106 of
1975.-Untouchability has been abolished by article 17 of the Constitution, and
in pursuance of the provision of article 35 of the Constitution, the
Untouchability (Offences) Act, 1955 was passed by Parliament to make the
practice of untouchability a cognizable offence. During the working of this
Act, it was noticed that there were some lacunae in the provisions and that
these loopholes needed to be plugged. In April 1965, the Government of India
appointed the Committee on Untouchability, Educational and Economic
Development of the Schedule Castes under the Chairmanship of Shri L.
Elavaperumal to examine, inter alia, the problem of untouchability vis-a-vis
the working of the Untouchability (Offences) Act, 1955, and to make
recommendations to the Government for amendments to the Act. The Committee
submitted its report in January 1969 in which it made certain recommendations
with a view to plugging the loopholes and making the penal provisions more
stringent. The present Bill seeks to give effect to some of the
recommendations made by the said Committee.An Act to prescribe punishment for
the [preaching and practice of untouchability,] [Substituted by Act 106 of
1976, Section 2, for "Practice of untouchability" (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).] for
the enforcement of any disability arising therefrom and for matters connected
therewith.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixth Year of the Republic of
India as follows:

Enforced on 1.6.1955.With effect from 19.11.1976 the name of the
Untouchability (Offences) Act, 1955 (22 of 1955) has been changed to the
Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1955.  
---  
  
### 1. Short title, extent and commencement

(1)This Act may be called [The Protection of Civil Rights Act] [Substituted by
Act 106 of 1976, Section 3, for "the Untouchability (Offences_ Act" (w.e.f.
19.11.1976).] , 1955.(2)It [extends] [The Act has been extended to the Union
territories of- (1) Goa, Daman and Diu by Regulation 12 of 1962 (w.e.f.
26.1.1963). Goa is now a State, see Act 18 of 1987, Section 3 (w.e.f.
30.5.1987); (2) Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regulation 7 of 1963 (w.e.f.
1.7.1965); and (3) Pondicherry by Regulation 7 of 1963 (w.e.f. 1.10.1963)] to
the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions

.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)[ civil rights means
any right accruing to a person by reason of the abolition of untouchability by
article 17 of the Constitution;] [Clause (a) renumbered as Clause (a) and
Clause (a) inserted before Clause (aa) as so renumbered by Act 106 of 1976,
Section 4 (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).](aa)[] [Clause (a) renumbered as Clause (a) and
Clause (a) inserted before Clause (aa) as so renumbered by Act 106 of 1976,
Section 4 (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).] hotel includes a refreshment room, a boarding
house, a lodging house, a coffee house and a cafe;(b)place includes a house,
building and other structure and premises and also includes a tent, vehicle
and vessel;] [Substituted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 4, for Clause (b)
(w.e.f. 19.11.1976).](c)place or public entertainment includes any place to
which the public are admitted and in which an entertainment is provided or
held.Explanation. Entertainment includes any exhibition, performance, game,
sport and any other form of amusement;(d)place of public worship means a
place, by whatever name known, which is used as a place of public religious
worship or which is dedicated generally to, or is used generally by, persons
professing any religion or belonging to any religious denomination or any
section thereof, for the performance of any religious service, or for offering
prayers, therein, [and includes [Substituted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 4,
for "and includes all lands and subsidiary shrines appurtenant or attached to
any such palce" (w.e.f. 19.11.1976.)](i)all lands and subsidiary shrines
appurtenant or attached to any such place;(ii)a privately owned place of
worship which is, in fact, allowed by the owner thereof to be used as a place
of public worship; and(iii)such land or subsidiary shrine appurtenant to such
privately owned place of worship as is allowed by the owner thereof to be used
as a place of public religious worship;](da)[ prescribed means prescribed by
rules made under this Act; [Inserted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 4 (w.e.f.
19.11.1976.)](db)Scheduled Castes has the meaning assigned to it in clause
(24) of article 366 of the Constitution;](e)shop means any premises where
goods are sold either wholesale or by retail or both wholesale and by retail
[and includes [Substituted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 4, for[and includes a
laundry, a hair cutting saloon and any other place where services are rendered
to customers] (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).](i)any place from where goods are sold by a
hawker or vendor or from a mobile van or cart;(ii)a laundry and a hair cutting
saloon;(iii)any other place where services are rendered to customers.]

### 3. Punishment for enforcing religious disabilities

.Whoever on the ground of untouchability prevents any person(a)from entering
any place of public worship which is open to other persons professing the same
religion [- - -] [The words "or belonging to the same religious denomination"
omitted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 5 (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).] or any section
thereof, as such person; or(b)from worshipping or offering prayers or
performing any religious service in any place of public worship, or bathing
in, or using the waters of, any sacred tank, well, spring or water-course,
[river or lake or bathing at any ghat of such tank, water-course, river or
lake] [Inserted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 5 (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).]in the same
manner and to the same extent as is permissible to other persons professing
the same religion [- - -] [The words "or belonging to the same religious
denomination" omitted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 5 (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).] or
any section thereof, as such person,[shall be punishable with imprisonment for
a term of not less than one month and not more than six months and also with
fine which shall be not less than one hundred rupees and not more than five
hundred rupees.] [Substituted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 5, for "shall be
punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with both"
(w.e.f. 19.11.1976).]Explanation. For the purposes of this section and section
4 persons professing the Buddhist, Sikh or Jaina religion or persons
professing the Hindu religion in any of its forms or developments including
Virashavias, Lingayats, Adivasis, followers of Brahmo, Prarthana, Arya Samaj
and the Swaminarayan Sampraday shall be deemed to be Hindus.

### 4. Punishment for enforcing social disabilities

.Whoever on the ground of untouchability enforces against any person any
disability with regard to(i)access to any shop, public restaurant, hotel or
place of public entertainment; or(ii)the use of any utensils, and other
articles kept in any public restaurant, hotel, dharmshala, sarai or
musafirkhana for the use of the general public or [any section thereof]
[Substituted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 6, for "persons professing the same
religion, or belonging to the same religious denomination or any section
thereof,f as such person" (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).]; or(iii)the practice of any
profession or the carrying on of any occupation, trade or business [or
employment in any job] [Inserted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 6 (w.e.f.
19.11.1976).]; or(iv)the use of, or access to, any river, stream, spring,
well, tank, cistern, water-tap or other watering place, or any bathing ghat,
burial or cremation ground, any sanitary convenience, any road, or passage, or
any other place of public resort which other members of the public or [any
section thereof] [Substituted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 6, for "persons
professing the same religion, or belonging to the same religious denomination
or any section thereof,f as such person" (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).] have a right to
use or have assess to; or(v)the use of, or access to, any place used for a
charitable or a public purpose maintained wholly or partly out of State funds
or dedicated to the use of the general public, or [any section thereof]
[Substituted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 6, for "persons professing the same
religion, or belonging to the same religious denomination or any section
thereof,f as such person" (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).]; or(vi)the enjoyment of any
benefit under a charitable trust created for the benefit of the general public
or [any section thereof] [Substituted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 6, for
"persons professing the same religion, or belonging to the same religious
denomination or any section thereof,f as such person" (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).];
or(vii)the use of, or access to, any public conveyance; or(viii)the
construction, acquisition, or occupation of any residential premises in any
locality, whatsoever; or(ix)the use of any dharmshala, sarai or musafirkhana
which is open to the general public, or to [any section thereof] [Substituted
by Act 106 of 1976, Section 6, for "persons professing the same religion, or
belonging to the same religious denomination or any section thereof,f as such
person" (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).]; or(x)the observance of any social or religious
custom, usage or ceremony or [taking part in, or taking out, any religious,
social or cultural procession] [substituted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 6, for
"taking part in any religious procession" (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).]; or(xi)the use
of jewellery and finery,[shall be publishable with imprisonment for a term of
not less than one month and not more than six months and also with fine which
shall be not less than one hundred rupees and not more than five hundred
rupees.] [Substituted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 6, for "shall be punishable
with imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees, or with both" (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).][Explanation
[Inserted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 6 (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).].For the purposes
of this section, enforcement of any disability includes any discrimination on
the ground of untouchability.]

### 5. Punishment for refusing to admit persons to hospitals, etc

.Whoever on the ground of untouchability(a)refuses admission to any person to
any hospital, dispensary, educational institution or any hostel [* *] [The
words "attached thereto" omitted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 7 (w.e.f.
19.11.1976).], if such hospital, dispensary, educational institution or hostel
is established or maintained for the benefit of the general public or any
section thereof; or(b)does any act which discriminates against any such person
after admission to any of the aforesaid institutions,[shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term of not less than one month and not more than six
months and also with fine which shall be not less than one hundred rupees and
not more than five hundred rupees.] [Substituted by Act 106 of 1976, Section
9, for "shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months,
or with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, or with both" (w.e.f.
19.11.1976).]

### 6. Punishment for refusing to sell goods or render services

.Whoever on the ground of untouchability refuses to sell any goods or render
any service to any person at the same time and place and on the same terms and
conditions at or on which such goods are sold or services are rendered to
other persons in the ordinary course of business [shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term of not less than one month and not more than six
months and also with fine which shall be not less than one hundred rupees and
not more than five hundred rupees] [Substituted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 9,
for "shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months, or
with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, or with both" (w.e.f.
19.11.1976).].

### 7. Punishment for other offences arising out of untouchability

(1)Whoever(a)prevents any person from exercising any right accruing to him by
reason of the abolition of untouchability under article 17 of the
Constitution; or(b)molests, injures, annoys, obstructs or causes or attempts
to cause obstruction to any person in the exercise of any such right or
molests, injures, annoys or boycotts any person by reason of his having
exercised any such right; or(c)by words, either spoken or written, or by signs
or by visible representations or otherwise, incites or encourages any person
or the public generally to practice untouchability in any form whatsoever;
[or] [Inserted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 9 (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).](d)[ insults
or attempts to insult, on the ground of untouchability, a member of a
Scheduled Caste,] [Inserted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 9 (w.e.f.
19.11.1976).][shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term of not less
than one month and not more than six months and also with fine which shall be
not less than one hundred rupees and not more than five hundred rupees.]
[Substituted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 9, for "shall be punishable with
imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
five hundred rupees, or with both" (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).][Explanation I]
[Explanation renumbered as Explanation I thereof and Explanation II inserted
by Act 106 of 1976, Section 9 (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).] .A person shall be deemed
to boycott another person who(a)refuses to let to such other person or refuses
to permit such other person, to use or occupy any house or land or refuses to
deal with, work for hire for, or do business with, such other person or to
render to him or receive from him any customary service, or refuses to do any
of the said things on the terms on which such things would be commonly done in
the ordinary course of business; or(b)abstains from such social, professional
or business relations as he would ordinarily maintain with such other
person.[Explanation II [Explanation renumbered as Explanation I thereof and
Explanation II inserted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 9 (w.e.f.
19.11.1976).].For the purposes of clause (c), a person shall be deemed to
incite or encourage the practice of untouchability(i)if he, directly or
indirectly, preaches untouchability or its practice in any form; or(ii)if he
justifies, whether on historical, philosophical or religious grounds or on the
ground of any tradition of the caste system or on any other ground, the
practice of untouchability in any form.][(1-A) Whoever commits any offence
against the person or property of any individual as a reprisal or revenge for
his having exercised any right accruing to him by reason of the abolition of
untouchability under article 17 of the Constitution, shall, where the offence
is punishable with imprisonment for a term exceeding two years, be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than two years and also
with fine.] [Inserted by Act 106 of 1976, Section9 (w.e.f.
19.11.1976).](2)Whoever(i)denies to any person belonging to his community or
any section thereof any right or privilege to which such person would be
entitled as a member of such community or section, or(ii)takes any part in the
ex-communication of such person, on the ground that such person has refused to
practice untouchability or that such person has done any act in furtherance of
the objects of this Act, that such person has done any act in furtherance of
the objects of this Act,[shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term of
not less than one month and not more than six months, and also with fine which
shall be not less than one hundred rupees and not more than five hundred
rupees.] [Substituted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 9, for "shall be punishalbe
with imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees, or with both" (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).][7-A.
Unlawful compulsory labour when to be deemed to be a practice of
untouchability [Inserted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 10 (w.e.f.
19.11.1976).](1)Whoever compels any person, on the ground of untouchability,
to do any scavenging or sweeping or to remove any carcass or to flay any
animal or the remove the umbilical cord or to do any other job of a similar
nature, shall be deemed to have enforced a disability arising out of
untouchability.(2)Whoever is deemed under sub-section (1) to have enforced a
disability arising out of untouchability shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which shall not be less than three months and not more than six
months and also with fine which shall not be less than one hundred rupees and
not more than five hundred rupees.Explanation. For the purposes of this
section, compulsion includes a threat of social or economic boycott.]

### 8. Cancellation or suspension of licences in certain cases

.When a person who is convicted of an offence under section 6 holds any
licence under any law for the time being in force in respect of any
profession, trade, calling or employment in relation to which the offence is
committed, the Court trying the offence may, without prejudice to any other
penalty to which such person may be liable under that section, direct that the
licence shall stand cancelled or be suspended for such period as the Court may
deem fit, and every order of the Court so cancelling or suspending a licence
shall have effect as if it had been passed by the authority competent to
cancel or suspend the licence under any such law.Explanation. In this section,
licence includes a permit or a permission.

### 9. Resumption or suspension of grants made by Government

.Where the manager or trustee of a place of public worship [or any educational
institution or hostel] [Inserted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 11 (w.e.f.
19.11.1976).] which is in receipt of a grant of land or money from the
Government is convicted of an offence under this Act and such conviction is
not reversed or quashed in any appeal or revision, the Government may, if in
its opinion the circumstances of the case warrant such a course, direct the
suspension or resumption of the whole or any part of such grant.

### 10. Abetment of offence

.Whoever abets any offence under this Act shall be punishable with the
punishment provided for the offence.[Explanation [Inserted by Act 106 of 1976,
Section 12 (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).].A public servant who wilfully neglects the
investigation of any offence punishable under this Act shall be deemed to have
abetted an offence punishable under this Act.][10-A. Power of State Government
to impose collective fine [Inserted by Act 106 of 1976, Section 13 (w.e.f.
19.11.1976).](1)If, after an inquiry in the prescribed manner, the State
Government is satisfied that the inhabitants of an area are concerned in, or
abetting the commission of, any offence punishable under this Act, or
harbouring persons concerned in the commission of such offence or failing to
render all the assistance in their power to discover or apprehend the offender
or offenders or suppressing material evidence of the commission of such
offence, the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
impose a collective fine on such inhabitants and apportion such fine amongst
the inhabitants who are liable collectively to pay it, and such apportionment
shall be made according to the State Governments judgment of the respective
means of such inhabitants and in making any such apportionment the State
Government may assign a portion of such fine to a Hindu undivided family to be
payable by it:Provided that the fine apportioned to an inhabitant shall not be
realised until the petition, if any, filed by him under sub-section (3) is
disposed of.(2)The notification made under sub-section (1) shall be proclaimed
in the area by beat of drum or in such other manner as the State Government
may think best in the circumstances to bring the imposition of the collective
fine to the notice of the inhabitants of the said area.(3)(a)Any person
aggrieved by the imposition of the collective fine under sub-section (1) or by
the order of apportionment, may, within the prescribed period, file a petition
before the state Government or such other authority as that Government may
specify in this behalf for being exempted from such fine or for modification
of the order of apportionment:Provided that no fee shall be charged for filing
such petition.(b)The State Government or the authority specified by it shall,
after giving to the petitioner a reasonable opportunity of being heard, pass
such order as it may think fit:Provided that the amount of the fine exempted
or reduced under this section shall not be realisable from any person, and the
total fine imposed on the inhabitants of an area under sub-section (1) shall
be deemed to have been reduced to that extent.(4)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (3), the State Government may exempt the victims of
any offence punishable under this Act or any person who does not, in its
opinion, fall within the category of persons specified in sub-section (1),
from the liability to pay the collective fine imposed under sub-section (1) or
any portion thereof.(5)The portion of collective fine payable by any person
(including a Hindu undivided family) may be recovered in the manner provided
by the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), for the recovery of fines
imposed by a Court as if such portion were a fine imposed by a Magistrate.]

### 11. Enhanced penalty on subsequent conviction

.Whoever having already been convicted of an offence under this Act or of an
abetment of such offence is again convicted of any such offence or abetment,
[shall, on conviction, be punishable(a)for the second offence, with
imprisonment for a term of not less than six months and not more than one
year, and also with fine which shall be not less than two hundred rupees and
not more than five hundred rupees;(b)for the third offence or any offence
subsequent to the third offence, with imprisonment for a term of not less than
one year and not more than two years, and also with fine which shall be not
less than five hundred rupees and not more than one thousand rupees.]

### 12. Presumption by Courts in certain cases

.Where any act constituting an offence under this Act is committed in relation
to a member of a Scheduled Caste [- - -] [The words, brackets and figures [as
defined in clause (24) of article 366 of the Constitution] omitted by Act 106
of 1976, Section 15 (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).], the Court shall presume, unless the
contrary is provided, that such act was committed on the ground of
untouchability.

### 13. Limitation of jurisdiction of civil Courts

(1)No civil Court shall entertain or continue any suit or proceeding or shall
pass any decree or order or execute wholly or partially any decree or order if
the claim involved in such suit or proceeding or if the passing of such decree
or order or if such execution would in any way be contrary to the provisions
of this Act.(2)No Court shall, in adjudicating any matter or executing any
decree or order, recognise any custom or usage imposing any disability on any
person on the ground of untouchability.

### 14. Offences by companies

(1)If the person committing an offence under this Act is a company, every
person who at the time of the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company,
shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing contained in
this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment, if he
proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he
exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an
offence under this Act has been committed with the consent of any director or
manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation. For the purposes of this section,(a)company means any
body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals;
and(b)director in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.[14-A.
Protection of action taken in good faith [Inserted by Act 106 of 1976, Section
16 (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).](1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding
shall lie against the Central Government or a State Government for anything
which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.(2)No suit
or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Government or a State
Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything which is
in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.] [Substituted by Act
106 of 1976, Section 14, for "shall, on every such subsequent conviction, be
punishable with both imprisonment and fine" (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).]

### 15. [ Offences to be cognizable and triable summarily [Substituted by Act
106 of 1976, Section 17, for Section 15 (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).]

(1)Notwith-standing anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974), every offence punishable under this Act shall be cognizable and
every such offence, except where it is punishable with imprisonment for a
minimum term exceeding three months, may be tried summarily by a Judicial
Magistrate of the first class or in a metropolitan area by a Metropolitan
Magistrate in accordance with the procedure specified in the said
Code.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 (2 of 1974), when any public servant is alleged to have committed the
offence of abetment of an offence punishable under this Act, while acting or
purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty, no Court shall take
cognizance of such offence of abetment except with the previous sanction(a)of
the Central Government, in the case of a person employed in connection with
the affairs of the Union; and(b)of the State Government, in the case of a
person employed in connection with the affairs of a State.

### 15\.

-A. Duty of State Government to ensure that the rights accruing from the abolition of untouchability may be availed of by the concerned persons(1)Subject to such rules as the Central Government may make in this behalf, the State Government shall take such measures as may be necessary for ensuring that the rights arising from the abolition of untouchability are made available to, and are availed of by, the persons subjected to any disability arising out of untouchability.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-section (1), such measures may include(i)the provision of adequate facilities including legal aid, to the persons subjected to any disability arising out of untouchability to enable them to avail themselves of such rights;(ii)the appointment of officers for initiating or exercising supervision over prosecutions for the contravention of the provisions of this Act;(iii)the setting up of special Courts for the trial of offences under this Act;(iv)the setting up of Committees at such appropriate levels as the State Government may think fit to assist the State Government in formulating or implementing such measures;(v)provision for periodic survey of the working of the provisions of this Act with a view to suggesting measures for the better implementation of the provisions of this Act;(vi)the identification of the areas where persons are under any disability arising out of untouchability and adoption of such measures as would ensure the removal of such disability from such areas.(3)The Central Government shall take such steps as may be necessary to co-ordinate the measures taken by the State Government under sub-section (1).(4)The Central Government shall, every year, place on the Table of each House of Parliament, a report on the measures taken by itself and by the State Governments in pursuance of the provisions of this section.]

### 16. Act to override other laws

.Save a otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the provisions of this Act
shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in
any other law for the time being in force, or any custom or usage or any
instrument having effect by virtue of any such law or any decree or other of
any Court or other authority.[16-A. Probation of Offenders Act, 1958, not to
apply to persons above the age of fourteen years [Inserted by Act 106 of 1976,
Section 18 (w.e.f. 19.11.1976).].The provisions of the Probation of Offenders
Act, 1958 (20 of 1958), shall not apply to any person above the age of
fourteen years who is found guilty of having committed any offence punishable
under this Act.

### 16\.

-B. Power to make rules(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.(2)Every rule made by the Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament which it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.]

### 17. Repeal

.The enactments specified in the Schedule are hereby repealed to the extent to
which they or any of the provisions contained therein correspond or are
repugnant to this Act or to any of the provisions contained therein.The
Schedule(See section 17)

### 1\. The Bihar Harijan (Removal of Civil Disabilities) Act, 1949 (Bihar Act
19 of 1949).

### 2\. The Bombay Harijan (Removal of Social Disabilities) Act, 1946 (Bombay
Act 10 of 1947).

### 3\. The Bombay Harijan Temple Entry Act, 1947 (Bombay Act 35 of 1947).

### 4\. The Central Provinces and Berar Scheduled Castes (Removal of Civil
Disabilities) Act, 1947 (Central Provinces and Berar Act 24 of 1947).

### 5\. The Central Provinces and Berar Temple Entry Authorisation Act, 1947
(Central Provinces and Berar Act 41 of 1947).

### 6\. The East Punjab (Removal of Religious and Social Disabilities) Act,
1948 (East Punjab Act 16 of 1948).

### 7\. The Madras Removal of Civil Disabilities Act, 1938 (Madras Act 21 of
1938).

### 8\. The Orissa Removal of Civil Disabilities Act, 1946 (Orissa Act 11 of
1946).

### 9\. The Orissa Temple Entry Authorisation Act, 1948 (Orissa Act 11 of
1948).

### 10\. The United Provinces Removal of Social Disabilities Act, 1947 (U.P.
Act 14 of 1947).

### 11\. The West Bengal Hindu Social Disabilities Removal Act, 1948 (West
Bengal Act 37 of 1948).

### 12\. The Hyderabad Harijan Temple Entry Regulation 1358F (No. 55 of 1358
Fasli).

### 13\. The Hyderabad Harijan (Removal of Social Disabilities) Regulation,
1358F (No. 55 of 1358 Fasli).

### 14\. The Madhya Bharat Harijan Ayogta Nivaran Vidhan, Samvat 2005 (Madhya
Bharat Act No. 15 of 1949).

### 15\. The Removal of Civil Disabilities Act, 1943 (Mysore Act 42 of 1943).

### 16\. The Mysore Temple Entry Authorisation Act, 1948 (Mysore Act 14 of
1948).

### 17\. The Saurashtra Harijan (Removal of Social Disabilities) Ordinance
(No. 40 of 1948).

### 18. The Travancore-Cochin Removal of Social Disabilities Act, 1125K
(Travancore-Cochin Act 8 of 1125).

### 19. The Travancore-Cochin Temple Entry (Removal of Disabilities) Act, 1950
(Travancore-Cochin Act 27 of 1950).

### 20. The Coorg Scheduled Castes (Removal of Civil Social Disabilities) Act,
1949 (Coorg Act 1 of 1949).

### 21. The Coorg Temple Entry Authorisation Act, 1949 (Coorg Act 2 of 1949).

