## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Rules for the Enforcement of Vaccination in the City of Chennai

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Rules for the Enforcement of Vaccination in the City of Chennai

## Rule THE-RULES-FOR-THE-ENFORCEMENT-OF-VACCINATION-IN-THE-CITY-OF-CHENNAI of
1956

  * Published on 27 January 1956 
  * Commenced on 27 January 1956 
  * [This is the version of this document from 27 January 1956.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Rules for the Enforcement of Vaccination in the City of ChennaiPublished
vide Notification G.O. MS. No. 290, Health, dated 27th January, 1956In
exercise of the powers conferred by section 344 and clause (a) of sub-section
(2) of section 347 of the [Chennai] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1996.] City Municipal [Corporation] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act
56 of 1961.] Act, 1919 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act IV of 1919), the Governor of
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] hereby makes the following rules for the enforcement
of vaccination in the city of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).]:-

### 1.

If any person who, or a child in whose care, is subject to be vaccinated in
pursuance of section 344 of the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.] City Municipal [Corporation] [Inserted by Tamil
Nadu Act 56 of 1961.] Act, 1919 declares before a Magistrate specially
empowered by the Government in this behalf that as a result of a careful
enquiry in to the subject, he believes that such vaccination will be injurious
to his health or the health of the child, as the case may be, the Magistrate
may, after giving notice to the Health Officer and hearing any representations
made by him or on his behalf, exempt such person or child from vaccination or
re-vaccination, on condition of the person aforesaid undertaking to subject
himself and the members of his family to isolation of such description and for
such period and to such further restrictions, if any, as may be directed by
the Magistrate.

### 2.

Any person who commits a breach of any undertaking given on by him under rule
1, shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to three-months or
with fine or with both.

### 3.

Any exemption granted under rule 1 shall cease to have effect after conviction
under rule 2 and no exemption shall be granted to any person who has been so
convicted.

