## Union of India - Act

## The Registration And Licensing of Industrial Undertakings Rules, 1952

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Registration And Licensing of Industrial Undertakings Rules, 1952

## Rule THE-REGISTRATION-AND-LICENSING-OF-INDUSTRIAL-UNDERTAKINGS-RULES-1952
of 1952

  * Published on 31 December 1953 
  * Commenced on 31 December 1953 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 December 1953.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Registration And Licensing of Industrial Undertakings Rules, 1952

### 1963.

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Registration and Licensing of Industrial
Undertakings Rules, 1952.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,(i)"the Act" means the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act,
1951 (LXV of 1951);(ii)"effective steps" shall mean one or more of the
following:(a)[ that 60 per cent or more of the capital issued for an
industrial undertaking which is a public company within the meaning of the
Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913), has been paid up;] [Substitued by
S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st October, 1953](b)that a substantial part of the factory
building has been constructed;(c)that a firm order has been placed for a
substantial part of the plant and machinery required for the undertaking.

### 3. Application for registration.

\- [(1) An application for the registration of an existing industrial
undertaking shall be made, in triplicate, to the [Ministry of Industrial
Development] [Substitued by S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st October, 1953], Government
of India, New Delhi, in Form A or B, as the case may be, appended to these
rules, at least three months before the expiry of the period fixed under sub-
section (1) of Section 10 of the Act in relation to that industrial
undertaking:]Provided that an application which is not made in time may be
entertained by the [Ministry of Industrial Development] [Substitued by G.S.R.
270(E), dated 14th June, 1974], if the applicant satisfies that Ministry that
there was sufficient cause for not making the application in time.(1A)[ Where
an application for the registration of an industrial undertaking is pending at
the commencement of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act,
1953, no fresh application for such registration shall be necessary under the
rule and any such pending application shall be disposed of in accordance with
the provisions of these rules] [Inserted by S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st OCtober,
1953](1B)[ Where an industrial undertaking consists of more than one factory a
separate Form A or B, as the case may be, shall be filled and sent in respect
of each factory.] [Inserted by S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st OCtober, 1953](2)[ Each
application shall be accompanied by a crossed demand draft for Rs. 2,500 drawn
on the State Bank of India, Nirman Bhawan, New Delhi, in favour of the Pay and
Accounts Officer, Ministry of Industry (Department of Industrial Development),
Government of India, New Delhi] [Substituted by G.S.R. 100(E), dated 18th
February, 1987, for sub-rule (2) as amended by G.S.R. 392(E), dated 17th
September, 1974.]

### 4. Acknowledgment of application.

\- On receipt of application, the receiving officer shall note thereon the
date of its receipts and shall send to the applicant an acknowledgment stating
the date of receipt.

### 5. Power of Central Government to ask for additional information.

\- The [Ministry of Industrial Development] [Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E),
dated 14th June, 1974] or the authority appointed by it [in this behalf]
[Substitued by S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st oCtober, 1953] may require the applicant
to furnish within a period to be specified by it, such additional information
as it may consider necessary for the purpose of registration.

### 6. Grant of registration certificate.

-If an application made under sub-rule (1) of rule 3 falls within the scope of that rule, the [Ministry of Industrial Development] [Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E), dated 14th June, 1974], shall, after such investigation as it may consider necessary, grant to the applicant, before the [expiry of the period fixed under Section 10 of the Act] [Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E), dated 14th June, 1974], a certificate of registration in Form C appended to these rules. If an application made under sub-rule (1) of rule 3 does not fall within the scope of that rule, the [Ministry of Industrial Development] [Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E), dated 14th June, 1974] shall inform the applicant accordingly.

### 7. Application for licence.

(1)Application for a licence or permission for the establishment of a new
industrial undertaking or any substantial expansion of [for the production or
manufacture of any new article in] [Inserted by G.S.R. 1781, dated 11th
December, 1967] an industrial undertaking shall be made before taking any of
the following steps :(a)raising from the public any part of the capita
required for the undertaking or expansion [or the production or manufacture of
the new article] [Inserted by G.S.R. 1781, dated 11th December,
1967](b)commencing the construction of any part of the factory building for
the undertaking or expansion [or the production or manufacture of the new
article] [Inserted by G.S.R. 1781, dated 11th December, 1967](c)placing order
for any part of the plant and machinery required for the undertaking or
expansion [or the production or manufacture of the new article] [Inserted by
G.S.R. 1781, dated 11th December, 1967](1A)[ An application for a licence or
permission for changing the location of the whole or any part of an industrial
undertaking which has been registered or in respect of which a licence or
permission has been issued shall be made before taking any of the following
steps.] [Inserted by G.S.R. 1781, dated 11th December, 1967](a)the acquisition
of land or the construction of premises for the purpose of housing the
industrial undertaking at the proposed new site;(b)the dismantling of any part
of the plant and machinery at the existing site.][* * *] [Substitued-rules (2)
and (2A), omitted by G.S.R. 274(E), dated 19th June, 1974.](3)[] [Substitued
by G.S.R. 100(E), dated 18th February, 1987, for sub-rule (3) as amended by
G.S.R 399(E), dated 23rd September, 1971 and G.S.R. 392(E), dated 17th
September, 1974.] Each application shall be accompanied by a crossed demand
draft for Rs. 2,500 drawn on the State Bank of India, Nirman Bhawan, New
Delhi, in favour of the Pay and Accounts Officer, Ministry of Industry
(Department of Industrial Development), Government of India, New Delhi.

### 8. Acknowledgment of application.

-On receipt of the application, the receiving officer shall note thereon the date of its receipt, and shall send to the applicant an acknowledgment stating the date of receipt.

### 9. Power to call additional information.

\- The [Ministry of Industrial Development] [Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E),
dated 14th June, 1974] or the authority appointed by it [in the this behalf]
[Substitued by G.S.R. 691(E), dated 1st March, 1957] may require the applicant
to furnish, within a period to be specified by it, such additional information
as it may consider necessary.

### 10. [ Application to be referred to committee. [Substitued by G.S.R.
270(E), dated 14th June, 1974]

(1)The Ministry of Industrial Development shall refer the application to a
Committee appointed under sub-rule (2):][Provided that where an application
relates to the extension of the period of validity of an industrial licence or
to the issue of a carry-on-business licence or to diversification within the
existing licensed capacity in respect of such scheduled industries as may,
from time to time, be decided by the Central Government, having regard to the
maximum of production, better utilization of existing plant and machinery and
other factors, the Ministries concerned may dispose of such application
without reference to the Committee.] [Added by G.S.R. 559(E, dated 15th
November, 1975](2)[ The Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint one or more committees, consisting of such number of
members as it may think fit to represent the Ministries or Departments of the
Central Government dealing with -(a)the Industrial Policy and Promotion;(b)the
Industry specified in the First Schedule to the Act;(c)Home
Affairs;(d)Commerce, (Director General of Foreign Trade);(e)Micro, Small and
Medium Industries:Provided that the Central Government may, if it deems fit,
include in such committee any other member to represent any other Ministry or
Department.](3)[ A committee appointed under sub-rule (2) may co-opt one or
more representatives of other Ministries of the Central Government or of any
State Government concerned, wherever it is necessary.] [Substitued by G.S.R.
270(E), dated 14th June, 1974]

### 11. Submission of report by the committee.

-After such investigation as may be necessary, the Committee to which an application has been referred under rule 10 shall submit a report to the Ministry of Industrial Development.

### 12. Contents of the report.

\- In making the report under rule 11, the [* * *] [Substitued by G.S.R.
270(E), dated 14th June, 1974] Committee shall have regard to the approved
plans, if any, of the Central Government for the development of the scheduled
industry concerned and, where no such plans exist, to the existing capacity of
the scheduled industry, the demand and supply position, availability of raw
materials and plant and machinery. The report should, among other matters,
contain recommendations regarding capital and its structure, suitability of
the location proposed from the point of view of the approved plans for the
industry, capacity of the plant to be installed, availability of rail-
transport capacity, availability of technical and other skilled personnel
required, and collaboration, if any, with foreign manufacturers.

### 13. Recommendation regarding public enquiry.

\- If the [Committee referred to in rule 11] [Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E),
dated 14th June, 1974] is of the opinion that a public enquiry is necessary in
respect of any application it may recommend such a step to the Ministry of
[Industrial Development] [Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E), dated 14th June, 1974]

### 14. Invitation of applications.

(1)The Ministry of [Industrial Development] [Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E),
dated 14th June, 1974] or the authority appointed by it [in this behalf may]
[Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E), dated 14th June, 1974], where it considers
necessary invite, by means of a notice published in the Gazette of India,
applications for the grant of licences for the establishment of new industrial
undertakings in any scheduled industry.(2)An application received under sub-
rule (1) shall be dealt with in the manner laid down in rules 10 to 13.

### 15. Grant of licence or permission.

(1)The Ministry of [Industrial Development] [Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E),
dated 14th June, 1974] shall consider the report submitted to it under rule
11, and where it decides that a licence or permission, as the case may be,
should be granted it shall inform the applicant accordingly, not later than
three months from the date of receipt of the application, or the date on which
additional information under rule 9 is furnished, whichever is later.(2)Where
the Ministry of [Industrial Development] [Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E), dated
14th June, 1974] considers that certain conditions shall be attached to the
licence or permission, or that the licence or permission should be refused, it
shall not later than three months from the date of receipt of the application
or the date on which additional information under rule 9 is furnished,
whichever is later, give an opportunity to the applicant to state his case,
before reaching a decision.(3)Where a licence or permission has been refused
the applicant shall be informed of the reasons for such refusal.(4)Licences or
permissions shall be in Form F appended to these rules.

### 16. Variation or amendment of licences.

(1)Any owner of an industrial undertaking in respect of which a licence has
been granted, who desires any variation or amendment in his licence shall
apply to the Ministry of [Industrial Development] [Substitued by G.S.R.
270(E), dated 14th June, 1974] giving the reasons for the variation or
amendment.(2)The Ministry of [Industrial Development] [Substitued by G.S.R.
270(E), dated 14th June, 1974] after carrying out such investigation as it may
consider necessary, may vary or amend the licence. The Ministry of Commerce
and Industry may also consult the Licensing Committee before coming to a
decision.

### 17. Revocation of licences.

\- The Ministry of [Industrial Development] [Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E),
dated 14th June, 1974] shall, before exercising its power of revocation of a
licence under sub-section (1) of Section 12 of the Act, give an opportunity to
the licensee to state his case.

### 18. Review of licences by a sub-committee.

\- A sub-committee of the Central Advisory Council shall be constituted which
will review all licences issued, refused varied amended or revoked from time
to time, and advise Government on the general principles to be followed in the
issue of licences for establishing new undertakings or substantial expansion
of existing undertakings. The results of the review shall be reported to the
Central Advisory Council.

### 19. Submission of returns.

\- [(1)] [Renumbered by S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st October, 1956] Every owner of a
industrial undertaking in respect of which a licence or permission has been
granted [under the Act] [Substitued by S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st October, 1956]
shall send every half year ending 30th June and 31st December, commencing from
the date of grant of the licence or permission, as the case may be, till such
time as the industrial undertaking commences production a return [with five
spare copies] [Substitued by S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st October, 1956] in Form G
appended to these rules, to the Ministry of [Industrial Development]
[Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E), dated 14th June, 1974], Government of India, New
Delhi, [or to any authority appointed by it in this behalf. The return
relating to every half year shall be sent within one month after the expiry of
that half year.] [Inserted by S.R.O. 691, dated 1st March, 1957](2)[ Where any
condition has been attached to a licence or permission granted in respect of
an industrial undertaking to the effect that certain steps should be taken
within a period specified therein, every owner of such an undertaking shall
send a return, with five spare copies, in Form G appended to these rules, to
the Ministry of [Industrial Development] [Inserted by S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st
OCtober, 1953], Government of India, New Delhi [or to any authority appointed
by it in this behalf] [Inserted by S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st October, 1953]
showing the progress made in taking such steps at the expiry of the period so
specified. The return shall be sent within a period of seven days from the
expiry of the period so specified.] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R.
740 (E) dated 4.10.2012](3)Every owner of an industrial undertaking which has
been registered by reason of effective steps having been taken for the
establishment of that undertaking before the commencement of the Act shall
send, every half year ending on the 30th June and the 31st December, and
commencing from 31st December, 1953, till such time as the industrial
undertaking commences production a return with five spare copies, in Form G
appended to these rules, to the Ministry of [Industrial Development] [Inserted
by S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st OCtober, 1974], Government of India, New Delhi or to
any authority appointed by it in this behalf.The return relating to every half
year shall be sent within one month of the expiry of that half year.

### 19A. [ Notice of certain facts to be given. - (1) If there is any change
in the name of registered industrial undertaking or an undertaking in respect
of which a licence or permission has been granted under the Act the owner
thereof, shall within fourteen days from the date of such change give notice
in writing of the fact to the Ministry of [Industrial Development] [Inserted
by S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st October, 1974], Government of India, New Delhi and
forward the registration certificate or the licence, as the case may be, to
that Ministry for endorsing thereon the change in the name of undertaking.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 740 (E) dated 4.10.2012]

(2)If there is any change in the owner of a registered industrial undertaking
or an undertaking in respect of which a licence or permission has been granted
the new owner thereof shall, within fourteen days from the date of such change
give notice in writing of the fact to the Ministry of [Industrial Development]
[Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E), dated 14th June, 1974], Government of India, New
Delhi, and forward the registration certification or the licence, as the case
may be, to that Ministry for endorsing thereon the change in the owner of the
industrial undertaking.(3)If by reason of (a) reduction in the number of
workers employed; (b) discontinuation of the production of articles falling
within the scope of the Act; or (c) any other reason, all or any of the
provisions of the Act become inapplicable to a registered industrial
undertaking or an undertaking in respect of which a licence or permission has
been granted and continue to be so inapplicable for a period of six months,
the owner thereof shall, within fourteen days of the expiry of the said period
of six months give notice in writing of the fact to the Ministry of
[Industrial Development] [Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E), dated 14th June, 1974],
Government of India, New Delhi.(4)If a registered industrial undertaking or an
industrial undertaking in respect of which a licence or permission has been
granted, has been closed for a period exceeding thirty days, the owner
thereof, shall, within seven days of the expiry of the said period of thirty
days, give notice in writing of the fact to [Industrial Development]
[Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E), dated 14th June, 1974] Government of India, New
Delhi.(5)If any decision has been taken by a competent authority that a
registered industrial undertaking or an industrial undertaking in respect of
which a licence or permission has been granted shall be liquidated, the owner
thereof shall, within fourteen days from the date of such a decision, give
notice in writing of the fact to the Ministry of [Industrial Development]
[Substitued by G.S.R. 270(E), dated 14th June, 1974], Government of India, New
Delhi, [and return the registration certificate or the licence, as the case
may, to that Ministry.] [Inserted by S.R>O. 691, dated 1st March, 1957]

### 19B. [ Loss of registration certificate or licence. [Inserted by S.R.O.
1856, dated 1st OCtober, 1953]

\- Where a Registration Certificate, a licence or a permission granted under
these rules, is lost, destroyed or mutilated, a duplicate may be granted on
receipt of a treasury challan of Rs. 5.]

### 20. Penalty for contravention of rules.

\- Whosoever contravenes or attempts to contravene or abets the contravention
of any of these rules shall be punishable under Section 24 of the Act.

### 21. Allotment of controlled commodities to licensed undertakings.

\- The owner of an industrial undertaking in respect of which a licence or
permission has been granted shall be eligible to the allotment of controlled
commodities required by him for the construction or operation or for both
construction and operation of his undertakings on such preferential basis as
the Central Government may determine from time to time. In determining such
preference the Central Government shall have due regard to the requirements of
existing industrial undertakings.

### 22. Concession in the grant of import licences to undertakings.

\- The owner of an industrial undertaking in respect of which a licence or
permission has been granted shall be eligible for the issue of licences or for
the import of goods required by him for the construction or operation or for
both construction and operation of his undertaking on such preferential basis
as the Central Government may determine from to time to time. In determining
this preference which may include such concession as the submission of one
consolidation application in respect of the requirements from each currency
area for all items shown as licensable to actual users submission of separate
application for highly specialised items even though such items may not be
shown as licensable to actual users and priority in the matter of import from
different currency areas, the Central Government shall have due regard to the
requirements of existing industrial undertakings.[Form A] [Substitued by
S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st October, 1953]Prescribed under rule 3 of the
Registration and Licensing of Industrial Undertaking Rules, 1952 (as
revised)Application For Registration

### 1\. This form is to be used in the following cases :

(a)industrial undertakings producing on the 8th May, 1952 or at any time
during the twelve months preceding that date, articles relatable to the
industries specified in the First Schedule to the Industries (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1951, as originally enacted;(b)industrial undertakings
producing on 1st October, 1953 or at any time during the twelve months
preceding that date, any articles relatable to the industries added to the
First Schedule by the Industries (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act,
1953;(c)[ industrial undertakings producing on 1st March, 1957, or at any time
during the twelve months preceding that date, any article relatable to the
industries included in the First Schedule by the Industries (Development and
Regulation) Amendment Act, 1956] [Inserted by S.R.O. 691, dated 1st March,
1957](d)industrial undertakings producing on 7th February, 1974, or at any
time during the twelve months preceding that date, any article relatable to
the industries added to the First Schedule by Industries (Development and
Regulation) Amendment Act, 1973.

### 2\. Particulars given in the application should show the position as on
8th May, 1952, [1st October, 1953, 1st March, 1957] [Inserted by S.R.O. 691,
dated 1st March, 1957], [or 7th February, 1974] [Inserted by S.R.O. 691, dated
1st March, 1957] as is applicable to the schedule industry concerned.

### 1\. Schedule Industry or Industries to which the articles produced relate.

### 2\. Registration number under the Indian Factories Act and the date of
registration.

### 3\. Name of the industrial undertaking.

Address:(a)Head Office.(b)Factory.

### 4\. Ownership. Whether proprietary, partnership, private limited or public
limited.

### 5\. Names of proprietors, partners or Board of Director and their
addresses.

### 6\. Name and address of the owner of the factory in terms of Section 3 (f)
of the Act.

### 7\. Capital structure

(a)In the case of companies registered under the Indian Companies Act,
1913-(i)Authorized Capital- : Number : Value : TotalPreference sharesOrdinary
sharesDeferred sharesAny other class of shares.(ii)Issued Capital-Preference
sharesOrdinary sharesDeferred sharesAny other class of shares.(iii)Paid-up-
capital-Preference sharesOrdinary sharesDeferred sharesAny other class of
shares(iv)Debentures.(v)Other borrowings.(b)In the case of others(i)Capital
invested by the owner excluding borrowings.(ii)Share of each of the partners
or of members of an association.(iii)Borrowings.

### 8\. Name and address of managing agents, if any, and the principal clauses
of managing agency agreement.

### 9\. A copy each of the last three years balance-sheets and profit and loss
accounts. (To be attached to each copy of the application).

### 10\. (a) Foreign capital invested. Terms of agreement, if any, with
foreign collaborator including terms in regard to royalty, etc.

(b)Detail of foreign technicians employed.

### 11\. Approximate land under control of the factory-

(1)for factory administration purposes(a)in use,(b)available for
expansion,(2)for township and other facilities-(a)in use,(b)available for
expansion.

### 12\. Water supply.

(a)Is it ample for the requirements of-(b)factory, and(c)township or staff
quarters?(State approximate quantity).(b)It is drawn from public
supply?(c)Effluent problems, if any.

### 13\. Power supply:

(a)Total requirements drawn from -(1)own generating station,(2)public
supply.(b)In case of own station give brief particulars of plant in operation.

### 14\. (a) Nature of plant and equipment section by section.

Main plant and machinery items grouped under different sections following the
standard practice in vogue in each industry.(b)Replacement requirement over
next five years.

### 15\. Transport facilities for incoming raw materials and out-going
finished products.

### 16\. Manufacturing activities

(a)Whether continuous or shift operation.(b)Number of shifts generally
worked.(c)Number of working days in a month/year.Note. - Allow for compulsory
holidays and for possible interruptions arising from breakdowns, overhauling
and maintenance repairs separately on this basis of your past
experience.(d)Monthly installed capacity

Nameof the manufactured product | Capacity  
---|---  
|  
  
### 17\. Past production including by-product during the last three calendar-

Nameof principal product or by-product | Quantity | Value  
---|---|---  
|  |   
  
Note. - In the case of seasonal industries, e.g. sugar, give figures relating
to the season.

### 18\. Staff and labour employed-Head Office : Factory : Total

(a)Managerial(b)Supervisory-TechnicalNon-technical(c)Clerical(d)Labour-
SkilledSemi-skilledUnskilled(e)Other categories, if any.Place
..................Date ..................Signature of Applicant.(To be filled
in by Government of India)Date of receipt of application.Signature of the
Receiving Officer.[Form B] [Substitued by S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st October,
1953]Prescribed under rule 3 of the Registration and Licensing of Industrial
Undertakings Rules, 1952 (as revised)Application For Registration

### 1\. This form is to be used in the following cases :

(a)Industrial undertakings which had taken effective steps as defined in rule
2(ii) of these rules, on or before the 8th May, 1952, for the production of
any article relatable to the industries specified in the First Schedule to the
Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, as originally
enacted;(b)industrial undertakings which had taken effective steps as defined
in rule 2(ii) of these rules, on or before the 1st October, 1953, for the
production of articles relatable to the industries added to the First Schedule
by the Industries (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 1953;(c)[
industrial undertakings which had taken effective steps as defined in rule
2(ii) of these rules, on or before the 1st March, 1957, for the production of
articles relatable to industries included in the First Schedule by the
Industries (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 1956] [Inserted by
S.R.O. 691, dated 1st March, 1957](d)[ industrial undertakings which has taken
effective steps as defined in rule 2(ii) of these rules, on or before the 7th
February, 1974, for the production of articles relatable to the industries
added to the First Schedule by the Industries (Development and Regulation)
Amendment Act, 1973.] [Inserted by G.S.R. 284(E, dated 25th June, 1974]

### 2\. Particulars given in the application should show the position as on
the 8th May, 1952, [1st October, 1953, [1st March,1957] [Substitued by S.R.O.
1856, dated 1st October, 1953] or 7th February, 1974] as is applicable to the
schedule industry concerned.

Note. - Where an industrial undertaking consists of more than one factory, a
separate form should be filled and sent, for each of the factories.

### 1\. Schedule industry or industries to which the articles produced relate;

### 2\. Name and address of the applicant;

### 3\. Name of the industrial undertaking;

Address:(a)Head Officer;(b)Factory.

### 4\. Ownership. Whether proprietary, partnership, private limited or public
limited company.

### 5\. Names of proprietors, partners or Board of Directors and their
address.

### 6\. Name and address of the owner of the factory in terms of Section 3 (f)
of the Act.

### 7\. Whether sanction for capital issue has been applied for. If so, the
number and date of sanction of capital issue. If not, how the undertaking is
or is to be financed.

### 8\. What percentage of the total capital has been raised or subscribed.

### 9\. Types, number and values of different classes of shares authorized,
issue and paid-up or arrangements being made for (a) in the case of companies
registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1913.

(i)Authorized Capital : | Number | Value | Total  
---|---|---|---  
Preferenceshares |  |  |   
Ordinaryshares |  |  |   
Deferredshares |  |  |   
Anyother class of shares |  |  |   
(ii)Issued Capital: |  |  |   
Preferenceshares |  |  |   
Ordinaryshares |  |  |   
Deferredshares |  |  |   
Anyother class of shares |  |  |   
(iii)Paid-up Capital: |  |  |   
Preferenceshares |  |  |   
Ordinaryshares |  |  |   
Deferredshares |  |  |   
Anyother class of shares |  |  |   
(iv)Debentures |  |  |   
(v)Other borrowings |  |  |   
(b)In the case of others : |  |  |   
(i)Capital invested by the owner excluding borrowings. |  |  |   
(ii)Shares of each of the partners or members of an association. |  |  |   
(iii)Borrowings. |  |  |   
  
### 10\. Name and address of the managing agents, if any.

### 11\. Obligations, rights and privileges of managing agents in the
constitution and working of the company.

### 12\. Is any foreign collaboration or investment envisaged. If so, the
extent and nature of such collaboration. Give a copy of the agreement, if any.

### 13\. Are foreign technicians required. Number and types of such personnel.
(Approximate indication may be given).

### 14\. Location or proposed location of the factory.

Tehsil | District | State  
---|---|---  
  
### 15\. Area of land required and whether it has been secured.

### 16\. Particulars of buildings erected.

### 17\. What portion of the factory building has been constructed and what
proportion in value does it bear to the entire cost of the factory buildings.

### 18\. Lines of manufacture proposed.

Nameof product and by-product |  Monthlyproposed installed capacity.  
---|---  
  
### 19\. Number of estimated working days in a year.

### 20\. Indicate your requirements of rail transport for movement of raw
materials and finished products.

### 21\. Estimated requirements of main raw materials.

Nameof raw material |  Whetherindigenous or imported; if latter, country of origin |  Quantityrequired per year |  Estimatedvalue  
---|---|---|---  
  
### 22\. Requirements of capital equipment-

Total value of equipment required.(i)Imported(a)from sterling area,(b)from
dollar and hard currency area.(ii)Indigenous.

### 23. What percentage in value of item 22 has been-

(a)ordered and received,(b)ordered and not yet received.

### 24. Water supply :

(a)Will it be ample for the requirements of-(1)factory and(2)township or staff
quarters (State approximate quantity.)(b)Will it be drawn from public
supply,(c)Effluent problems, if any.

### 25. Power supply-

(a)Total requirements proposed to be drawn from-(1)own generating
station;(2)public supply.(b)In case of own station, give brief particulars of
plant in operation.

26.Staff and labour |  Alreadyemployed |  Proposedto be employed on implementation of the project  
---|---|---  
(a)Managerial |  |   
(b)Supervisory: |  |   
Non-technical |  |   
(c)Clerical |  |   
(d)Labour: |  |   
Skilled |  |   
Semi-skilled |  |   
Unskilled |  |   
(e)Other categories, if any. |  |   
  
### 27. Give a brief description of the processes involved in the manufacture
and the factors favourable for their adoption in the location proposed by you.

Date .................Place ....................Signature of Applicant(To be
filled in by the Government of India)Date of receipt of the
application.Signature of the Receiving Officer.]Form CPrescribed under rule 6
of the Registration and Licensing of Industrial Undertaking Rules,
1952Registration No ........................Government Of IndiaMinistry Of
Commerce And IndustryNew Delhi, the ...................19.....Certified that
the Industrial Undertaking details of which are mentioned below has been
registered in terms of Section 10 of the Industries (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1951 (LXV of 1951).Details:

### 1\. Scheduled Industry.

### 2\. Name of Industrial Undertaking.

AddressName of ownerAddress

### 3\. [ Articles produced or to be produced .................] [Inserted by
G.S.R. 369(E), dated 17th August, 1974]

### 4\. [ Annual productive capacity of such articles ..................]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 369(E), dated 17th August, 1974]

Signature of OfficerSeal of the Ministry.[* * *] [Forms D-I, D-II, E, E-I,
E-II omitted by Notification No. 274(E), dated 19th June, 1974][Form F]
[USbstitued by S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st October, 1953]Prescribed under rule
15(4) of the Registration and Licensing of Industrial Undertakings Rules, 1952
(as revised)Licence No............PermissionGovernment Of IndiaMinistry Of
Commerce And IndustryNew Delhi, the .....................19.....LicenceAn
application No.................... dated ..............................for a
...................having been received from ....................Permission
for.............. under rule 7 of the Registration and Licensing of Industrial
Undertakings Rules, 1952, the Central Government, in exercise of the powers
conferred by rule 15(2) of the said rules, hereby grant this
............licence/permission ...............to..............subject to the
following conditions :(1)(2)(3)Any prospectus or other document by which the
public is invited to subscribe capital for this undertaking shall contain the
following statement :"A Licence/Permission has been obtained from the Central
Government for ........................of which a copy is open to public
inspection at the Head Office of the Company. It must be distinctly understood
that in granting this............licence/
permission..............................the Government of India do not take
any responsibility for the financial soundness of this undertaking or for the
correctness of any of the statements made or opinions expressed in regard
to."Signature of the Officer.Seal of the Ministry.[Form "G"] [SUbstitued by
S.R.O. 1856, dated 1st October, 1953]Prescribed under rule 19 of the
Registration and Licensing of Industrial Undertakings Rules, 1952 (as
revised)Report Of The Progress Made In The Establishment Of Industrial
UndertakingsThis form is to be used for reporting progress made in the
following cases-(a)In the establishment of industrial undertakings or
substantial expansions, whether registered or licensed.(b)In the manufacture
of new articles.(c)In changing the location of industrial undertakings.

### 1\. Scheduled industry to which the articles manufactured by the
undertaking relate.

### 2\. Name and address of the industrial undertaking.

### 3\. Number and address of the Registration Certificate/Licence/ Permission
issued to the undertaking.

In The Case Of Establishment Of Industrial Undertakings Of Manufacture Of New
Articles

### 4\. [(a) In the case of a public company within the meaning of the
Companies Act, 1956.] [Substitued by S.R.O.691, dated 1st MArch, 1957]

What percentage of the total issued capital has been paid-up?(b)In the case of
others.What percentage of the total capital required for the purpose has been
raised?

### 5\. What percentage in value of total requirements of capital equipment
has

been-(a)ordered and received.(b)ordered and not yet received. [Indicate the
expenditure incurred on this item during the period covered by the Report]
[Inserted by S.R.O. 691, dated 1st March, 1957]

### 6\. Whether land has been acquired for the factory. [Indicate the
expenditure incurred on this item during the period covered by the Report.]
[<SPAN class=amd2><A TITLE =]

### 7\. Progress made in the construction of the factory and the installation
of plant and machinery. [Indicate the expenditure incurred on this item during
the period covered by the Report] [Substitued by S.R.O. 691, dated 1st March,
1957]

### 8\. Progress made in getting supply of power and water.

### 9\. Progress made in the recruitment of foreign technicians, if any.

[Indicate the expenditure incurred on this item during the period covered by
the Report.] [Substitued by S.R.O. 691, dated 1st March, 1957]

10.Staff and labour |  Employedbefore the implementation of the project. |  Nowemployed |   
---|---|---|---  
(a)Managerial |  |  |   
(b)Supervisory |  |  |   
Technical |  |  |   
Non-technical |  |  |   
(c)Clerical |  |  |   
(d)Labour- |  |  |   
Skilled |  |  |   
Semi-skilled |  |  |   
Unskilled |  |  |   
(e)Other categories, if any. |  |  |   
11.Pollution Control (Steps taken to prevent pollution) |  |   
(a)Has the approval for the pollution control steps been receivedfrom the appropriate authority? |   
(i)Air | Yes | No |   
(ii)Water |  |  |   
(b)Expenditure on Land, Civil construction, know-how and equipment: |   
(i)Land |  Estimatedcost |  Revisedcost |  Expenditureincurred  
(ii)Civil construction |  |  |   
(iii)Know-how |  |  |   
(1)Indigenous |  |  |   
(2)Imported |  |  |   
(iv)Equipment |  |  |   
(c)Likely dates of completion: |  |  |   
(1)Air |  InstallationMonth year |  TribunalRuns Month Year |   
(2)Water |  |  |   
(3)Soil |  |  |   
  
In The Case Of Substantial Expansions Or Change Of Location

### 13\. [(a) In the case of a public company within the meaning of the
Companies Act, 1956.] [Substitued by S.R.O. 691, dated 1st March, 1957]

What percentage of the total issued capital has been paid-up?(b)In the case of
others.What percentage of the total capital required for the purpose has been
raised?

### 14\. Whether any land required for the undertaking has been acquired.

### 15\. Progress made in the construction of factory buildings and the
installation of plant and machinery at the new site.

### 16\. Whether additional power and water required has been secured.

### 17\. Progress made in the requirement of foreign technicians, if any,
number and types secured.

### 18\. What percentage in value of total requirement of the capital
equipment has been

(a)ordered and received.(b)ordered and not yet received.

19.Staff and labour |  Employedbefore the substantial expansion or change of location wasundertaken. |  Nowemployed  
---|---|---  
(a)Managerial |  |   
(b)Supervisory |  |   
Technical |  |   
Non-Technical. |  |   
(c)Clerical. |  |   
(d)Labour- |  |   
Skilled |  |   
Semi-skilled. |  |   
Unskilled. |  |   
(e)Other categories, if any. |  |   
20.Product and by-product manufactured. |  |   
Nameof product or by-product |  Presentmonthly installed capacity |  Presentdaily output  
Place...................... |  |   
Date......................... |  |   
|  |  Signatureof the holder of Registration  
|  |  Certificate/Licence /Permission.]

