## Union of India - Act

## The Representation of the People (Amendment) Act, 1966

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Representation of the People (Amendment) Act, 1966

## Act 47 of 1966

  * Published in Gazette of India on 13 December 1966 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 December 1966.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Representation of the People Act, 1950, and the
Representation of the People Act, 1951.BE it enacted by Parliament in the
Seventeenth Year of the Republic of India as follow:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Representation of the People (Amendment) Act,
1966.(2)It shall come into force on such date1 as the Central Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, and different dates may be
appointed for different provisions of this Act.

### 2. [Repealed]; Section 2 rep. by Act 56 of 1974, s. 2 and the First
Schedule (w.e.f. 20-12-1974).

### 3. Provision as to sitting members in certain cases.-

Notwithstanding anything contained in section 2 the members representing
immediately before the commencement of this Act each of the States of Jammu
and Kashmir* and Nagaland and each of the Union territories of the Andaman and
Nicobar Islands, the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands and Dadra and
Nagar Haveli in the present House of the People shall continue to represent
each such State or each such Union territory until the dissolution of the
present House of the People and so often as before such dissolution any seat
allotted to each such State or to each such Union territory in the present
House of the People becomes vacant, it shall be filled by a person nominated
by the President and that person shall represent that State or that territory
in the present House of the People until its dissolution.

### 4. 4 to 62. [Repealed]; Sections 4 to 60 rep. by s. 2 and the First
Schedule, ibid. (w.e.f. 20-12-1974).

### 5. 61 Omission of section 137 and saving.-

Section 137 of the 1951-Act shall be omitted:Provided that such omission shall
not affect any inquiry or other proceeding under the said section pending
immediately before such omission and any such inquiry or other proceeding may
be continued and any prosecution may be instituted as a result of such inquiry
or other proceeding and any penalty or punishment may be imposed under and in
accordance with the said section as if that section had not been omitted.

### 62. [Repealed];Section 62 rep. by s. 2 and the First Schedule, ibid.
(w.e.f. 20-12-1974). *. Vide notification No. S.O. 3912(E), dated 30th
October, 2019, this Act is made applicable to the Union territory of Jammu and
Kashmir and the Union territory of Ladakh.

### 63. Act not to apply to pending elections, etc.-

Save as otherwise provided in this Act, nothing herein shall apply to any
election which has been called before the commencement of this Act or to any
election petition arising out of such election, whether such petition is
pending at such commencement or is presented afterwards, and all such
elections shall be held and petitions tried, and all matters in connection
with such elections or petitions (including the constitution of Election
Tribunals) shall be regulated, in accordance with the provisions of the law in
force immediately before such commencement.

