## Union of India - Act

## THE REGIONAL RURAL BANKS ACT, 1976

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# THE REGIONAL RURAL BANKS ACT, 1976

## Act 21 of 1976

  * Published in Gazette of India on 9 February 1976 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 May 2015.] 

  1. [Amended by THE REGIONAL RURAL BANKS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2015 (Act 14 of 2015) on 12 May 2015] 

REGIONAL RURAL BANKS ACT 1976THE REGIONAL RURAL BANKS ACT, 1976ACT NO. 21 OF
1976[9th February, 1976.]An Act to provide for the incorporation, regulation
and winding up of Regional Rural Banks with a view to developing the rural
economy by providing, for the purpose of development of agriculture, trade,
commerce, industry and other productive activities in the rural areas, credit
and other facilities, particularly to the small and marginal farmers,
agricultural labourers, artisans and small entrepreneurs, and for matters
connected therewith and incidental thereto. CHAP

## Chapter I  
PRELIMINARY

BODY

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

Short title, extent and commencement.-(1)This Act may be called the Regional
Rural Banks Act, 1976.(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall be
deemed to have come into force on the 26th day of September, 1975.

### 2. Definitions.-

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--(a)"Board", in relation
to a Regional Rural Bank, means the Board of directors of that Regional Rural
Bank;(b)"Chairman", in relation to a Regional Rural Bank, means the individual
appointed or re-appointed under sub- section (1) of section 11 as the Chairman
of that bank;(c)"director", in relation to a Regional Rural Bank, means a
member of the Board of that bank;[(ca) "National Bank" means the National Bank
for Agriculture and Rural Development established under section 3 of the
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981 (61 of
1981);](d)"notified area" means the local limits, specified under sub-section
(1) of section 3, within which a Regional Rural Bank shall operate
---------------------------------------- ------------------------------ 1.
Ins. by Act 1 of 1988, s. 2 (w.e.f. 28-9-1988). 264(e)"prescribed" means
prescribed by rules made under this Act;(f)"Regional Rural Bank" means a
Regional Rural Bank established under sub-section (1) of section 3;(g)"Sponsor
Bank", in relation to a Regional Rural Bank, means a bank by which such
Regional Rural Bank has been sponsored;(h)"State Government" means,--(i)in
relation to a Regional Rural Bank established in a Union territory, the
Central Government;(ii)in relation to a Regional Rural Bank established in a
State, the Government of that State;(i)words and expressions used herein and
not defined but defined in the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934),
shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act;(j)words and
expressions used herein and not defined either in this Act or in the Reserve
Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934), but defined in the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them
in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. CHAP INCORPORATION AND CAPITAL OF
REGIONAL RURAL BANKS

## Chapter II  
INCORPORATION AND CAPITAL OF REGIONAL RURAL BANKS

### 3. Establishment and incorporation of Regional Rural Banks.-

(1)The Central Government may, if requested so to do by a Sponsor Bank, by
notification in the Official Gazette, establish in a State or Union territory,
one or more Regional Rural Banks with such name as may be specified in the
notification and may, by the said or subsequent notification, specify the
local limits within which each Regional Rural Bank shall operate.(2)Every
Regional Rural Bank shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a
common seal with power, subject to the provisions of this Act, to acquire,
hold and dispose of property and to contract and may sue and be sued in its
name.(a)subscribing to the share capital of such Regional Rural
Bank;(b)training personnel of such Regional Rural Bank; and(c)providing such
managerial and financial assistance to such Regional Rural Bank, as may be
mutually agreed upon between the Sponsor Bank and the Regional Rural Bank:

### 4. Offices and agencies.-

(1)A Regional Rural Bank shall have its head office at such place in the
notified area as the Central Government may, after consultation with the
[National Bank] and the Sponsor Bank, specify by notification in the Official
Gazette.(2)A Regional Rural Bank may, if it is of opinion that it is necessary
so to do, establish its branches or agencies at any place in the notified
area.

### 5. Authorised capital.-

The authorised capital of each Regional Rural Bank shall be two thousand crore
of rupees, divided into two hundred crore of fully paid-up shares of ten
rupees each:Provided that the Central Government may, after consultation with
the [National Bank] and the Sponsor Bank, increase or reduce such authorised
capital; so, however, that the authorised capital shall not be reduced below
one crore of rupees, and the shares shall be, in all cases, fully paid-up
shares of tenrupees each.

### 6. Issued capital.-

(1)The issued capital of each Regional Rural Bank shall, in the first
instance, be such as may be fixed by the Central Government in this behalf,
but it shall in no case be less than one crore of rupees.(2)Of the capital
issued by a Regional Rural Bank under sub- section (1), fifty per cent. shall
be subscribed by the Central Government; fifteen per cent. by the concerned
State Government and thirty-five per cent. by the Sponsor Bank.Provided that
in case the Regional Rural Bank raises its capital from sources other than the
Central Government or the State Government or the Sponsor Bank, the
shareholding of the Central Government and the Sponsor Bank shall not be less
than fifty-one per cent.:Provided further that the Central Government shall
consult the concerned State Government if the level of shareholding in the
Regional Rural Bank of suchState Government is reduced below fifteen per
cent.(2A)The Central Government may, in consultation with the Sponsor Bank and
the State Government, by notification, either raise or reduce the limit
ofshareholding of the Central Government, the State Government or the Sponsor
Bank specified in sub-section (2):Provided that the Central Government shall
consult the concerned State Government before reducing the limit of
shareholding of such State Government.(3)The Board may, after consultation
with the [National Bank] concerned State Government and the Sponsor Bank and
with the prior approval of the Central Government, from time to time, increase
the issued capital of the Regional Rural Bank; and, where additional capital
is issued, such capital shall also be subscribed in the same proportion or, as
the case may be, notified by the Central Government under sub-section (2A)

### 7. Shares to be approved securities.-

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Acts hereinafter mentioned in this
section, the shares of a Regional Rural Bank shall be deemed to be included
among the securities enumerated in section 20 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882
(2 of 1882), and shall also be deemed
----------------------------------------------------------------------

## Chapter III  
MANAGEMENT

### 8. Management.-

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the general superintendence,
direction and Regional Rural Bank.(2)In discharging its functions, the Board
shall act on business principles and shall have due regard to public interest.

### 9. Board of directors.-

(1)The Board of directors shall consist of the Chairman appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 11, and the following other members, namely:--(a)two
directors, who are not officers of the Central Government, State Government,
Reserve Bank, National Bank, Sponsor Bank or any other bank, to be nominated
by the Central Government;Provided that no person shall be nominated as a
director, if he is already a director on the Board of any other Regional Rural
Bank;(b)one director, who is an officer of the Reserve Bank, to be nominated
by that Bank;(c)one director, who is an officer of the National Bank, to be
nominated by that Bank;(d)two directors, who are officers of the Sponsor Bank,
to be nominated by that Bank; and(e)two directors, who are officers of the
concerned State Government, to be nominated by that Government.(f)such number
of directors elected by the shareholders other than the directors nominated by
the Central Government, the State Government, the Spon-sor Bank and other
institutions owned or controlled by the Central Government or the State
Government, whose names are entered in the register of sharehold-ers of the
Regional Rural Bank at least ninety days before the date of the meetingin
which the election of directors takes place on the following basis,
namely:—(i)where the total amount of equity share capital issued to such
shareholders is ten per cent. or less of the total issued equity capital, one
director shall be elected from such shareholders;(ii)where the total amount of
equity share capital issued to such shareholders is more than ten per cent.
but less than twenty-five per cent. of the total issued equity capital, two
directors shall be elected from the shareholders including the shareholders
referred to in sub-clause ( i);(iii)where the total amount of equity share
capital issued to such shareholders is twenty-five per cent. or more of the
total issued equity capital, three directors shall be elected from the
shareholders including shareholders referred to in sub-clauses ( i) and
(ii).(2)The Central Government may increase the number of members of the
Board; so, however, that the number of directors does not exceed fifteen in
the aggregate and also prescribe the manner in which the additional number may
be filled in.(3)The Central Government may appoint an officer of the Central
Government on the Board of Regional Rural Banks, if it considers necessary for
the purposes of effective functioning of the Regional Rural Banks.

### 10. Term of office of director.-

A director nominated under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 9 shall
hold office during the pleasure of the Central Government and for such term,
notexceeding three years, from the date on which he assumes his office, as the
Central Government may specify at the time of his nomination and shall be
eligible for renomination:Provided that no such director shall hold office
either continuously or intermittently for a period exceeding six years

### 11. Chairman.-

(1)The [Sponsor Bank] shall appoint an individual to be the Chairman of a
Regional Rural Bank and specify the period, not exceeding five years, for
which such individual shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section (4) hold
office as the Chairman:[Provided that no appointment of such an individual
shall be made,--(a)if such individual is an officer of the Sponsor Bank,
except after consulation with the National Bank;(b)in any other case, except
with the prior approval of the Central Government].
----------------------------------------------------------------------(1A)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1),-- (a) the Sponsor Bank shall have the
right to terminate the term of office of the Chairman at any time before the
expiry of the period specified in sub-section (1):Provided that no such
termination shall be made,--(a)if the Chairman is an officer of the Sponsor
Bank, except after consultation with the National Bank; and(b)in any other
case, except with the prior approval of the Central Government: Provided
further that where the Chairman is not an officer of the Central Government,
State Government, Reserve Bank, National Bank, Sponsor Bank or any other bank,
he shall be given notice of not less than three months in writing or three
months' salary and allowances in lieu of such notice; and (b) the Chairman
shall have the right to resign his office at any time before the expiry of the
period specified in sub- section (1) by giving to the Sponsor Bank, notice of
not less than three months in writing.](2)The individual, appointed as a
Chairman under sub-section (1) , shall, on the expiry of the period specified
under that sub- section, be eligible for re-appointment.(3)The Chairman shall
devote his whole time to the affairs of the Regional Rural Bank and shall
have, subject to the superintendence, control and direction of the Board, the
management of the whole of the affairs of the Regional Rural Bank.(4)[The
Sponsor Bank] may, at any time, remove the Chairman from office: 4*[Provided
that no such removal shall be made,--(a)if the Chairman is an officer of the
Sponsor Bank, except after consultation with the National Bank; and(b)in any
other case, except with the prior approval of the Central Government:Provided
further that] no person shall be removed from his office, under this sub-
section, unless he has been given an opportunity of showing cause against his
removal.](5)The Chairman shall receive such salary and allowances and be
governed by such terms and conditions of service as may be determined by the
3*[the Sponsor Bank in consultation with the National Bank].(6)If the Chairman
is, by infirmity or otherwise, rendered incapable of carrying out his duties
or is absent, on leave or otherwise, in circumstances not involving the
vacation of office, the Central Government may appoint another individual to
act as the Chairman during the absence of the first-mentioned Chairman.

### 12. Disqualifications.-

A person shall be disqualified for being appointed or, as the case may be,
nominated as, and for being, a director, if he--(a)is, or, at any time has
been, adjudged insolvent or has suspended payment of his debt or has
compounded with his creditors, or(b)is of unsound mind and stands so declared
by a competent court, or
----------------------------------------------------------------------(c)is or
has been, convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of the Central
Government, involves moral turpitude.

### 13. Vacation of the seat of directors.-

(1)If a director--(a)becomes subject to any disqualification specified in
section 12, or (b) is absent without leave of the Board for more than three
consecutive meetings thereof, his seat shall thereupon become vacant.(2)A
director may resign his office by giving notice thereof in writing to the
authority by which he was nominated; and, on such resignation being accepted,
the director shall be deemed to have vacated his office.]

### 14. Meetings of Board.-

(1)The Board of directors of a Regional Rural Bank shall meet at such time and
place and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction
of business at its meetings as may be prescribed.(2)The Chairman of the
Regional Rural Bank shall preside over every meeting of the Board, and, in his
absence, such director as the Chairman may generally, or in relation to any
particular meeting, authorise in this behalf shall preside; and, in the
absence of both the Chairman and the director so authorised, the directors
present at the meeting shall elect one from among themselves to preside over
the meeting.Explanation.--For the purposes of this sub-section, "absence" from
a meeting means non-attendance for any reason whatsoever at the meeting, or
any part of the meeting during which any business is transacted.(3)All
questions at a meeting of the Board shall be decided by a majority of the
votes of the directors present and voting; and, in case of equality of votes,
the person presiding shall have a second or casting vote.(4)No director shall,
as a director, take part in the discussion of, or vote on, any contract, loan,
arrangement or proposal, entered into or to be entered into, by or on behalf
of the Regional Rural Bank. ------------------------Subs. by Act 1 of 1988, s.
9, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f. 28-9-1988). 269 if he is, in any way, whether
directl or indirectly, interested in the contract, loan, arrangement or
proposal and, where a director is interested in any such matter, he shall, at
the earliest possible opportunity, disclose to the Board the nature of his
interest in such contract, loan, arrangement or proposal, and where he does
so, his presence at the meeting shall not count for the purpose of forming any
quorum at the time of any such discussion or vote, and if he does vote, his
vote shall be void: Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall
apply to such director by reason only of his being-- (i) a shareholder (other
than a director) holding not more than two per cent of the paid-up capital in
any public company within the meaning of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956),
or any corporation established by or under any law for the time being in force
in India or any co-operative society, with which the Regional Rural Bank has
entered into, or proposes to enter into, any contract, loan, arrangement or
proposal; or (ii) a director of the Regional Rural Bank as such.

### 15. Committees of Board.-

The Board may constitute such committees, whether consisting wholly of
directors or wholly of other persons or partly of directors and partly of
other persons, as it may think fit, for such purposes as it may decide.

### 16. Fees and allowances of directors and members of committees.-

(1)Every director and every member of a committee (other than the Chairman)
shall be paid such fees and allowances as may be determined by the Central
Government: Provided that no fees shall be paid to any director, or member of
a committee, if he is an officer of the Central Government, State Government,
the Reserve Bank, 1*[National Bank] Sponsor Bank or any other bank.(2)The
allowances payable to a director or a member of a committee, who is an officer
of the Central Government State Government, Reserve Bank 1*[National Bank]
Sponsor Bank or any other bank, shall be paid by the Government or bank by
which such officer is employed; and the allowances and fees payable to any
other director or member of a committee shall be payable by the concerned
Regional Rural Bank. ---------------------------------------------------------

### 17. Staff of Regional Rural Banks.-

(1)A Regional Rural Bank may appoint such number of officers and other
employees as it may consider necessary or desirable 1*[in such manner as may
be prescribed] for the efficient performance of its functions and may
determine the terms and conditions of their appointment and service:Provided
that it shall be lawful for a Sponsor Bank, if requested so to do by a
Regional Rural Bank sponsored by it, to send, 1***) such number of officers or
other employees on deputation to the Regional Rural Bank as may be necessary
or desirable for the efficient performance of its functions: Provided further
that the remuneration of officers and other employees appointed by a Regional
Rural Bank shall be such as may be determined by the Central Government, and,
in determining such remuneration, the Central Government shall have due regard
to the salary structure of the employees of the State Government and the local
authorities of comparable level and status in the notified
area.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial Disputes Act,
1947 (14 of 1947), or any other law for the time being in force, no award,
judgment, decree, decision or order of any industrial tribunal, court or other
authority, made before the commencement of this Act, shall apply to the terms
and conditions in relation to the persons appointed by a Regional Rural
Bank.(3)The officers and other employees of a Regional Rural Bank shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be entrusted or delegated
to them by the Board.

## Chapter IV  
BUSINESS OF A REGIONAL RURAL BANK

### 18. Business which a Regional Rural Bank may transact.-

(1)Every Regional Rural Bank shall carry on and transact the business of
banking as defined in clause (b) of section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act,
1949 (10 of 1949), and may engage in one or more forms of business specified
in sub-section (1) of section 6 of that Act.(2)Without prejudice to the
generality of the provisions of sub-section (1), every Regional Rural Bank
may, in particular, undertake the following types of business, namely:--(a)the
granting of loans and advances, particularly to small and marginal farmers and
agricultural labourers ----------------------------------------------- 1. Ins.
by Act 1 of 1988, s. 11 (w.e.f. 28-9-1988).

### 2\. Certain words omitted by s. 11, ibid. (w.e.f. 28-9-1988). 271 whether
individually or in groups, and to co- operative societies, including
agricultural marketing societies, agricultural processing societies, co-
operative farming societies, primary agricultural credit societies or farmers'
service societies, for agricultural purposes or agricultural operations or for
other purposes connected therewith;

(b)the granting of loans and advances, particularly to artisans, small
entrepreneurs and persons of small means engaged in trade, commerce or
industry or other productive activities, within the notified area in relation
to the Regional Rural Bank.

## Chapter V  
ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT

### 19. Closure of accounts.-

(1)Every Regional Rural Bank shall cause its books to be closed and balanced
as on the 31st day of March [or such other date in each year as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify] shall
appoint with the approval of the Central Government auditors for the audit of
its accounts :[Provided that with a view to facilitating the transition from
one period of accounting to another period of accounting under this sub-
section, the Central Government may, by order published in the Official
Gazette, make such provisions as it considers necessary or expedient for the
closing and balancing of, or for other matters relating to, the books in
respect of the concerned years.](2)Every auditor of a Regional Rural Bank
shall be a person who is qualified to act as an auditor of a company under
section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), and shall receive such
remuneration as the Regional Rural Bank may fix with the approval of the
Central Government.(3)Every auditor shall be supplied with a copy of the
annual balance-sheet and profit and loss account of the Regional Rural Bank,
and a list of all books kept by the Regional Rural Bank, and it shall be the
duty of the auditor to examine the balance-sheet and vouchers relating
thereto, and, in the performance of his duties, the auditor--(a)shall have, at
all reasonable times, access to the books, accounts and other documents of the
Regional Rural Bank;(b)may, at the expense of the Regional Rural Bank, employ
accountants or other persons to assist him in investigating such accounts;
and(c)may, in relation to such accounts, examine the Chairman or any officer
or employee of the Regional Rural Bank-------------------------------------
1985. ------------------- 1. Subs. by Act 86 of 1988, s. 33 (w.e.f.
30-12-1988). 2. Ins. by s. 33, ibid. (w.e.f. 30-12-). 272(4)Every auditor of a
Regional Rural Bank shall make a report to that bank upon the annual balance-
sheet and accounts and in every such report shall state,--(a)whether, in his
opinion, the balance-sheet is a full and fair balance-sheet containing all
necessary particulars and is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and
fair view of the affairs of the Regional Rural Bank, and, in case he had
called for any explanation or information, whether it has been given and
whether it is satisfactory;(b)whether or not, the transactions of the Regional
Rural Bank, which have come to his notice, have been within the powers of that
bank;(c)whether or not, the returns received from the offices and branches of
the Regional Rural Bank have been found adequate for the purpose of his
audit;(d)whether the profit and loss account shows a true balance of profit or
loss for the period covered by such accounts; and(e)any other matter which he
considers should be brought to the notice of the Regional Rural Bank.

### 20. Annual report to be furnished to the share holders.-

(1)Every Regional Rural Bank shall, within [three months from the date of the
closure of its accounting year, or such further period, not exceeding three
months, as may be permitted by the Reserve Bank], send to each of its
shareholders a report as to its working and activities during the accounting
year immediately preceding together with a copy of its balance- sheet, profit
and loss account and the auditor's report in relation to the accounts of the
said accounting year.(2)The Central Government shall cause every auditor's
report and report on the working and activities of each Regional Rural Bank to
be laid, as soon as may be after they are received, before each House of
Parliament.

### 21. Disposal of profits.-

After making provisions for bad and doubtful debts, depreciation in assets,
contributions to staff and superannuation funds and all other matters for
which provision is, under law, necessary or which are usually provided for by
banking companies, a Regional Rural Bank may, out of its net profits, declare
a dividend.Regional Rural Bank to be deemed to be a co-operative society
forpurpose of the Income-tax Act, 1961. 22. Regional Rural Bank to be deemed
to be a co-operative society for purpose of the Income-tax Act, 1961.-For the
purpose of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961.), or any other enactment for
the time being inforce relating to any tax on income, profits or gains, a
Regional Rural Bank shall be deemed to be a co- operative society.
----------------------------------------------------------------------S. 20
renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 81 of 1985, s. 11 (w.e.f.
1-5-1986). 2. Subs. by Act 1 of 1988, s. 12, for certain words (w.e.f.
28-9-1988). 3. Ins. by Act 81 of 1985, s. 11 (w.e.f. 1-5-1986). 273Interest-
tax not payable. 23. Interest-tax not payable.- Notwithstanding anything
contained in the Interest-tax Act, 1974 (45 of 1974), no Regional Rural Bank
shall be liable to pay any tax under that Act.

## Chapter VA  
AMALGAMATION OF REGIONAL RURAL BANKS

### 23A. Amalgamation of Regional Rural Banks.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, if the Central Government,
after consultation with the National Bank, the concerned State Government and
the Sponsor Bank, is of the opinion that it is necessary in the public
interest or in the interest of the development of the area served by any
Regional Rural Bank or in the interest of the Regional Rural Banks themselves,
that two or more Regional Rural Banks should be amalgamated, that Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, provide for the amalgamation of
such Regional Rural Banks (hereafter in this Chapter referred to as the
transferor Regional Rural banks) into a single Regional Rural Bank (hereafter
in this Chapter referred to as the transferee Regional Rural Bank) with such
constitution, property, powers, rights, interests, authorities and privileges;
and with such liabilities, duties and obligations, as may be specified in the
notification.(2)Every notification issued under sub-section (1) shall indicate
the date with effect from which the amalgamation shall become
effective.(3)Every notification issued under sub-section (1) may also provide
for all or any of the following matters, namely:--(a)the continuance in
service of all the employees of the transferor Regional Rural Banks (excepting
such of them as not being workmen with in the meaning of the Industrial
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) are specifically mentioned in the
notification) in the transferee Regional Rural Bank at the same remuneration
and on the same terms and conditions of service, which they were getting or,
as the case may be, by which they were being governed, immediately before the
date on which the amalgamation takes effect;(b)notwithstanding anything
contained in clause (a), where any of the employees of the transferor Regional
Rural Banks, not being workmen within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes
Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) are specifically mentioned in the notification, or
where any employee of the transferor Regional Rural Banks has by notice in
writing given to the transferee Regional Rural Bank at any time before the
expiry of a period of three months next following the date on which the
amalgamation takes effect, intimated his intention of not becoming an employee
of the transferee Regional Rural Bank, the payment to such employee of
compensation, if any, to which he is entitled under the Industrial Disputes
Act, 1947, and such gratuity, provident fund and other retirement benefits
ordinarily admissible to him under the rules or authorisations of the
concerned transferor Regional Rural Banks immediately before that date;(c)the
other terms and conditions for the amalgamation of Regional Rural Banks;
and(d)the continuance by or against the transferee Regional Rural Bank of any
pending legal proceeding by or against any transferor Regional Rural Banks and
such consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions, as may, in the
opinion of the Central Government, be necessary to give effect to the
amalgamation.

### 23B. Notification under section 23A to be sufficient notice to concerned
parties.-

(1)A notification issued under sub-section (1) of section 23A, shall
constitute sufficient notice of the provisions thereof to all the parties
concerned and shall be binding on the transferor Regional Rural Banks and the
transferee Regional Rural Bank and to the depositors, creditors, employees and
all other persons having dealings with such banks.(2)Notwithstanding anything
contained in the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882) or the
Registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908), any notification issued under sub-section
(1) of section 23A shall be sufficient conveyance, in accordance with the
provisions of the notification, of the business, properties, assets and
liabilities, rights, interests, powers, privileges, benefits and obligations
of whatever nature of the transferor Regional Rural Banks to the transferee
Regional Rural Bank.(3)On and from the date on which the amalgamation takes
effect under section 23A, any reference to the transferor Regional Rural Banks
in any agreement, conveyance, assurance, power of attorney or any other
document of whatsoever nature, shall be deemed to be reference to the
transferee Regional Rural Bank and the rights and obligations of the
transferor Regional Rural Banks shall be deemed to be the rights and
obligations of the transferee Regional Rural Bank to the extent specified in
the said amalgamation.

### 23C. Cessation of business of transferor Regional Rural Banks.-

On and from the date on which the amalgamation takes effect under section 23A,
the transferor Regional Rural Banks shall cease to carry on business,
including that of making of any payment to any depositors or discharge any
liability or obligation to the creditors except to the extent as may be
necessary for the implementation of the provisions of the said amalgamation.

### 23D. Liquidation of Regional Rural Banks.-

Where a notification is issued for the amalgamation of Regional Rural Banks
under sub-section(1)of section 23A, the Central Government may, by a further
notification in the Official Gazette, direct that on such date, as may be
specified therein, the transferor Regional Rural Banks, which by reason of
amalgamation will cease to function, shall stand dissolved and such direction
shall take effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
section 26.]

## Chapter VI  
MISCELLANEOUS

### 24. Power of Central Government to give directions.-

(1)A Regional Rural Bank shall, in the discharge of its functions, be guided
by such directions in regard to matters of policy involving public interest as
the Central Government may, after consultation with the Reserve Bank,
give.(2)If any question arises as to whether any such direction relates to a
matter of policy involving public interest, the decision of the Central
Government thereon shall be final. 24A. Inspection, audit and scrutiny by the
Sponsor Bank.["24A. Inspection, audit and scrutiny by the Sponsor
Bank.-Notwithstanding anything contained in section 19 and without prejudice
to the provisions of section 35 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the
Sponsor Bank shall, from time to time, monitor the progress of the Regional
Rural Banks sponsored by it and cause inspection, internal audit and scrutiny
to be made by one or more of its officers and suggest corrective measures to
be taken by such Regional Rural Bank.

### 25. Obligations as to fidelity and secrecy.-

(1)A Regional Rural Bank shall observe, except as otherwise required by law,
the practices and usages customary among bankers and, in particular, it shall
not divulge any information relating to, or to the affairs of, its
constituents except in circumstances in which it is, in accordance with the
law or practice and usage customary among bankers, necessary or appropriate
for the Regional Rural Bank to divulge(2)Every director, member of a committee
or auditor, officer or other employee of a Regional Rural Bank shall, before
entering upon his duties, make a declaration of fidelity and secrecy in the
form set out in the Schedule to this Act.

### 26. Bar to liquidation of Regional Rural Bank.-

No provision of law relating to the winding up of companies shall apply to a
Regional Rural Bank and a Regional Rural Bank shall not be placed in
liquidation save by order of the Central Government and in such manner as it
may direct.

### 27. Defects in appointment or constitution not to invalidate acts or
proceedings.-

(1)No act of a Chairman, acting in good faith, shall be invalid merely by
reason of any defect in his appointment or in the procedure.(2)No act or
proceeding of any Board of directors or of any committee of a Regional Rural
Bank shall be invalid merely on the ground of the existence of any vacancy in,
or defect in the constitution of, such Board or committee, as the case may be.
-------------------------------------------------------- 1. Ins. by Act 1 of
1988, s. 13 (w.e.f. 28-9-1988). 2. Ins. by s. 14, ibid (w.e.f. 28-9-1988).
274(3)Acts done by a person, acting in good faith, as a director or member of
a committee of a Regional Rural Bank shall be valid, notwithstanding that it
may afterwards be discovered that his appointment was invalid by reason of any
defect or disqualification or had terminated by virtue of any provision
contained in any law for the time being in force: Provided that nothing in
this section shall be deemed to give validity to any act done by a director or
a member of any committee of a Regional Rural Bank after his appointment has
been shown to the Regional Rural Bank to be invalid or to have terminated.

### 28. Indemnity of directors, etc.-

(1)(1) A director or a member of a committee of a Regional Rural Bank shall
not be responsible for any loss or expense caused to such bank by
insufficiency or deficiency of the value of, or title to, any property or
security acquired or taken on behalf of a Regional Rural Bank or by the
insolvency or wrongful act of any customer or debtor or anything done in, or
in relation to, the execution of the duties of his office, unless such loss,
expense, insufficiency or deficiency was due to any wilful act or default on
the part of such director or member.(2)The Chairman of a Regional Rural Bank
and every officer of the Central Government or State Government or an officer
of the Reserve Bank 1*[or the National Bank] or the Sponsor Bank and every
officer or other employee of a Regional Rural Bank shall be indemnified by
such bank against all losses and expensesincurred by him in, or in relation
to, the discharge of his duties except such as have been caused by his own
wilful act or default.

### 29. Power to make rules.-

(1)The Central Government may, after consultation with the 2*[National Bank]
and the Sponsor Bank, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for
carrying out the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely:-- (a) the manner in which the
additional number of members of the Board may be filled in, under sub-section
(2) of section 9; (b) the time and place at which the Board of directors of a
Regional Rural Bank shall meet and the rules of proce-
---------------------------------------------------------------------- 1. Ins.
by Act 1 of 1988, s. 15 (w.e.f. 28-9-1988). 2. Subs. by s. 16, ibid., for
"Resever Bank" (w.e.f. 28-9-1988). 275 dure which shall be observed by the
Board in regard to the transaction of business at its meetings, under sub-
Banks shall be appointed;] (c) any other matter which is required to be, or
may be, prescribed.(3)Every rule made by the Central Government under this Act
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 30. Power to make regulations.-

(1)] The Board of directors of a Regional Rural Bank may, after consultation
with the Sponsor Bank and the 3*[National Bank] and with the previous sanction
of the Central Government ["by notification in the Official Gazette,] make
regulations, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act and the rules
made thereunder, to provide for all matters for which provision is necessary
or expedient for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this
Act.(2)Every regulation shall, as soon as may be after it is made under this
Act by the Board of directors, be forwarded to the Central Government and that
Government shall cause a copy of the same to be laid before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the regulation or both Houses agree that the regulation should not be made,
the regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be
of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that regulation.

### 31. Removal of difficulties.-

If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the
Central Government may make such order, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, as may appear to it to be necessary for the purpose of removing
the difficulty: Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of
a period of five years from the commencement of this Act.

### 32. Act to override the provisions of other laws.-

The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any
contract, express or implied, or in any instrument having effect by virtue of
any law other than this Act, and notwithstanding any custom or usage to the
contrary. -------------------------------------

### 2\. S. 10 renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 1 of 1984, s. 70
(w.e.f. 15-2-1984). 1. Ins. by Act 1 of 1988, s. 16 (w.e.f. 28-9-1988). 3.
Subs. by Act 1 of 1989 s. 17, for "Reseve Bank" (w.e.f. 28-9-1988). 4 Ins. by
Act 66 of 1988, s. 34 (w.e.f. 30-12-1988). 5. Ins. by Act 1 of 1984, s.20
(w.e.f. 15-2-1984). 276

## Chapter VII  
AMENDMENT OF CERTAIN ENACTMENTS

### 34. [Repeal and savings.] Not printed. SCHE

See section 25(2) THE SCHEDULE[See section 25 (2)]I,...................., do
hereby declare that I will faithfully, truly and to the best of my skill and
ability execute and perform the duties required of me as a director, member of
a committee, officer, employee or auditor (as the case may be) of the Regional
Rural Bank and which properly relate to any office or position in the said
Bank held by me. I further declare that I will not communicate or allow to be
communicated to any person not any person having any dealings with the
Regional Rural Bank, nor will I allow any such person to inspect or have
access to, any books or documents belonging to, or in the possession of the
Regional Rural Bank and relating to the business of the Regional Rural Bank,
or to the business of any person having any dealings with the Regional Rural
Bank. Signature. Signed before me. Dated

