## Union of India - Act

## The Redressal Of Public Grievances Rules, 1998

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Redressal Of Public Grievances Rules, 1998

## Rule THE-REDRESSAL-OF-PUBLIC-GRIEVANCES-RULES-1998 of 1998

  * Published on 11 November 1998 
  * Commenced on 11 November 1998 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 November 1998.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Redressal Of Public Grievances Rules, 1998Published vide Notification
G.S.R. 670(E), dated 11.11.1998, published in the Gazette of India,
Extraordinary, Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 11.11.1998.

### 14.

/658G.S.R. 670(E), dated 11th November, 1998. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by sub-section (1) of section 114 of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of
1938) the Central Government hereby frames the following rules, namely:-

### 1. Short title

.-These rules may be called The Redressal of Public Grievances Rules, 1998.

### 2. Application

.-These rules shall apply to all the insurance companies operating in general
insurance business and in life insurance business:Provided that the Central
Government may exempt an insurance company from the provisions of these rules,
if it is satisfied that an insurance company has already a grievance redressal
machinery which fulfills the requirements of these rules.

### 3.

The objects of these rules are to resolve all complaints relating to
settlement of claim on the part of insurance companies in cost-effective,
efficient and impartial manner.

### 4. Definition

.-In these rules unless the context otherwise requires:-(a)"Act" means
Insurance Act, 1938;(b)"committee" means an advisory committee referred to in
Rule 19;(c)"financial year" means a period of twelve months commencing from
the 1st day of April of any year and ending on 31st day of March of the
succeeding year;(d)"General Insurance Corporation of India" means a Government
company formed under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the General Insurance
Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 and shall include a subsidiary company of
such company;(e)"governing body" means governing body of the Insurance Council
constituted under sub-rule (1) of rule 5;(f)[ Insurance Council will consist
of Life Insurance Corporation of India, General Insurance Corporation of India
and its four subsidiaries and other Insurance Companies which will be
permitted to do insurance business in India;] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 752(E),
dated 18.12.1998 (w.e.f. 18.12.1998).](g)"Insurance Regulatory Authority"
means a body established by Government of India vide Resolution No. 17(2)/94
Ins. V, dated 23-1-1996 to monitor the orderly growth of insurance
industry;(h)"Insurance Company" means the Life Insurance Corporation of India,
the General Insurance Corporation of India and any other company which has
been given a licence to carry on business of life insurance or of general
insurance, as the case may be;(i)"insured person" means an individual by whom
or on whose behalf an insurance policy has been taken on personal
lines;(j)"Life Insurance Corporation of India" means the Life Insurance
Corporation of India established under the Life Insurance Corporation Act,
1956;(k)"Personal lines" means an insurance policy taken or given in an
individual capacity.

### 5. Governing body of Insurance Council

.-(1) There shall be a Governing Body of the Insurance Council which shall
consist of one representative from each of the insurance companies.(2)The
representatives of an insurance company shall ordinarily be Chairman or
Managing Director or any one of the Directors of such company.(3)The Governing
Body shall formulate its own procedure for conducting its business including
the election of the Chairman:Provided that the Chairman of the Life Insurance
Corporation of India shall act as the first Chairman of the Governing Body.

### 6. Ombudsman

.-(1) The governing body shall appoint one or more persons as Ombudsman for
the purpose of these rules.(2)The Ombudsman selected may be drawn from a wider
circle including those who have experience or have been exposed to the
industry, civil service, administrative service, etc., in addition to those
drawn from judicial service.(3)An Ombudsman shall be appointed by the
Governing Body from a panel prepared by the Committee consisting of-

(a)Chairman of Insurance Regulatory Authority. | —Chairman  
---|---  
(b)Two representatives of Insurance Councilincluding one each from the Life Insurance Business and fromGeneral Insurance Business respectively | —Member  
(c) One representative of the Central Government | —Member  
  
### 7. Term of Office

.-An Ombudsman shall be appointed for a term of three years and shall be
eligible for reappointment:Provided that no person shall hold office as such
Ombudsman after he has attained the age of 65 years.

### 8. Removal from Office

.-(1) An Ombudsman may be removed from service for gross misconduct committed
by him during his term of office.(2)The Governing Body may appoint such person
as it thinks fit to conduct enquiry in relation to misconduct of the
Ombudsman.(3)All enquiries on misconduct will be sent to Insurance Regulatory
Authority which may take a decision as to the proposed action to be taken
against the Ombudsman.(4)On recommendations of the Insurance Regulatory
Authority if the Governing Body is of opinion that the Ombudsman is guilty of
misconduct, it may terminate his services.[9. Pay and Allowances of Ombudsman.
- (1) The Ombudsman shall be allowed a fixed pay of Rupees Eighty Thousand per
month and any pension to which he is entitled from the Central Government or a
State Government or any other organisation or institution shall be deducted
from his salary.(2)the effective date for application of the revised pay and
admissibility of other allowances and perquisites shall be such as may be
determined by the Central Government.]

### 10. Territorial Jurisdiction of Ombudsman

.-(1) The office of the Ombudsman shall be located at such place as may be
specified by the Insurance Council from time to time.(2)The Governing Body
shall specify the territorial jurisdiction of each Ombudsman.(3)The Ombudsman
may hold sitting at various places within his area of jurisdiction in order to
expedite disposal of complaints.

### 11. Staff

.-(1) The Ombudsman shall have such secretarial staff as may be provided to
him by the Insurance Council after having consultation with the
Ombudsman.(2)The Ombudsman may engage the services of professional expert with
a view to assist him in discharging his functions.(3)The salary, allowances
and perquisites payable to Ombudsman, the salary, allowances and other
benefits payable to the staff of the secretariat and all expenses incurred for
the purposes of these rules shall be borne by the Insurance Council.(4)The
Ombudsman shall prepare the budget indicating the requirement of funds before
the beginning of every financial year.(5)The budget of the office of Ombudsman
will be sent to the Governing Body.(6)The Governing Body will finalise the
budget in consultation with the Ombudsman and shall allocate the funds to the
office of Ombudsman.(7)The total expenses on Ombudsman and his staff shall be
incurred by the insurance companies who are members of the Insurance Council
in such proportion as may be decided by the Governing Body from time to
time:-Provided that till a decision is taken by the Governing Body, the entire
expenditure shall be shared equally between the insurance companies in the
life insurance business and general insurance business in equal
proportion.(8)The share of expenditure which is to be incurred by each
insurance company shall be in the ratio of premium income for the previous
year of such company.Explanation .-For the purpose of this sub-rule "premium
income" means the gross direct premium income of the insurer without taking
into account from time to time income on re-insurance accepted by the
insurance company.

### 12. Power of Ombudsman

.-(1) The Ombudsman may receive and consider-(a)complaints under rule
13;(b)any partial or total repudiation of claims by an insurer;(c)any dispute
in regard to premium paid or payable in terms of the policy;(d)any dispute on
the legal construction of the policies in so far as such disputes relate to
claims;(e)delay in settlement of claims;(f)non-issue of any insurance document
to customers after receipt of premium.(2)The Ombudsman shall act as counsellor
and mediator in matters which are within his terms of reference and, if
requested to do so in writing by mutual agreement by the insured person and
insurance company.(3)The Ombudsman's decision whether the complaint is fit and
proper for being considered by it or not shall be final.

### 13. Manner in which complaint is to be made

.-(1) Any person who has a grievance against an insurer, may himself or
through his legal heirs make a complaint in writing to the Ombudsman within
whose jurisdiction the branch or office of the insurer complained against is
located.(2)The complaint shall be in writing duly signed by the complainant or
through his legal heirs and shall state clearly the name and address of the
complainant, the name of the branch or office of the insurer against which the
complaint is made, the fact giving rise to complaint supported by documents,
if any, relied on by the complainant, the nature and extent of the loss caused
to the complainant and the relief sought from the Ombudsman.(3)No complaint to
the Ombudsman shall lie unless:-(a)the complainants had before making a
complaint to the Ombudsman made a written representation to the insurer named
in the complaint and either insurer had rejected the complaint or the
complainant had not received any reply within a period of one month after the
insurer concerned received his representation or the complainant is not
satisfied with the reply given to him by the insurer;(b)The complaint is made
not later than one year after the insurer had rejected the representation or
sent his final reply on the representation of the complainant; and(c)the
complaint is not on the same subject-matter, for which any proceedings before
any Court, or Consumer Forum, or arbitrator is pending or were so earlier.

### 14\. Ombudsman to act fairly and equitably

.-(1) The Ombudsman may, if he deems fit, adopt a procedure other than
mentioned in sub-rules (1) and (2) of Rule 13 for dealing with a
claim:Provided that the Ombudsman may ask the parties for necessary papers in
support of their respective claims and where he considers necessary, he may
collect factual information available with the insurance company.(2)The
Ombudsman shall dispose of a complaint fairly and equitably.

### 15. Recommendations made by the Ombudsman

.-(1) When a complaint is settled, through mediation of the Ombudsman,
undertaken by him in pursuance of request made in writing by complainant and
insurer through mutual agreement, the Ombudsman shall make a recommendation
which he thinks fair in the circumstances of the case. The copies of the
recommendation shall be sent to the complainant and the insurance company
concerned. Such recommendation shall be made not later than one month from the
date of the receipt of the complaint.(2)If a complainant accepts the
recommendation of the Ombudsman, he will send a communication in writing
within 15 days of the date of receipt of the recommendation. He will confirm
his acceptance to Ombudsman and state clearly that the settlement reached is
acceptable to him, in totality, in terms of recommendations made by the
Ombudsman in full and final settlement of complaint.(3)The Ombudsman shall
send to the insurance company a copy of the recommendation alongwith the
acceptance letter received from the complainant. The insurer shall thereupon
comply with the terms of the recommendations immediately not later than 15
days of the receipt of such recommendation and the insurer shall inform the
Ombudsman of its compliance.

### 16. Award

.-(1) Where the complaint is not settled by agreement under Rule 15, the
Ombudsman shall pass an award which he thinks fair in the facts and
circumstances of a claim.(2)An award shall be in writing and shall state the
amount awarded to the complainant:-Provided that Ombudsman shall not award any
compensation in excess of which is necessary to cover the loss suffered by the
complainant as a direct consequence of the insured peril, or for an amount not
exceeding rupees twenty lakhs (including ex gratia and other expenses),
whichever is lower.(3)The Ombudsman shall pass an award within a period of
three months from the receipt of the complaint.(4)A copy of the award shall be
sent to the complainant and the insurer named in the complaint.(5)The
complainant shall furnish to the insurer within a period of one month from the
date of receipt of the award, a letter of acceptance that the award is in full
and final settlement of his claim.(6)The insurer shall comply with the award
within 15 days of the receipt of the acceptance letter under sub-rule (5) and
it shall intimate the compliance to the Ombudsman.

### 17. Consequences of non-acceptance of award

.-If the complainant does not intimate the acceptance under sub-rule (5) of
Rule 16, the award may not be implemented by the insurance company.

### 18. Power to make ex gratia payment

.-If the Ombudsman deems fit, he may award an ex gratia payment.Miscellaneous
Provisions

### 19. Advisory Committee

.-An Advisory Committee not exceeding five eminent persons shall be notified
by the Government to assist the Insurance Regulatory Authority to review the
performance of the Ombudsman from time to time. The Insurance Regulatory
Authority shall decide the time, venue and quorum of such meeting. The
authority, after discussing the matter with the Governing Body, may recommend
to Government appropriate proposals for effecting improvements in the
functioning of Ombudsman. In the light of recommendations made by the
Insurance Regulatory Authority, the Government may carry out such amendments
to these rules as they may deem fit.

### 20.

The Ombudsman shall furnish a report every year containing a general review of
the activities of the office of the Ombudsman during preceding financial year
to the Central Government and such other information as may be considered
necessary by it. In the Annual Report, the Ombudsman will make an annual
review of the quality of services rendered by the insurer and make
recommendations to improve these services.

### 21. Recommendation of the Insurance Council

.-The Insurance Council may suggest to the Ombudsman such recommendations as
it deems fit and which in its opinion will enhance the utility of the Annual
Report and also so that the objectives of the rules are clearly analysed in
terms of the activities in the year under review. Suggestion for long-term
improvement of insurance sector will be incorporated by the Ombudsman in his
report.

