## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Rules relating to the manner in which person or persons by whom and
intervals at which annual value of certain railway lands shall be estimated or
revised

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Rules relating to the manner in which person or persons by whom and
intervals at which annual value of certain railway lands shall be estimated or
revised

## Act 765 of 1973

  * Published on 1 January 1973 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1973 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1973.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Rules relating to the manner in which person or persons by whom and
intervals at which annual value of certain railway lands shall be estimated or
revisedPublished vide Notification SRO NO. A-765 of 1973In exercise of the
powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 431 read with clause (b) of
sub-section (4) of section 120 of the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act,
1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rules regarding the manner in which the person or persons by whom
and the intervals at which the annual value of certain railway lands in City
of Madurai shall be estimated or revised:-

### 1.

These rules apply to railway lands which are not exclusively used for
agricultural purposes and are not occupied by, or adjacent and appurtenant to,
buildings.

### 2.

The railway lands aforesaid shall be assessed to property tax in accordance
with the following rules, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in the provisions of Part II of Schedule II of the Madurai City Municipal
Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971).

### 3.

The annual value of the railway lands shall be determined by a committee
consisting of-(a)The Commissioner, Corporation Madurai;(b)The Revenue
Divisional Officer in which the Corporation is situated; and(c)One
representative of the Railway Administration concerned chosen by its General
Manager.

### 4.

The Commissioner, Corporation Madurai shall convene the meetings of the
committee.

### 5.

No business shall be transacted by the committee unless all the three members
are present.

### 6.

On all points on which there is a difference of opinion among the members of
the committee; the opinion of the majority shall prevail.

### 7.

(1)The committee may, in its discretion, revise its decision in respect of the
valuation of-any railway land.(2)The Commissioner, Corporation of Madurai or
the General Manager of the Southern Railway Administration may, at any time,
not being less than sixty days before the commencement of a half year by
application in writing, move the committee for the alteration of the valuation
of any railway land with effect from the commencement of such half-
year.(3)Copies of all such application shall be sent immediately to the
Revenue Divisional Officer, Madurai and also to the Commissioner, Corporation
of Madurai or the General Manager, as the case may be.(4)If both the
Commissioner, Corporation of Madurai and the General Manager are agreed to any
alteration in the valuation of any railway land, the valuation shall be
altered accordingly and no meeting of the committee need be held.(5)In other
cases, the committee shall duly consider and pass orders on the applications
aforesaid after considering any objection to the alterations proposed therein.

### 8.

(1)If the committee does not complete the valuation of any railway lands
before the commencement of the half-year with effect from which they are to be
assessed or their assessment is to be revised, the Commissioner, Corporation
of Madurai may assess them on his own valuation in case the lands are to be
assessed for the first time and in accordance with the existing valuation in
other cases and shall be entitled to collect the tax on the basis of such
assessment, pending the valuation of the said lands by the committee.(2)The
difference, if any, between the assessments so made and the assessment based
on the valuation fixed by the committee, shall be adjusted as soon as possible
after the Valuation is made.

