## Union of India - Act

## The Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Rules, 1953

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Rules, 1953

## Rule THE-REQUISITIONING-AND-ACQUISITION-OF-IMMOVABLE-PROPERTY-RULES-1953 of
1953

  * Published on 18 May 1953 
  * Commenced on 18 May 1953 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 May 1953.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Rules, 1953Published
vide Notification S.R.O. 948, dated 18.5.1953, published in the Gazette of
India 1953, Part 2, Section 3.Last Updated 23rd February, 2019 [21/952]In
exercise of the powers conferred by section 22 of the Requisitioning and
Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 (30 of 1952), the Central
Government hereby makes the following rules, namely: -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called The Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable
Property Rules, 1953.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules - unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952;(aa)[ "Court"
means a principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in the district in
which the property requisitioned or acquired is situated] [ Inserted by G.S.R.
654, dated 23.7.1958.];(b)"Form" means a form appended to these
rules;(c)"section" or "sub-section" means respectively a section or sub-
section of the Act.

### 3. Procedure to be followed by competent authority for purposes of section
3(1)

.-A notice under clause (a) of sub-section (1) and order under clause (b) of
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act shall be in Form "A".

### 4. Order of requisitioning.

\- The order of requisition under sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Act and
the notice under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Act shall be issued in
Form "E".

### 5. Breaking open of locks on requisitioned property.

\- Where the possession of a requisitioned property is not handed over in
compliance with an order issued under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Act
and the premises are found locked, the competent authority or any other person
authorised by it in writing in this behalf may break open the lock in the
presence of two witnesses and take possession of the property:Provided
that--(i)before any such action is taken the competent authority shall satisfy
itself that the order under sub-section (1) of section 4 has been duly served
on the party concerned and that the party is evading compliance with the
order;(ii)the powers under this rule shall not be exercised at any time after
sunset or before sunrise; and(iii)where possession is taken in pursuance of
the powers conferred by this rule, an inventory of the articles found in the
premises shall be made in the presence of two witnesses and such articles
shall be stored in safe custody.

### 6. Repairs to requisitioned premises.

\- A notice under sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Act shall be in Form
"F". The time for execution of repairs to be specified in the notice shall be
such as the competent authority may deem reasonable having regard to the
nature of repairs and other circumstances of the case.

### 7. Procedure to be followed in releasing the property.

(1)For the purpose of sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Act the competent
authority may, if it considers it necessary so to do, make or cause to be made
by an officer empowered in this behalf by it, an enquiry to obtain information
in respect of the following matters, namely: -(i)the name and address of the
person from whom the property was requisitioned;(ii)the name and address of
the person in possession of the property at the time the property was
requisitioned;(iii)the name of the person who has been receiving
compensation;(iv)whether any alternative accommodation was provided to the
occupant when the property was requisitioned or whether any compensation was
paid to him for vacating the property or whether the occupants, if any,
relinquished their claims for re-occupation of the property;(v)whether the
occupant was a bona fide tenant of the property or was an unauthorised
occupant or has no claim in law for the restitution of the
property;(vi)whether the owner of the property on whom the requisitioning
order was first served, had sold the property and if so to whom;(vii)in case
the property has been sold whether the owner has sold all rights in respect of
the property;(viii)whether there is any objection to the property being de-
requisitioned in favour of the owner from whom the property was
requisitioned;(ix)the state of repairs of property at the time of
enquiry;(x)whether any structure or articles belonging to Government have been
erected or installed in the property and their value;(xi)the condition of the
property at the time of requisition and whether the property is in as good a
condition as it was when possession thereof was taken subject to change caused
by reasonable wear and tear or irresistible force;(xii)the estimated cost of
restoration; and(xiii)any other matter that the competent authority may
consider necessary for the purpose of specifying the person to whom possession
of the property may be given.(2)Before issuing an order of release under sub-
section (1) of section 6 of the Act, the authority to whom the powers of the
Central Government have been delegated for this purpose, shall obtain the
approval of the Central Government in the administrative ministry
concerned.(3)An order under sub-section (2) of section 6 shall be issued in
Form "G".(4)A notice under sub-section (4) of section 6 shall be in Form "H".

### 8. Acquisition of requisitioned property.

\- A notice under [sub-section (1) or (1A)] [Substituted 'sub-section (1)' by
Notification No. G.S.R. 133(E), dated 20.2.2019 (w.e.f. 18.5.1953).] of
section 7 of the Act calling upon the owner or any other person interested in
a requisitioned property to show cause why the property should be acquired,
shall be in [Form 'I' or Form 'IA'] [Substituted 'Form 'I' by Notification No.
G.S.R. 133(E), dated 20.2.2019 (w.e.f. 18.5.1953).]. A notice of actual
acquisition shall be in Form "J".[Form 'IA'] [Inserted by Notification No.
G.S.R. 133(E), dated 20.2.2019 (w.e.f. 18.5.1953).](See rule 8)NoticeWhereas,
the Central Government is of opinion that the property described in the
Schedule hereto annexed which is subject to requisition should be acquired for
a public purpose, namely; -And Whereas, a notice dated ............... under
the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Requisitioning and
Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 (30 of 1952), was issued by the
Central Government to Shri / Smt. / Km ............... to show cause within
the period specified therein why the said property should not be acquired.And
Whereas, after considering the fact that no cause was shown against the said
notice / after considering the cause shown against the said notice, the
Central Government, in exercise of powers conferred under sub-section (1) of
section 7 of the said Act, issued a notice dated ............... for
acquisition of the said property.And Whereas, the said notice dated
............... has been quashed by ............... vide order dated
............... on the ground that the owner or any other person interested in
the property was not given adequate opportunity to show cause or personal
hearing.Now, therefore, in exercise of powers conferred by sub-section (1A) of
section 7 of the said Act, the Central Government do hereby call upon Shri /
Smt. / Km ............... being the owner of the said property to show cause
within fifteen days of the date of service of this notice upon him / her why
the said property should not be acquired.

## Schedule

Signature ...............Designation
...............To,...............................................................................................................

### 9. Compensation.

(1)An authority to whom the powers of the Central Government have been
delegated shall, as far as may be, associate with itself the local officer of
the Central Government concerned with the property in fixing compensation
under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 8, and obtain the approval of
the Central Government in the administrative ministry concerned [or of any
officer authorised by that Government in this behalf.] [ Added by S.R.O. 3272,
dated 19.10.1954.](2)Compensation for requisitioned property, other than
agricultural land, shall be paid by the competent authority quarterly in
arrears. In the case of agricultural land, the compensation shall be paid
either annually or on release of the land whichever is earlier. The
compensation shall be paid either in cash or by cheque at the discretion of
the competent authority.(3)[ The competent authority shall, as soon as may be
practicable after the making of a requisitioning order or the service of a
notice of acquisition, communicate to each person interested an offer of what,
in the opinion of the competent authority, is a fair amount of compensation
payable to such person in respect of the property requisitioned or
acquired.(4)If the owner of the property is not readily traceable or if there
be no person competent to alienate the property or if the ownership of the
property is in dispute or if there be any dispute as to the title to receive
the compensation or as to the apportionment of the amount offered as
compensation, the competent authority shall deposit in Court the amount of the
compensation as determined by him under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of
section 8. The competent authority shall at the same time submit to the
Central Government a report setting forth the full facts of the case with all
connected papers and apply for the appointment of an arbitrator. Where the
compensation is recurring, the competent authority shall, in case covered by
this sub-rule, deposit the amount in Court from time to time in arrear as it
falls due.(5)(i)Every person interested to whom an offer is made under sub-
rule (3) shall, within fifteen days of the receipt of the offer, communicate
in writing to the competent authority his acceptance or otherwise of the
offer. If he accepts the offer, the competent authority shall enter into an
agreement with him on behalf of the Central Government in Form "K".(ii)In the
following circumstances the competent authority may, at his discretion, make,
to ][all eligible claimants] [ Substituted by G.S.R. 502, dated 23.4.1960.]
["on account" payment up to 80 per cent. of the amount which, in his opinion,
is likely to be assessed as compensation or recurring compensation as the case
may be- [Inserted by S.R.O. 3252, dated 30.9.1957. ](a)when there is likely to
be delay in assessing compensation;(b)where the competent authority has made
an assessment but there is delay in reaching an agreement though there is a
reasonable prospect of agreement being reached; or(c)where it is clear that an
agreement cannot be reached.(iii)If the competent authority makes an "on
account" payment under clause (ii), he shall enter into an agreement with the
person to whom payment is made on behalf of the Central Government, in Form
"L" with such modification as the nature of the case may require.(6)If any
person to whom an offer is made under sub-rule (3) does not accept the offer
or does not within fifteen days of the receipt of the offer communicate in
writing to the competent authority his acceptance or otherwise of the offer,
the competent authority shall, as soon as may be, submit to the Central
Government a report setting forth the full facts of the case, particularly as
regards the nature and extent of disagreement between himself on the one hand
and the said person on the other hand and he shall also forward with the
report all connected papers. The competent authority shall at the same time
deposit in Court the amount offered by him to the said person under sub-rule
(3).] [Inserted by S.R.O. 3252, dated 30.9.1957. ]

### 10. Arbitration.

\- [(1) An arbitrator appointed under clause (b) of sub--section (1) of
section 8 shall ordinarily complete the arbitration proceedings and give his
award within four months. If for any reason he is unable to give his award
within that period, ] [Substituted by S.R.O. 3224, dated 4.10.1954. ][the
Central Government or the authority to which the power of the Central
Government under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 8 has been
delegated, may, if it thinks fit whether the time for making the award, has
expired or not and whether the award has been made or not, enlarge, from time
to time, the time for making the award] [ Substituted by S.R.O. 708, dated
25.3.1955.].(2)An arbitrator shall take down the evidence of each witness, not
ordinarily in the form of question and answer, but in that of a narrative and
shall sign it.(3)Where before an arbitrator is able to finish the arbitration
proceedings and make his award, a new arbitrator is appointed, the new
arbitrator may deal with the evidence taken down by his predecessor as if such
evidence had been taken down by him and may proceed with the arbitration
proceedings from the stage at which his predecessor left it.(4)The costs of
arbitration and award shall be in the discretion of the arbitrator who may
direct to, and by whom, and in what manner, they or any part thereof shall be
paid, and in case an appeal is preferred to the High Court, such costs and the
costs of the appeal shall be in the discretion of the High Court, who may
direct to, and by whom and in what manner, they or any part thereof shall be
paid.(5)[ When arbitrator has made his award he shall sign it and shall give
notice in writing to the parties to the reference of the making and signing
thereof. He shall also send to the competent authority as well as to the
person or persons to be compensated a copy of the award with a note appended
thereto setting forth the grounds on which the award is based and ] [Inserted
by S.R.O. 3252, dated 30.9.1957. ][shall also forward the award in original
together with the records of the proceedings--(a)to the proper Court if an
appeal is preferred against the award within the period of limitation
prescribed for preferring such appeal;(b)to the competent authority if no such
appeal is preferred within the said period].(6)On receipt of a copy of the
award, the competent authority shall pay the amount awarded by the arbitrator
to the persons entitled thereto [* * *] [ Omitted by G.S.R. 654, dated
23.7.1958.].[10-A. Moneys deposited in Court. [ Substituted by S.R.O. 3252,
dated 30.9.1957.]\- If any money is deposited in Court under rule 9(4) or rule
9(6), the Court shall deal with it in the manner laid down in sections 32 and
33 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 of 1894).] [ Substituted by G.S.R.
1212, dated 10.12.1958.]

### 11. Appeals.

(1)Appeals under section 10 shall be addressed to the Secretary to the
Government of India in the administrative ministry concerned with the
requisitioned property. [Where the appeal relates to a property requisitioned
in the Union territory, the appeal shall be addressed to the Administrator or
if there is no Administrator, to the Chief Secretary of the territory
concerned or if there is no Chief Secretary, to the Central Government. If,
however, a party addresses an appeal in respect of any such property to the
Central Government, the Central Government may, if it thinks fit, hear the
appeal itself and dispose it of or may direct the party to file it before the
Administrator or the Chief Secretary or may send the appeal to the
Administrator or the Chief Secretary, as the case may be, for disposal] [
Substituted by G.S.R. 758, dated 15.4.1968.].(2)Every appeal shall contain the
grounds of appeal and shall be accompanied by a copy of the order against
which the appeal is preferred.

### 12. Summoning of persons and witnesses and production of documents.

\- -An order under section 12 of the Act summoning and enforcing the
attendance of any person and examining him on oath or requiring the discovery
and production of any document shall be issued in Form "B". An order
requisitioning public records from any Court or office shall be issued in Form
"C", while an order issuing commissions for examination of witnesses shall be
in Form "D".

### 13. Inspection of premises.

\- The competent authority or any officer, empowered in this behalf by such
authority, by general or special order, shall not, in exercise of the powers
conferred by section 14, enter upon any property after sunset or before,
sunrise.Acquisition and Requisitioning-Requisitioning and Acquisition of
Immovable Property Act, 1952FORM "A"(See rule 3)Notice And OrderWhereas, I,
___________________________ (name and designation) being the competent
authority under the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act,
1952 (30 of 1952), am of opinion that the property described in the Schedule
hereto annexed is needed/or likely to be needed for a public purpose, to
wit,*[________ being a purpose of the Union and that the said property should
be acquisitioned;Now, THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-
section (1) of section 3 of the said Act, I, as the competent authority hereby
call upon ________________________(name of person) being the owner of
_________________( the said property) to show cause
___________________________________( person in possession) within fifteen days
of the date of service of this instrument upon him why the said property
should not be requisitioned and I further direct that neither the owner of the
said property nor any other person shall without my permission dispose of or
structurally alter the said property or let it out to a tenant until the
expiry of two months from the date of service of this instrument upon him.

## Schedule 2

Competent Authority.Signature/Designation.Seal

### 1\. Here mention the purposes for which the property shall be
requisitioned.

### 2\. Strike off the irrelevant words.

To.....................................................................FORM
"B"(See Rule 12)Summons to WitnessCase No.......... of 20.......In the
office.................Proposed requisitioning/acquisition-fixation of
compensation in respect
of..............To..................................................................................................................Where
your attendance is required to give evidence/produce the documents described
in the list enclosed in the above case, you are hereby required (personally)
to appear before the undersigned on the _ _ _ _ ____ _ __ _ __ __ day of __
______, 19 at _________ O' clock in the forenoon/afternoon and to bring with
you (or to send to this office) the said documents.In case you fail to comply
with this order without lawful excuse, you will be subject to the consequence
of non-attendance laid down in Rule 12 of order XVI of the C.P.C.Given under
my hand and the seal of this office, this ________________ day of
_________________________ 20.....Competent Authority/Arbitrator.FORM "C"(See
Rule 12)Requisition for Public RecordCase No.......... of 20.......In the
office.................Proposed requisition/acquisition/fixation of
compensation
of..............To........................................................................................................................Please
arrange to send per bearer/through your clerk on ________________, the public
record(s) mentioned below for my examination in connection with the proposed
requisitioning/acquisition/fixation of compensation in respect of
___________________________Given under my hand and seal of this office, this
_________________________ day of _____________ 20_____Details of record.

### 1\.

_____________________

### 2\.

_____________________Competent Authority/ArbitratorFORM "D"(See Rule 12)Form
of CompensationIn the Matter of _____________________________________It is
ordered as follows :-

### 1\. A commission may issue directed to ________________________ of
________________________ for the examination upon interrogatories or viva voce
before the aforesaid commissioner of the following :

(1)(2)(3)

### 2\. In the event of any witness on his examination, cross-examination or
re-examination producing any book, document, letter, paper, or writing and
refusing for good cause to be stated in his deposition, to part with the
original thereof, then a copy thereof or extract therefrom certified by the
Commissioner to be a true and correct copy or extract shall be annexed to the
witness's deposition.

### 3\. Each witness to be examined under the commission shall be examined on
oath, affirmation or otherwise in accordance with his religion by or before
the said Commissioner.

### 4\. The depositions to be taken under by virtue of the said commission
shall be subscribed by the witness or witnesses and by the Commissioner.

### 5\. The interrogatories, cross-interrogatories and deposition, together
with any documents referred to therein or certified copies thereof or extracts
therefrom shall be sent to the competent authority/arbitrator on or before the
___________ day of _____________, or such further or other day as may be
ordered by registered post.

Dated this _________________ day of ________20_____.Competent
Authority/Arbitrator.FORM "E"(See rule 4)Order and NoticeWhereas by a notice
issued or deemed to be issued under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the
requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act, 1952 (30 of 1952)
was called upon to show cause_______________(enter name of person).Within the
period specified therein why the property specified in the Schedule hereto
annexed should not be requisitioned;and Whereas the said period has expired
and no cause has been shown against the said notice or/the cause shown against
the said notice has been considered;Now, Therefore, in exercise of the powers
conferred by sub section (2) of section 3 and the section 4 of the said Act,
I, ________________________________ being a competent authority.............
(name designation)..................... under the said Act having been
satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so to do, do hereby requisition
the said property and I hereby order the said ____________________ to
surrender or deliver possession thereof to ___________________________ (enter
the name)________________ within thirty days of the service of this notice,
(enter designation of officer),If the said ______________________ refuses or
fails to comply with the (enter the name) above order, it shall be lawful for
me to take possession of the property and for that purpose to use such force
as my be necessary.

## Schedule 3

Signature
Designation.To..........................................................................................FORM
"F"(See rule 6)ORDERWhereas the premises known as ________________________
have been requisitioned under section 3 of the Requisitioning and Acquisition
of Immovable Property Act, 1952 (30 of 1953); or are deemed to have been
requisitioned under that section by virtue of the provisions of section 24 of
the said Act.And, whereas, the said premises are in need of repairs specified
in the Schedule hereto appended;Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers
conferred by sub-section (2) of section 5 of the said Act, I _________________
(enter name) (enter designation) being the competent authority under the said
Act do hereby order the landlord, of the said premises to execute the repairs,
specified in the schedule, being repairs which are necessary and are usually
made by landlords in the locality in which the premises are situated within a
period of.............. from the date of service of this notice.If the said
landlord fails to execute the repairs in this order within the aforesaid
period, it shall cause the same to be executed at his expense and the cost
thereof shall without prejudice to any other mode of recovery be deducted from
the compensation payable to him.

## Schedule 4

Signature/DesignationTo...............................................................................................................FORM
"G"(See rule 7)ORDERWhereas the property specified in the Schedule hereto
annexed was requisitioned by the order of the _________________,
dated_______________, with effect from the ____________;And whereas the
competent authority has now decided that the said property shall be released
from requisition with effect from _____________________________Now, therefore,
in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 6 of the
Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 (No. 30 of
1952), I,________________________ being the competent authority hereby (enter
name and designation) specify Mr./Messrs.____________________________________
as the person/persons to whom possession of the said property shall be given.

## Schedule 5

Signature/DesignationTo...............................................................................................................FORM
"H"(See rule 7(4)]NoticeWhereas the property specified in the Schedule hereto
annexed was requisitioned by the order of the ________________,
No________________, dated__________________ with effect from
__________________________ until further orders of the Central government;And,
Whereas, the Central Government has decided that the said property shall be
released from requisition;And, Whereas, in exercise of the powers conferred by
sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Requisitioning and Acquisition of
Immovable Property Act, 1952 (30 of 1952), I,_________________________ being a
competent authority__________________ under the said Act have specified Shri
___________________ as the person to whom possession of the said property
shall be given.And, Whereas, the said Shri ___________________ cannot be found
and has no agent or other person empowered to accept delivery on his
behalf.Now, Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4)
of section 6 of the said Act, I,______________ do hereby declare that the
said____________________ (name designation)_____________ property is released,
from requisition.

## Schedule 6

Signature/DesignationTo...............................................................................................................FORM
"I"(See rule 8)NoticeWhereas Central Government is of opinion that the
property described in the Schedule hereto annexed which is subject to
requisition should be acquired for a public purpose, namely,
___________________.Now Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-
section (1) of section 7 of the said Act, Central Government do hereby call
upon Shri ___________________________ being the owner of the said property to
show cause within fifteen days of the date of service of this notice upon him
why the said property should not be acquired.

## Schedule 7

Signature/DesignationTo...............................................................................................................FORM
"J"(See rule 8)NoticeWhereas a notice under the proviso to [sub-section (1) or
(1A)] [Substituted 'sub-section (1)' by Notification No. G.S.R. 133(E), dated
20.2.2019 (w.e.f. 18.5.1953).] of section 7 of the Requisitioning and
Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 (30 of 1952) was issued by the
Central Government to Shri _______________________________ being the owner of
the said property calling upon him to show cause within the period specified
therein why the said property should not be acquired ;And Whereas the said
period has expired and no cause has been shown against the said notice/the
cause against the said notice has been considered;Now, Therefore, in exercise
of the powers of [sub-section (1) or (1A)] [Substituted 'sub-section (1)' by
Notification No. G.S.R. 133(E), dated 20.2.2019 (w.e.f. 18.5.1953).] of
section 7 of the said Act, the Central Government having been satisfied that
it is necessary so to do, do hereby acquire the said property.

## Schedule 8

Signature/DesignationFORM "K" [Inserted by S.R.O. 3252, dated 30-9-1957][see
Rule 9(5)(i)]Form of agreement to be made on behalf of the central government
with owners of immovable property requisitioned the payment is made in
fullMemorandum of agreement made this _______ day of one thousand nine hundred
and seventy _____________ between _____________________ son of
______________________________________ by occupation ___________ at present
residing at ________________________ hereinafter referred to as "the
owner"/owners (which expression shall unless excluded by or repugnant to the
context be deemed to include his heirs their respective executors,
administrators and assigns) of the one part and the President of India
(hereinafter referred to as `The Government' which expression shall mean and
include his successor-in-office and assigns) of the other part.Whereas, the
immovable property particulars whereof are set out in the Schedule hereunder
written (hereinafter called `the said property') has been requisitioned under
the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952, and the
rules framed thereunder and on the _________________ day of ________________
20_____ taken possession of by or on behalf of or under the authority of the
Central Government.And Whereas the said owner has/owners have represented and
stated to the Government that the owner/owners alone is/are entitled to all
compensation payable in respect of the said property and no other person has
any right to such compensation or any part thereof;And Whereas the said
property consists, inter alia, or land structures and the Government has
dismantled the said structures;And Whereas the owner/owners and the Government
have mutually agreed to settle the amount of compensation payable in respect
of the said property and no other person has any right to such compensation or
any part thereof.And, Whereas, the said property consists, inter alia, of the
land structures and the Government has dismantled the said structures.And,
whereas, the owner/owners and the Government have mutually agreed to settle
the amount of compensation payable by the government to the owner/owners in
connection with the said requisition in the manner hereinafter appearing;Now
it is hereby agreed by and between the parties as follows :-

### 1\. The Government shall pay and the owner/owners shall accept and receive
a sum of Rs._________________ in full settlement of the compensation for the
structures.(Omit if the owner had no structures.)

### 2\. The Government shall pay the owner/owners shall accept and receive
payment of Rs._________________ per month/quarterly/year for the said property
with effect from the said day of __________________ 20____ so long as the
Government shall remain in possession thereof and the requisition continues.

### 3\. The owner/owners shall not claim or be entitled to any other
compensation whatsoever in connection with the said requisition.

[Provided that the owner/owners may claim variation of compensation if the
rent of the premised considered as on lease to the Government is variable by
reason of any statutory provision.] [Inserted by G.S.R. 359, dated 26-3-1960]

### 4\. The owner/owners shall meet and pay the revenue, rent, municipal taxes
and all other outgoings relating to the said property whether payable by the
owner/owners or the occupier thereof.

### 5\. If it hereafter transpires that the owner/owners is/are not entitled
or exclusively entitled to the compensation payable in respect of the said
property or if the Government have to pay any compensation to any other person
the owner/owners shall refund to the Government the payments made hereunder
and shall otherwise indemnify the Government against any loss or damage
suffered by the government by reason of any fault or defect in his/their title
as represented by him/them without prejudice to any other remedies for the
enforcement of any refund and/or indemnify, the Government may recover any sum
payable by way of refund and/or indemnify as arrears of land revenue.

### 6\. Should any dispute or difference arise out of or concerning the
subject-matter of these presents or any covenant clause or thing herein
contained or otherwise arising out of the requisition aforesaid the same shall
be referred to an arbitrator to be appointed by the Central government and the
decision of such arbitrator shall be conclusive and binding on the parties
hereto. The provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1940 shall apply to such
arbitration.

## above referred to.......................................

(Particulars and Description of Property Requisitioned)In witness whereof
these presents have been executed the day and year first above written.Signed
and delivered by the above-name owner/owners in the presence of
___________________Signed and delivered for and on behalf of the President in
the presence of _______________FORM "L"[see rule 9(5)(iii)]Form of agreement
to be made on behalf of the central government with owners of immovable
property requisitioned when the persons to be compensated are known but for
want of agreements as to the amount of compensation certain sums are paid on
accountMemorandum of agreement made this _______ day of ________ two
thousand________between _____________________ son of ____________________ by
occupation ___________ at present residing at ________________________
hereinafter referred to as the owner/owners (which expression shall unless
excluded by or repugnant to the context be deemed to include his/their
respective heirs, executors, administrators and assigns) of the one part and
the President of India ( hereinafter referred to as `The Government' which
expression shall mean and include his successor-in-office and assigns) of the
other part.Whereas the immovable property particulars whereof are set out in
the schedule hereunder written (hereinafter called the said property) has been
requisitioned under the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property
Act, 1952 and the rules framed thereunder and on the _________________ day of
________________ 20_____ taken possession of by or on behalf of or under the
authority of the Central Government.And Whereas the said owner/owners has/have
represented and stated to the Government that the owner/owners alone is/are
entitled to all compensation payable in respect of the said property and no
other person has any right to such compensation or any part thereof;And
Whereas no agreement having been arrived at between the parties as to amount
of compensation payable to the owner/owners and the Government has at the
request of the owner/owners agreed to make payment to the owner/owners on
account, pending an agreement between the parties as to the amount of
compensation payable or the final determination of such amount under the law,
Now this Agreement witnesses as follows :-

### 1\. The Government shall pay the owner/owners shall accept and receive
payment of Rs._________________ per month/quarterly/year for the said property
with effect from the said day of __________________ 20_____ pending agreement
as to or determination of the amount payable as compensation to the
owner/owners.

### 2\. Upon such agreement or determination of the amount payable as
compensation as aforesaid an account shall be prepared crediting the
Government with the payments made by the government as aforesaid and debiting
the Government with the amount payable as compensation. If on such account
being prepared there is a balance in favour of the Government the amount of
such balance shall be forthwith refunded by the owner/owners to the
Government. If there is a balance payable to the owner/owners the amount
thereof to the owner/owners.

### 3\. If it hereafter transpires that the owner/owners is/are not entitled
or exclusively entitled to the compensation payable in respect of the said
property or if the Government have to pay any compensation to any other person
the owner/owners shall refund to the Government the payments made hereunder
and shall otherwise indemnify the Government against any loss or damage
suffered by the government by reason of any fault or defect in his/their title
as represented by him/them without prejudice to any other remedies for the
enforcement of any refund and/or indemnify, the Government may recover any sum
payable by way of refund and/or indemnify as arrears of land revenue.

### 4\. Should any dispute or difference arise out of or concerning the
subject-matter of these presents or any covenant clause or thing herein
contained or otherwise arising out of the requisition aforesaid the same shall
be referred to an arbitrator to be appointed by the Central government and the
decision of such arbitrator shall be conclusive and binding on the parties
hereto. The provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1940 shall apply to such
arbitration.

## above referred to

In witness whereof these presents have been executed the day and year first
above written.Signed and delivered by the above-name owner/owners in the
presence of ................Signed and delivered for and on behalf of the
President in the presence of ............

