## Union of India - Act

## THE RIGHT OF CHILDREN TO FREE AND COMPULSORY EDUCATION (AMENDMENT) ACT,
2019

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# THE RIGHT OF CHILDREN TO FREE AND COMPULSORY EDUCATION (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2019

## Act 1 of 2019

  * Published in Gazette of India 1 on 10 January 2019 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 January 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education
Act, 2009.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-ninth Year of the Republic
of India as follows:—

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory
Education (Amendment) Act, 2019.(2)It shall come into force on such date as
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Substitution of new section for section 16.

In the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009
(hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), for section 16, the following
section shall be substituted, namely:—Examination and holding back in certain
cases.“16. (1) There shall be a regular examination in the fifth class and in
the eighth class at the end of every academic year.(2)If a child fails in the
examination referred to in sub-section (1), he shall be given additional
instruction and granted opportunity for re-examination within a period of two
months from the date of declaration of the result.(3)The appropriate
Government may allow schools to hold back a child in the fifth class or in the
eighth class or in both classes, in such manner and subject to such conditions
as may be prescribed, if he fails in the re-examination referred to in sub-
section (2):Provided that the appropriate Government may decide not to hold
back a child in any class till the completion of elementary education.(4)No
child shall be expelled from a school till the completion of elementary
education.”.

### 3. Amendment of section 38.

In section 38 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), after clause (f), the
following clause shall be inserted, namely:—“(fa) the manner and the
conditions subject to which a child may be held back under sub-section (3) of
section 16;”.

