## Union of India - Act

## The Railways (Employment of Members of The Armed Forces) Act, 1965

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Railways (Employment of Members of The Armed Forces) Act, 1965

## Act 40 of 1965

  * Published on 3 December 1965 
  * Commenced on 3 December 1965 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 December 1965.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Railways (Employment of Members of The Armed Forces) Act, 1965ACT NO. 40
OF 1965

### 1311.

In an emergency, occasion may arise when members of the Armed Forces have to
be employed to assist the Railway Administration in manning the Railways. The
personnel so employed do not, however, fall within the defination of "railway
servants" under the Indian Railways Act, 1890, even while actually working on
Railways. It is, therefore necessary to confer upon the members of the Armed
Forces so employed the same powers, status and immunities and impose upon them
the same liabilities, as are applicable to railway or specific portion or
section of it may have to be assumed exclusively by the Armed Forces. During
the period of such assumption the Indian Railways Act, 1890, should not apply
in respect of Railway or portion or section of the Railways so taken over. The
Bill which closely follows the provisions contained in Ordinance 53 of 1942
(since repealed by Act 2 of 1948). seek to achieve the above objects. -
Gazette of India 24-9-1965, Pt. II, Section 2 , Extra Page 989.[3rd December,
1965]An Act to make certain provisions relating to the employment of members
of the Armed Forces of the Union in the working and management of railways.BE
it enacted by Parliament in the Sixteenth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the Railways (Employment of Members of the Armed
Forces) Act, 1965.(2)It extends to the whole of India.

### 2. Interpretation.

Words and expressions used in this Act and defined in the Indian Railways Act,
1890 (9 of 1890), shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in
that Act.

### 3. Employment of members of Armed Forces of the Union to assist a railway
administration in connection with the service of a railway.

(1)When any member of the Armed Forces of the Union is employed to assist a
railway administration in connection with the service of a railway, then,
whether such employment was before or is after the [commencement] [i.e.
3-12-1965] of this Act,-(a)any provision of the Indian Railways Act, 1890 (9
of 1890), or of the rules made thereunder, which confers a power, status or
immunity, or imposes a duty or liability, upon a railway servant, in
connection with the working, use, management and maintenance of railways,
shall be construed as conferring the same power, status or immunity or
imposing the same duty or liability, as the case may be, upon such member of
the Armed Forces of the Union when so employed;(b)the employment of a member
of the Armed Forces of the Union, in addition to or in the place of any
railway servant, shall not affect any liability that would have attached to
the railway administration had such member been a railway servant.(2)Nothing
in sub-section (1) shall be construed as making applicable to the members of
the Armed Forces of the Union employed to assist a railway administration the
provisions of Chapter VIA of the Indian Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890),or as
derogating from any provision 384. of a law regulating the governance, control
and discipline of the members of the Armed Forces of the Union.

### 4. Employment of members of Armed Forces of the Union to replace railway
administration in working a railway.

If at any time the whole of the working, management and maintenance of a
railway or of a specific, portion or section of a railway, is assumed by the
Armed Forces of the Union, the Central Government may notify the fact of such
assumption in the Official Gazette and thereupon, so long as such assumption
continues, the Indian Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890),shall cease to be
applicable to the Railway or the portion or section of the Railway concerned.

### 5. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Railways (Employment of Members of the Armed Forces) Ordinance, 1965 (4
of 1965) is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or
any action taken under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or
taken under this Act as if this Act had commenced on the 29th day of
September, 1965.

