## Union of India - Act

## The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Rules, 2010

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Rules, 2010

## Rule THE-RIGHT-OF-CHILDREN-TO-FREE-AND-COMPULSORY-EDUCATION-RULES-2010 of
2010

  * Published on 8 April 2010 
  * Commenced on 8 April 2010 
  * [This is the version of this document from 8 April 2010.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Rules, 2010Published
vide Notification No. G.S.R. 301(E), 8th April, 2010Ministry of Human Resource
Development(Department of School Education and Literacy)G.S.R. 301(E). - In
exercise of the powers conferred by section 38 of the Right of Children to
Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (35 of 2009), the Central Government
hereby makes the following rules, namely :-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These Rules may be called the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory
Education Rules, 2010.(2)They shall come into force on the date of their
publication in the Official Gazette.

## Part I – Preliminary

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires. -(a)"Act" means the
Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (35 of
2009);(b)"anganwadi" means an Anganwadi Centre established under the
Integrated Child Development Services Scheme of the Ministry of Women and
Child Development of the Government of India;(c)"appointed date" means the
date on which the Act comes into force, as notified in the Official
Gazette:(d)"appropriate Government", unless otherwise specified, means
Government of a Union territory (without State Legislature);(e)"District
Education Officer" means an Officer of the appropriate Government in charge
for elementary education in a district;(f)"pupil cumulative record" means
record of the progress of the child based on comprehensive and continuous
evaluation;(g)"school mapping" means planning school location for the purpose
of section 6 of the Act to overcome social barriers and geographical
distance.(2)All references to "forms" in these rules shall be construed as
references to forms set out in Appendix I hereto.(3)All other words and
expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the
same meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.

## Part II – School Management Committee

### 3. Composition and functions to the School Management Committee.

(1)A School Management Committee (hereinafter in this rule referred to as the
said Committee) shall be constituted in every school, other than an unaided
school, within six months of the appointed date, and reconstituted every two
years.(2)Seventy five percent, of the strength of the said Committee shall be
from amongst parents or guardians of children.(3)The remaining twenty five
percent, of the strength of the said Committee shall be from amongst the
following persons, namely :-(a)one third members from amongst the elected
members of the local authority, to be decided by the local authority;(b)one
third members from amongst teachers from the school, to be decided by the
teachers of the school;(c)one third members from amongst local educationists
or children in the School, to be decided by the parents in the said
Committee.(4)To manage its affairs, the said Committee shall elect a
chairperson and vice-chairperson from among the parent members; the head
teacher of the school, or where the school does not have a head teacher, the
senior most teacher of the school, shall be the ex-officio member-convener of
the said Committee.(5)The said Committee shall meet at least once a month, and
the minutes and decisions of the meetings shall be properly recorded and made
available to the public.(6)The said Committee shall, in addition to the
functions specified in clause (a) to (d) of sub-section (2) of section 21,
perform the following functions, namely:(a)communicate in simple and creative
ways to the population in the neighbourhood of the school, the rights of the
child as enunciated in the Act; as also the duties of the appropriate
Government, local authority, school, parent and guardian;(b)ensure the
implementation of clauses (a) and (e) of section 24, and of section
28,(c)monitor that teachers are not burdened with non academic duties other
than those specified in section 27;(d)ensure the enrolment and continued
attendance of all the children from the neighbourhood in the school;(e)monitor
the maintenance of the norms and standards specified in the Schedule;(f)bring
to the notice of the local authority any deviation from the rights of the
child, in particular mental and physical harassment of children, denial of
admission, and timely provision of free entitlements as per sub-section (2) of
section 3;(g)Identify the needs, prepare a plan, and monitor the
implementation of the provisions of Section 4;(h)monitor the identification
and enrolment of, and facilities for education of children with disability,
and ensure their participation in, and completion of elementary
education;(i)monitor the implementation of the mid-day meal in the
school;(j)prepare an annual account of receipts and expenditure of the
school.(7)Any money received by the said Committee for the discharge of its
functions under this Act, shall be kept in a separate account, to be audited
annually.(8)The accounts referred to in clause (j) to sub-rule (6) and in sub-
rule (7) should be signed by the chairperson or vice-chairperson and convenor
of the said Committee and made available to the local authority within one
month of their preparation.

### 4. Preparation of School Development Plan.

(1)The School Management Committee shall prepare a School Development Plan at
least three months before the end of the financial year in which it is first
constituted under the Act.(2)The School Development Plan shall be a three year
plan comprising three annual sub plans.(3)The School Development Plan, shall
contain the following details, namely:-(a)estimates of class-wise enrolment
for each year;(b)requirement of the number of additional teachers, including
Head Teachers, subject teachers and part time instructors, separately for
Classes I to V and for classes VI to VIII, calculated with reference to the
norms specified in the Schedule:(c)physical requirement of additional
infrastructure and equipments, calculated with reference to the norms and
standards specified in the Schedule;(d)financial requirement in respect of (b)
and (c) above, including for providing special training facility specified in
section 4, entitlements of children such as free text books and uniforms, and
any other additional requirement for fulfilling the responsibilities of the
school under the Act.(4)The School Development Plan shall be signed by the
chairperson or vice chairperson and convenor of the School Management
Committee and submitted to the local authority before the end of the financial
year in which it is prepared.

## Part III – Right to Free and Compulsory Education

### 5. Special Training.

(1)The School Management Committee of a school owned and managed by the
appropriate Government or local authority shall identify children requiring
special training and organise such training in the following manner
namely:-(a)the special training shall be based on specially designed, age
appropriate learning material, approved by the academic authority specified in
sub-section (1) of section 29;(b)the said training shall be provided in
classes held on the premises of the school, or in classes organised in safe
residential facilities;(c)the said training shall be provided by teachers
working in the school, or by teachers specially appointed for the
purpose;(d)the duration of the said training shall be for a minimum period of
three months which may be extended, based on periodical assessment of learning
progress for a maximum period not exceeding two years.(2)The child shall, upon
induction into the age appropriate class, after special training, continue to
receive special attention by the teacher to enable him to successfully
integrate with the rest of the class academically and emotionally.

## Part IV – Duties and Responsibilities of Central Government, Appropriate
Government and Local Authority

### 6. Area or limits of neighbourhood.

(1)The area or limits of neighbourhood within which a school has to be
established by the appropriate Government or the local authority shall
be.(a)in respect of children in classes from I to V, a school shall be
established within a walking distance of one km of the neighbourhood;(b)in
respect of children in classes from VI to VIII, a school shall be established
within a walking distance of three km of the neighbourhood;(2)Wherever
required the appropriate Government of the local authority shall upgrade
existing schools with classes from I to V to include classes from VI to VIII
and in respect of schools which start from class VI onwards, the appropriate
Government or the local authority shall endeavour to add classes from I to V,
wherever required.(3)In places with difficult terrain, risk of landslides,
floods, lack of roads and in general, danger for young children in the
approach from their homes to the school, the appropriate Government or the
local authority shall locate the school in such a manner as to avoid such
dangers, by reducing the area or limits specified under sub-rule (1).(4)For
children from small hamlets, as identified by the appropriate Government or
the local authority, where no school exists within the area or limits of
neighbourhood specified under sub-rule (1), the appropriate Government or the
local authority shall make adequate arrangements, such as free transportation
and residential facilities, for providing elementary education in a school, in
relaxation of the area or limits specified in the said rule.(5)In places with
high population density, the appropriate Government or the local authority may
consider establishment of more than one neighbourhood school having regard to
the number of children in the age group of 6-14 years in such places.(6)The
local authority shall identify the neighbourhood school(s) where children can
be admitted and make such information public for each habitation.(7)In respect
of children with disability, which prevent them from accessing the school, the
appropriate Government or the local authority shall endeavour to make
appropriate and safe transportation arrangements to enable them to attend
school and complete elementary education.(8)The appropriate Government or the
local authority shall ensure that access of children to the school is not
hindered on account of social and cultural factors.

### 7. Financial Responsibility of the Central Government.

(1)The Central Government shall prepare annual estimates of capital and
recurring expenditure for carrying out the provisions of the Act, for a period
of five years, within one month of the appointed date, which may be reviewed
for every three years.(2)In order to implement the provisions of the Act, the
Central Government shall, within a period of six months of the appointed date,
ensure that its programmes for elementary education are in conformity with the
provisions of the Act.(3)The Central Government shall, within a period of six
months from the appointed date, hold consultation with the State Governments
and determine the percentage of expenditure which it shall preview to the
State Governments as grants-in-aid of revenues for implementation of the
Act.(4)Within one month of the appointed date, the Central Government shall
cause a reference to be made to the Finance Commission, and cause similar
references to be made every time the estimates are revised:Provided that in
case there is no Finance Commission in existence at the time of a particular
reference, the Central Government may set up an alternative mechanism for the
purpose of providing resources to the State Governments.

### 8. Academic responsibility of the Central Government.

(1)The Central Government shall notify an academic authority within one month
of the appointed date for development of the frame work of national
curriculum.(2)The Central Government shall, in consultation with the State
Governments, and such other academic authorities it may consider necessary,
prepare a Scheme(s) for enabling the State Governments and Union Territories
to provide pre-service and in service training of teachers in respect of
schools specified in sub-clauses (i) to (iii) of clause (n) of section 2 of
the Act, including a monitoring mechanism in accordance with the standards of
training.

### 9. Responsibilities of the appropriate Government and local authority.

(1)A child attending a school of the appropriate Government or local authority
referred to in sub-clause (i) of clause (n) of section 2, a child attending a
school referred to in sub-clause (ii) of clause (n) of section 2 in accordance
with clause (b) of sub section (1) of section 12, and child attending a school
referred to in sub-clause (iii) and (iv) of clause (n) of section 2 in
accordance with clause (c) of sub section (1) of section 12 shall be entitle
to free education as provided for in sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Act,
and in particular to free text books, writing materials and uniforms:Provided
that a child with disability shall be entitled also for free special learning
and support material.Explanation: For the purposes of sub-rule (1), it may be
stated that in respect of the child admitted in accordance with clause (b) of
sub-section (1) of section 12 and a child admitted in accordance with clause
(c) of sub-section (1) of section 12, the responsibility of providing the free
entitlement shall be of the school referred to in sub-clause (ii) of clause
(n) of section 2 and of sub-clauses (iii) and (iv) of clause (n) of section 2,
respectively.(2)For the purpose of determining and for establishing
neighbourhood schools, the appropriate government or the local authority shall
undertake school mapping, and identify all children, including children in
remote areas, children with disability, children belonging to disadvantaged
group, children belonging to weaker section and children referred to in
section 4, within a period of one year from the appointed date, and every year
thereafter.(3)The appropriate Government or the local authority shall ensure
that no child is subjected to caste, class, religious or gender abuse in the
school.(4)For the purposes of clause (c) of section 8 and clause (c) of
Section 9, the appropriate Government and the authority shall ensure that a
child belonging to a weaker section and a child belonging to disadvantaged
group is not segregated or discriminated against in the classroom, during mid
day meals, in the play grounds, in the use of common drinking water and toilet
facilities, and in the cleaning of toilets or classrooms.

### 10. Maintenance of records of children, by the local authority.

(1)The local authority shall maintain a record of all children in its
jurisdiction, through a household survey, from their birth till they attain
the age of 14 years.(2)The record, referred to in sub-rule (1), shall be
updated annually.(3)The record, referred to in the said sub-rule, shall be
maintained transparently, in the public domain, and used for the purposes of
clause (e) of section 9.(4)The record, referred to in the said sub-rule shall,
in respect of every child, include-(a)name, sex, date of birth, place of
birth;(b)name, address, occupation of parent or guardian;(c)pre-primary school
/ anganwadi centre that the child attends (upto age 6);(d)elementary school
where the child is admitted;(e)present address of the child;(f)class in which
the child is studying (for children between the age of 6 to 14), and if
education is discontinued in the territorial jurisdiction of the local
authority, the cause of such discontinuance;(g)whether the child belongs to
the weaker section;(h)whether the child belongs to a disadvantaged
group;(i)whether the child requires special facilities or residential
facilities on account of (i) migration and sparse population; (ii) age
appropriate admission; and (iii) disability.(5)The local authority shall
ensure that the names of children enrolled in the schools are publicly
displayed in each school.

## Part V – Responsibilities of Schools and Teachers

### 11. Admission of children belonging to weaker section and disadvantaged
group.

(1)The school referred to in clauses (iii) and (iv) of clause (n) of section 2
shall ensure that children admitted in accordance with clause (c) of sub-
section (1) of section 12 shall not be segregated from the other children in
the classrooms nor shall their classes be held at places and timings different
from the classes held for the other children.(2)The school referred to in
clauses (iii) and (iv) of clause (n) of section 2 shall ensure that children
admitted in accordance with clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 12 shall
not be discriminated from the rest of the children in any manner pertaining to
entitlements and facilities such as text books, uniforms, library and
Information, Communication and Technology (ICT) facilities, extra-curricular
and sports.(3)The area or limits of neighbourhood specified in sub-rule (1) of
rule 6 shall apply to admissions made in accordance with clause (c) of sub-
section (1) of section 12:Provided that the school may for the purposes of
filling up the requisite percentage of seats for children referred to in
clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 12, extend these area or limits with
the prior approval of the appropriate Government.

### 12. Reimbursement of per-child-expenditure by the appropriate Government.

(1)The total annual recutting expenditure incurred by the appropriate
Government, from its own funds, and in respect provided by the Central
Government and by any other authority, on elementary education in respect of
all schools referred to in sub-clause (i) of clause (n) of section 2, divided
by the total number of children enrolled in all such schools, shall be the
per-child-expenditure incurred by the appropriate Government.Explanation. -
For the purpose of determining the per-child-expenditure, the expenditure
incurred by the appropriate Government or local authority on schools referred
to in sub-clause (ii) of clause (n) of section 2 and the children enrolled in
such schools shall not be included.(2)Every school referred to in clause (iii)
and (iv) of clause (n) of section 2 shall maintain a separate bank account in
respect of the amount received by it as reimbursement under sub-section (2) or
section 12.

### 13. Documents as age proof.

\- Wherever a birth certificate under the Births, Deaths and Marriages
Certification Act, 1886 (6 of 1886) is not available, anyone of the following
documents shall be deemed to be proof of age of the child for the purposes of
admission in schools -(a)hospital or Auxiliary Nurse and Midwife (ANM)
register record;(b)anganwadi record;(c)declaration of the age of the child by
the parent or guardian;

### 14. Extended period for admission.

(1)Extended period of admission shall be six months from the date of
commencement of the academic year of a school.(2)Where a child is admitted in
a school after the extended period, he shall be eligible to complete studies
with the help of special training, as determined by the head teacher of the
school.

### 15. Recognition to school.

(1)Every school, other than a school established, owned or controlled by the
Central Government, appropriate Government or the local authority, established
before the commencement of this Act shall make a self declaration within a
period of three months of the commencement of the Act, in Form No. 1 to the
concerned District Education Officer regarding its compliance or otherwise
with the norms and standards specified in the Schedule and fulfilment of the
following conditions, namely :-(a)the school is run by a society registered
under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860), or a public trust
constituted under any law for the time being in force;(b)the school is not run
for profit to any individual, group or association of individuals or any other
persons;(c)the school conforms to the values enshrined in the
Constitution;(d)the school buildings or other structures or the grounds are
used only for the purposes of education and skill development;(e)the school is
open to inspection by any officer authorised by the appropriate Government or
the local authority;(f)the school furnishes such reports and such information
as may be required from time to time and complies with such instructions of
the appropriate Government or the local authority as may be issued to secure
the continued fulfilment of the condition of recognition or the removal of
deficiencies in working of the school;(2)Every self declaration received in
Form I shall be placed by the District Education Officer in public domain
within fifteen days of its receipt.(3)The District Education Officer shall,
within three months of the receipt of the self declaration, cause on-site
inspection of such schools which claim in Form No.1 to fulfil the norms and
standards and the conditions mentioned in sub-rule (1).(4)After the inspection
referred to in sub-rule (3) is carried out, the inspection report shall be
placed by the District Education Officer in public domain and schools found to
be conforming to the norms, standards and the conditions shall be granted
recognition by the District Education Officer in Form No.2 within a period
fifteen days from the date of inspection.(5)Schools that do not conform to the
norms, standards and conditions mentioned in sub-rule (1) shall be listed by
the District, Education Officer through a public order to this effect; such
schools may request the District Education Officer for an on-site inspection
for grant of recognition at any time within the next two and a half years, so
that such period does not exceed three years from the commencement of the
Act;(6)Schools which do not conform to the norms, standards and conditions
mentioned in sub-rule (1) within three years from the commencement of the Act,
shall cease to function.(7)Every school, other than a school established,
owned or controlled by the Central Government, appropriate Government or local
authority, established after the commencement of this Act shall conform to the
norms and standards and conditions mentioned in sub-rule (1) in order to
qualify for recognition under this rule.

### 16. Withdrawal of recognition to school.

(1)Where the District Education Officer (hereinafter in this rule referred to
as the said Officer) on his own motion, or on any representation received from
any person, has reason to believe, to be recorded in writing, that a school
recognised under rule 15, has violated one or more of the conditions for grant
of recognition or has failed to fulfill the norms and standards specified in
the Schedule, the District Education Officer shall act in the following
manner,-(a)issue a notice to the school specifying the violations of the
condition of grant of recognition and seek its explanation within one
month.(b)in case the explanation is not found to be satisfactory or no
explanation is received within the stipulated time period, the said Officer
may cause an inspection of the school, to be Conducted by a Committee of three
to five members comprising of educationists, civil society representatives,
media, and government representatives, which shall make due inquiry and submit
its report, along with its recommendations for continuation of recognition or
its withdrawal, to the said Officer.(c)on receipt of the report and
recommendations of the Committee, the said Officer may pass order for
withdrawal of recognition:Provided that no order for withdrawal of recognition
shall be passed by the said Officer without giving the school adequate
opportunity of being heard.Provided further that no such order shall be passed
by the said Officer without prior approval of the appropriate
Government.(2)The order of withdrawal of recognition passed by the said
Officer shall be operative from the immediately succeeding academic year and
shall specify the neighbourhood schools to which the children of that school
shall be admitted.

## Part VI – Teachers

### 17. Minimum qualifications.

(1)The Central Government shall, within one month of the appointed date,
notify an academic authority for laying down the minimum qualifications for a
person to be eligible for appointment as a teacher.(2)The academic authority
notified under sub-rule (1), shall, within three months of such notification,
lay down the minimum qualifications for persons to be eligible for appointment
as a teacher in an elementary school.(3)The minimum qualifications laid down
by the academic authority referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be applicable for
every school referred to in clause (n) of section 2.

### 18. Relaxation of minimum qualification.

(1)The State Government and the Union territory shall, within six months from
the commencement of the Act, estimate the teacher requirement as per the norms
in the Schedule for all schools referred to in clause (n) of section
2.(2)Where a State Government or a Union territory does not have adequate
institutions offering courses or training in teacher education, or persons
possessing minimum qualifications as notified in sub-rule (2) of rule 17 are
not available in sufficient numbers in relation to the requirement of teachers
estimated under sub-rule (1), the State Government or the Union territory
shall request, within one year of the commencement of the Act, the Central
Government for relaxation of the prescribed minimum qualification.(3)On
receipt of the request referred to in sub-rule (2), the Central Government
shall examine the request of the State Government or the Union territory and
may, by notification, relax the minimum qualifications.(4)The notification
referred to in sub-rule (3) shall specify the nature of relaxation and the
time period, not exceeding three years, but not beyond five years from the
commencement of the Act, within which the teachers appointed under the relaxed
conditions acquire the minimum qualifications specified by the academic
authority notified under sub-section (1) of section 23.(5)After six months
from the commencement of the Act, no appointment of teacher for any school can
be made in respect of any person not possessing the minimum qualifications
notified in sub-rule (2) of rule 17, without the notification of relaxation
referred to in sub-rule (3).(6)A person appointed as a teacher within six
months of the commencement of the Act, must possess at least the academic
qualifications not lower than higher secondary school certificate or
equivalent.

### 19. Acquiring minimum qualifications.

(1)The State Government and the Union territory shall provide adequate teacher
education facilities to ensure that all teachers in schools referred to in
sub-clause (i), and schools owned and managed by the Central Government or the
State Government or Union territory or local authority under sub-clause (iii),
of clause (n) of section 2, who do not possess the minimum qualifications laid
down under sub-rule (2) of rule 17 at the time of commencement of the Act, to
acquire such minimum qualifications within a period of [nine years]
[Substituted 'five years' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1302(E), dated 17.10.2017
(w.e.f. 8.4.2010).] from the commencement of the Act.(2)For a teacher, of a
school referred to in sub-clause (ii) and (iv) of clause (n) of section 2, and
of a school referred to in sub-clause (iii) of clause (n) of section 2 not
owned and managed by the Central Government, State Government or Union
Territory or local, who does not possess the minimum qualifications laid down
under sub-rule (2) of Rule 17 at the time of commencement of the Act, the
management of such school shall enable such teacher to acquire such minimum
qualifications within a period of [nine years] [Substituted 'five years' by
Notification No. G.S.R. 1302(E), dated 17.10.2017 (w.e.f. 8.4.2010).] from the
commencement of the Act.

### 20. Salary and allowances and conditions of service of teachers.

(1)The Central Government or the appropriate Government or the local
authority, as the case may be, shall notify terms and conditions of service
and salary and allowances of teachers of schools owned and managed by them in
order to create a professional and permanent cadre of teachers.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to sub-rule (1), the terms and conditions of
service shall take into account the following, namely:-(a)accountability of
teachers to the School Management Committee;(b)provisions enabling long term
stake of teachers in the teaching profession.(3)The scales of pay and
allowances, medical facilities, pension, gratuity, provident fund, and other
prescribed benefits of teachers shall be at par for similar qualification,
work and experience.

### 21. Duties performed by teachers.

(1)The teacher shall maintain a file containing the pupil cumulative record
for every child shall be the basis for awarding the certificate for completion
of elementary education.(2)A teacher, in addition to the function specified
clauses (a) to (e) of sub-section (1) of section 24, may perform the following
duties:(a)participation in training programmes;(b)participation in curriculum
formulation, and development of syllabi, training modules and text book
development;

### 21A. [ Grievance Redressal Committee. [Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R.
755(E), dated 28.9.2015 (w.e.f. 8.4.2010).]

(1)School Level Grievance Redressal Committee:(a)The School Management
Committee (hereinafter referred to as the SMC) shall be the first level of
grievance redressal at School level. Any teacher of a school established,
owned or controlled by the appropriate Government may submit his or her
grievance in writing to the Convener or Member Secretary of the SMC.(b)The SMC
shall examine the grievance in the first instance and redress within fifteen
days from the date of receipt of written representation from the teacher.(c)In
case of non-receipt of response or unsatisfactory response from the Convener
or Member Secretary of the SMC, the teacher shall be free to represent his or
her case to the Block Level Grievance Redressal Committee.(2)Block Level
Grievance Redressal Committee:(a)For redressal of the grievances of teachers
in the schools established or controlled by the appropriate Government, there
shall be a Block Level Grievance Redressal Committee consisting of Block
Development Officer as Chairperson and Block Education Officer as Convener or
Member Secretary.(b)The committee shall redress the grievances within thirty
days.(c)If in case of non receipt of response from the Committee the teacher
shall be free to represent his or her case to the District Level Grievance
Redressal Committee.(d)In Union Territories, where there is no block level,
other options may be considered such as Taluka or Panchayat or Ward or Island
level.(e)The Block Level Committee shall meet as per the requirement but at
least once in every three months.(3)District Level Grievance Redressal
Committee:(a)There shall be a District Level Grievance Redressal Committee for
teachers consisting of the District Collector as Chairman, senior
representatives from the Zilla Parishad or Municipal Council and District
Education Officer. The District Education officer shall be the Convener or
Member Secretary of the Committee.(b)The District level committee shall
redress the grievances within a period of three months.(c)In case the teacher
is not satisfied with the recommendations of the District Level Grievance
Redressal Committee, he/she may prefer an appeal to the State Level Grievance
Redressal Committee.(d)The District Level Committee shall meet as per the
requirement but at least once in every three months.(4)State Level Grievance
Redressal Committee:(a)A Committee shall be constituted under the chairmanship
of Director (Elementary Education) and consisting of two members as may be
nominated by Secretary, Education of the appropriate Government. The State
Level Grievance Redressal Committee shall meet as per the requirement but at
least once in every six months;(b)The committee, shall after enquiry, as it
deems fit, redress the grievance within a period of ninety days.(5)No service
matters, orders of suspension from service and penalties under disciplinary
proceedings initiated by the education department or the school management
shall be taken up by the Committee.(6)Complaints relating to harassment of
women teachers shall be accorded priority and shall be redressed without delay
in compliance with the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court on prevention of
sexual harassments at the work place.(7)Management of schools referred to
under sub-clause (iii) and sub-clause (iv) of clause (n) of section 2 shall
provide adequate mechanism for redressal of grievances of teachers.]

### 22. Maintaining pupil-teacher ratio.

(1)The sanctioned strength of teachers in a school shall be notified by the
Central Government, appropriate Government or the local authority, as the case
may be, within a period of three months of the appointed date:Provided that
the Central Government, appropriate Government or the local authority, as the
case may be, shall, within three months of such notification, redeploy
teachers of schools having strength in excess of the sanctioned strength prior
to the notification referred to in sub-rule (1).(2)If any person of the
Central Government, appropriate Government or the local authority violates the
provisions of sub-section (2) of section 25, he or she shall be personally
liable for disciplinary action.

## Part VII – Curriculum and Completion of Elementary Education

### 23. Academic authority.

(1)The Central Government shall notify an academic authority for the purposes
of section 29 within one month of the appointed date.(2)While laying down the
curriculum and evaluation procedure, the academic authority notified under
sub-rule (1) shall, -(a)formulate the relevant and age appropriate syllabus
and text books and other learning material;(b)develop in-service teacher
training design; and(c)[ prepare class-wise, subject-wise learning outcomes
for all elementary classes; and [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R.
155(E), dated 20.2.2017 (w.e.f. 8.4.2010).](d)prepare guidelines for putting
into practice continuous and comprehensive evaluation, to achieve the defined
learning outcomes.](3)The academic authority referred to in sub-rule (1) shall
design and implement a process of holistic school quality assessment on a
regular basis.

### 24. Award of certificate.

(1)The certificate of completion of elementary education shall be issued at
the school level within one month of the completion of elementary
education.(2)The certificate referred to in sub-rule (1) shall contain the
pupil cumulative record of the child.

## Part VIII – Protection of Right of Children

### 25. Performance of functions by the National Commission for Protection of
Child Rights.

\- The Central Government shall provide resource support to the National
Commission for Protection of Child Rights in performance of its functions
under the Act.

### 26. Manner of furnishing complaints before the National Commission for
Protection of Child Rights.

\- The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights may set up a child
helpline to register complaints regarding violation of rights of the child
under the Act, which may be monitored by it through a transparent on-line
mechanism.

### 27. Performance of functions by the State Commission for Protection of
Child Rights.

(1)An appropriate Government which does not have a State Commission for
Protection of Child Rights, may take immediate steps to set up such
Commission.(2)Till such time as the appropriate Government sets up the State
Commission for Protection of Child Rights, it shall constitute an interim
authority known as the Right to Education Protection Authority (hereinafter in
this rule referred to as the REPA) for the purposes of performing the
functions specified in sub-section (1) of section 31, within six months of the
commencement of Act or the constitution of the State Commission for Protection
of Child Rights, whichever is earlier.(3)The Right to Education Protection
Authority (REPA) shall consist of the following, namely -(a)a chairperson who
is a person of high academic repute or has been a High Court Judge or has done
outstanding work for promoting the rights of children; and(b)two members, of
whom at least one shall be a woman, from the following areas, from amongst
persons of eminence, ability, integrity, standing and experience in
-(i)education;(ii)child health care and child development;(iii)juvenile
justice or care of neglected or marginalized children or children with
disabilities;(iv)elimination of child labour or working with children in
distress;(v)child psychology or sociology; or(vi)legal profession.(4)The
National Commission for Protection of Child Rights Rules, 2006 shall, so far
as pertains to the terms and conditions, mutatis mutandis apply to chairperson
and other members of the REPA.(5)Immediately after the constitution of the
State Commission fur Protection of Child Rights, all records and assets of the
REPA shall be transferred to it.(6)In performance of its functions, the stale
Commission for Protection of Child Rights or the REPA, as the case may be, may
also act upon matters referred to it by the State Advisory Council.(7)The
appropriate Government shall provide resource support to the State Commission
for Protection of Child Rights or the REPA, as the case may be, in performance
of its functions under the Act.

### 28. Manner of furnishing complaints before the State Commission for
Protection of Child Rights.

(1)The State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, or the Right to
Education Protection Authority (hereinafter in this rule referred to as REPA),
as the case may be, may set up a child help line which would register
complaints regarding violation of rights of the child under the Act, which may
be monitored by it through a transparent on line mechanism.

### 29. Constitution of the National Advisory Council.

(1)The National Advisory Council (hereinafter in this rule referred to as the
Council) shall consist of a Chairperson and fourteen Members.(2)The Minister
of Human Resource Development shall be the ex-officio chairperson of the
Council.(3)Members of the Council shall be appointed by the Central Government
from amongst persons having knowledge and practical experience in the field of
elementary education and child development, as under.(a)at least three members
should be from amongst persons belonging to the Scheduled Caste, the Scheduled
tribe and minorities;(b)at least one member should be from amongst persons
having specialized knowledge and practical experience of education of children
with special needs;(c)one member should be from amongst persons having
specialised knowledge in the field of pre-primary education;(d)at least one
member should be from amongst persons having specialized knowledge and
practical experience in the field of teacher education;(e)The following shall
be ex-officio members of the Council(i)Secretary, School Education and
Literacy(ii)Director, National Council of Education Research and
Training(iii)Vice Chancellor, National University of Educational Planning and
Administration.(iv)Chairperson, National Council of Teacher
Education(v)Chairperson, National Commission of Protection of Child
Rights.(f)One third of all members shall be women.(g)Joint Secretary in charge
of implementation of the Act will be ex-officio Member Secretary, and
secretarial support will be provided by the Department of School Education and
Literacy.(4)The Council may especially invite representatives of other related
Ministries/Departments as required

### 30. Functions of the National Advisory Council.

(1)The National Advisory Council shall function in an advisory capacity.(2)The
National Advisory Council shall perform one or more of the following
functions, namely: -(a)review(i)norms and standards specified in the
Schedule;(ii)compliance with teacher qualifications and trainings;
and(iii)implementation of section 29;(b)commission studies and research for
the effective implementation of the Act;(c)coordinate with the State Advisory
Councils;(d)act as an interface between the public and the media and the
Central Government in creating awareness, mobilisation, and a positive
environment for the implementation of the Act.(3)The National Advisory Council
shall prepare reports relating to the reviews, studies and research undertaken
by it and furnish the same to the Central Government.

### 31. Constitution of the State Advisory Council.

(1)The State Advisory Council (hereinafter referred to in this rule as the
Council) shall consist of a chairperson and fourteen members.(2)The Minister
in-charge of School Education in the appropriate Government shall be the ex-
officio chairperson of the Council.(3)Members of the Council shall be
appointed by the appropriate Government from amongst persons having knowledge
and practical experience in the field of elementary education and child
development, as under(a)at least three members should be from amongst persons
belonging to the Scheduled Caste, the Scheduled Tribe and minorities;(b)at
least one member should be from amongst persons having specialized knowledge
and practical experience of education of children with special needs;(c)one
member should be from amongst persons having specialised knowledge in the
field of pre-primary education;(d)at least one member should be from amongst
persons having specialized knowledge and practical experience in the field of
teacher education;(e)The following shall be ex-officio members of the
Councili. Secretary in charge of Elementary Educationii. Director State
Council of Educational Research and Training / State Institute of
Educationiii. Commissioner/Director of Elementary Education.iv. Chairperson,
State Commission for Protection of Child Rights/Right to Education Protection
Authority(f)One third of all members shall be women.(g)SPD, SSA shall be ex-
offico Member Secretary of the Council(4)The Council may especially invite
representatives of other related Ministries/Departments as
required.AppendixForm 1Self Declaration Cum Application for Grant of
Recognition of School(See sub-rule (1) of rule 15)ToThe District Education
Officer(Name of District and Union territory)Sir,I forward herewith with a
self declaration regarding compliance with the norms and standards specified
in the Schedule of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act,
2009 and an application in the prescribed proforma for the grant of
recognition to ............................................ (Name of the
school) ...................With effect from the commencement of the school
year 20 ...........Yours faithfully,Enclosure:Place :Date:Chairman of
ManagingCommittee/Manager

A. School Details  
---  
1. | Name of School |   
2. | Academic Session |   
3. | District |   
4. | Postal Address |   
5. | Village / City |   
6. | Tahsil |   
7. | Pin Code |   
8. | Phone No. with STD Code |   
9. | Fax No. |   
10. | E.Mail address if any |   
11. | Nearest Police Station |   
  
B. General Information  
---  
1. | Year of Foundation |   
2. | Date of First Opening of school |   
3. | Name of Trust / Society / Managing Committee / is registered |   
4. | Whether Trust / Society / Managing Committee / is registered |   
5. |  Period upto which Registration of Trust / Society / ManagingCommittee is valid |   
6. |  Whether there is a proof of non-proprietarycharacter of the Trust/Society/Managing Committee supported bythe list of members with their address on an affidavit in copy |   
7. |  Name official address of the Manager/President/Chairman ofthe School |   
| Name |   
| Designation |   
| Address | (O)....  
| Phone | (R)......  
8. |  Total Income and Expenditure during last 3 yearsurplus/deficit |   
| Year | Income | Expenditure | Surplus/deficit  
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
  
C. Nature and area of school  
---  
1. | Medium of Instruction |   
2. | Type of School (Specify entry exit classes) |   
3. | If aided, the name of agency and percentage of aid |   
4. | If school Recognized |   
5. | If so, by which authority• Recognition number |   
6. |  Does the school has its own building or is it running in arented building |   
7. |  Whether the school buildings or other structuresor the grounds are used only for the purpose of education andskill development? |   
8. | Total area of the school |   
9. | Built in area of the school |   
  
D. Enrollment Status  
---  
| Class | No. of Section | No. of Students  
1. | Pre-primary |  |   
2. | I-V |  |   
3. | VI-VIII |  |   
  
E. Infrastructure Details & Sanitary Conditions  
---  
| Room | Numbers | Average Size  
1. | Classroom |  |   
2. | Office room-cum-Store Room-cum-Headmaster Room |  |   
3. | Kitchen -Cum-Store |  |   
  
F. Other Facilities  
---  
1. | Whether all facilities have barrier free access |   
2. | Teaching Learning Material (attach list) |   
3. | Sports and Play equipments (attach list) |   
4. |  Facility books in Library• Book (No. of books)•Periodical / Newspapers |   
5. | Type and number of drinking water facility |   
6. | Sanitary Conditions |   
| (i) Type of W.C. and Urinals |   
| (ii) Urinal / Lavatories Separately for Boys |   
| (iii) Urinals / Lavatories Separately for Girls |   
  
G. Particulars of Teaching Staff  
---  
1\. Teaching in Primary/Upper Primary exclusively (detailsof each teacher
separately)  
Teacher Name(1) | Father/Spouse Name(2) | Date of Birth(3)  
|  |   
Academic Qualification(4) | Professional Qualifications(5) | Teaching Experience(6)  
|  |   
Class Assigned(7) | Appointment Date(5) | Trained or Untrained(6)  
|  |   
2\. Teaching in Both Elementary and Secondary (details ofeach teacher
separately)  
Teacher Name(1) | Father/Spouse Name(2) | Date of Birth(3)  
|  |   
Academic Qualification(4) | Professional Qualifications(5) | Teaching Experience(6)  
|  |   
Class Assigned(7) | Appointment Date(8) | Trained or Untrained(9)  
|  |   
3\. Head Teacher  
Teacher Name(1) | Father/Spouse Name(2) | Date of Birth(3)  
|  |   
Academic Qualification(4) | Professional Qualifications(5) | Teaching Experience(6)  
|  |   
Class Assigned(7) | Appointment Date(8) | Trained or Untrained(9)  
|  |   
  
H. Curriculum and Syllabus  
---  
1. |  Details of curriculum and syllabus followed in each class(upto VIII) |   
2. | System of Pupil Assessment |   
3. |  Whether pupils of the school are required to take any Boardexam upto class 8? |   
  
(I)Certified that the school has also submitted information in this data
capture format of District Information System of Education with this
application.(J)Certified that the school is open to inspection by any officer
authorized by the appropriate authority;(K)Certified that the school
undertakes to furnish such reports and information as may be required by the
District Education Officer from time to time and complies with such
instructions of the appropriate authority or the District Education Officer as
may be issued to secure the continued fulfilment of the condition of
recognition or that removal of deficiencies in working of the
school;(L)Certified that records of the School pertinent to the implementation
of this Act shall be open to inspection by any officer authorized by the
District Education Officer or appropriate authority at any time, and the
school shall furnish all such information as may be necessary to enable the
Central Government or the Local Body or the Administration to discharge its or
his obligations to Parliament / Panchayat Municipal Corporation as the case
may be.Sd/-Chairman/Manager,Managing Committee.................SchoolPlaceForm
IIGram:E-Mail:Phone:Fax:Office of District Education Officer(Name of District
/ Union Territory)No.Dated:The Manager,Sub: Recognition Certificate for the
School under sub-rule (4) of rule 15 of Right of Children to Free and
Compulsory Education Rules, 2010 for the purpose of section 18 of Right of
Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009.Dear Sir/Madam,With
reference to your application dated __________ and subsequent correspondence
with the school/inspection in this regard, I convey the grant for provisional
recognition to the _____________ (name of the school with address) for Class
_______ to Class _________ for a period of three years w.e.f. ______ to
_____.The above sanction is subject to fulfilment of following conditions:-

### 1\. The grant for recognition is not extendable and does not in any way
imply any obligation to recognize/affiliate beyond Class VIII.

### 2\. The School shall abide by the provisions of Right of Children to Free
and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (Annexure I) and the Right of Children to
Free and Compulsory Education Rules, 2010 (Annexure II).

### 3\. The School shall admit in class 1 (or in pre-school class, as the case
may be), to the extent of % of the strength of that class, children belonging
to weaker section and disadvantaged group in the neighbourhood and provide
free and compulsory elementary education till its completion.

### 4\. For the children referred to in paragraph 3, the School shall be
reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 12
of the Act. To receive such reimbursements school shall maintain a separate
bank account.

### 5\. The Society/School shall not collect any capitation fee and subject
the child or his or her parent or guardian to any screening procedure.

### 6\. The School shall not deny admission to any child for lack of age of
proof shall adhere to the provisions of section 15 of the Act. The School
shall ensure:

(i)No child admitted shall be held back in any class or expelled from school
till the completion of elementary education in a school;(ii)No child shall be
subjected to physical punishment or mental harassment;(iii)No child is
required to pass any board examination till the completion of elementary
education;(iv)Every child completing elementary education shall be awarded a
certificate as laid down under rule 25(v)Inclusion of Students with
disabilities/special needs as per provision of the Act(vi)The teachers are
recruited with minimum qualifications as laid under section 23(1) of the Act.
Provided further that the current teachers who, at the commencement of this
Act do not possess minimum qualifications shall acquire such minimum
qualifications with in a period of 5 years;(vii)The teacher performs its
duties specified under section 24(1) of the Act and(viii)The teachers shall
not engage himself or herself for private teaching activities.

### 7\. The School shall follow the syllabus on the basis of curriculum laid
down by appropriate authority.

### 8\. The School shall maintain the standards and norms of the school as
specified in section 19 of the Act. The facilities reported at the time of
last inspection are as given under:-

Area of school campusTotal built up areaArea of play groundNo. of class
roomsRoom for Headmaster-cum-Office-cum-StoreroomSeparate toilet for boys and
girlsDrinking Water FacilityKitchen for cooking Mid Day MealBarrier free
AccessAvailability of Teaching Learning Material Play SportsEquipments/Library

### 9\. No unrecognized classes shall run within the premises of the school or
outside in the same name of school.

### 10\. The school buildings or other structures or the grounds are used only
for the purposes education and skill development.

### 11\. The School is run by a society registered under the Societies
Registration Act, 1860 (2) of 1860), or a public trust constituted under any
law for the time being in force;

### 12\. The School is not run for profit to any individual, group or
association of individuals or any other persons;

### 13\. The accounts should be audited and certified by a Chartered
Accountant and proper accounts statements should be prepared as per rules. A
copy each of the Statements of Accounts should be sent to the District
Education Officer every year.

### 14\. The recognition Code Number allotted to your school is ------------.
This may please be noted and quoted for any correspondence with this office.

### 15\. The school furnishes such reports and information as may be required
by the Director of Education/District Education Officer from time to time and
complies with such instructions of the Appropriate Government/ Local Authority
as may be issued to secure the continued fulfilment of the condition of
recognition or the removal of deficiencies in working of the school;

### 16\. Renewal of Registration of Society if any, be ensured.

### 17\. Other conditions as per Annexure enclosed.

Yours faithfully,District Education Officer

