## Union of India - Act

## The Railway Property (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1966

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Railway Property (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1966

## Act 29 of 1966

  * Published on 1 January 1966 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1966 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1966.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Railway Property (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1966(29 of 1966)

### 172.

Statement of Objects and Reasons. - With the increase in quantum of goods
traffic on the Railways, the incidence of thefts and pilferage's has been
going up. This will be evident from the fact that the claims bill which was
Rs. 29 millions in 1953-54 rose to Rs. 42 millions in 1963-64. The amendment
in the Indian Railways Act, 1961 has further cast greater responsibilities on
Railways who have now to pay claims for losses, destruction, damages or
deterioration or undelivered goods tendered for despatch, unless it is-proved
that such losses, etc., are due to an act of God. This additional
responsibility, therefore, now demands that more effective steps need be taken
to prevent heavy losses on the Railways and thereby to reduce the claims
bill.2\. At present, offences against Railway Property are being dealt with
under Railway Stores (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1955, but this Act has been
found, by experience, to be ineffective in tackling with the enormity of the
problems of theft and pilferage's on Railways. As it is, this Act makes
unlawful possession of Railway Stores an offence, but it is only applicable to
unlawful possession of Railway Property owned by the Railways, and does not
cover the offences relating to goods and parcels entrusted to Railways for
transport.3\. Further, the offences under this Act are investigated and
enquired into by local police in accordance with the provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1898. It has been observed that the two Agencies, i.e.,
the Government Railway Police and Railway Protection Force, which are at
present provided to deal with crimes on Railways find themselves handicapped,
for different reasons, in effectively dealing with the problem of theft and
pilferage of Railway Property. The Railways are spread out over a large part
of the country and property, etc., entrusted to them is carried from one part
to another usually crossing boundaries of different States. The jurisdiction
of State Police being restricted to the State boundary only, it becomes
difficult at times for the Police to make thorough and fruitful investigation
into offences relating to Railway Property. Besides, investigation of cases in
respect of Railway Property also requires a specialised knowledge of Railway
working. The Railway Protection Force, on the other hand, are not at present
equipped with requisite powers of investigation and prosecution, with the
result that whatever action they take in respect of prevention, etc., is taken
just in aid of the State Police who conduct investigation and prosecution,
etc. Due to this fact of two agencies being responsible for achieving the same
object, the machinery has not proved as effective as it ought to have.4\. It
is, therefore, proposed to replace the Railway Stores (Unlawful Possession)
Act, 1955 by a more comprehensive Act so as to bring within its ambit the
unlawful possession of goods entrusted to the Railways as common carriers and
to make the punishment for such offences more deterrent. It is also proposed
to invest powers of investigation and prosecution of offences relating to
Railway Property in the Railway Protection Force in the same manner as in the
Excise and Customs.An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to
unlawful possession of Railway Property.Be it enacted by Parliament in the
Seventeenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:

Enforced on 1.4.1968.  
---  
  
### 1. Short title, extent and commencement. (1) This Act may be called The
Railway Property (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1966.

(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date
as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint.

### 2. Definitions. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,

(a)Force means the Railway Protection Force constituted under section 3 of the
Railway Protection Force Act, 1957 (23 of 1957);(b)member of the Force means a
person appointed to the Force, other than a superior officer;(c)officer of the
Force means an officer of and above the rank of Assistant Sub-Inspector
appointed to the Force and includes a superior officer;(d)railway property
includes any goods, money or valuable security or animal, belonging to, or in
the charge or possession of, a railway administration;(e)superior officer
means any of the officers appointed under section 4 of the Railway Protection
Force Act, 1957 (23 of 1957), and includes any other officer appointed by the
Central Government as a superior officer of the Force;(f)words and expressions
used but not defined in this Act and defined in the [Indian Railways Act, 1890
(9 of 1890),] shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them under that
Act.

### 3. [ Penalty for theft, dishonest misappropriation or unlawful possession
of railway property.] [Marginal heading "Penalty for unlawful possession of
railway property" substituted by Act No 25 of 2012.] [Whoever commits theft,
or dishonestly misappropriates or is found, or is proved] [Substituted for the
words "Whoever is found, or is proved" by Act No. 25 of 2012.], or is proved
to have been, in possession of any railway property reasonably suspected of
having been stolen or unlawfully obtained shall, unless he proves that the
railway property came into his possession lawfully, be punishable

(a)for the first offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
five years, or with fine, or with both and in the absence of special and
adequate reasons to be mentioned in the judgment of the Court, such
imprisonment shall not be less than one year and such fine shall not be less
than one thousand rupees;(b)for the second or a subsequent offence, with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and also with fine and
in the absence of special and adequate reasons to be mentioned in the judgment
of the Court, such imprisonment shall not be less than two years and such fine
shall not be less than two thousand rupees.[Explanation.-For the purposes of
this section, "theft" and "dishonest misappropriation" shall have the same
meanings as assigned to them respectively in section 378 and section 403 of
the Indian Penal Code.] [Explanation inserted by Act No. 25 of 2012.]

Form of Charge6  
---  
  
Form of Charge under section 3I,..............(name and office of the
Magistrate),hereby charge you..............(name of the accused)as
follows:That you, on or about the...............day of...............,
at...............were found, or were proved to had in possession of the
railway property...............(details of property) reasonably suspected of
having been stolen or unlawfully obtained and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 3 of the Railway Property (Unlawful Possession) Act,
1966, and within my cognizance.And I hereby direct that you be tried by this
Court on the said charge.  
---  
  
### 4. [ Punishment for abetment, conspiracy or connivance at offences]
[Marginal heading "Punishment for connivance at offences" substituted by Act
No 25 of 2012.]-[Whoever abets or conspires in the commission of an offence
punishable under this Act, or any owner] [Substituted for the words "Any
owner" by Act No. 25 of 2012] or occupier of land or building, or any agent of
such owner or occupier in charge of the management of that land or building,
who wilfully connives at an offence against the provisions of this Act, shall
be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years, or
with fine, or with both.

[Explanation. [Inserted by Act No. 25 of 2012.] \- For the purposes of this
section, the words "abet" and "conspire" shall have the same meanings as
assigned to them respectively in sections 107 and 120A of the Indian Penal
Code.]

Form of Charge6  
---  
  
Form of Charge under section 4I,..............(name and office of the
Magistrate, etc.),hereby charge you..............(name of the accused)as
follows:That you, on or about the...............day of...............,
at...............being the owner or occupier of land or building, to
wit,...............or agent of owner or occupier in charge of the management
of the aforesaid land or building wilfully connived at an offence against the
provisions of section...............(mention the section of the Railway
Property (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1966), and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 4 of the Railway Property (Unlawful Possession) Act,
1966, and within my cognizance.And I hereby direct that you be tried by this
Court on the said charge.  
---  
  
### 5. Offences under the Act not to be cognisable. Notwithstanding anything
contained in the [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898),] an offence
under this Act shall not be cognisable.

### 6. Power to arrest without warrant. Any superior officer or member of the
Force may, without an order from a Magistrate and without a warrant, arrest
any person who has been concerned in an offence punishable under this Act or
against whom a reasonable suspicion exists of his having been so concerned.

### 7. Disposal of persons arrested. Every person arrested for an offence
punishable under this Act shall, if the arrest was made by a person other than
an officer of the Force, be forwarded without delay to the nearest officer of
the Force.

### 8. [ Inquiry how to be made.] [Marginal heading "Inquiry how to be made
against arrested persons " substituted by Act No 25 of 2012.](1) [When an
officer of the Force receives information about the commission of an offence
punishable under this Act, or when any person is arrested] [Substituted for
the words of "When any person is arrested" by Act No. 25 of 2012] by an
officer of the Force for an offence punishable under this Act or is forwarded
to him under section 7, he shall proceed to inquire into the charge against
such person.

(2)For this purpose the officer of the Force may exercise the same powers and
shall be subject to the same provisions as the officer in charge of a police
station may exercise and is subject to under the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898 (5 of 1898), when investigating a cognisable case:Provided that(a)if the
officer of the Force is of opinion that there is sufficient evidence or
reasonable ground of suspicion against the accused person, he shall either
admit him to bail to appear before a Magistrate having jurisdiction in the
case, or forward him in custody to such Magistrate;(b)if it appears to the
officer of the Force that there is not sufficient evidence or reasonable
ground of suspicion against the accused person, he shall release the accused
person on his executing a bond, with or without sureties as the officer of the
Force may direct, to appear, if and when so required, before the Magistrate
having jurisdiction and shall make a full report of all the particulars of the
case to his official superior.

### 9. Power to summon persons to give evidence and produce documents. (1) An
officer of the Force shall have power to summon any person whose attendance he
considers necessary either to give evidence or to produce a document, or any
other thing in any inquiry which such officer is making for any of the
purposes of this Act.

(2)A summons to produce documents or other things may be for the production of
certain specified documents or things or for the production of all documents
or things of a certain description in the possession or under the control of
the person summoned.(3)All persons, so summoned, shall be bound to attend
either in person or by an authorised agent as such officer may direct; and all
persons so summoned shall be bound to state the truth upon any subject
respecting which they are examined or make statements and to produce such
documents and other things as may be required:Provided that the exemptions
under sections 132 and 133 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908),
shall be applicable to requisitions for attendance under this section.(4)Every
such inquiry as aforesaid, shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within
the meaning of section 193 and section 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of
1860).

### 10. Issue of search warrant. (1) If an officer of the Force has reason to
believe that any place is used for the deposit or sale of railway property
which had been stolen or unlawfully obtained, he shall make an application to
the Magistrate, having jurisdiction over the area in which that place is
situate, for issue of a search warrant.

(2)The Magistrate to whom an application is made under sub-section (1), may,
after such inquiry as he thinks necessary, by his warrant authorise any
officer of the Force(a)to enter, with such assistants as may be required, such
place;(b)to search the same in the manner specified in the warrant;(c)to take
possession of any railway property therein found which he reasonably suspects
to be stolen or unlawfully obtained; and(d)to convey such railway property
before a Magistrate, or to guard the same on the spot until the offender is
taken before a Magistrate, or otherwise to dispose thereof in some place of
safety.

### 11. Searches and arrests how to be made. All searches and arrests made
under this Act shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the
[Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898),] relating respectively to
searches and arrests made under that Code.

### 12. Officers required to assist. All officers of Government and all
village officers are hereby empowered and required to assist the superior
officers and members of the Force in the enforcement of this Act.

### 13. Power of Courts to order forfeiture of vehicles, etc. Any Court trying
an offence punishable under this Act may order the forfeiture to Government of
any property in respect of which the Court is satisfied that an offence under
this Act has been committed and may also order the forfeiture of any
receptacles, packages or coverings in which such property is contained, and
the animals, vehicles, or other conveyances used in carrying the property.

### 14. Act to override other laws. The provisions of this Act shall have
effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other
law for the time being in force.

### 15. Construction of references to laws not in force in Jammu and Kashmir.
Any reference in this Act to a law which is not in force in the State of Jammu
and Kashmir shall, in relation to that State, be construed as a reference to
the corresponding law, if any, in force in that State.

### 16. Repeal and savings. (1) The Railway Stores (Unlawful Possession) Act,
1955 (51 of 1955), is hereby repealed.

(2)Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to offences punishable under the
Act hereby repealed and such offences may be investigated and tried as if this
Act had not been passed.(3)The mention of particular matters in sub-section
(2) shall not be held to prejudice or affect the general application of
section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), with regard to the
effect of repeals.

