## Union of India - Act

## The Rajghat Samadhi Act,1951

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Rajghat Samadhi Act,1951

## Act 41 of 1951

  * Published on 29 June 1951 
  * Commenced on 29 June 1951 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 June 1951.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Rajghat Samadhi Act,1951ACT NO. 41 OF 1951

### 27.

/1390The object of this Bill is to ensure the proper maintenance, preservation
and administration of the Rajdhani Samadhi, the Shrine built in memory of the
Father of Nation.The memory proposed in this Bill to ensure this end is the
establishment with certain powers of a Committee consisting of seven members,
of whom four members will be non-officials. The Chairman of the Committee will
be nominated by the Central Government.The Committee shall do all things
reasonable and necessary to ensure that the Rajghat Samadhi is properly
maintained, controlled and administered. It shall make proper arrrangements
for the watch and ward of the Samadhi; it shall organise and regulate
periodical functions at the Samadhi, such as Sarvodaya Day, Friday prayers,
Gandhi Jayanti; and it shall control access to the Samadhi.It is felt that
without legislative enactment it will not be possible to enforce authority
adequate for the purposes of maintenance and regulation of the Shrine. Ad hoe
Committees depend too much upon personal factors and in a crisis the
responsibility devolves upon the magistracy and the police. A statutory
Committee is, therefore, being set up." - Gazette of India, 21-4-1951 Pt II,
Section 2, page 286.Amending Act 37 of 1958.- With a view to ensuring proper
maintenance, preservation and administration of the Rajghat Samadhi, built in
the memory of Mahatania Gandhi, the Rajghat Samadhi Act, 1951 (41 of 1951) was
passed by Parliament, and a Committee, consisting of three officials, three
non-officials, two members of Parliament, and the President, New Delhi
Municipal Committee as an ex-officio member, was constituted under this
Act.Section 4(1)(d) of the Act provides that there shall be on the Committee
two member, of Parliament to he nominated by the Speaker. It is desirable that
the representatives of Parliament, instead of being nominated, should he
elected by the two Houses. In order to conform to the existing convention of
parliamentary representation on statutory committees is the ratio of 2:1 for
the House of the People and the Council of States, the number of
representatives of Parliament on the Committee is proposed to he increased
from two to three. As this would raise the strength of the Committee to an
even number (ten.) it is proposed to increase the non-official representation
also by one.The existing Act contains no provision for determining the tenure
of memibers of Parliament serving on the Conn mince. It is, therefore,
proposed to specify that the members of Parliament, elected on this Committee,
shall serve on the Committee only so long as they continue to be members of
Parliament.Upon the establishment of the Corporation of Delhi. the Samadhi has
been transferred from the jurisdiction of the New Delhi Municipal Committee to
that of the Corporation. It is, therefore, proposed that the ex-officio member
of the Committee shall he the Mayor of the Corporation instead of the
President of the New D eilti Municipal Committee, as at present.It is proposed
to amend section 4 of the Rajghat Samadhi Act, 1951 (41 of 1951) accordingly.
- S.O.R. - Gazette of India., 11-8-l958, Pt. II, Section 2. Ext., p.
736.Amending Act 30 of 1988 :- The Rajghat Samadhi Committee consituted under
the provisions of the Rajghat Samadhi Act, 1951, includes, among others, two
members of Parliament from the Lok Sabha and one from the Rajva Sabha to be
elected by each House from amongst its members. The Parliamentary Joint
Committee on Offices of Profit had observed that since the "Samadhi" and the
Samadhi funds. the members of Parliament on the Committee were liable to be
disqualified under Article 11)2(1)(a) of the Constitution. Accordingly, it is
necessary to obviate such a situation and give production to the members of
Parliament on the Committee from disqualification by making a suitable
provision in the Act.Opportunity has also been taken to provides that the
rules and bye-laws framed under the Rajghat Samadhi Act shall be published in
the Official Gazette and laid before the Houses of Parliament in terms of the
recommendations of the Committee on Subordinate Legislation of both Houses and
Parliament.The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives.Gazette of India
16-3-1988. Pt. II, Section 2. Ext., p. 3 (No. 10).[29th June, 1951]An Act to
provide for the administration and control of the Rajghat Samadhi in Delhi.BE
it enacted by Parliament as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

This Act may be called the Rajghat Samadhi Act, 1951.(2)It shall come into
force on such [date] [7th June, 1952, see Notification No. S.R.O. 1018, dated
3rd June, 1952, Gazette of India, 1952, Pt. 11, Section 3, p. 894. ] as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

In this Act,-(a)" Committee " means the Rajghat Samadhi Committee constituted
under this Act ;(b)" Samadhi " means the structure built in token of reverence
for Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat on the Western bank of the Jamuna in Delhi, and
includes the premises described in the Schedule with all buildings contained
therein, together with all additions thereto or alterations thereof which may
be made after the commencement of this Act.

### 3. The Rajghat Samadhi Committee.

The administration and control of the Samadhi shall be vested in a Committee
constituted in the manner hereinafter provided.(2)The Committee shall by the
name of " the Rajghat Samadhi Committee ", be a body corporate and shall have
perpetual succession and a common seal and shall by the said name sue and be
sued through its Chairman.

### 4. Composition of the Committee.

The Committee shall consist of the following members, namely:-(a)[ the Mayor
of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, ex-fficio;] [Substituted by Act 37 of
1958, Section 2, for the original clauses (a) (w.e.f. 9-3-1959)](b)three
officials nominated by the Central Government;(c)[ four non-officials
nominated by the Central Government; [Substituted by Act 37 of 1958, Section
2, for the original clauses (c) and (d) (w.e.f. 9-3-1959).](d)three members of
Parliament of whom two shall be elected from among themselves by members of
the House of the People and one from among themselves by members of the
Council of States.](2)The Central Government may appoint any person referred
to in sub-section (1) or any other person to be the Chairman of the Committee,
and if any other person is so appointed, he shall be deemed to be a member of
the Committee within the meaning of sub-section (1).(3)All persons nominated
by the Central Government to be members of the Committee shall hold office
during the pleasure of the Central Government.(4)[ The term of office of a
member elected under clause (d) of sub-section (1) shall come to an end as
soon as he ceases to be a member of the House from which he was elected.]
[Inserted by Act 37 of 1958, Section 2 (w.e.f. 9-3-1959).](5)[ It is hereby
declared that the office of member of the Committee shall not disqualify its
holder for being chosen as, or for being a member of either House of
Parliament.] [Inserted by Act 30 of 1988, s.2.]

### 5. Powers and duties of the Committee.

Subject to such rules as may be made under this Act, the powers and duties of
the Committee shall be--(a)to administer the affairs of the Samadhi and to
keep the Samadhi in proper order and in a state of good repair;(b)to organise
and regulate periodical functions at the Samadhi;(c)to do such other things as
may be incidental or conducive to the efficient administration of the affairs
of the Samadhi.

### 6. Power of Central Government to make rules.

The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
[rules] [For Rajghat Samadhi Rules, 1952, see Gazette of India, 1952, Pt.II,
Section 3, p.948.] to carry out the objects of this Act, and to regulate
access to the Samadhi or to any portion thereof.

### 7. Power of Committee to make bye-laws.

The Committee may [,by notification in the Official Gazette,] [Inserted by Act
30 of 1988, s.3] make byelaws consistent with this Act and the rules made
thereunder for all or any of the following purposes, namely:-(a)the manner in
which meetings of the Committee shall be convened, the quorum for the
transaction of any business thereat and the procedure at such meetings ;(b)the
appointment of such persons as may be necessary to assist the Committee in the
efficient performance of its duties and the terms and conditions of service of
such employees ;(c)the duties and powers of the employees of the
Committee;(d)the submission of accounts, returns and reports to the Committee
by any of its employees.(The Schedule.) (2) All bye-laws made under this
section shall be subject to the condition of previous publication and shall
not have effect until they are approved by the Central Government.

### 7A. [ Rule and bye-laws to be laid before Parliament. [Inserted by Act 30
of 1988, s.4.]

Every rule and every bye-law made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may
be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session,
for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in
two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or the bye-law or both
Houses agree that the rule or bye-law should not be made, the rule or bye-law
shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as
the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule
or bye-law.]

### 8. Validity of acts of Committee not to be questioned by reason of
vacancy, etc.

No act or proceeding of the Committee shall be deemed to be invalid merely by
reason of any vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the
Committee.THE SCHEDULE[See section 2(b)]The Samadhi premises, admeasuring
44-35 acres, boundedThe Samadhi premises, admeasuring 44.35 acres, bounded on
the north by a vacant piece of land belonging to the Delhi Improvement Trust;
on the south by Power House Road; on the east by the Power House; and on the
west by Bela Road.

