## Union of India - Act

## The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009

## Act 35 of 2009

  * Published in Gazette 35 on 26 August 2009 
  * Assented to on 26 August 2009 
  * Commenced on 26 August 2009 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 January 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE RIGHT OF CHILDREN TO FREE AND COMPULSORY EDUCATION (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2017 (Act 24 of 2017) on 9 August 2017] 
  2. [Amended by THE RIGHT OF CHILDREN TO FREE AND COMPULSORY EDUCATION (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2019 (Act 1 of 2019) on 10 January 2019] 

The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009(35 of
2009)Last Updated 31th December, 2019 [21/959]Statement of Objects and
Reasons.-The crucial role of universal elementary education for strengthening
the social fabric of democracy through provision of equal opportunities to all
has been accepted since inception of our Republic. The Directive Principles of
State Policy enumerated - our Constitution lays down that the State shall
provide free and compulsory education to all children up to the age of
fourteen years. Over the years there has been significant spatial and
numerical expansion of elementary schools in the country, yet the goal of
universal elementary education continues to elude us. The number of children,
particularly children from disadvantaged groups and weaker sections, who drop
out of school before completing elementary education, remains very large.
Moreover, the quality of learning achievement is not always entirely
satisfactory even in the case of children who complete elementary
education.2\. Article 21-A, as inserted by the Constitution (Eighty-sixth
Amendment) Act, 2002, provides for free and compulsory education of all
children in the age group of six to fourteen years as a Fundamental Right in
such manner as the State may, by law, determine.3\. Consequently, the Right of
Children to Free and Compulsory Education Bill, 2008, is proposed to be
enacted which seeks to provide,-(a) that every child has a right to be
provided full time elementary education of satisfactory and equitable quality
in a formal school which satisfies certain essential norms and standards;(b)
"compulsory education" casts an obligation on the appropriate Government to
provide and ensure admission, attendance and completion of elementary
education;(c) "free education" means that no child, other than a child who has
been admitted by his or her parents to a school which is not supported by the
appropriate Government, shall be liable to pay any kind of fee or charges or
expenses which may prevent him or her from pursuing and completing elementary
education;(d) the duties and responsibilities of the appropriate Governments,
local authorities, parents, schools and teachers in providing free and
compulsory education; and(e) a system for protection of the right of children
and a decentralised grievance redressal mechanism.4\. The proposed legislation
is anchored in the belief that the values of equality, social justice and
democracy and the creation of a just and humane society can be achieved only
through provision of inclusive elementary education to all. Provision of free
and compulsory education of satisfactory quality to children from
disadvantaged and weaker sections is, therefore, not merely the responsibility
of schools run or supported by the appropriate Governments, but also of
schools which are not dependent on Government funds.5\. It is, therefore,
expedient and necessary to enact a suitable legislation as envisaged in
article 21-A of the Constitution.6\. The Bill seeks to achieve this
objective.An Act to provide for free and compulsory education to all children
of the age of six to fourteen years.Be it enacted by Parliament in the
Sixtieth Year of the Republic of India as follows: -

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement. -

(1)This Act may be called The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory
Education Act, 2009.(2)It shall extend to the whole of India [***].(3)It shall
come into force on such [date] [1st April, 2010, vide notification No. S.O.
428(E), dated 16th February, 2010] as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.(4)[ Subject to the provisions
of articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution, the provisions of this Act shall
apply to conferment of rights on children to free and compulsory
education.(5)Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to Madras as, Vedic
Pathsalas and educational institutions primarily imparting religious
instruction.] [Inserted by Act No. 30 of 2012]

### 2. Definitions. -

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"appropriate
Government" means-(i)in relation to a school established, owned or controlled
by the Central Government, or the administrator of the Union territory, having
no Legislature, the Central Government;(A)a State, the State Government;(B)a
Union territory having Legislature, the Government of that Union
territory;(ii)in relation to a school, other than the school referred to in
sub-clause (i), established within the territory of-(b)"capitation fee" means
any kind of donation or contribution or payment other than the fee notified by
the school;(c)"child" means a male or female child of the age of six to
fourteen years;(d)"child belonging to disadvantaged group" means [a child with
disability or] a child belonging to the Scheduled Caste, the Scheduled Tribe,
the socially and educationally backward class or such other group having
disadvantage owing to social, cultural, economical, geographical, linguistic,
gender or such other factor, as may be specified by the appropriate
Government, by notification;(e)"child belonging to weaker section" means a
child belonging to such parent or guardian whose annual income is lower than
the minimum limit specified by the appropriate Government, by
notification;(ee)[ "child with disability" includes,­ [Inserted by Act No. 30
of 2012](A)a child with "disability" as defined in clause (i) of section 2 of
the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and
Full Participation)Act, 1995;(B)a child, being a person with disability as
defined in clause (j) of section 2 of the National Trust for Welfare of
Persons with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple
Disabilities Act, 1999;(C)a child with "severe disability" as defined in
clause (0) of section 2 of the National Trust for Welfare of Persons with
Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilities Act,
1999.](f)"elementary education" means the education from first class to eighth
class;(g)"guardian", in relation to a child, means a person having the care
and custody of that child and includes a natural guardian or guardian
appointed or declared by a Court or a statute;(h)"local authority" means a
Municipal Corporation or Municipal Council or Zila Parishad or Nagar Panchayat
or Panchayat, by whatever name called, and includes such other authority or
body having administrative control over the school or empowered by or under
any law for the time being in force to function as a local authority in any
city, town or village;(i)"National Commission for Protection of Child Rights"
means the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights constituted under
section 3 of the Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005 (4 of
2006);(j)"notification" means a notification published in the Official
Gazette;(k)"parent" means either the natural or step or adoptive father or
mother of a child;(l)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(m)"Schedule" means the Schedule annexed to this Act;(n)"school" means any
recognised school imparting elementary education and includes-(i)a school
established, owned or controlled by the appropriate Government or a local
authority;(ii)an aided school receiving aid or grants to meet whole or part of
its expenses from the appropriate Government or the local authority;(iii)a
school belonging to specified category; and(iv)an unaided school not receiving
any kind of aid or grants to meet its expenses from the appropriate Government
or the local authority;(o)"screening procedure" means the method of selection
for admission of a child, in preference over another, other than a random
method;(p)"specified category", in relation to a school, means a school known
as Kendriya Vidyalaya, Navodaya Vidyalaya, Sainik School or any other school
having a distinct character which may be specified, by notification, by the
appropriate Government;(q)"State Commission for Protection of Child Rights"
means the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights constituted under
section 3 of the Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005(4 of
2006).

## Chapter II  
Right To Free And Compulsory Education

### 3. Right of child to free and compulsory education. -

[(1) Every child of the age of six to fourteen years, including a child
referred to in clause (d) or clause (e) of section 2, shall have the right to
free and compulsory education in a neighbourhood school till the completion of
his or her elementary education.](2)For the purpose of sub-section (1), no
child shall be liable to pay any kind of fee or charges or expenses which may
prevent him or her from pursuing and completing the elementary education:[***]
[Proviso omitted by Act No. 30 of 2012 it read as ; "Provided that a child
suffering from disability, as defined in clause (i) of section 2 of the
Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection and Full
Participation) Act, 1996 (1 of 1996), shall have the right to pursue free and
compulsory elementary education in accordance with the provisions of Chapter V
of the said Act."]Notes on ClausesThis clause provides for every child of the
age of six to fourteen years, the right to free and compulsory education in a
neighbourhood school till the completion of elementary education.(3)[ A child
with disability referred to in sub-clause (A) of clause (ee) of section 2
shall, without prejudice to the provisions of the Persons with Disabilities
(Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995,
and a child referred to in sub-clauses (B) and (C) of clause (ee) of 1 of
1996. section 2, have the same rights to pursue free and compulsory elementary
education which children with disabilities have under the provisions of
Chapter V of the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of
Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 :Provided that a child with "multiple
disabilities" referred to in clause (h) and a child with "severe disability"
referred to in clause (o) of section 2 of the National Trust for Welfare of
Persons with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple
Disabilities Act, 1999 may also have the right to opt for home-based
education.] [Inserted by Act No. 30 of 2012]

### 4. Special provisions for children not admitted to, or who have not
completed, elementary education. -

Where a child above six years of age has not been admitted in any school or
though admitted, could not complete his or her elementary education, then, he
or she shall be admitted in a class appropriate to his or her age:Provided
that where a child is directly admitted in a class appropriate to his or her
age, then, he or she shall, in order to be at par with others, have a right to
receive special training, in such manner, and within such time-limits, as may
be prescribed:Provided further that a child so admitted to elementary
education shall be entitled to free education till completion of elementary
education even after fourteen years.This clause to provide for children above
six years, who have either not been admitted to any school or, admitted but
could not complete elementary education, the right to be admitted to a class
appropriate to his or her age for completing elementary education and also
special training to enable such children to be at par with other children and
also making said children entitled for free education till completion of their
elementary education, even after fourteen years. (Notes on Clauses).

### 5. Right of transfer to other school. -

(1)Where in a school, there is no provision for completion of elementary
education, a child shall have a right to seek transfer to any other school,
excluding the school specified in sub-clauses (iii) and (iv) of clause (n) of
section 2, for completing his or her elementary education.(2)Where a child is
required to move from one school to another, either within a State or outside,
for any reason whatsoever, such child shall have a right to seek transfer to
any other school, excluding the school specified in sub-clauses (iii) and (iv)
of clause (n) of section 2, for completing his or her elementary
education.(3)For seeking admission in such other school, the Head-teacher or
in-charge of the school where such child was last admitted, shall immediately
issue the transfer certificate:Provided that delay in producing transfer
certificate shall not be a ground for either delaying or denying admission in
such other school:Provided further that the Head-teacher or in-charge of the
school delaying issuance of transfer certificate shall be liable for
disciplinary action under the service rules applicable to him or her.This
clause seeks to provide a child, the right to seek transfer from one school to
another, either within a State or outside and for immediate issue of transfer
certificate to such child and also for liability for disciplinary action
against the in-charge of the school delaying issuance of transfer certificate.
(Notes on Clauses).

## Chapter III  
Duties Of Appropriate Government, Local Authority And Parents

### 6. Duty of appropriate Government and local authority to establish school.
-

For carrying out the provisions of this Act, the appropriate Government and
the local authority shall establish, within such area or limits of
neighbourhood, as may be prescribed, a school, where it is not so established,
within a period of three years from the commencement of this Act.

### 7. Sharing of financial and other responsibilities. -

(1)The Central Government and the State Governments shall have concurrent
responsibility for providing funds for carrying out the provisions of this
Act.(2)The Central Government shall prepare the estimates of capital and
recurring expenditure for the implementation of the provisions of the
Act.(3)The Central Government shall provide to the State Governments, as
grants-in-aid of revenues, such percentage of expenditure referred to in sub-
section (2) as it may determine, from time to time, in consultation with the
State Governments.(4)The Central Government may make a request to the
President to make a reference to the Finance Commission under sub-clause (d)
of clause (3) of article 280 to examine the need for additional resources to
be provided to any State Government so that the said State Government may
provide its share of funds for carrying out the provisions of the
Act.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (4), the State
Government shall, taking into consideration the sums provided by the Central
Government to a State Government under sub-section (3), and its other
resources, be responsible to provide funds for implementation of the
provisions of the Act.(6)The Central Government shall-(a)develop a framework
of national curriculum with the help of academic authority specified under
section 29;(b)develop and enforce standards for training of
teachers;(c)provide technical support and resources to the State Government
for promoting innovations, researches, planning and capacity building.

### 8. Duties of appropriate Government. -

The appropriate Government shall-(a)provide free and compulsory elementary
education to every child:Provided that where a child is admitted by his or her
parents or guardian, as the case may be, in a school other than a school
established, owned, controlled or substantially financed by funds provided
directly or indirectly by the appropriate Government or a local authority,
such child or his or her parents or guardian, as the case may be, shall not be
entitled to make a claim for reimbursement of expenditure incurred on
elementary education of the child in such other school.Explanation. - The term
"compulsory education" means obligation of the appropriate Government
to-(i)provide free elementary education to every child of the age of six to
fourteen years; and(ii)ensure compulsory admission, attendance and completion
of elementary education by every child of the age of six to fourteen
years;(b)ensure availability of a neighbourhood school as specified in section
6;(c)ensure that the child belonging to weaker section and the child belonging
to disadvantaged group are not discriminated against and prevented from
pursuing and completing elementary education on any grounds;(d)provide
infrastructure including school building, teaching staff and learning
equipment;(e)provide special training facility specified in section
4;(f)ensure and monitor admission, attendance and completion of elementary
education by every child;(g)ensure good quality elementary education
conforming to the standards and norms specified in the Schedule;(h)ensure
timely prescribing of curriculum and courses of study for elementary
education; and(i)provide training facility for teachers.

### 9. Duties of local authority. -

Every local authority shall-(a)provide free and compulsory elementary
education to every child:Provided that where a child is admitted by his or her
parents or guardian, as the case may be, in a school other than a school
established, owned, controlled or substantially financed by funds provided
directly or indirectly by the appropriate Government or a local authority,
such child or his or her parents or guardian, as the case may be, shall not be
entitled to make a claim for reimbursement of expenditure incurred on
elementary education of the child in such other school;(b)ensure availability
of a neighbourhood school as specified in section 6;(c)ensure that the child
belonging to weaker section and the child belonging to disadvantaged group are
not discriminated against and prevented from pursuing and completing
elementary education on any grounds;(d)maintain records of children up to the
age of fourteen years residing within its jurisdiction, in such manner as may
be prescribed;(e)ensure and monitor admission, attendance and completion of
elementary education by every child residing within its
jurisdiction;(f)provide infrastructure including school building, teaching
staff and learning material;(g)provide special training facility specified in
section 4;(h)ensure good quality elementary education conforming to the
standards and norms specified in the Schedule;(i)ensure timely prescribing of
curriculum and courses of study for elementary education;(j)provide training
facility for teachers;(k)ensure admission of children of migrant
families;(l)monitor functioning of schools within its jurisdiction;
and(m)decide the academic calendar.

### 10. Duty of parents and guardian. -

It shall be the duty of every parent or guardian to admit or cause to be
admitted his or her child or ward, as the case may be, to an elementary
education in the neighbourhood school.

### 11. Appropriate Government to provide for pre-school education. -

With a view to prepare children above the age of three years for elementary
education and to provide early childhood care and education for all children
until they complete the age of six years, the appropriate Government may make
necessary arrangement for providing free pre-school education for such
children.

## Chapter IV  
Responsibilities of Schools and Teachers

### 12. Extent of school's responsibility for free and compulsory education. -

(1)For the purposes of this Act, a school,-(a)specified in sub-clause (i) of
clause (n) of section 2 shall provide free and compulsory elementary education
to all children admitted therein;(b)specified in sub-clause (ii) of clause (n)
of section 2 shall provide free and compulsory elementary education to such
proportion of children admitted therein as its annual recurring aid or grants
so received bears to its annual recurring expenses, subject to a minimum of
twenty-five per cent.;(c)specified in sub-clauses (iii) and (iv) of clause (n)
of section 2 shall admit in class I, to the extent of at least twenty-five per
cent. of the strength of that class, children belonging to weaker section and
disadvantaged group in the neighbourhood and provide free and compulsory
elementary education till its completion:Provided further that where a school
specified in clause (n) of section 2 imparts pre-school education, the
provisions of clauses (a) to (c) shall apply for admission to such pre-school
education.(2)The school specified in sub-clause (iv) of clause (n) of section
2 providing free and compulsory elementary education as specified in clause
(c) of sub-section (1) shall be reimbursed expenditure so incurred by it to
the extent of per-child-expenditure incurred by the State, or the actual
amount charged from the child, whichever is less, in such manner as may be
prescribed:Provided that such reimbursement shall not exceed per-child-
expenditure incurred by a school specified in sub-clause (i) of clause (n) of
section 2:Provided further that where such school is already under obligation
to provide free education to a specified number of children on account of it
having received any land, building, equipment or other facilities, either free
of cost or at a concessional rate, such school shall not be entitled for
reimbursement to the extent of such obligation.(3)Every school shall provide
such information as may be required by the appropriate Government or the local
authority, as the case may be.

### 13. No capitation fee and screening procedure for admission. -

(1)No school or person shall, while admitting a child, collect any capitation
fee and subject the child or his or her parents or guardian to any screening
procedure.(2)Any school or person, if in contravention of the provisions of
sub-section (1),-(a)receives capitation fee, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to ten times the capitation fee charged;(b)subjects a child
to screening procedure, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
twenty-five thousand rupees for the first contravention and fifty thousand
rupees for each subsequent contraventions.

### 14. Proof of age for admission. -

(1)For the purposes of admission to elementary education, the age of a child
shall be determined on the basis of the birth certificate issued in accordance
with the provisions of the Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Act, 1886
(6 of 1886) or on the basis of such other document, as may be prescribed.(2)No
child shall be denied admission in a school for lack of age proof.

### 15. No denial of admission. -

A child shall be admitted in a school at the commencement of the academic year
or within such extended period as may be prescribed:Provided that no child
shall be denied admission if such admission is sought subsequent to the
extended period:Provided further that any child admitted after the extended
period shall complete his studies in such manner as may be prescribed by the
appropriate Government.

### 16. [ Examination and holding back in certain cases.

(1)There shall be a regular examination in the fifth class and in the eighth
class at the end of every academic year.(2)If a child fails in the examination
referred to in sub-section (1), he shall be given additional instruction and
granted opportunity for re-examination within a period of two months from the
date of declaration of the result.(3)The appropriate Government may allow
schools to hold back a child in the fifth class or in the eighth class or in
both classes, in such manner and subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed, if he fails in the re-examination referred to in sub-section
(2):Provided that the appropriate Government may decide not to hold back a
child in any class till the completion of elementary education.(4)No child
shall be expelled from a school till the completion of elementary education.]

### 17. Prohibition of physical punishment and mental harassment to child. -

(1)No child shall be subjected to physical punishment or mental
harassment.(2)Whoever contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be
liable to disciplinary action under the service rules applicable to such
person.

### 18. No school to be established without obtaining certificate of
recognition. -

(1)No school, other than a school established, owned or controlled by the
appropriate Government or the local authority, shall, after the commencement
of this Act, be established or function, without obtaining a certificate of
recognition from such authority, by making an application in such form and
manner, as may be prescribed.(2)The authority prescribed under sub-section (1)
shall issue the certificate of recognition in such form, within such period,
in such manner, and subject to such conditions, as may be prescribed:Provided
that no such recognition shall be granted to a school unless it fulfils norms
and standards specified under section 19.(3)On the contravention of the
conditions of recognition, the prescribed authority shall, by an order in
writing, withdraw recognition:Provided that such order shall contain a
direction as to which of the neighbourhood school, the children studying in
the de-recognised school, shall be admitted:Provided further that no
recognition shall be so withdrawn without giving an opportunity of being heard
to such school, in such manner, as may be prescribed.(4)With effect from the
date of withdrawal of the recognition under sub-section (3), no such school
shall continue to function.(5)Any person who establishes or runs a school
without obtaining certificate of recognition, or continues to run a school
after withdrawal of recognition, shall be liable to fine which may extend to
one lakh rupees and in case of continuing contraventions, to a fine of ten
thousand rupees for each day during which such contravention continues.

### 19. Norms and standards for school. -

(1)No school shall be established, or recognised, under section 18, unless it
fulfils the norms and standards specified in the Schedule.(2)Where a school
established before the commencement of this Act does not fulfil the norms and
standards specified in the Schedule, it shall take steps to fulfil such norms
and standards at its own expenses, within a period of three years from the
date of such commencement.(3)Where a school fails to fulfil the norms and
standards within the period specified under sub-section (2), the authority
prescribed under sub-section (1) of section 18 shall withdraw recognition
granted to such school in the manner specified under sub-section (3)
thereof.(4)With effect from the date of withdrawal of recognition under sub-
section (3), no school shall continue to function.(5)Any person who continues
to run a school after the recognition is withdrawn, shall be liable to fine
which may extend to one lakh rupees and in case of continuing contraventions,
to a fine of ten thousand rupees for each day during which such contravention
continues.

### 20. Power to amend Schedule. -

The Central Government may, by notification, amend the Schedule by adding to,
or omitting therefrom, any norms and standards.

### 21. School Management Committee. -

(1)A school, other than a school specified in sub-clause (iv) of clause (n) of
section 2, shall constitute a School Management Committee consisting of the
elected representatives of the local authority, parents or guardians of
children admitted in such school and teachers:Provided that atleast three-
fourth of members of such Committee shall be parents or guardians:Provided
further that proportionate representation shall be given to the parents or
guardians of children belonging to disadvantaged group and weaker
section:Provided also that fifty per cent. of Members of such Committee shall
be women.(2)The School Management Committee shall perform the following
functions, namely:-(a)monitor the working of the school;(b)prepare and
recommend school development plan;(c)monitor the utilisation of the grants
received from the appropriate Government or local authority or any other
source; and(d)perform such other functions as may be prescribed.[Provided that
the School Management Committee constituted under sub-section (1) in respect
of, ­(a)a school established and administered by minority whether based on
religion or language; and(b)all other aided schools as defined in sub-section
(ii) of clause (n) of section 2, shall perform advisory function only.]

### 22. School Development Plan . -

(1)Every [School Management Committee, except the School Management Committee
in respect of a school established and administered by minority, whether based
on religion or language and an aided school as defined in sub-clause (ii) of
clause (n) of section 2, constituted] under sub-section (1) of section 21,
shall prepare a School Development Plan, in such manner as may be
prescribed.(2)The School Development Plan so prepared under sub-section (1)
shall be the basis for the plans and grants to be made by the appropriate
Government or local authority, as the case may be.

### 23. Qualifications for appointment and terms and conditions of service of
teachers. -

(1)Any person possessing such minimum qualifications, as laid down by an
academic authority, authorised by the Central Government, by notification,
shall be eligible for appointment as a teacher.(2)Where a State does not have
adequate institutions offering courses or training in teacher education, or
teachers possessing minimum qualifications as laid down under sub-section (1)
are not available in sufficient numbers, the Central Government may, if it
deems necessary, by notification, relax the minimum qualifications required
for appointment as a teacher, for such period, not exceeding five years, as
may be specified in that notification:Provided that a teacher who, at the
commencement of this Act, does not possess minimum qualifications as laid down
under sub-section (1), shall acquire such minimum qualifications within a
period of five years.[Provided further that every teacher appointed or in
position as on the 31st March, 2015, who does not possess minimum
qualifications as laid down under sub-section (1), shall acquire such minimum
qualifications within a period of four years from the date of commencement of
the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (Amendment) Act,
2017.](3)The salary and allowances payable to, and the terms and conditions of
service of, teachers shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 24. Duties of teachers and redressal of grievances. -

(1)A teacher appointed under sub-section (1) of section 23 shall perform the
following duties, namely:-(a)maintain regularity and punctuality in attending
school;(b)conduct and complete the curriculum in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (2) of section 29;(c)complete entire curriculum
within the specified time;(d)assess the learning ability of each child and
accordingly supplement additional instructions, if any, as required;(e)hold
regular meetings with parents and guardians and apprise them about the
regularity in attendance, ability to learn, progress made in learning and any
other relevant information about the child; and(f)perform such other duties as
may be prescribed.(2)A teacher committing default in performance of duties
specified in sub-section (1), shall be liable to disciplinary action under the
service rules applicable to him or her:Provided that before taking such
disciplinary action, reasonable opportunity of being heard shall be afforded
to such teacher.(3)The grievances, if any, of the teacher shall be redressed
in such manner as may be prescribed.

### 25. Pupil-Teacher Ratio. -

(1)[Within three years] from the date of commencement of this Act, the
appropriate Government and the local authority shall ensure that the Pupil-
Teacher Ratio, as specified in the Schedule, is maintained in each
school.(2)For the purpose of maintaining the Pupil-Teacher Ratio under sub-
section (1), no teacher posted in a school shall be made to serve in any other
school or office or deployed for any non-educational purpose, other than those
specified in section 27.

### 26. Filling up vacancies of teachers. -

The appointing authority, in relation to a school established, owned,
controlled or substantially financed by funds provided directly or indirectly
by the appropriate Government or by a local authority, shall ensure that
vacancy of teacher in a school under its control shall not exceed ten per
cent. of the total sanctioned strength.

### 27. Prohibition of deployment of teachers for non-educational purposes. -

No teacher shall be deployed for any non-educational purposes other than the
decennial population census, disaster relief duties or duties relating to
elections to the local authority or the State Legislatures or Parliament, as
the case may be.

### 28. Prohibition of private tuition by teacher. -

No teacher shall engage himself or herself in private tuition or private
teaching activity.

## Chapter V  
Curriculum And Completion Of Elementary Education

### 29. Curriculum and evaluation procedure. -

(1)The curriculum and the evaluation procedure for elementary education shall
be laid down by an academic authority to be specified by the appropriate
Government, by notification.(2)The academic authority, while laying down the
curriculum and the evaluation procedure under sub-section (1), shall take into
consideration the following, namely:-(a)conformity with the values enshrined
in the Constitution;(b)all round development of the child;(c)building up
child's knowledge, potentiality and talent;(d)development of physical and
mental abilities to the fullest extent;(e)learning through activities,
discovery and exploration in a child friendly and child-centred
manner;(f)medium of instructions shall, as far as practicable, be in child's
mother tongue;(g)making the child free of fear, trauma and anxiety and helping
the child to express views freely;(h)comprehensive and continuous evaluation
of child's understanding of knowledge and his or her ability to apply the
same.

### 30. Examination and completion certificate. -

(1)No child shall be required to pass any Board examination till completion of
elementary education.(2)Every child completing his elementary education shall
be awarded a certificate, in such form and in such manner, as may be
prescribed.

## Chapter VI  
Protection Of Right Of Children

### 31. Monitoring of child's right to education. -

(1)The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights constituted under
section 3, or, as the case may be, the State Commission for Protection of
Child Rights constituted under section 17, of the Commissions for Protection
of Child Rights Act, 2005 (4 of 2006), shall, in addition to the functions
assigned to them under that Act, also perform the following functions,
namely:-(a)examine and review the safeguards for rights provided by or under
this Act and recommend measures for their effective implementation;(b)inquire
into complaints relating to child's right to free and compulsory education;
and(c)take necessary steps as provided under sections 15 and 24 of the said
Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act.(2)The said Commissions shall,
while inquiring into any matters relating to child's right to free and
compulsory education under clause (c) of sub-section (1), have the same powers
as assigned to them respectively under sections 14 and 24 of the said
Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act.(3)Where the State Commission
for Protection of Child Rights has not been constituted in a State, the
appropriate Government may, for the purpose of performing the functions
specified in clauses (a) to (c) of sub-section (1), constitute such authority,
in such manner and subject to such terms and conditions, as may be prescribed.

### 32. Redressal of grievances. -

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 31, any person having any
grievance relating to the right of a child under this Act may make a written
complaint to the local authority having jurisdiction.(2)After receiving the
complaint under sub-section (1), the local authority shall decide the matter
within a period of three months after affording a reasonable opportunity of
being heard to the parties concerned.(3)Any person aggrieved by the decision
of the local authority may prefer an appeal to the State Commission for
Protection of Child Rights or the authority prescribed under sub-section (3)
of section 31, as the case may be.(4)The appeal preferred under sub-section
(3) shall be decided by State Commission for Protection of Child Rights or the
authority prescribed under sub-section (3) of section 31, as the case may be,
as provided under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 31.

### 33. Constitution of National Advisory Council. -

(1)The Central Government shall constitute, by notification, a National
Advisory Council, consisting of such number of Members, not exceeding fifteen,
as the Central Government may deem necessary, to be appointed from amongst
persons having knowledge and practical experience in the field of elementary
education and child development.(2)The functions of the National Advisory
Council shall be to advise the Central Government on implementation of the
provisions of the Act in an effective manner.(3)The allowances and other terms
and conditions of the appointment of Members of the National Advisory Council
shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 34. Constitution of State Advisory Council. -

(1)The State Government shall constitute, by notification, a State Advisory
Council consisting of such number of Members, not exceeding fifteen, as the
State Government may deem necessary, to be appointed from amongst persons
having knowledge and practical experience in the field of elementary education
and child development.(2)The functions of the State Advisory council shall be
to advise the State Government on implementation of the provisions of the Act
in an effective manner.(3)The allowances and other terms and conditions of
appointment of Members of the State Advisory Council shall be such as may be
prescribed.

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 35. Power to issue directions. -

(1)The Central Government may issue such guidelines to the appropriate
Government or, as the case may be, the local authority, as it deems fit for
the purposes of implementation of the provisions of this Act.(2)The
appropriate Government may issue guidelines and give such directions, as it
deems fit, to the local authority or the School Management Committee regarding
implementation of the provisions of this Act.(3)The local authority may issue
guidelines and give such directions, as it deems fit, to the School Management
Committee regarding implementation of the provisions of this Act.

### 36. Previous sanction for prosecution. -

No prosecution for offences punishable under sub-section (2) of section 13,
sub-section (5) of section 18 and sub-section (5) of section 19 shall be
instituted except with the previous sanction of an officer authorised in this
behalf, by the appropriate Government, by notification.

### 37. Protection of action taken in good faith. -

No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Government,
the State Government, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights,
the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, the local authority, the
School Management Committee or any person, in respect of anything which is in
good faith done or intended to be done, in pursuance of this Act, or any rules
or order made thereunder.

### 38. Power of appropriate Government to make rules. -

(1)The appropriate Government may, by notification, make rules, for carrying
out the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing powers, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:-(a)the manner of giving special training and
the time-limit thereof, under first proviso to section 4;(b)the area or limits
for establishment of a neighbourhood school, under section 6;(c)the manner of
maintenance of records of children up to the age of fourteen years, under
clause (d) of section 9;(d)the manner and extent of reimbursement of
expenditure, under sub-section (2) of section 12;(e)any other document for
determining the age of child under sub-section (1) of section 14;(f)the
extended period for admission and the manner of completing study if admitted
after the extended period, under section 15;(fa)[ the manner and the
conditions subject to which a child may be held back under sub-section (3) of
section 16;](g)the authority, the form and manner of making application for
certificate of recognition, under sub-section (1) of section 18;(h)the form,
the period, the manner and the conditions for issuing certificate of
recognition, under sub-section (2) of section 18;(i)the manner of giving
opportunity of hearing under second proviso to sub-section (3) of section
18;(j)the other functions to be performed by School Management Committee under
clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 21;(k)the manner of preparing School
Development Plan under sub-section (1) of section 22;(l)the salary and
allowances payable to, and the terms and conditions of service of, teacher,
under sub-section (3) of section 23;(m)the duties to be performed by the
teacher under clause (f) of sub-section (1) of section 24;(n)the manner of
redressing grievances of teachers under sub-section (3) of section 24;(o)the
form and manner of awarding certificate for completion of elementary education
under sub-section (2) of section 30;(p)the authority, the manner of its
constitution and the terms and conditions therefor, under sub-section (3) of
section 31;(q)the allowances and other terms and conditions of appointment of
Members of the National Advisory Council under sub-section (3) of section
33;(r)the allowances and other terms and conditions of appointment of Members
of the State Advisory Council under sub-section (3) of section 34.(3)Every
rule made under this Act and every notification issued under sections 20 and
23 by the Central Government shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is
made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree
in making any modification in the rule or notification or both Houses agree
that the rule or notification should not be made, the rule or notification
shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as
the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule
or notification.(4)Every rule or notification made by the State Government
under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before the
State Legislatures.

### 39. [ Power of Central Government to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order, published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may
appear to it to be necessary for removing the difficulty :Provided that no
order shall be made under this section after the expiry of three years from
the commencement of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education
(Amendment) Act, 2012.(2)Every order made under this section shall be laid, as
soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament.]The
Schedule(See sections 19 and 25)Norms and Standards for a School

Sl. No. | Item | Norms and Standards  
---|---|---  
1. | Number of teachers: |  |   
| (a) For first class to fifth class | Admitted children | Number of teachers  
|  | Up to Sixty | Two  
|  | Between sixty-one to ninety | Three  
|  | Between Ninety-one to one hundred and twenty | Four  
|  | Between One hundred and twenty-one to two hundred | Five  
|  | Above One hundred and fifty children | Five plus one Head teacher  
|  | Above Two hundred children | Pupil-Teacher Ratio (excluding Head-teacher) shall not exceed forty.  
| (b) For sixth class to eighth | At least one teacher per class so that class there shall be at least one teacher each for-  
|  | (i) Science and Mathematics;  
|  | (ii) Social Studies;  
|  | (iii) Languages.  
|  | (2) At least one teacher for every thirty-five children.  
|  | (3) Where admission of children is above one hundred -  
|  | (i) a full time head-teacher;  
|  | (ii) part time instructors for -  
|  | (A) Art Education;  
|  | (B) Health and Physical Education;  
|  | (C) Work Education.  
2. | Building | All-weather building consisting of -  
|  | (i) at least one class-room for every teacher and an office-cum-store-cum-Head teacher's room;  
|  | (ii) barrier-free access;  
|  | (iii) separate toilets for boys and girls;  
|  | (iv) safe and adequate drinking water facility to all children;  
|  | (v) a kitchen where mid-day meal is cooked in the school;  
|  | (vi) playground;  
|  | (vii) Arrangements for securing the school building by boundary wall or fencing.  
3. | Minimum number of working |  (i) two hundred working days for first class to days/instructional hours in an fifth class; academic year;  
|  | (ii) two hundred and twenty working days for sixth class to eighth class;  
|  | (iii) eight hundred instructional hours per academic year for first class to fifth class;  
|  | (iv) one thousand instructional hours per academic year for sixth class to eighth class.  
4. | Minimum number of working hours per week for the teacher | Forty-five teaching including preparation hours.  
5. | Teaching learning equipment | Shall be provided to each class as required.  
6. | Library | There shall be a library in each school providing newspaper, magazines and books on all subjects, including story-books.  
7. | Play material, games and sports equipment | Shall be provided to each class as required

