## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Salem City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Salem City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994

## Act 29 of 1994

  * Published on 3 May 1994 
  * Commenced on 3 May 1994 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 May 1994.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Salem City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994Tamil Nadu Act 29 of
1994Statement of Objects and Reasons - Salem City Municipal Corporation Act,
1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1994). - The question of constituting a municipal
corporation for Salem has been engaging the attention of the Government for
some time past. Apart from the numerous requests made on the floor of the
Legislative Assembly and representations received from the public; the town
has significantly developed industrially and therefore, civic amenities of a
high order are the legitimate expectation of the people of this to In all
counts it has reached the status of a corporation of the people of this town,
such. The Government, therefore, took a decision to upgrade Salem Municipality
in to a municipal corporation. Accordingly the limits of Salem Municipality
was extended recently by the inclusion of certain adjoining areas.2\. The
Salem Municipality is now being governed by the provisions of The Tamil Nadu
District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920). For full
administration, on and from the date of the constitution of a municipal
corporate for Salem, a new and separate enactment has become necessary. Hence,
proposed to undertake a special legislation adopting the provisions of the
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981)
with such modifications as are necessary.3\. The Bill seeks to achieve the
above objects. The Notes of Clauses appended to this Bill explain in detail
the provisions of the Bill.Published in Part IV-section 1 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 3rd May 1994.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Municipal Laws (Sixth Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu 38
of 2008). - The Government constituted a High Level Committee under the
Chairmanship of Honourable Minister for Rural Development and Local
Administration, to examine and give recommendations on devolution of more
powers and functions upon Urban Local Bodies.2\. The said High Level Committee
has recommended, among others, that the Acts governing urban local bodies of
the State may be suitably amended to prescribe Mayors of City Municipal
Corporations as an authority under the said Acts. The Committee has also given
certain recommendations regarding prerogatives of the Mayor, relating to,
access to records of the Corporation, important correspondences between
Corporation and Government and also, regarding entrustment of additional
functions to Mayor.3\. The said High Level Committee has also recommended that
the financial power of the Contract Committee of the Municipalities may be
enhanced up to Rs. 50,000.4\. The Government have, therefore, decided to
accept the above recommendations of the said High Level Committee and to amend
the Acts governing urban local bodies suitably, for this purpose.5\. The Bill
seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV-Section of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 13th May 2008.[Dated
3.5.1994.]An Act to provide for the establishment of a Municipal Corporation
for the City of Salem.Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State
of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act maybe called the Salem City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994.(2)It
extends to the City of Salem.(3)It shall come into force on such [date] [Came
into force on 1st June of 1994 vide G.O.Ms. No. 93, M.A. & W.S., dated 1st
April 1994.] as the Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)[xxx] [Clause (a)
was omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1996.](b)"Corporation" means the Municipal
Corporation of Salem constituted under section 3;(c)"Council" means the
Municipal Council of Salem;(d)"date of the commencement of this Act" means the
date appointed under sub-section (3) of section 1;(e)"Government" means the
State Government;(f)"Municipality" means the Salem Municipality;(g)"Scheduled
Castes" and "Scheduled Tribes" shall have the meanings, respectively, assigned
to them in clauses (24) and (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution;'(h)all
words and expressions used in this Act and not defined, but defined in the
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981)
(hereinafter referred to as the 1981 Act), shall have the meanings,
respectively, assigned to them in the 1981 Act.

### 3. Establishment of Municipal Corporation for the City of Salem.

(1)With effect on and from the date of the commencement of this Act, the local
area included in the Salem Municipality shall constitute the City of Salem for
the purposes of this Act; and from such date of the commencement, a municipal
corporation shall be deemed to have been established for the said City by the
name of Salem Municipal Corporation:Provided that the Government may, from
time to time, after consultation with the corporation, by notification, alter
the limits of the City constituted under this sub-section so as to include
therein or to exclude therefrom the areas specified in the
notification:Provided further that the power to issue a notification under
this sub-section shall be subject to previous publication.(2)The corporation
shall, by the said name, be a body corporate, having perpetual succession and
a common seal with power to acquire, hold and dispose of property and to enter
into contracts and may, by its corporate name, sue and be sued.(3)The Salem
Municipality, functioning immediately before the date of the commencement of
this Act, shall be deemed to have been abolished from such commencement.

### 4. Municipal Authorities.

\- The municipal authorities charged with carrying out the provisions of the
Act shall be,-(1)[ a Mayor; [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act 38 of 2008, dated
13.5.2008.](1-a) a council;](1)a council;(2)a standing committee;(3)a
Commissioner; and(4)a wards committee.

### 5. Constitution of Council.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (2), the council shall consist of
such number of councillors elected in the manner laid down in this Act as may
be fixed by the Government by notification from time to time, so, however,
that the total number of councillors of the council shall not exceed seventy-
two at any time.(2)The following persons shall also be represented in the
council, namely:-(a)[xxx] [Clause (a) of sub-section (2) was omitted by Tamil
Nadu Act 3 of 1997.][x x x] [Proviso to clause (a) of sub-section (2) was
omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1996.](b)the members of the House of the
People representing constituencies which comprise wholly or partly the area of
the corporation and the members of the council of States registered as
electors within the area of the corporation:(c)[ all the members of the Tamil
Nadu Legislative Assembly representing constituencies which comprise wholly or
partly the area of the corporation.] [Clause (c) of sub-section (2) was
substituted by Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1996.](d)[xxx] [Clause (d) was omitted by
by Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1996.][(2-A) The persons referred to in sub-section
(2) shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings but shall not have the
right to vote in the meetings of the council.] [Sub-section (2-A) was inserted
by Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1996.](3)Seats shall be reserved for the persons
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in the council and
the number of seats so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same
proportion to the total number of seats to be filled by direct election in the
council as the population of the Scheduled Castes in the City or of the
Scheduled Tribes in the City bears to the total population of the
City:Provided that for the first election to be held immediately after the
date of the commencement of this Act, the provisional population figures of
the City as published in relation to 1991 census shall be deemed to be the
population of the City as ascertained in that census.(4)Seats shall be
reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes,
from among the seats reserved for the persons belonging to the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, which shall not be less than one-third of the
total number of seats reserved for the persons belonging to the Scheduled Cast
and the Scheduled Tribes.[xxx] [Subsections (4-A) and (4-B) were inserted by
Tamil Nadu Act 14 of 1995 and omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1996.](5)Seats
shall be reserved for women in the council and the number of seats reserved
for women shall not be less than one-third (including the number of seats
reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes)
of the total number of seats in the council.(6)The reservation of seats under
sub-sections (3) and (4) shall cease to have effect on the expiry of the
period specified in Article 334 of the Constitution.

### 6. Duration of corporation.

(1)The corporation, unless sooner dissolved, shall continue for five years
form the date appointed for its first meting and no longer and the said period
of five years shall operate as a dissolution of the corporation.(2)An election
to constitute the corporation shall be completed, -(a)before the expiry of its
duration specified in sub-section (1); or(b)before the expiration of a period
of six months from the date of its dissolution:Provided that where the
remainder of the period for which the dissolved corporation would have
continued, is less than six months, it shall not be necessary to hold any
election, under this sub-section for constituting the corporation for such
period.

### 7. Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 not to apply.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3), the Tamil Nadu
District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920) (hereafter in
this section referred to as the "District Municipalities Act") shall, with the
effect on and from the date of the commencement of this Act, cease to apply to
the local area comprised within the City of Salem.(2)Such cesser shall not
affect,-(a)the previous operation of the District Municipalities Act, in
respect of the local area comprised within the City of Salem;(b)any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against
the District Municipalities Act; or(c)any investigation, legal proceedings or
remedy in respect of such penalty, forfeiture or punishment, and any such
penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been
passed.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), all
appointments, notifications, notices, rules, bye-laws, regulations, orders,
directions, licences, permissions, schemes, forms and powers made or issued or
conferred under the District Municipalities Act, and in force on the date of
the commencement of this Act, shall, so far as they are not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act, continue to be in force in the local area
comprised within the City of Salem until they are replaced by the
appointments, notifications, notices, rules, bye-laws, regulations, orders,
directions, licences, permissions, schemes, forms and powers to be made or
issued or conferred under this Act.

### 8. Application of the provisions of the 1981 Act to the corporation.

(1)Save as otherwise expressly provided herein, all the provisions of the 1981
Act including the provisions relating to the levy and collection of any tax or
fee, are hereby extended to and shall apply mutatis mutandis to the
corporation and the 1981 Act shall, in relation to the corporation be read and
constituted as if the provisions of this Act had formed part of the 1981
Act.(2)For the purpose of facilitating the application of the provisions of
the 1981 Act to the corporation, the Government may, by notification, make
such adaptations and modifications of the 1981 Act and the rules and bye-laws
made thereunder whether by way of repealing, amending or suspending any
provision thereof, as may be necessary or expedient and thereupon, the 1981
Act and the rules made thereunder, shall apply to the corporation subject to
the adaptations and modifications so made.(3)Notwithstanding that no provision
or insufficient provision has been made under sub-section (2) for the
adaptation of the provisions of the 1981 Act, or the rules and bye-laws made
thereunder, any Court, tribunal or authority required or empowered to enforce
these provisions may, for the purpose of facilitating their application to the
corporation, construe these provisions in such manner, without affecting the
substance, as may be necessary or proper having regard .to the matter before
the Court, tribunal or authority.(4)In the 1981 Act as extended and applied to
the City of Salem,-(a)any reference to the City of Coimbatore and Coimbatore
Municipality, shall by reason of this Act, be construed as a reference to the
City of Salem and Salem Municipality, respectively; and(b)any reference to the
Coimbatore Corporation, Corporation of Coimbatore and Municipal Corporation of
Coimbatore, shall by reason of this Act, be construed as a reference to the
Salem Corporation, Corporation of Salem and Municipal Corporation of Salem,
respectively.

### 9. Transitional provisions.

(1)All property, all rights of whatever kind, used, enjoyed or possessed by,
and all interests of whatever kind owned by, or vested in, or held in trust by
or for the council, with all rights of whatever kind used, enjoyed or
possessed by the said council, as well as all liabilities legally subsisting
against the said council, shall, on and from the date of the commencement of
this Act and subject to such directions as the Government may, by general or
special order, give in this behalf, vest with the corporation.(2)All arrears
of taxes or other payments by way of composition for a tax, or due for
expenses or compensation, or otherwise due to the said council on the date of
such commencement may be recovered as if they had accrued to the corporation
and may be recovered as if the said arrears or payments had become due, under
the provisions of this Act.(3)All taxes, fees and duties, which immediately
before the date of the commencement of this Act, were being levied by the said
council, shall be deemed to have been levied by the corporation under the
provisions of this Act and shall continue to be in force accordingly until
such taxes, fees and duties are revised, cancelled or superseded by anything
done or any action taken under this Act.(4)All proceedings taken by, or
against, the council or authority 01 any person under the District
Municipalities Act, may be continued by, or against, the corporation,
authority or person as if the said proceedings had been commenced under the
provisions of this Act.(5)Any action taken under the District Municipalities
Act, by any authority before the date of such commencement shall be deemed to
have been taken by the authority competent to take such action under this Act
as if this Act had then been in force.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act, every officer or employee who, immediately before the date of such
commencement was in the service of the municipality shall, on and from the
date of the commencement of this Act, be deemed to be an officer or employee
of the corporation:Provided that -(a)the terms and conditions applicable to
such officers and employees consequent on their absorption in the service of
the corporation shall not be less favourable than those applicable to such
employees immediately before the date of such commencement, as regards pay and
allowances, leave, pension, gratuity, provident fund and age of
superannuation; and(b)the service rendered by any such officer or other
employee under the municipality up to the date of such commencement shall be
deemed to be service under the corporation and he shall be entitled to count
that service for the purpose of increments, leave, pension, provident fund and
gratuity:Provided further that any officer or other employee serving in the
municipality shall be given an option to be exercised within such time and in
such manner as may be prescribed either to be absorbed in the service of the
corporation or to be retained in the service constituted under section 73-A of
the District Municipalities Act, or to be retrenched from the service of the
municipality on such retrenchment benefits as may be prescribed.(7)Any
division of the Salem Municipality into wards made under the District
Municipalities Act, and in force of the date of the commencement of this Act
shall be deemed to be a division of the corporation until altered.(8)The
electoral roll prepared for the Salem Municipality under the District
Municipalities Act, and in force on the date of the commencement of this Act,
shall be deemed to be the electoral roll for the corporation until a new
electoral roll is prepared and published and the part of the said electoral
roll relating to each ward of the municipality shall be deemed to be the list
of the electoral roll for the corresponding division of the corporation.

### 10. Appointment of Special Officer.

(1)There shall be appointed by the Government, by notification, a Special
Officer to exercise the powers, perform the duties and discharge the functions
of-(1)the council;(2)the standing committee;(3)the Commissioner, and;(4)the
wards committee.(2)The Government shall cause elections to be held to the
corporation so that the newly elected councillors and the Mayor may come into
office, [on or before 31.12.1996.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act 16 of
1996.](3)The Special Officer shall exercise the powers, perform the duties and
discharge the functions, -(a)of the corporation, until the elected councillors
come into office;(b)of the standing committee, until a standing committee is
appointed by the corporation; and(c)of the Commissioner, until a Commissioner
is appointed by the Government and such officer may, if the Government so
direct, receive remuneration for his services from the municipal fund.(4)Until
a new Special Officer is appointed by the Government under subsection (1), the
Special Officer of the municipality functioning immediately before the date of
the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be the Special Officer of the
corporation and he shall exercise the powers and perform the duties and
discharge the functions as those exercised, performed and discharged by the
Special Officer appointed under sub-section (1).(5)The Special Officer
referred to in sub-section (1) or in sub-section (4) shall hold office [up to
the 31st day of December 1996 or for shorter period as the Government may, by
notification, specify in this behalf.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act 16 of
1996.]

### 11. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into for on the day on
which they are published.(3)Every rule made or notification or order issued
under this Act shall as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be
placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of
the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes
any modification in any such rule or notification or order, or the Assembly
decides that the rule or notification or order should not be made or issued,
the rule or notification or order shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or notification or order.

### 12. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by an order published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
as appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of two
years from the date of the commencement of this Act.

