## Union of India - Act

## The Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property)
Act, 1976

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property)
Act, 1976

## Act 13 of 1976

  * Published in Gazette 13 on 25 January 1976 
  * Assented to on 25 January 1976 
  * Commenced on 25 January 1976 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 January 1976.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Smugglers And Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture Of Property) Act,
1976[25th January, 1976.]ACT NO. 13 of 1976An Act to provide for the
forfeiture of illegally acquired properties of smugglers and foreign exchange
manipulators and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.WHEREAS
for the effective prevention of smuggling activities and foreign exchange
manipulations which are having a deleterious effect on the national economy it
is necessary to deprive persons engaged in such activities and manipulations
of their ill-gotten gains;AND WHEREAS such persons have been augmenting such
gains by violations of wealth-tax, income tax or other laws or by other means
and have thereby been increasing their resources for operating in a
clandestine manner;AND WHEREAS such persons have in many cases been holding
the properties acquired by them through such gains in the names of their
relatives, associates and confidants;PREAMBLEBE it enacted by Parliament in
the Twenty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.—

(1)This Act may be called the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators
(Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976.(2)It extends to the whole of India except
the State of Jammu and Kashmir.(3)It shall be deemed to have come into force
on the 5th day of November, 1975.

### 2. Application.—

(1)The provisions of this Act shall apply only to the persons specified in
sub-section (2).(2)The persons referred to in sub-section (1) are the
following, namely:—(a)every person—(i)who has been convicted under the Sea
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), or the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), of an
offence in relation to goods of a value exceeding one lakh of rupees;
or(ii)who has been convicted under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947
(7 of 1947), or the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973), of an
offence, the amount or value involved in which exceeds one lakh of rupees;
or(iii)who having been convicted under the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878),
or the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), has been convicted subsequently under
either of those Acts; or(iv)who having been convicted under the Foreign
Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (7 of 1947), or the Foreign Exchange Regulation
Act, 1973 (46 of 1973), has been convicted subsequently under either of those
Acts;(b)every person in respect of whom an order of detention has been made
under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling
Activities Act, 1974 (52 of 1974):Provided that—(i)such order of detention
being an order to which the provisions of section 9 or section 12A of the said
Act do not apply, has not been revoked on the report of the Advisory Board
under section 8 of the said Act or before the receipt of the report of the
Advisory Board or before making a reference to the Advisory Board; or(ii)such
order of detention being an order to which the provisions of section 9 of the
said Act apply, has not been revoked before the expiry of the time for, or on
the basis of, the review under sub-section (3) of section 9 or on the report
of the Advisory Board under section 8, read with sub-section (2) of section 9
of the said Act; or(iii)such order of detention, being an order to which the
provisions of section 12A of the said Act apply, has not been revoked before
the expiry of the time for, or on the basis of, the first review under sub-
section (3) of that section, or on the basis of the report of the Advisory
Board under section 8, read with sub-section (6) of section 12A, of that Act;
or(iv)such order of detention has not been set aside by a court of competent
jurisdiction;(c)every person who is a relative of a person referred to in
clause (a) or clause (b);(d)every associate of person referred to in clause
(a) or clause (b);(e)any holder (hereinafter in this clause referred to as the
present holder) of any property which was at any time previously held by a
person referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) unless the present holder or,
as the case may be, any one who held such property after such person and
before the present holder, is or was a transferee in good faith for adequate
consideration.Explanation 1.—For the purposes of sub-clause (i) of clause (a),
the value of any goods in relation to which a person has been convicted of an
offence shall be the wholesale price of the goods in the ordinary course of
trade in India as on the date of the commission of the offence.Explanation
2.—For the purposes of clause (c), “relative” in relation to a person,
means—(i)spouse of the person;(ii)brother or sister of the person;(iii)brother
or sister of the spouse of person;(iv)any lineal ascendant or descendant of
the person;(v)any lineal ascendant or descendant of the spouse of the
person;(vi)spouse of a person referred to in clause (ii), clause (iii), clause
(iv) or clause (v);(vii)any lineal descendant of a person referred to in
clause (ii) or clause (iii).Explanation 3.—For the purposes of clause (d),
“associate”, in relation to a person, means—(i)any individual who had been or
is residing in the residential premises (including out houses) of such
person;(ii)any individual who had been or is managing the affairs or keeping
the accounts of such person;(iii)any association of persons, body of
individuals, partnership firms, or private company within the meaning of the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), of which such person had been or is a member,
partner or director;(iv)any individual who had been or is a member, partner or
director of an association of persons, body of individuals, partnership firm,
or private company within the meaning of the Companies when such person had
been or is a member, partner or director of such association, body,
partnership firm of a private company;(v)any person who had been or is
managing the affairs, or keeping the accounts, of any association of persons,
body of individuals, partnership firm or private company referred to in clause
(iii);(vi)the trustee of any trust, where,—(a)the trust has been created by
such person; or(b)the value of the assets contributed by such person
(including the value of the assets if any, contributed by him earlier) to the
trust amounts, on the date on which the contribution is made, to not less than
twenty per cent. of the value of the assets of the trust on that
date;(vii)where the competent authority, for reasons to be recorded in writing
considers that any properties of such person are held on his behalf by any
other person, such other person.Explanation 4.—For the avoidance of doubt, it
is hereby provided that the question whether any person is a person to whom
the provisions of this Act apply may be determined with reference to any
facts, circumstances or events (including any conviction or detention which
occurred or took place before the commencement of this Act.

### 2A. Act not to apply to certain persons.—

On and from the commencement of the provisions of Chapter VA of the Narcotic
Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (61 of 1985), the provisions of
this Act shall not apply to persons in relation to whom any order, the
proceeding, may be made or taken under that Chapter.

### 3. Definitions.—

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)“Appellate Tribunal”
means the Appellate Tribunal for Forfeited Property constituted under section
12;(b)“competent authority” means an officer of the Central Government
authorised by it under sub-section (1) of section 5 to perform the functions
of a competent authority under this Act;(c)“illegally acquired property”, in
relation to any person to whom this Act applies, means,—(i)any property
acquired by such person, whether before or after the commencement of this Act,
wholly or partly out of or by means of any income, earnings or assets derived
or obtained from or attributable to any activity prohibited by or under any
law for the time being in force relating to any matter in respect of which
Parliament has power to make laws; or(ii)any property acquired by such person,
whether before or after the commencement of this Act, wholly or partly out of
or by means of any income, earnings or assets in respect of which any such law
has been contravened; or(iii)any property acquired by such person, whether
before or after the commencement of this Act, wholly or partly out of or by
means of any income, earnings or assets the source of which cannot be proved
and which cannot be shown to be attributable to any act or thing done in
respect of any matter in relation to which Parliament has no power to make
laws; or(iv)any property acquired by such person, whether before or after
commencement of this Act, for a consideration, or by any means, wholly or
partly traceable to any property referred to in sub-clauses (i) to (iii) or
the income or earnings from such property;and includes—(A)any property held by
such person which would have been, in relation to any previous holder thereof,
illegally acquired property under this clause if such previous holder had not
ceased to hold it, unless such person or any other person who held the
property at any time after such previous holder or, where there are two or
more such previous holders, the last of such previous holders is or was a
transferee in good faith for adequate consideration;(B)any property acquired
by such person, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, for a
consideration, or by any means, wholly or partly traceable to any property
falling under item (A), or the income or earnings therefrom;(d)“prescribed”
means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(e)“property” includes any
interest in property, movable or immovable;(f)“trust” includes any other legal
obligation.(2)Any reference in this Act to any law which is not in force in
any areas shall, in relation to that area, be construed as a reference to the
corresponding law, if any, in force in that area.(3)Any reference in this Act
to any officer or authority shall, in relation to any area in which there is
no officer or authority with the same designation, be construed as a reference
to such officer or authority as may be specified by the Central Government by
notification in the Official Gazette.

### 4. Prohibition of holding illegally acquired property.—

(1)As from the commencement of this Act, it shall not be lawful for any person
to whom this Act applies to hold any illegally acquired property either by
himself or through any other person on his behalf.(2)Where any person holds
any illegally acquired property in contravention of the provision of sub-
section (1), such property shall be liable to be forfeited to the Central
Government in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

### 5. Competent authority.—

(1)The Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette,
authorise as many officers of the Central Government (not below the rank of a
Joint Secretary to the Government), as it thinks fit, to perform the functions
of the competent authority under this Act.(2)The competent authorities shall
perform their functions in respect of such persons or classes of persons as
the Central Government may, by order, direct.

### 6. Notice of forfeiture.—

(1)If, having regard to the value of the properties held by any person to whom
this Act applies, either by himself or through any other person on his behalf,
his known sources of income, earnings or assets, any other information or
material available to it as a result of action taken under section 18 or
otherwise, the competent authority has reason to believe (the reasons for such
belief to be recorded in writing) that all or any of such properties are
illegally acquired properties, it may serve a notice upon such person
(hereinafter referred to as the person affected) calling upon him within such
time as may be specified in the notice, which shall not be ordinarily less
than thirty days, to indicate the sources of his income, earnings or assets,
out of which or by means of which he has acquired such property, the evidence
on which he relies and other relevant information and particulars, and to show
cause why all or any of such properties, as the case may be, should not be
declared to be illegally acquired properties and forfeited to the Central
Government under this Act.(2)Where a notice under sub-section (1) to any
person specifies any property as being held on behalf of such person by any
other person, a copy of the notice shall also be served upon such other
person.

### 7. Forfeiture of Property in certain cases.—

(1)The competent authority may, after considering the explanation, if any, to
the show-cause notice issued under section 6, and the materials available
before it and after giving to the person affected (and in a case where the
person affected holds any property specified in the notice through any other
person, to such other person also) a reasonable opportunity of being heard, by
order, record a finding whether all or any of the properties in question are
illegally acquired properties.(2)Where the competent authority is satisfied
that some of the properties referred to in the show-cause notice are illegally
acquired properties but is not able to identify specifically such properties,
then, it shall be lawful for the competent authority to specify the properties
which, to the best of its judgment, are illegally acquired properties and
record a finding accordingly under sub-section (1).(3)Where the competent
authority records a finding under this section to the effect that any property
is illegally acquired property, it shall declare that such property shall,
subject to the provisions of this Act, stand forfeited to the Central
Government free from all encumbrances.(4)Where any shares in a company stand
forfeited to the Central Government under this Act, then the company shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or
the articles of association of the company, forthwith register the Central
Government as the transferee of such shares.

### 8. Burden of proof.—

In any proceedings under this Act, the burden of proving that any property
specified in the notice served under section 6 is not illegally acquired
property shall be on the person affected.

### 9. Fine in lieu of forfeiture.—

(1)Where the competent authority makes a declaration that any property stands
forfeited to the Central Government under section 7 and it is a case where the
source of only a part, being less than one-half of the income, earnings or
assets with which such property was acquired has not been proved to the
satisfaction of the competent authority, it shall make an order giving an
option to the person affected to pay, in lieu of forfeiture, a fine equal to
one and one-fifth times the value of such part.Explanation.—For the purpose of
this sub-section, the value of any part of income, earnings or assets, with
which any property has been acquired, shall be—(a)in the case of any part of
income or earnings, the amount of such part of income or earnings;(b)in the
case of any part of assets, the proportionate part of the full value of the
consideration for the acquisition of such assets.(2)Before making an order
imposing a fine under sub-section (1), the person affected shall be given a
reasonable opportunity of being heard.(3)Where the persons affected pays the
fine due under sub-section (1) within such time as may be allowed in that
behalf, the competent authority, may by order, revoke the declaration of
forfeiture under section 7 and thereupon such property shall stand released.

### 10. Procedure in relation to certain trust properties.—

In the case of any person referred to in clause (vi) of Explanation 3 of sub-
section (2), of section 2, if the competent authority, on the basis of the
information and materials available to it, has reason to believe (the reasons
for such belief to be recorded in writing) that any property held in trust is
illegally acquired property, it may serve a notice upon the author of the
trust or, as the case may be, the contributor of the assets out of or by means
of which such property was acquired by the trust and the trustees, calling
upon them within such time as may be specified in the notice which shall not
ordinarily be less than thirty days, to explain the source of the money or
other assets out of or by means of which such property was acquired or, as the
case may be, the source of the money or other assets which were contributed to
the trust for acquiring such property and thereupon such notice shall be
deemed to be a notice served under section 6 and all the other provisions of
this Act shall apply accordingly.Explanation.—For the purposes of this section
“illegally acquired property”, in relation to any property held in trust,
includes—(i)any property which if it had continued to be held by the author of
the trust or the contributor of such property to the trust would have been
illegally acquired property in relation to such author or contributor;(ii)any
property acquired by the trust out of any contributions made by any person
which would have been illegally acquired property in relation to such person
had such person acquired such property out of such contributions.

### 11. Certain transfers to be null and void.—

Whereafter the issue of a notice under section 6 or under section 10, any
property referred to in the said notice is transferred by any mode whatsoever
such transfer shall, for the purpose of the proceedings under this Act, be
ignored and if such property is subsequently forfeited to the Central
Government under section 7, then, the transfer of such property shall be
deemed to be null and void.

### 12. Constitution of appellate tribunal.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute an Appellate Tribunal to be called the Appellate Tribunal for
Forfeited Property consisting of a Chairman and such number of other members
(being officers of the Central Government not below the rank of a Joint
Secretary to the Government), as the Central Government thinks fit, to be
appointed by the Government for hearing appeals against the orders made under
section 7, sub-section (1) of section 9 or section 10.(2)The Chairman of the
Appellate Tribunal shall be a person who is or has been or is qualified to be
a Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High Court.(3)The terms and conditions of
service of the Chairman and other members shall be such as may be
prescribed.(4)Any person aggrieved by an order of the competent authority made
under section 7, sub-section (1) of section 9 or section 10, may, within
forty-five days from the date on which the order is served on him, prefer an
appeal to the Appellate Tribunal:Provided that the Appellate Tribunal may
entertain any appeal after the said period of forty-five days, but not after
sixty days, from the date aforesaid if it is satisfied that the appellant was
prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.(5)On receipt of
an appeal under sub-section (4), the Appellate Tribunal may, after giving an
opportunity to the appellant to be heard, if he so desires, and after making
such further enquiry as it deems fit, confirm, modify or set aside the order
appealed against.(6)The powers and functions of the Appellate Tribunal may be
exercised and discharged by Benches consisting of three members and
constituted by the Chairman of the Appellate Tribunal.(6A)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (6), where the Chairman considers it
necessary so to do for expeditious disposal of appeals under this section, he
may constitute a Bench of two members and a Bench so constituted may exercise
and discharge the powers and functions of the Appellate Tribunal:Provided that
if the members of a Bench so constituted differ on any point or points, they
shall state the point or points on which they differ and refer the same to a
third member (to be specified by the Chairman) for hearing on such point or
points and such point or points shall be decided according to the opinion of
that member.(7)The Appellate Tribunal may regulate its own procedure.(8)On
application to the Appellate Tribunal and on payment of the prescribed fee,
the Tribunal may allow a party to any appeal or any person authorised in this
behalf by such party to inspect at any time during office hours, any relevant
records and registers of the Tribunal and obtain a certified copy of any part
thereof.

### 13. Notice or order not to be invalid for error in description.—

No notice issued or served, no declaration made, and no order passed, under
this Act shall be deemed to be invalid by reason of any error in the
description of the property or person mentioned therein if such property or
person is identifiable from the description so mentioned.

### 14. Bar of jurisdiction.—

No order passed or declaration made under this Act shall be appealable except
as provided therein and no civil court shall have jurisdiction in respect of
any matter which the Appellate Tribunal or any competent authority is
empowered by or under this Act to determine, and no injunction shall be
granted by any Court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to
be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act.

### 15. Competent authority and appellate tribunal to have powers of civil
court.—

The competent authority and the Appellate Tribunal shall have all the powers
of a civil court while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(5 of 1908), in respect of the following matters, namely:—(a)summoning and
enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;(b)requiring
the discovery and production of documents;(c)receiving evidence or
affidavits;(d)requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any court
or office;(e)issuing commissions for examination of witnesses or
documents;(f)any other matter which may be prescribed.

### 16. Information to competent authority.—

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, the competent
authority shall have power to require any officer or authority of the Central
Government or a State Government or a local authority to furnish information
in relation to such persons, points or matters as in the opinion of the
competent authority will be useful for, or relevant to, the purposes of this
Act.(2)Any officer of the Income-tax Department, the Customs Department or the
Central Excise Department or any officer of enforcement appointed under the
Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973), may furnish suo motu any
information available with him to the competent authority if in the opinion of
the officer such information will be useful to the competent authority for the
purposer of this Act.

### 17. Certain officers to assist competent authority and appellate
tribunal.—

For the purposes of any proceedings under this Act, the following officers are
hereby empowered and required to assist the competent authority and the
Appellate Tribunal, namely:—(a)officers of the Customs Department;(b)officers
of the Central Excise Department;(c)officers of the Income-tax
Department;(d)officers of enforcement appointed under the Foreign Exchange
Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973);(e)officers of police;(f)such other officers
of the Central or State Government as are specified by the Central Government
in this behalf by notification in the Official Gazette.

### 18. Power of competent authority to require certain officers to exercise
certain powers.—

(1)For the purposes of any proceedings under this Act or the initiation of any
such proceedings, the competent authority shall have power to cause to be
conducted any inquiry, investigation or survey in respect of any person,
place, property, assets, documents, books of account or any other relevant
matters.(2)For the purposes referred to in sub-section (1), the competent
authority may, having regard to the nature of the inquiry, investigation or
survey, require an officer of the Income-tax Department to conduct or cause to
be conducted such inquiry, investigation or survey.(3)Any officer of Income-
tax Department who is conducting or is causing to be conducted any inquiry,
investigation or survey required to be conducted under sub-section (2) may,
for the purpose of such inquiry, investigation or survey, exercise any power
(including the power to authorise the exercise of any power) which may be
exercised by him for any purpose under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961)
and the provisions of the said Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly.

### 19. Power to take possession.—

(1)Where any property has been declared to be forfeited to the Central
Government under this Act, or where the person affected has failed to pay the
fine due under sub-section (1) of section 9 within the time allowed therefor
under sub-section (3) of that section, the competent authority may order the
person affected as well as any other person who may be in possession of the
property to surrender or deliver possession thereof to the competent authority
or to any person duly authorised by it in this behalf within thirty days of
the service of the order.(2)If any person refuses or fails to comply with an
order made under sub-section (1), the competent authority may take possession
of the property and may for that purpose use such force as may be
necessary.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), the
competent authority may, for the purpose of taking possession of any property
referred to in sub-section (1), requisition the service of any police officer
to assist the competent authority and it shall be the duty of such officer to
comply with such requisition.

### 20. Rectification of mistakes.—

With a view to rectifying any mistake apparent from record, the competent
authority or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, may amend any order
made by it within a period of one year from the date of the order:Provided
that if any such amendment is likely to affect any person prejudicially, it
shall not be made without giving to such person a reasonable opportunity of
being heard.

### 21. Findings under other laws not conclusive for proceedings under this
act.—

No finding of any officer or authority under any other law shall be conclusive
for the purposes of any proceedings under this Act.

### 22. Service of notices and orders.—

Any notice or order issued or made under this Act shall be served—(a)by
tendering the notice or order or sending it by registered post to the person
for whom it is intended or to his agent;(b)if the notice or order cannot be
served in the manner provided in clause (a), by affixing it on a conspicuous
place in the property in relation to which the notice or order is issued or
made, or on some conspicuous part of the premises in which the person for whom
it is intended is known to have last resided or carried on business or
personally worked for gain.

### 23. Protection of action taken in good faith.—

No suit, prosecution or other proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government or any officer of the Central or State Government for anything
which is done, or intended to be done, in good faith, in pursuance of this Act
or the rules made thereunder.

### 24. Act to have overriding effect.—

The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force.

### 25. Provisions of the act not to apply to certain properties held in
trust.—

Nothing contained in this Act shall apply in relation to any property held by
a trust or an institution created or established wholly for public, religious
or charitable purposes if—(i)such property has been so held by such trust or
institution from a date prior to the commencement of this Act; or(ii)such
property is wholly traceable to any property held by such trust or institution
prior to the commencement of this Act.

### 26. Power to make rules.—

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely:—(a)the terms and conditions of
service of the Chairman and other members of the Appellate Tribunal under sub-
section (3) of section 12;(aa)the fees which shall be paid for the inspection
of the records and registers of the Appellate Tribunal or for obtaining a
certified copy of any part thereof under sub-section (8) of section 12;(b)the
powers of a civil court that may be exercised by the competent authority and
the Appellate Tribunal under clause (f) of section 15;(c)any other matter
which has to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall
be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament,
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be
comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before
the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive
sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule,
or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 27. Repeal and saving.—

(1)The Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property)
Ordinance, 1975 (20 of 1975), is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such
repeal, anything done or any action taken under the Ordinance so repealed
shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions
of this Act.

