## Union of India - Act

## The Special Courts Act, 1979

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Special Courts Act, 1979

## Act 22 of 1979

  * Published on 25 June 1975 
  * Commenced on 25 June 1975 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 June 1975.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Special Courts Act, 1979(22 of 1979)

### 180.

An Act to provide for the speedy trial of a certain class of offences.Whereas
Commissions of Inquiry appointed under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952,
have rendered reports disclosing the existence of prima facie evidence of
offences committed by persons who held high public or political offices in the
country and others connected with the commission of such offences during the
operation of the Proclamation of Emergency, dated the 25th June, 1975, issued
under clause (1) of article 352 of the Constitution;And whereas investigations
conducted by the Government through its agencies have also disclosed similar
offences committed during the period aforesaid;And whereas the offences
referred to in the recitals aforesaid were committed during the operation of
the said Proclamation of Emergency, during which a grave emergency was clamped
on the whole country, civil liberties were curtailed to a great extent,
important fundamental rights of the people were suspended, strict censorship
was imposed on the press, judicial power were severely crippled and the
Parliamentary democratic system was emasculated;And whereas all powers being a
trust, and holders of high public or political offices are accountable for the
exercise of their powers in all cases where Commissions of Inquiry appointed
under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 or investigations conducted by
Government through its agencies disclose offences committed by such
holders;And whereas it is the constitutional, legal and more obligation of the
State to prosecute persons involved in the said offences;And whereas the
ordinary criminal Courts due to congestion of work and other reasons cannot
reasonably be expected to bring those prosecutions to a speedy termination;And
whereas it is imperative for the efficient functioning of Parliamentary
democracy and the institutions created by or under Constitution of India that
the commission of offences referred to in the recitals aforesaid should be
judicially determined with the utmost dispatch;And whereas it is necessary for
the said purpose to establish additional Courts presided over by sitting
Judges of High Courts;And whereas it is expedient to make some procedural
changes whereby avoidable delay in the final determination of the innocence or
guilt or the persons to be tried is eliminated without interfering with the
right to a fair trail;Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirtieth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:

Received the assent of the President on 16.5.1979 and published in the Gazette
of India, Ext., Pt.II, Section 1, dated 17.5.1979.  
---  
  
### 1. Short title and extent

(1)This Act may be called The Special Courts Act , 1979.(2)It extends to the
whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.

### 2. Definitions

.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)Code means the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974);(b)declaration in relation to an offence,
means a declaration made under section 5 in respect of such offence;(c)special
Court means a Special Court established under section 3;(d)words and
expressions used but not defined in this Act but defined in the Code shall
have the same meanings as in the Code.

### 3. Establishment of Special Courts

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
establish an adequate number of Courts to be called Special Courts.(2)A
Special Court shall consist of a sitting Judge of a High Court nominated by
the Chief Justice of the High Court within the local limits of whose
jurisdiction the Special Court is situated, with the concurrence of the Chief
Justice of India.Explanation. Any reference to a High Court or to Chief
Justice or Judge of a High Court shall, in relation to a Union territory
having a Court of the Judicial Commissioner, be construed as a reference to
the said Court of the Judicial Commissioner or to the Judicial Commissioner or
any Additional Judicial Commissioner, as the case may be.

### 4. Cognizance of cases by Special Courts

.A Special Court shall take cognizance of or try such cases as are instituted
before it or transferred to it as hereinafter provided.

### 5. Declaration by Central Government of cases to be dealt with under this
Act

(1)If the Central Government is of opinion that there is prima facie evidence
of the commission of an offence alleged to have been committed by a person who
held high public or political office in India and that in accordance with the
guidelines contained in the Preamble here to the said offence ought to be
dealt with under this Act, the Central Government shall make a declaration to
that effect in every case in which it is the aforesaid opinion.(2)Such
declaration shall not be called in question in any Court.

### 6. Effect of declaration

.On such declaration being made in respect of any offence, notwithstanding
anything in the Code, any prosecution in respect of such offence shall be
instituted only in a Special Court designated by the Central Government and
any prosecution in respect of such offence pending in any Court shall stand
transferred to a Special Court designated by the Central Government.

### 7. Pending appeal or revision to be transferred to Supreme Court

.If at the date of the declaration in respect of any offence an appeal or
revision against any judgment or order in a prosecution in respect of such
offence, whether pending or disposed of, is itself pending in any Court of
Appeal or Revision, the same shall stand transferred for disposal to the
Supreme Court..Jurisdiction of Special Courts as to joint trials.A Special
Court shall have jurisdiction to try any person concerned in the offence in
respect of which a declaration has been made, either as principal, conspirator
or abettor and all other offences and accused persons as can be jointly tried
therewith at one trial in accordance with the Code.

### 9. Procedure and powers of Special Courts

(1)A Special Court shall in the trail of such cases follow the procedure
prescribed by the Code, for the trial of warrant cases before a
Magistrate.(2)A Special Court may, with a view to obtaining evidence of any
person suspected to have been directly or indirectly concerned in or privy to
an offence, tender a pardon to such person on condition of his making full and
true disclosure of the whole circumstances within his knowledge relating to
the offence and to every other person concerned whether as principal,
conspirator or abettor in the commission thereof and any pardon so tendered
shall for the purposes of section 308 of the Code be deemed to have been
tendered under section 307 thereof;(3)Save as expressly provided in this Act,
the provisions of the Code shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act, apply to the proceedings before a Special Court
and for the purposes of the said provisions of the Code a Special Court shall
be deemed to be a Court of Session and shall have all the powers of a Court of
Session and the person conducting a prosecution before a Special Court shall
be deemed to be public prosecutor.(4)A Special Court may pass upon any person
convicted by it any sentence authorised by law for the punishment of the
offence of which such person is convicted.

### 10. Power of Supreme Court to transfer cases

(1)Whenever it is made to appear to the Supreme Court that an order under this
section is expedient for the ends of justice, it may direct that any
particular case be transferred from one Special Court to another Special
Court.(2)The Supreme Court may act under this section only on the application
of the Attorney-General of India or of a party interested, and every such
application shall be made by motion, which shall, except when the applicant is
the Attorney-General of India or the Advocate-General of a State, be supported
by affidavit or affirmation.(3)Where any application for the exercise of the
powers conferred by this section is dismissed, the Supreme Court may, if it is
of opinion that the application was frivolous or vexatious, order the
applicant to pay by way of compensation to any person who has opposed the
application such sum not exceeding one thousand rupees as it may consider
appropriate in the circumstances of the case.

### 11. Appeal

.Notwithstanding anything in the Code, an appeal shall lie as of right from
any judgment, sentence or order, not being interlocutory order, of a Special
Court to the Supreme Court both on facts and on law.(2)Except as aforesaid, no
appeal or revision shall lie to any Court from any judgment, sentence or order
of a Special Court.(3)Every appeal under this section shall be preferred
within a period of thirty days from the date of any judgment, sentence or
order of a Special Court:Provided that the Supreme Court may entertain an
appeal after the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied
that the appellant had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within
the period of thirty days.

### 12. Power to make rules

.The Supreme Court may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make such
rules, if any, as it may deem necessary for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.

### 13. Notifications under section 3 and declarations under section 5 to be
laid before Parliament

.Every notification made under sub-section (1) of section 3 and every
declaration made under sub-section (1) of section 5 shall be laid, as soon as
may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament.

