## Union of India - Act

## The Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Repeal Act, 2003

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Repeal Act, 2003

## Act 1 of 2004

  * Published on 1 January 2004 
  * Commenced on 1 January 2004 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2004.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Repeal Act, 2003(1 OF 2004)

### 22.

/988[1st January, 2004]An Act to repeal the Sick Industrial Companies (Special
Provisions) Act, 1985.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-fourth Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The Sick
Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Repeal Act, 2003.

(2)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"Appellate Authority" means the Appellate Authority for Industrial and
Financial Reconstruction constituted under section 5 of the Sick Industrial
Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (1 of 1986);(b)"Board" means the
Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction established under section 4
of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (1 of
1986);(c)words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the
Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (1 of 1986), shall
have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.

### 3. Repeal of Act 1 of 1986 and dissolution of Appellate Authority and
Board .-The Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985
(hereinafter referred to as the repealed enactment) is hereby repealed and the
Appellate Authority and the Board stand dissolved.

### 4. Consequential provisions .-On the dissolution of the Appellate
Authority and the Board,-

(a)(i)the persons appointed as Chairman and Member of the Appellate Authority
or the Board; and(ii)every other person appointed by the Central Government,
Appellate Authority or the Board, and holding office as such immediately
before the commencement of this Act, shall vacate his office and no such
Chairman, Member or other person shall be entitled to claim any compensation
for premature termination of the term of his office or of any contract of
service:Provided that every officer or employee who has been, immediately
before the dissolution of the Appellate Authority or the Board, appointed on
deputation basis to the Appellate Authority or the Board, shall stand reverted
to his parent cadre, Ministry or Department, as the case may be:Provided
further that every officer or employee who has been, immediately before the
dissolution of the Appellate Authority or the Board, employed on regular basis
by the Appellate Authority or the Board, shall become, on and from the date of
such dissolution, the officer and employee, respectively, of the Central
Government with the same rights and privileges as to pension, gratuity and
other like matters as would have been admissible to him if the rights in
relation to such Appellate Authority or the Board had not been transferred to,
and vested in, the Central Government and shall continue to do so unless and
until his employment in the Central Government is duly terminated or until his
remuneration, terms and conditions of employment are duly altered by that
Government:Provided also that notwithstanding anything contained in the
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), or in any other law for the time
being in force, the transfer of the services of any officer or other employee,
employed in the Appellate Authority or the Board, to the Central Government,
shall not entitle such officer or employee to any compensation under this Act
or any other law for the time being in force and no such claim shall be
entertained by any Court, tribunal or other authority:Provided also that where
the Appellate Authority or the Board has established a provident fund,
superannuation, welfare or other fund for the benefit of the officers and
employees employed in the Appellate Authority or the Board, the monies
relatable to the officers and employees whose services have been transferred
by or under this Act to the Central Government shall, out of the monies
standing, on the dissolution of the Appellate Authority or the Board, to the
credit of such provident fund, superannuation, welfare or other fund, stand
transferred to, and vest in, the Central Government and such monies which
stand so transferred shall be dealt with by that Government in such manner as
may be prescribed;(b)[ On such date as may be notified by the Central
Government in this behalf, any appeal preferred to the Appellate Authority or
any reference made or inquiry pending to or before the Board or any proceeding
of whatever nature pending before the Appellate Authority or the Board under
the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act,1985 (1 of 1986) shall
stand abated:Provided that a company in respect of which such appeal or
reference or inquiry stands abated under this clause may make reference to the
National Company Law Tribunal under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016
within one hundred and eighty days from the commencement of the Insolvency and
Bankruptcy Code, 2016 in accordance with the provisions of the Insolvency and
Bankruptcy Code, 2016:Provided further that no fees shall be payable for
making such reference under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 by a company
whose appeal or reference or inquiry stands abated under this clause.](c)the
balance of all monies (including any fee) received by, or advanced to the
Appellate Authority or the Board, as the case may be, and not spent by it
before the commencement of this Act shall, on the commencement of this Act,
stand transferred to, and vest in, the Central Government and shall be
utilised for the purposes of clauses (e) and (f);(d)all property of whatever
kind owned by, or vested in, the Appellate Authority or the Board, as the case
may be, and not spent by it before the commencement of this Act shall, on the
commencement of this Act, stand transferred to, and shall vest in the Central
Government;(e)all liabilities and obligations of whatever kind incurred by the
Appellate Authority or the Board and subsisting immediately before the
commencement of this Act shall, on and from the commencement of this Act, be
deemed to be the liabilities or obligations, as the case may be, of the
Central Government; and any proceeding or cause of action, pending or existing
immediately before the commencement of this Act by or against the Appellate
Authority or the Board in relation to such liability or obligation may, as
from the commencement of this Act, be continued or enforced by or against the
Central Government;(f)all monies vested in the Central Government under clause
(c) shall, after deducting the amount incurred for discharging the liabilities
and obligations referred to in that clause, be refunded by the Central
Government to the person to whom such amount is due.

### 5. Saving .-(1) The repeal by this Act of the repealed enactment shall
not-

(a)affect any other enactment in which the repealed enactment has been
applied, incorporated or referred to;(b)affect the previous operation of the
repealed enactment or anything duly done or suffered thereunder;(c)affect any
right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under
the repealed enactment;(d)affect any order made by the Board for sanction of
the schemes;(e)affect the validity, invalidity, effect or consequences of
anything already done or suffered, or any right, title, obligation or
liability already acquired, accrued or incurred or any remedy or proceeding in
respect thereof or any release or discharge of or from any debt, penalty,
obligation, liability, claim or demand, or any indemnity already granted, or
the proof of any past act or thing;(f)affect any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against the repealed
enactment, affect any investigation, legal proceedings or remedy in respect of
any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or
punishment as aforesaid, and any such investigation, legal proceeding or
remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such privilege,
forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been
passed;(g)affect any principle or rule of law, or established jurisdiction,
form or course of pleading, practice or procedure, or existing usage, custom,
privilege, restriction, exemption, office or appointment, notwithstanding that
the same respectively may have been in any manner affirmed or recognised or
derived by, in, or from, the repealed enactment;(h)revive or restore any
jurisdiction, office, custom, liability, right, title, privilege, restriction,
exemption, usage, practice, procedure or other matter or thing not now
existing or in force.(2)Save as otherwise provided in section 4 and in sub-
section (1) of this section, the mention of particular matters in the said
section and sub-section shall not be held to prejudice or affect the general
application of section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), with
regard to the effect of repeal.

### 6. Power to make rules .-(1) The Central Government may, by notification,
make rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the manner in which the monies standing to the credit of provident
fund, superannuation, welfare or other fund of officers and employees on their
transfer to the Central Government, shall be dealt with by that Government
under the fourth proviso to clause (a) of section 4;(b)any other matter which
is to be, or may be, prescribed, or in respect of which provision is to be
made, by rules.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may
be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session
for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in
two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule.

