## Union of India - Act

## The Societies Registration Act, 1860

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Societies Registration Act, 1860

## Act 21 of 1860

  * Published on 15 August 1961 
  * Commenced on 15 August 1961 
  * [This is the version of this document from 15 August 1961.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Societies Registration Act, 1860(21 of 1860)Last Updated 30th July,
2019[21st May, 1860 ]An Act for the Registration of Literary, Scientific and
Charitable Societies .Preamble. - Whereas it is expedient that provision
should be made for improving the legal condition of societies established for
the promotion of literature, science, or the fine arts, or for the diffusion
of useful knowledge, [the diffusion of political education] [Inserted by Act
22 of 1927, Section 2.] or for charitable purposes; It is enacted as
follows:{||-|Short title.-"The Societies Registration Act, 1860". See The
Indian Short Titles Act XIV of 1897.The Act (with the exception of the first
four sections) is based on the Literary and Scientific Institutions Act, 1854
(17 and 18 Vict., c. 112), Section 20,et seq.The Act has been declared to be
in force in the whole of India, except as regards the Scheduled Districts, by
Section 3 of the Laws Local Extent Act XV of 1874.This Act has been extended
to the Union Territories of (1) Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regn.VI of 1963, (2)
Pondicherry by Regn.VII of 1963, (3) Goa, Daman and Diu by Regn.XII of 1962.
Goa is now a State, see Act 18 of 1987, (4) Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi
Islands by Regn.VIII of 1965. These islands are now known as Lakshadweep, see
Act 34 of 1973, Section 3.The Act shall have effect in the Union Territory of
Dadra and Nagar Haveli subject to the modifications to which it is subject in
its application to the State of Gujarat immediately before its commencement in
that Union Territory. See Regn.II of 1965, Section 4(b).The Act as adapted to
the pre-reorganisation State of Rajasthan by means of Rajasthan Ordinance IV
of 1950, has been repealed by Section 21 of the Rajasthan Societies
Registration Act XXVII of 1958.The Act has been repealed in its application to
Mahakoshal, Vindhya Pradesh and Bhopal regions in the State of Madhya Pradesh
by the Madhya Pradesh Societies Registration Act 1 of 1960 which applies to
the entire State, with effect from 15th August, 1961.The Act has now been
repealed also in its application to West Bengal by West Bengal Act XXVI of
1961, with effect from 1st April, 1963.|}

### 1. Societies formed by memorandum of association and registration .

\- Any seven or more persons associated for any literary, scientific or
charitable purpose, or for any such purpose as is described in section 20 of
this Act, may, by subscribing their names to a memorandum of association, and
filing the same with the Registrar of Joint-stock Companies [* * *] [The words
and figures [under Act 19 of 1857" repealed by the Repealing Act 16 of 1874,
Section 1 and Sch. Now see the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).], form
themselves into a society under this Act.

Uttar Pradesh.- In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, in section
1, for the words "Registrar of Joint Stock Companies", substitute the word
"Registrar", [U.P. Act No. 25 of 1958, section 2 (w.e.f. 25-8-1958).  
---  
  
### 2. Memorandum of association.

\- The memorandum of association shall contain the following things (that is
to say)the name of the society;the objects of the society;the names,
addresses, and occupations of the governors, council, directors, committee, or
other governing body to whom, by the rules of the society, the management of
its affairs is entrusted.A copy of the rules and regulations of the society,
certified to be a correct copy by not less than three of the members of the
governing body, shall be filed with the memorandum of association.

### 3. Registration and fees .

\- Upon such memorandum and certified copy being filed, the Registrar shall
certify under his hand that the society is registered under this Act. There
shall be paid to the Registrar for every such registration a fee of fifty
rupees, or such smaller fee as [the State Government] [Substituted by
A.O.1950, for " Provincial Government" .] may, from time to time, direct; and
all fees so paid shall be accounted for to [the State Government] [Substituted
by A.O.1950, for "Provincial Government" .].

Uttar Pradesh.- In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, for section
3, substitute the following section, namely: -3.(1) Upon such memorandum and
certified copy being filed along with particulars of the address of the
Society's office which shall be in registered address, by the Secretary of the
Society on behalf of the persons subscribing to the memorandum, the Registrar
shall certify under his hand that the society is registered under this Act.
There shall be paid to the Registrar for every such registration a fee of one
thousand rupees[or such smaller fee as the State Government may notify in
respect of any class of societies] [Inserted by U.P. Act 13 of 1978, section 3
(w.e.f. 27.2.1978).].Provided that the Registrar may, in his discretion, issue
public notice or issue notices to such persons as he thinks fit inviting
objections, if any against the proposed registration and consider all
objections, if any against the proposed registration and consider all
objections that may be received by him before registering the society.(2)
Notwithstanding anything in sub-section (1) the Registrar shall refuse to
register a society, if after giving it an opportunity of showing-cause against
such refusal, he is satisfied that -(a) the name of the society is identical
with that of any other society previously registered under this Act;(b) the
name of the society sought to be registered uses any of the words, namely,
'Union', 'State', 'Land Mortgage', Land Development', 'Co-operative',
'Gandhi', 'Reserve Bank' or any words expressing or implying the sanction,
approval or patronage of the Central or any State Government, or any word
which suggests or is calculated to suggest any connection with any local
authority or any corporation or body constituted by or under any law for the
time being in force or is such as is otherwise likely to deceive the public or
the members of any other society previously registered under this Act;(c) any
one or more of the objects of the society sought to be registered is not an
object mentioned in sections 1 and 20; or(d) its objects are contrary to any
other law for the time being in force.Explanation.- In this Act, the word
'Registrar' means a person appointed as such by the State Government, and
includes an Additional Registrar, Joint Registrar, Deputy Registrar, or
Assistant Registrar, on whom all or any of the powers of Registrar under this
Act are conferred by general or special order of the State Government. [U.P.
Act 52 of 1975, section 2 (10-10-1975).]In its application on the State of
Uttar Pradesh, in section 3, in sub-section (2), after clause (d) for the
existing Explanation, the following proviso substituted and deemed always to
have been so: -Provided that the State Government may in exceptional
circumstances, for reasons to be recorded permit any society to use the word
'union' or the word 'Gandhi' in its name, and thereupon, the use of that word
in the name of the society shall not be a ground for refusal to register or to
renew the certificate of registration of such society. [U.P. Act 26 of 1979,
section 2].Uttar Pradesh.- In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh,
after section 3, insert the following section, namely: -3A. Removal of
certificate of registration.-[(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section
(2), a certificate of registration issued under section 3 shall remain in
force for a period of two years from the date of issue: [Substituted by U.P.
Act 11 of 1984, section 3 (30.4.1984).]Provided that certificate issued before
the commencement of the Societies Registration (Uttar Pradesh Amendment) Act,
1984 (hereinafter in this section referred to as the said Act), shall remain
in force for a period of five years from the date of such commencement on
payment of difference of the fees specified under sub-section (3) and the fee
already paid.](2) A Societies registered under section 3, whether before or
after the commencement of the said Act, shall on application made to the
Registrar within one month of the expiration of the period referred to in sub-
section (1) and on payment of the fee specified in sub-section (3), be
entitled to have its certificate of registration renewed for[five years]
[Substituted by U.P. Act 11 of 1984, section 3 (30.4.1984).]at a time:Provided
that in the case of a society registered before the commencement of the said
Act, the Registrar shall refuse to renew the certificate of registration if
after giving it an opportunity of showing cause against such refusal, he is
satisfied that any of the grounds mentioned in sub-section (2) of section 3
exist in respect thereof.(3) There shall be paid to the Registrar with every
application for renewal of the certificate of registration -(a)[a fee equal to
the registration fee payable under section 3 or[rupees twenty-five]
[Substituted for the words 'a fee of ten rupees' by U.P. Act 13 of 1978,
section 3 (w.r.e.f. 27.2.1978).], whichever is less] if such application is
filed within the period specified in sub-section (2);(b) an additional fee of
five rupees, if such application is filed within one month of the date of
expiration of the period specified in sub-section (2);(c) an additional fee at
the rate of two rupees per month or part thereof, if such application is filed
beyond one month of the expiration of the period specified in sub-section
(2);(4) [ Every application for renewal of the certificate shall be
accompanied by a list of members of the managing body elected after the
registration of the society of after the renewal of certificate of
registration and also the certificate sought to be renewed unless dispensed
with by the Registrar on the ground of its loss or destruction or other
sufficient cause.] [Substituted by U.P. Act 11 of 1984, section 3
(30.4.1984).](5) A society which fails to get its certificate of registration
renewed in accordance with this section within one year from the expiration of
the period for which the certificate was operative shall become an
unregistered society:Provided that the Registrar may, for sufficient cause
allow an application for renewal more than one year after the expiration of
the period for which the certificate was operative on payment of a fee of
fifty rupees.(6) Where a certificate of registration is renewed in accordance
with sub-section (2) or sub-section (5) such renewal shall operate from the
date of expiration of the period for which the certificate was operative.[U.P.
Act 52 of 1975., section 3 (30.4.984)].(II) After section 3-A of the principal
Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely :-"3B. Reference to the
State Government.- If any question arises whether any society is entitled to
get itself registered in accordance with section 3 or to get its certificate
of registration renewed in accordance with section 3-A, the matter shall be
referred to the State Government, and the decision of the State Government
thereon shall be final."[U.P. Act No. 26 of 1979]In section 3 of the Societies
Registration Act, 1863, hereinafter referred to as the principal' Act, for the
words"one hundred rupees the words, one hundred fifty rupees"shall be
substitutedUTTAR PRADESH.- In section 3-A of the principal Act-(a) for sub-
section (1), the following sub-section shall besubstituted, namely:-"(1)
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), a certificate of registration
issued under section 3 shall remain in force for a period of five years from
the date of issue ;Provided that a certificate issued before the commencement
of the Societies Registration (Uttar Pradesh Amendment) Act, 1984 (hereinafter
in this section referred to as the said Act), shall remain in force for a
period of five years from the date of such commencement on payment of the
difference of the fees specified under sub-section (3) and the fees already
paid." [U.P. Act No. 11 of 1984](b) in sub-section (2), for the words,"two
years", the words "five years"shall besubstituted;(c) in sub-section (3), in
clause (a), for the words"ten rupees", the words, "rupees twenty-five"shall
besubstituted;(d) for sub-section (4), the following sub-section shall
besubstituted, namely:-"(4) Every application for renewal of the certificate
shall be accompanied by a list of members of the managing body elected after
the registration of the society or after the renewal of certificate of
registration and also the certificate sought to be renewed unless dispensed
with by the Registrar on the ground of its loss or destruction or any other
sufficient cause." [U.P. Act No. 11 of 1984](1) In section 3 of the Societies
Registration Act, 1860, hereinafter referred to as the principal Act, in sub-
section (1),-(a) for the Words"five hundred rupees"the words"one thousand
rupees"shall be substituted;(b) far the existing proviso the following
provisos shall be substituted, namely:-"Provided that the State Government
may, by notification in the official Gazette, increase from time to time the
fee payable under this sub-section:Provided further that the Registrar may, in
his discretion, issue public notice or Issue notices to such persons as he
thinks fit inviting objections, if any, against the proposed registration and
consider all objections that may be received by him before registering the
society." [U.P. Act No. 8 of 2000](2) In section 3-A of the principal Act,-(i)
In sub-section (3), for clauses (a), (b) and (c) the following clauses shall
besubstituted, namely: -"(a) a fee equal to the registration fee payable under
section 3 or rupees two hundred, whichever is less, if such application is
filed within the period specified in sub-section (2):Provided that the State
Government may, by notification in theOfficial Gazette, increase from time to
time the fee payable under this clause subject to the condition that the fee
so increased shall not exceed the registration fee payable under section 3;(b)
an additional fee of forty rupees or such higher fee not exceeding one-fifth
of the fee payable under clause (a) as may be notified by the State
Government, if such application is filed within one month of the date of
expiration of the period specified in sub-section (2) ; and(c) an additional
fee at the rate of twenty rupees per month or part thereof, or such higher
additional fee per month not exceeding half of the additional fee payable
under clause (b) as may be notified by the State Government, if such
application is filed beyond one month of the expiration of the period
specified in Sub-section (2)."(ii) In sub-section (5), in the proviso for the
words"two hundred rupees"the words"four hundred rupees"or such higher fee not
exceeding ten times of the additional fee payable under clause (b) of sub-
section (3) as may be notified by the State Government from time to time shall
besubstituted. [U.P. Act No. 8 of 2000]  
---  
  
### 4. Annual list of managing body to be filed.

\- Once in every year, on or before the fourteenth day succeeding the day on
which, according to the rules of the society, the annual general meeting of
the society is held, or, if the rules do not provide for an annual general
meeting, in the month of January, a list shall be filed with the Registrar of
Joint-Stock Companies, of the names, addresses and occupations of the
governors, council, directors, committee, or other governing body then
entrusted with the management of the affairs of the society.

UTTAR PRADESH.- In section 4 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1) the
following proviso shall be inserted, namely:-"Provided that if the managing
body is elected after the last submission of the list, the counter signatures
of the old members, shall, as, far as possible, be obtained on the list. If
the old office bearers do not countersign the list, the Registrar may, in his
discretion, issue a public notice or notice to such persons as he thinks fit
inviting objections within a specified period and shall decide all objections
received within the said period." [U.P. Act No. 11 of 1984]Uttar Pradesh.- In
its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, after section 4, insert the
following section, namely: -4A. Changes etc. in rules to be intimated to
Registrar.- A copy of every change made in rules of the society and intimation
of every change of address of the society, certified by not less than three of
the members of the governing body shall be sent to the Registrar within thirty
days of the changes.[U.P. Act 52 of 1975, section 5 (10.10.1975).]In its
application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, after section 4-A, the following
section, shall be Inserted, namely: -4B.(1) At the time registration/renewal
of a society, list of members of General Body of that society shall be filled
with the Registrar mentioning the name father's name, address and occupation
of the members. The Registrar shall examine the correctness of the list of
members of the General Body of such society on the basis of the register of
members of the General Body and minutes book thereof, cash book, receipt book
of membership fee and bank pass book of the society.(2) If there is any change
in the list of members of the General Body of the society referred to in sub-
section (1), on account of induction, removal, resignation or death of any
member, a modified list of members of General Body, shall be filed with the
Registrar, within one month from the date of change.(3) The list of members of
the General Body to be filed with the Registrar under this section shall be
signed by two office bearers and two executive members of the society.[U.P.
Act 23 of 2013, S. 2.]Uttar Pradesh.- In its application to the State of Uttar
Pradesh, in section 4, for the words "Registrar of Joint Stock Companies",
substitute the word "Registrar", [U.P. Act No. 25 of 1958, section 2 (w.e.f.
25-8-1958).In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, (i) renumber
section 4 as sub-section (1), thereof, and after sub-section (1) as so
renumbered, insert the following sub-section, namely: -(2) Together with list
mentioned in sub-section (1) there shall be sent to the Registrar a copy of
the memorandum of association including any alteration, extension, or
abridgement of purposes made under section 12, and of the rules of the society
corrected up to date and certified by not less than three of the preceding
year of account. [U.P. Act 52 of 1975, section 4 (10.10.1975)].(ii) in sub-
section (1) insert the following proviso -Provided that if the managing body
is elected after the last submission of the list, the counter signatures of
the old members, shall as far as possible, be obtained o the list. If the old
office bearers do not countersign the list, the Registrar may in his
discretion, issue a public notice or notice to such persons as he thinks fit
inviting objections within a specified period and shall decide all objections
received within the said period.[U.P. Act 11 of 1984, section 4 (30.4.1984).]  
---  
  
### 5. Property of society how vested.

\- The property, movable and immovable, belonging to a society registered
under this Act, if not vested in trustees, shall be deemed to be vested, for
the time being, in the governing body of such society, and in all proceedings,
civil and criminal, may be described as the property of the governing body of
such society by their proper title.

UTTAR PRADESH.- After section 5 of the principal Act, the following section
shall be inserted, namely :-"5A. Restriction on transfer of property.- (1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law, contract or other instrument to
the contrary, it shall not be lawful for the governing body of a society
registered under this Act or any of its members to transfer, without the
previous approval of the court, any immovable property belonging to any such
society.(2) Every transfer made in contravention of sub-section (1) shall be
void.Explanation I.- The word 'court' shall have the meaning assigned to it in
section 13.Explanation II.- The expression 'transfer' shall for the purposes
of this section mean-(a) a mortgage, charge, sale, gift, or exchange ;(b)
lease for a term exceeding five years ; or(c) irrevocable licence."[U.P. Act
No. 26 of 1979]  
---  
  
### 6. Suits by and against societies.

\- Every society registered under this Act may sue or be sued in the name of
the president, chairman, or principal secretary, or trustees, as shall be
determined by the rules and regulations of the society, and, in default of
such determination, in the name of such person as shall be appointed by the
governing body for the occasion:Provided that it shall be competent for any
person having a claim or demand against the society, to sue the president or
chairman, or principal, secretary or the trustees thereof, if on application
to the governing body some other officer or person be not nominated to be the
defendant.

### 7. Suits not to abate.

\- No suit or proceeding in any civil Court shall abate or discontinue by
reason of the person, by or against whom such suit or proceedings shall have
been brought or continued, dying or ceasing to fill the character in the name
whereof he shall have sued or been sued, but the same suit or proceeding shall
be continued in the name of or against the successor of such person.

### 8. Enforcement of judgment against society.

\- If a judgment shall be recovered against the person or officer named on
behalf of the society, such judgment shall not be put in force against the
property, movable or immovable, or against the body of such person or officer,
but against the property of the society.The application for execution shall
set forth the judgment, the fact of the party against whom it shall have been
recovered having sued or having been sued, as the case may be, on behalf of
the society only, and shall require to have the judgment enforced against the
property of the society.

### 9. Recovery of penalty accruing under bye-law.

\- Whenever by any bye-law duly made in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the society, or, if the rules do not provide for the making of
bye-laws, by any bye-law made at a general meeting of the members of the
society convened for the purpose (for the making of which the concurrent votes
of three-fifths of the members present at such meeting shall be necessary),
any pecuniary penalty is imposed for the breach of any rule or bye-law of the
society, such penalty, when accrued, may be recovered in any Court having
jurisdiction where the defendant shall reside, or the society shall be
situate, as the governing body thereof shall deem expedient.

### 10. Members liable to be sued as strangers.

\- Any member who may be in arrear of a subscription which according to the
rules of the society he is bound to pay, or who shall possess himself of or
detain any property of the society in a manner or for a time contrary to such
rules, or shall injure or destroy any property of the society, may be sued for
such arrear or for the damage accruing from such detention, injury, or
destruction of property in the manner hereinbefore provided.Recovery by
successful defendant of costs adjudged. - But if the defendant shall be
successful in any suit or other proceeding brought against him at the instance
of the society, and shall be adjudged to recover his costs, he may elect to
proceed to recover the same from the officer in whose name the suit shall be
brought, or from the society, and in the latter case shall have process
against the property of the said society in the manner above described.

### 11. Members guilty of offences punishable as strangers.

\- Any member of the society who shall steal, purloin or embezzle any money or
other property, or wilfully and maliciously destroy or injure any property of
such society, or shall forge any deed, bond, security for money, receipt, or
other instrument, whereby the funds of the society may be exposed to loss,
shall be subject to the same prosecution, and, if convicted, shall be liable
to be punished in like manner, as any person not a member would be subject and
liable to in respect of the like offence.

### 12. Societies enabled to alter, extend or abridge their purposes.

\- Whenever it shall appear to the governing body of any society registered
under this Act, which has been established for any particular purpose or
purposes, that it is advisable to alter, extend, or abridge such purpose to or
for other purposes within the meaning of this Act, or to amalgamate such
society either wholly or partially with any other society, such governing body
may submit the proposition to the members of the society in a written or
printed report, and may convene a special meeting for the consideration
thereof according to the regulations of the society;but no such proposition
shall be carried into effect unless such report shall have been delivered or
sent by post to every member of the society ten days previous to the special
meeting convened by the governing body for the consideration thereof, nor
unless such proposition shall have been agreed to by the votes of three-fifths
of the members delivered in person or by proxy, and confirmed by the votes of
three-fifths of the members present at a second special meeting convened by
the governing body at an interval of one month after the former meeting.

Uttar Pradesh- In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, after 12
section, insert the following sections, namely: -12A. [ Change of name.- Any
society registered under this Act, may, with the consent of not less than two-
thirds of the total number of its members, and with the previous approval of
the Registrar in writing change its name by resolution passed at a general
meeting convened for the purpose.12B. Notice of change of name or objects.-
(1) Notice in writing of every change of objects made under Section 12 or of
name made under Section 12-A signed by the Secretary and any three other
members of the society be sent to the Registrar.(2) Where the registrar is
satisfied that the provisions of this Act in respect of objects or name of
society and in respect of change of objects or of name, as the case may be,
have been complied with he may subject to the provisions of Section 12-C
registrar the change of name which shall have effect from the date of such
registration.12C. Effect of change of name or objects.- The change on the
objects or name of a society shall not affect any rights or obligations of the
society, nor render defective any legal proceedings by or against the society,
and any legal proceeding which might have been continued or commenced by or
against it by its former name may be continued or commenced by or against it
by its new name.12D. Registrar's power to cancel registration in certain
circumstance.- (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the
Registrar may, by order in writing cancel the registration of any society on
any of the following grounds: -(a) that the registration of the society or of
its name or change of name is contrary to the provisions of this Act or of any
other law for the time being in force;(b) that its activities or proposed
activities have been or are or will be subversive of the objects of the
society or opposed to public policy:[U.P. Act 52 of 1975, S. 6 (10.10.1975);
U.P. Act 26 of 1979, Ss. 5 and 6 (16.7.1979).]UTTAR PRADESH.- (I) In section
12-A of the principal Act, after the words"two-thirds of the total number of
its members", the words "and with the previous approval of the Registrar in
writing"shall be inserted. [U.P. Act No. 26 of 1979](II) In section 12-D of
the principal Act, in sub-section (1), in clause (a) for the word"was"the
word"is"shall besubstituted. [U.P. Act No. 26 of 1979]In section 12-D of the
principal Act -(a) in sub-section (1), after clause (b), the following clause
shall be inserted, namely:-"(c) that the registration or the certificate of
renewal has been obtained by misrepresentation or fraud."(b) for sub-sections
(2) and (3), the following sub-sections shall besubstituted, namely:-"(2) An
appeal against an order made under sub-section(1) may be preferred to the
Commissioner of the Division in whose jurisdiction the Headquarter of the
Society lies, within one month from the date of communication of such
order.(3) The decision of the Commissioner tinder sub-section (2) shill be
final and shall not be called in question in any court." [U.P. Act No. 11 of
1984]  
---  
  
### 13. Provision for dissolution of societies and adjustment of their
affairs.

\- Any number not less than three-fifths of the members of any society may
determine that it shall be dissolved, and thereupon it shall be dissolved
forthwith, or at the time then agreed upon, and all necessary steps shall be
taken for the disposal and settlement of the property of the society, its
claims and liabilities according to the rules of the said society applicable
thereto, if any, and if not, then as the governing body shall find expedient,
provided that, in the event of any dispute arising among the said governing
body or the members of the society, the adjustment of its affairs shall be
referred to the principal Court of original civil jurisdiction of the district
in which the chief building of the society is situate; and the Court shall
make such order in the matter as it shall deem requisite:Assent required. -
Provided that no society shall be dissolved unless three-fifths of the members
shall have expressed a wish for such dissolution by their votes delivered in
person or by proxy, at a general meeting convened for the purpose:Government
consent. - Provided that [whenever any Government] [Substituted by A.O.1937,
for "whenever the Government" .] is a member of, or a contributor to, or
otherwise interested in any society registered under this Act, such society
shall not be dissolved [without the consent of the Government of the State of
registration.] [Substituted by A.O.1937, for "without the consent of
Government" .]

Uttar Pradesh.- In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, in section
13, for the words "Chief building of the Society" substitute the words
"registered office of the society." [U.P. Act 52 of 1975, S. 7
(10.10.1975)].In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, after Section
13, insert following new sections, namely: -13A. Power of Registrar to apply
for dissolution.- (1) where in the opinion of Registrar, there are reasonable
grounds to believe in respect of a society registered under this Act that any
of the grounds mentioned in clauses (a) to (e) of sub-section (1) of section
13-B exists he shall send to the society, a notice calling upon it to show
cause within such time as may be specified in the notice why the society be
not dissolved.(2) If on or before the date specified in the notice or within
such extended period as the Registrar may allow, the society fails to show any
cause or if the cause shown is considered by the Registrar to be
unsatisfactory, the Registrar may move the Court referred to in section 13 for
making an order for the dissolution of the society.13B. Dissolution by Court.-
(1) On the application of the Registrar under Section 13-A or under section 24
or on an application made by not less than one-tenth of the members of a
society registered under this Act, the Court referred to in section 13 may
make an order for the dissolution of the society on any of the following
grounds, namely: -(a) that the society has contravened any provision of this
Act or of any other law for the time being in force and it is just and
equitable that the society should be dissolved;(b) that the number of the
members of the society is reduced below seven;(c) that the society has ceased
to function for more than three years preceding the date of such
application;(d) that the society is unable to pay its debts or meet its
liabilities; or(e) that the registration of the society has been cancelled
under section 12-D, on the ground that its activities or proposed activities
have been or are or will be opposed to public policy.(2) Without prejudice in
the provisions of sub-section (1) or of section 12-D, the Court may, on an
application of the District Magistrate in this behalf, make an order for the
dissolution of a society on the ground that the activities of the society
constitute a public nuisance or are otherwise opposed to public policy.(3)
When an order for the dissolution of a society is made under sub-section (1)
or sub-section (2), all necessary steps for the disposal and the settlement of
the property of the society, its claims and liabilities and any other
adjustment of its affairs shall take place in manner as the Court may direct.
[U.P. Act 52 of 1975, S. 8 (10.10.1975).]  
---  
  
### 14. Upon a dissolution no member to receive profit.

\- If upon the dissolution of any society registered under this Act there
shall remain after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities any
property whatsoever, the same shall not be paid to or distributed among the
members of the said society or any of them, but shall be given to some other
society, to be determined by the votes of not less than three-fifths of the
members present personally or by proxy at the time of the dissolution, or, in
default thereof, by such Court as aforesaid:Clause not to apply to Joint-stock
Companies. Provided, however, that this clause shall not apply to any society
which shall have been founded or established by the contributions of
shareholders in the nature of a Joint-stock Company.

Uttar Pradesh.- In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, after
section 14, insert following section, namely: -"14A. Disposal of property of a
dissolved society.- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 14, it shall
be lawful for the members of any society dissolved under section 13 to
determine by a majority of the votes of the members present whatsoever
remaining after the satisfaction of all the debts and liabilities shall be
given to the Government to be utilised for any of the purposes referred to in
section 1." [U.P. Act 52 of 1975, S. 9 (10.10.1975)].  
---  
  
### 15. Member defined. Disqualified members.

\- For the purposes of this Act a member of a society shall be a person who,
having been admitted therein according to the rules and regulations, thereof,
shall have paid a subscription, or shall have signed the roll or list of
members thereof, and shall not have resigned in accordance with such rules and
regulations; but in all proceedings under this Act no person shall be entitled
to vote or be counted as a member whose subscription at the time shall have
been in arrear for a period exceeding three months.

UTTAR PRADESH.- The existing section 15 of the principal Act shall be re-
numbered as sub-section (1) thereof, andaftersub-section (1) so re-numbered,
the following sub-section shall beinserted, namely:-"(2) Every society shall
maintain a register of members giving such particulars as may be prescribed."
[U.P. Act No. 11 of 1984]  
---  
  
### 16. Governing body defined.

\- The governing body of the society shall be the governors, council,
directors, committee, trustees, or other body to whom by the rules and
regulations of the society the management of its affairs is entrusted.

UTTAR PRADESH.- In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, after
section 16, insert the following section namely: -"16A. Disqualifications for
holding office in society.- A person who is an undischarged insolvent or who
has been convicted for any offence in connection with the formation, promotion
Management or conduct of the affairs of a society. or of a body corporated or
of an offence involving moral turpitude shall be disqualified for being chosen
as, and for being a member of the governing body or the President, Secretary,
or any other officer-bearer of a society." [U.P. Act 52 of 1975, S. 10
(10.10.1975).]  
---  
  
### 17. Registration of societies formed before Act.

\- Any company or society established for a literary, scientific or charitable
purpose, and registered under [Act 43 of 1850] [Repealed by the Indian
Companies Act, 1866 (10 of 1866), Section 219 and Sch.III.Now see the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).], or any such society established and
constituted previously to the passing of this Act but not registered under the
said [Act 43of 1850] [Repealed by the Indian Companies Act, 1866 (10 of 1866),
Section 219 and Sch.III.Now see the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).], may at
any time hereafter be registered as a society under this Act;Assent required.
- subject to the proviso that no such company or society shall be registered
under this Act unless an assent to its being so registered has been given by
three-fifths of the members present personally, or by proxy, at some general
meeting convened for that purpose by the governing body.In the case of a
company or society registered under [Act 43 of 1850] [Repealed by the Indian
Companies Act, 1866 (10 of 1866), Section 219 and Sch.III.Now see the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).], the directors shall be deemed to be such
governing body.In the case of a society not so registered, if no such body
shall have been constituted on the establishment of the society, it shall be
competent for the members thereof, upon due notice, to create for itself a
governing body to act for the society thenceforth.

### 18. Such societies to file memorandum, etc., with Registrar of Joint-stock
Companies.

\- In order to any such society as is mentioned in the last preceding section
obtaining registry under this Act, it shall be sufficient that the governing
body file with the Registrar of Joint-stock Companies [* * *] [The words and
figures [under Act 19 of 1857" repealed by the Repealing Act 16 of 1874,
Section 1 and Sch. Now see the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).] a memorandum
showing the name of the society, the objects of the society, and the names,
addresses and occupations of the governing body, together with a copy of the
rules and regulations of the society certified as provided in section 2, and a
copy of the report of the proceedings of the general meeting at which the
registration was resolved on.

Uttar Pradesh.- In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, in section
18, for the words "Registrar of Joint Stock Companies", substitute the word
"Registrar", [U.P. Act No. 25 of 1958, section 2 (w.e.f. 25-8-1958).  
---  
  
### 19. Inspection of documents. Certified copies.

\- Any person may inspect all documents filed with the Registrar under this
Act on payment of a fee of one rupee for each inspection; and any person may
require a copy or extract of any document or any part of any document, to be
certified by the Registrar, on payment of two annas for every hundred words of
such copy or extract; and such certified copy shall be prima facie evidence of
the matters therein contained in all legal proceedings whatever.

Uttar Pradesh.- In its application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, in section
19,(i) for the words "on payment of a fee of one rupee for each inspection"
substitute the words "on payment of such fee as the State Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette fix"; and(ii) for the words "on payment
of two annas for every hundred words of such copy or extract" , substitute the
words "on payment of such fee as the State Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, fix". [U.P. Act 52 of 1975, section 11 (10.10.1975)].  
---  
  
### 20. To what societies Act applies.

\- The following societies may be registered under this Act:Charitable
societies, the military orphan funds or societies established at the several
presidencies of India, societies established for the promotion of science,
literature or the fine arts, for instruction, the diffusion of useful
knowledge, [the diffusion of political education] [Inserted by Act 22 of 1927,
Section 2.], the foundation or maintenance of libraries or reading-rooms for
general use among the members or open to the public, or public museums and
galleries of paintings and other works of art, collections of natural history,
mechanical and philosophical inventions, instruments, or designs.

UTTAR PRADESH.- In section 20 of the principal Act, after the
words"established for the promotion of "and before the word"science", the
words, "Khadi and Village Industry, Panchayat Industry, Rural
Development,"shall beinserted. [U.P. Act No. 11 of 1984](1) For section 21 of
the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted, namely:"21.In
this Act, the word 'Registrar' means a person appointed as such by the State
Government, and includes an Additional Registrar, a Joint Registrar, Deputy
Registrar, or Assistant Registrar, on whom all or any of the powers of the
Registrar under this Act are conferred by general or special order of the
State Government." [U.P. Act No. 26 of 1979].Uttar Pradesh.- In its
application to the State of Uttar Pradesh, after section 21, insert following
sections, namely: -22\. Power of Registrar to call for information.- (1) The
Registrar may, by written order, require any society to furnish in writing
such information or document within such time, being ordinarily not less than
two weeks from the date of receipt of the order by the society, as he may
specify in the order in connection with the affairs of the society or any
documents filed by the society under this Act.(2) On receipt by the society of
an order under sub-section (1), it shall be the duty of the President,
Secretary or any other person authorised in this behalf to furnish such
information or documents.23\. Audit.- (1) Without prejudice to the provisions
of sub-section (2) of section 4 or of section 22, where the Registrar is of
opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, he may, by written order,
require any society to furnish its accounts or a copy of a statement of
receipts and expenditure for any particular year duly audited by a Chartered
Accountant:Provided that the Registrar may, at the request of society permit
it to have such accounts and statement audited by any other person approved by
him.(2) If the society fails to furnish the documents referred to in sub-
section (1) within the period specified in the order or within such extended
period as the Registrar may from time to time allow, the Registrar may cause
the accounts of such society audited for the said year and may recover the
cost of such audit from that society.(3) If the society neglects or refuses to
make its accounts or other documents available for audit under sub-section (2)
or, in the opinion of the Registrar, otherwise fails to provide requisite
facilities to have the audit made with due expedition, the Registrar may
proceed to take action under section 24.24\. Investigation of affairs of a
society.- (1) Where on information received under section 22 or otherwise, or
in circumstances referred to in sub-section (3) of section 23, Registrar is of
opinion that there is apprehension that the affairs or a society registered
under this Act are being so conducted as to defeat the objects of the society
or that the society or its governing body by whatever name called, or any
officer thereof in actual effective control of the society is guilty of
mismanaging its affairs or of any breach of fiduciary or other like
obligations, the Registrar may, either himself or by any person appointed by
him in that behalf, inspect or investigate in to the affairs of the society or
inspect any institution managed by the society.(2) It shall be the duty of
every officer of the society when so required by the Registrar or other person
appointed under sub-section (1) to produce any books of account and other
records of or relating to the society which are in his custody and to give him
all assistance in connection with such inspection or investigation.(3) The
Registrar or other person appointed under sub-section (1) may call upon and
examine on oath any officer, member or employee of the society in relation to
the affairs of the society and it shall be the duty of every officer, member
or employees, when called upon, to appear before him for such examination.(3A)
[ The Registrar or other person appointed under sub-section (1) may, if in his
opinion it is necessary for the purpose of inspection or investigation, seize
any or all the records including account books of the society: [Inserted by
U.P. Act 11 of 1984.]Provided that any person from whose custody such records
are seized shall be entitled to make copies thereof in the presence of the
person having the custody of such records.](4) On the conclusion of the
inspection or investigation, as the case may be, the person, if any, appointed
by the Registrar to inspect or investigate shall make a report to the
Registrar on the result of his inspection or investigation.(5) The Registrar
may, after such inspection or investigation, give such directions to the
society or to its governing body or any officer thereof, as he may think fit,
for the removal of any defects or irregularities, within which as may be
specified and in the event of default in taking action according to such
directions, the Registrar may proceed to take action under section 12-D or
section 13-B, as the case may be.25\. Disputes regarding election of office-
bearers.- (1) The prescribed authority may, on a reference made to it by the
Registrar or by at least one-fourth of the members of a society registered in
Uttar Pradesh, hear and decide in a summary manner any doubt or dispute in
respect of the election or continuance in office of an office-bearer of such
society, and may pass such orders in respect thereof as it deems
fit.["Provided that the election of an office-bearer shall be set aside where
the prescribed authority is satisfied - [Inserted by U.P. Act 13 of 1978,
section 4 (w.r.e.f. 27-2-1978).](a) that any corrupt practice has been
committed by such office-bearer; or(b) that the nomination of any candidate
has been improperly rejected; or(c) that the result of the election insofar it
concerns such office-bearer has been materially affected by the improper
acceptance of any nomination or by the improper reception, refusal or
rejection of any vote or the reception of any vote which is void or by any
non-compliance with the provisions of any rules of the society.Explanation 1.-
A person shall be deemed to have committed a corrupt practice who, directly or
indirectly, by himself or by any other person -(i) induces, or attempts to
induce, by fraud, intentional misrepresentation, coercion or threat of injury,
any elector to give or to refrain from giving a vote in favour of any
candidate, or any person to stand or not to stand as, or to withdraw or not to
withdraw from being a candidate at the election;(ii) with a view to inducing
any elector to give or to refrain from giving a vote in favour of any
candidate, or to inducing any person to stand or not to stand as, or to
withdraw or not to withdraw from being a candidate at the election, offers or
gives any money, or valuable consideration, or any place or employment, or
holds out any promise of individual advantage or profit to any person;(iii)
abets (within the meaning of the Indian Penal Code) the doing of any of the
acts specified in clauses (i) and (ii);(iv) induces or attempts to induce a
candidate or elector to believe that he, or any person in whom he is
interested, will become or will be rendered an object of divine displeasure or
spiritual censure;(v) canvasses on grounds of caste, community, sect or
religion;(vi) commits such other practice as the State Government may
prescribe to be a corrupt practice.Explanation II.- A promise of individual
advantage or profit in a person includes a promise for the benefit of the
person himself, or of any one in whom he is interested.Explanation III.- The
State Government may prescribe the procedure for hearing and decision of
doubts or disputes in respect of such elections and make provision in respect
of any other matter relating to such elections for which insufficient
provision exists in this Act or in the rules of the society."](2) Where by an
order made under sub-section (1), an election is set aside or an office-bearer
is held no longer entitled to continue in office or where the Registrar is
satisfied that any election of office-bearers of a society has not been held
within the time specified in the rules of that society, he may call a meeting
of the general body of such society for electing such office-bearer or office-
bearers, and such meeting shall be presided over and be conducted by the
Registrar or by any officer authorised by him in this behalf, and the
provisions of the rules of the society relating to meetings and elections
shall apply to such meeting and election with necessary modifications.(3)
Where a meeting is called by the Registrar under sub-section (2), no other
meeting shall be called for the purpose of election by any other authority or
by any person claiming to be an office-bearer of the society.Explanation.- For
the purposes of this section, the expression 'prescribed authority' means an
officer or court authorised in this behalf by the State Government by
notification published in the Official Gazette.26\. Terms of gift to be
observed.- Where a society accepts a gift or donation of money or property of
any other kind from any person for a specific purpose, it shall not use the
money or other property gifted or donated or any part thereof for any other
purpose without the written consent of the Registrar who shall refuse such
consent except when he is satisfied that the purpose for which the gift was
made is incapable of execution by the society.27\. Penalties.- Any person who
-(a) [ fails to furnish the list of managing body or other information
required to be furnished under section 4 or 4-A or wilfully makes or causes to
be made a false entry in, or any omission from, the list or any statement or
copy of rules or of alteration in rules or other information sent to the
Registrar under the said section 4 or section 4-A.] [Substituted by U.P Act 11
of 1984 (30-4-1984).].(b) wilfully fails to furnish any account or statement
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 23 or furnishes in compliance with
the said sub-section particulars which are false and which he either knows or
believes to be false or does not believe to be true;(c) neglects or refuses to
make its accounts or other documents available for audit as required by sub-
section (3) of section 23;(d) wilfully fails to produce any books of accounts
or other records as required by sub-section (2) of section 24;(e) wilfully
fails to appear before the Registrar or other person appointed by him or
otherwise contravenes the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 24;shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees.28\. Procedure.-
No Court inferior to that of a Magistrate of the first class shall try an
offence punishable under this Act nor shall cognizance of any such offence be
taken except on a complaint made by the Registrar or any other person
authorised in writing by him by general or special order in that behalf.29\.
Compounding of offences.- (1) The Registrar may accept from any person against
whom a reasonable suspicion exists that he has committed any offence
punishable under section 27 or against whom a prosecution under that section
has been instituted, a sum of money by way of composition fee for the offence
which such person is suspected or accused to have committed.(2) On the payment
of such composition fee the suspected person if in custody, shall be
discharged and no further proceedings shall be taken against him, and if
prosecution of such person had been instituted, the composition shall have the
effect of his acquittal.30\. Manner of payment of fees.- Fees payable under
the provisions of this Act shall be paid in such manner as may be prescribed
by rules.31\. Indemnity.- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall
lie in any Court against the State Government, the Registrar or against any
person appointed for inspection or investigation under section 24, for
anything in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act or the rules
made thereunder.32\. Mode of service of notice, etc. by Registrar.- (1) Any
notice, order or requisition meant for a society or for the governing body
thereof to be issued by the Registrar may be served on the Secretary of the
Society, and service on the Secretary be as effectual as if the same had been
served on every member of the society or, as the case may be, on every member
of the governing body thereof, unless the Registrar otherwise directs.(2) The
sending of such notice, order or requisition to the Secretary of the society
by registered post at its registered office shall amount to sufficient service
thereof on the society.33\. Power to make rules.- (1) The State Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the
purposes of this Act.(2) All rules made under this Act shall, as soon as may
be, after they are made, be laid before each House of the State Legislature
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days extending in its one
session or more than one successive sessions and shall unless some later date
is appointed, take effect from the date of their publication in the Official
Gazette, subject to such modifications or annulments as the two Houses of the
Legislature may, during the said period agree to make, so however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to validity of
anything previously done thereunder. [U.P. Act 52 of 1975, section 12
(10-10-1975)].  
---

