## Union of India - Act

## The Standards of Weights and Measures (Enforcement) Act, 1985

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Standards of Weights and Measures (Enforcement) Act, 1985

## Act 54 of 1985

  * Published on 4 September 1985 
  * Commenced on 4 September 1985 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 September 1985.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Standards of Weights and Measures (Enforcement) Act, 1985(54 of 1985)

### 1012.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-In. 1956, Parliament enacted the Standards
of Weights and Measures Act, 1956 (89 of 1956) with a view to replacing the
bewildering varieties of weights and measures in use in the country by
standards based on the metric system. For the enforcement of these standards,
the States enacted law applicable to their respective territories.2\. The 1956
Act and the corresponding enforcement legislations were based on the then
current international practices. Subsequently, the General Conference on
Weights and Measures (CGPM), the international body which takes policy
decisions on metrological standards, recommended for adoption by the
signatories of the Metre Convention, the International System of Units (SI),
which is a modernised and developed form of the metric system. Another
international body, namely, the International Organisation of Legal Metrology
(OIML) recommended a draft legislation on weights and measures for adoption by
the member-countries. India being a signatory to both the Metre Convention and
the Convention establishing the OIML, is expected to implement the
recommendations of these two international bodies. The Central Government,
therefore, set up an expert committee to suggest changes in the existing laws
with a view to bringing them in line with the latest international trends and
also removing the deficiencies which had been revealed in course of their
implementation. After going into the matter in depth the committee suggested
the replacement of the 1956 Act as well as the enforcement laws of the
States.3\. Parliament enacted the Standards of Weights and Measures Act, 1976
(60 of 1976) to replace the Standards of Weights and Measures Act, 1956 (89 of
1956), with a view to modernising the system of weights and measures in the
country. This new Central Act of 1976 necessitated revision of the enforcement
laws of the States. Hence, a draft Bill for a new enforcement legislation was
circulated to the States. But only a few States have taken action for adoption
of the Bill.4\. The enforcement aspect of weights and measures which was
earlier in the State List was transferred to the Concurrent List by the Forty-
second Amendment to the Constitution. As mentioned above, majority of the
States have not taken action for the revision of their enforcement
legislations. Consequently, the enactment of a comprehensive legislation for
the enforcement of the standards established by the 1976 Act has become an
urgent necessity. Further, a Parliamentary law for implementation of the
modern system of weights and measures would ensure countrywide uniformity not
only in the enforcement procedures but also in the scope and coverage of legal
control on weights, measures and weighing and measuring instruments.

### 5. The Bill not only provides for the enforcement of the standards of
weights and measures but also provides for better protection to consumers by
ensuring metrological accuracy in commercial transactions, industrial
measurements and measurements needed for ensuring public and human safety. In
addition, the provisions of the Bill relating to initial verification,
periodical verification, inspection in use, verification after repair and
registration of users would go a long way in protecting the interest of the
consumers.

6\. The main features of the Bill are,(a) extension of legal control to cover
commercial transactions, industrial measurements and measurements involved in
ensuring public health and human safety;(b) creation of an effective
enforcement machinery in the States;(c) registration of users of weights and
measures which are subject to periodical verification;(d) regulation of
manufacture, repair and sale of weights and measures;(e) regulation of
packaged commodities sold or distributed in the course of intra-State trade or
commerce;(f) regulation of sale of commodities sold by heaps; and(g)
punishment for offences against the proposed legislation.Amendment Act 72 of
1986-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Standards of Weights and Measures
(Enforcement) Act, 1985 provides for the enforcement of the standards
established by or under the Standards of Weights and Measures Act, 1976. It is
an important legislation designed to provide better protection to consumers by
ensuring metrological accuracy in commercial transactions, industrial
measurements and measurements needed for ensuring public and human safety. The
Act at present does not confer any right on the aggrieved consumer or
recognised consumer associations for filing complaints to be taken cognizance
of by Courts. To promote voluntary consumer movement and to ensure involvement
of consumers as well as recognised consumer associations in the enforcement of
this Act, it is considered desirable to confer specific rights on the
aggrieved consumer or recognised consumer associations for filing complaints
for taking cognizance of such complaints by Courts. Accordingly, it is
proposed to amend clause (a) of section 63 of the Act to confer rights on the
aggrieved consumer or any recognised consumer association to file a complaint
in Courts. It is also proposed to define "recognised consumer association"
under the Act so as to mean a voluntary consumer association registered under
the Companies Act, 1956 or under any other law for the time being in force.2\.
It is also observed that minimum penalties have not been provided for serious
offences like manufacturing, sale, etc., of non-standard weights or measures,
counterfeiting of seals or stamps, sale or delivery of commodities by non-
standard weights or measures. It is proposed to make suitable amendments in
sections 36, 37 and 38 of the Act so as to provide for minimum penalties to be
awarded by Courts.[4th September, 1985]An Act to provide for the enforcement
of the standards of weights and measures established by or under the Standards
of Weights and Measures Act, 1976, and for matters connected therewith or
incidental thereto.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-sixth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

Received the assent of the President on 4-9-1985 and published in the Gazette
of India, Ext., Pt. II, Section 1dated 4-9-1985.  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The
Standards of Weights and Measures (Enforcement) Act, 1985.

(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force in a State on
such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint, and different
dates may be appointed for different provisions thereof, in or in relation to,
different-(a)areas in the State; or(b)classes of undertakings in the State;
or(c)classes of goods produced, sold, distributed, marketed or transferred in
the State; or(d)classes of services rendered in the State; or(e)classes of
weights and measures manufactured, sold, distributed, marketed, transferred,
repaired or used in the State; or(f)classes of users of weights and measures
in the State, and any reference in any such provision to the commencement of
this Act shall be construed as a reference to the coming into force of this
Act, or, as the case may be, of that provision, in such areas or in respect of
such classes of undertakings, goods, services, classes of weights and measures
or classes of users of weights and measures, in relation to which, or whom,
this Act has been brought into force.

### 2. Act not to apply to inter-State trade or commerce .-Nothing in this Act
shall apply to any inter-State trade or commerce in-

(a)any weight or measure, or(b)any other goods which are sold, delivered or
distributed by weights, measure or number.

### 3. Definitions

.-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Additional
Controller" includes a Joint Controller, Deputy Controller and an Assistant
Controller appointed under section 5;(b)"authorised seal or stamp" means a
seal or stamp under, and in accordance with, the provisions of this
Act;(c)"Controller" means the Controller of Legal Metrology appointed under
section 5;(d)"counterfeit", in relation to a seal or stamp, means a seal or
stamp which is so made as to resemble an authorised seal or stamp, as the case
may be, intending by that resemblance to practise deception, or knowing it to
be likely that deception will thereby be practised;Explanation I .-It is not
essential that the resemblance of the counterfeit seal or stamp to the
authorised seal or stamp should be exact.Explanation II .-When a person causes
a counterfeit seal or stamp to resemble an authorised seal or stamp and the
resemblance is such that if a person relies on such seal or stamp, he might be
deceived thereby, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the
person so causing the seal or stamp to resemble the authorised seal or stamp
intended by means of that resemblance to practise deception or knew it to be
likely that deception would thereby be practised;(e)"heap" means any unit of a
commodity for sale where such sale is intended to be made without any
weighment or measurement or, where the sale is made by number, without
counting the number;(f)"Inspector" means a person who is appointed as such
under section 5, by whatever name called;(g)"mint" means a mint of the Central
Government;(h)"notification" means a notification published in the Official
Gazette;(i)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(j)"protection" means the utilisation of any weight or measure, or any
reading obtained with the help of any weight or measure, for the purpose of
determining whether or not any step is required to be taken to safeguard the
well-being of any human being or animal, or to protect any commodity,
vegetation or thing, whether individually or collectively;(k)"Standards Act"
means the Standards of Weights and Measures Act, 1976 (60 of
1976);(l)"standard weight or measure" means a weight, measure or number which
conforms to the standards established in relation thereto by or under the
Standards Act;(m)"State Act" means the Act enacted by the Legislature of a
State for the enforcement of the standards established by or under the
Standards of Weights and Measures Act, 1956 (89 of 1956);(n)"State
Government", in relation to a Union territory, means the Administrator
thereof;(o)words and expressions used in this Act and not defined but defined
in the Standards Act shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in
that Act.

### 4. Provisions of this Act to override the provisions of any other law
except the Standards Act

.-The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any enactment other than this Act and the
Standards Act or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any enactment
other than this Act or the Standards Act.

## Chapter II  
Appointment Of Controllers, Inspectors And Other Officers

### 5\. Appointment of Controllers, Inspectors and other officers and staff

.-(1) The State Government may, by notification, appoint a Controller of Legal
Metrology for the State and as many Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant
Controllers, Inspectors, and other officers and staff as may be necessary for
exercising the powers, and efficiently discharging the duties, conferred or
imposed on them by or under this Act or the Standards Act.(2)Every Additional
Controller, Inspector or other officer, appointed under sub-section (1), shall
exercise such powers and discharge such functions of the Controller as the
State Government may, by notification, authorise in this behalf.(3)The
Controller may, by general or special order, define the local limits within
which each Additional Controller, Inspector or other officer, appointed under
sub-section (1), shall exercise his powers and discharge the duties conferred
or imposed on him by or under this Act.(4)Subject to the provisions of this
Act, every Additional Controller, Inspector and other officer appointed under
sub-section (1), shall exercise his powers and discharge the duties of his
office under the general superintendence, direction and control of the
Controller and shall exercise those powers and discharge those duties in the
same manner and with the same effect as if they had been conferred or imposed
on him directly by or under this Act and not by way of authorisation.(5)The
Controller and every Additional Controller and other officer authorised by or
under this Act may also-(a)perform all or any of the functions of;
and(b)exercise all or any of the powers conferred by this Act or any rule or
order made thereunder, on,an Inspector.

### 6. Power to authorise Inspector to adjust weights or measures

.-Where the Controller is of opinion that it is necessary so to do, he may, by
an order in writing, authorise any officer not below the rank of an Inspector,
to adjust any weight or measure in any area within the local limits of his
jurisdiction.

### 7. Controller and officers appointed under this Act to be public servants

.-(a) The Controller and every Additional Controller, and every Inspector,
and(b)every other officer authorised by or under this Act to perform any
duty,shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21
of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 8. Protection of action taken in good faith.

-No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Controller, any Additional Controller, Inspector or any other person authorised by or under this Act to exercise any power or to perform any duty in respect of anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act or the Standards Act or any rule or order made under either of the Acts aforesaid.

## Chapter III  
General Provisions In Relation To Standard Weights And Measures

### 9. Prohibition of use of weights and measures other than standard weights
and measures

.-(1) Notwithstanding any custom, usage or method of whatever nature, no
weight or measure, other than the standard weight or measure, shall be used or
kept in any premises in such circumstances as to indicate that such weight or
measure is intended, or is likely to be used, for any weighment or
measurement.(2)On and from the commencement of this Act, no weight, measure or
number, other than the standard weight or measure shall be used in, or form
the basis of, any contract or other agreement in relation to any trade,
commerce, production or protection.(3)Any contract or other agreement, which
contravenes the provisions of sub-section (2) shall be void.

### 10. Use of weights only or measures only in certain cases

.-(1) The State Government may, by rules made in this behalf, direct that in
respect of the classes of goods, services or undertakings or users specified
therein-(a)no transaction, dealing or contract shall be made or had, or(b)no
industrial production shall be undertaken, or(c)no use for protection shall be
made,except by such weight, measure or number as may be specified
therein.(2)Any rule made under sub-section (1) shall take effect in such area,
from such future date and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be
specified therein.

### 11. Prohibition of quotations, etc., otherwise than in terms of standard
weight or measure

.-Except where he is permitted under the Standards Act so to do, no person
shall, in relation to any goods or things which are sold, transferred,
distributed or delivered, or any service rendered-(a)quote, or make
announcement of, whether by word of mouth or otherwise, any price or charge,
or(b)issue or exhibit any price list, invoice, cash memo or other document,
or(c)mention any weight or measure in any advertisement, poster or other
document, or(d)indicate the weight, measure or number of the net contents of
any package on the package itself or on any label, carton or other thing,
or(e)express, in relation to any transaction, industrial production or
protection, any quantity or dimension,otherwise than in accordance with the
standard weight or measure.

## Chapter IV  
Custody And Verification Of Standard Equipments

### 12. Custody and verification of reference standards

.-Every reference standard shall be kept at such place and in such custody as
may be prescribed, and no such reference standard shall be deemed to be a
reference standard and shall be used as such unless it has been verified,
authenticated and maintained in accordance with the rules made under the
Standards Act.

### 13. Preparation of secondary and working standards

.-The State Government may cause to be prepared at the metrological wing of
the mint at Bombay, as many sets of secondary standards or working standards
as it may think necessary:Provided that where the mint intimates the State
Government in writing that it is unable to prepare any secondary standard or
working standard, that Government may cause such secondary standard or working
standard to be prepared by such organisation as the Central Government may, on
a reference made to it by the State Government, by notification, specify in
this behalf.

### 14. Verification, stamping and custody of secondary or working standards

.-(1) Every secondary standard or working standard referred to in section 13,
shall conform to the standards established by or under the Standards Act and
shall be verified-(a)in the case of a secondary standard, at any one of the
places where reference standards are maintained, against the appropriate
reference standard;(b)in the case of a working standard, at any one of the
places where secondary standards are maintained, against the appropriate
secondary standard,in such manner and at such periodical intervals as may be
specified by or under the Standards Act and shall, if found on such
verification to conform to the standards established by or under that Act, be
stamped.(2)Where any secondary standard or working standard is stamped under
sub-section (1), a certificate shall be separately issued showing the date on
which such weight or measure was stamped.(3)Every verification and stamping
referred to in sub-section (1) shall be made by such person or authority as
may be specified by or under the Standards Act.(4)A secondary standard or
working standard which is not verified and stamped in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (1) and sub-section (3) shall not be deemed to be a
secondary standard or working standard, as the case may be, and shall not be
used for the verification of any working standard or, as the case may be, for
the verification of any weight or measure.(5)Every verified secondary standard
and every verified working standard shall be kept at such place and in such
custody as may be prescribed.

### 15. Secondary or working standard which may not be stamped

.-(1) Where the State Government is of opinion that by reason of the size or
nature of any secondary standard or working standard, it is not desirable or
practicable to put a stamp thereon, it may direct that instead of putting a
stamp on such secondary standard or working standard, a certificate may be
issued to the effect that such secondary standard or working standard conforms
to the standards established by or under the Standards Act and every secondary
standard or working standard so certified shall be deemed to have been duly
stamped under this Act on the date on which such certificate was
issued.(2)Every certificate referred to in sub-section (1) shall be in such
form as may be prescribed and shall contain such details as to enable a clear
identification of the weight or measure to which it relates.

## Chapter V  
Registration Of Users Of Weights And Measures

### 16. Persons using weights or measures for transactions or industrial
production or for protection to get themselves registered

.-No person, not being an itinerant vendor, shall use any weight or measure in
any transaction or for industrial production or for protection unless he is
registered in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.

### 17. Procedure of registration

.-(1) Every person, who intends to commence, or carry on, the use of any
weight or measure in any transaction or for industrial production or for
protection, shall make, within such time and containing such particulars as
may be prescribed, an application for the inclusion of his name in a register
to be maintained for the purpose (hereinafter in this section referred to as
the "Register of Users").(2)The Register of Users shall be maintained in such
form and in such manner as may be prescribed.(3)The application referred to in
sub-section (1) shall be made to the Controller or to such other person as the
Controller may, by general or special order in writing, authorise in this
behalf and every such application shall be made in such form, in such manner
and on payment of such fee as may be prescribed.(4)On receipt of the
application referred to in sub-section (1), the Controller or the person
authorised by him shall include the name of such person in the Register of
Users and issue to the applicant a certificate to the effect that his name has
been so included.(5)A certificate issued under sub-section (4) shall be valid
for the period specified therein and may be renewed from time to time for such
further period and on payment of such fee as may be prescribed.

### 18. Punishment for non-registration

.-Whoever uses, after the expiry of the period prescribed under sub-section
(1) of section 17, any weight or measure in any transaction or for industrial
production or for protection shall, unless he is registered in accordance with
the provisions of this Chapter, be punishable with fine which may extend to
five hundred rupees, and for the second or subsequent offence, with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with
both.

## Chapter VI  
Manufacture, Repair Or Sale Of Weights Or Measures

### 19. Prohibition on the manufacture, repair or sale of weights or measures
without licence

.-(1) No person shall make, manufacture, repair or sell, or offer, expose or
possess for repair or sale, any weight or measure unless he holds a valid
licence issued in this behalf by the Controller authorising such person to do
so:Provided that a person who bona fide repairs any weight or measure owned
and possessed by him shall not be required to take out a licence referred to
in this sub-section.(2)Every licence issued under this section-(a)shall
be-(i)in such form,(ii)issued on payment of such fees, and(iii)valid for such
period, as may be prescribed,(b)may be renewed from time to time, and(c)may
contain such conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed.(3)Every licence
issued under the State Act shall, if in force immediately before the
commencement of this Act, continue to be in force until the expiry of the
period of its validity, or until the cancellation thereof, whichever is
earlier, and may be renewed under this Act after the expiry of the period of
its validity, if an application for such renewal is made in the prescribed
form at least one month before the expiry of the period of validity of the
licence.(4)Every person who intends to commence business, after the
commencement of this Act, as a maker, manufacturer, repairer or seller of any
weight or measure, shall make an application in such form and on payment of
such fees as may be prescribed, for the issue of a licence to him, and every
licence so issued may be renewed if an application for its renewal,
accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed, is made by such person in the
prescribed form at least one month before the expiry of the period of its
validity.(5)The Controller may, if he is satisfied that the maker,
manufacturer, repairer or seller, as the case may be, of any weight or measure
was prevented by sufficient cause from making an application for the renewal
of his licence before the expiry of the period of the validity thereof, permit
him to make the application within a further period of one month from the date
of expiry of the period of such validity, on payment by him of such further
fee, not exceeding the fee which is payable for the issue of the licence.(6)No
application for the issue or renewal of a licence shall be rejected
unless-(a)the applicant or, as the case may be, the holder of the licence has
been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the proposed
action, and(b)the Controller is satisfied that-(i)the application has not been
made within the time specified in this section, or(ii)the applicant has made
any statement in, or in relation to, the application for the issue or renewal
of the licence which is incorrect or false in material particulars, or(iii)the
applicant has contravened any provision of the Standards Act or of any State
Act or of this Act or of any rule or order made under the Standards Act, State
Act or this Act.(7)The Controller may require every repairer licensed under
this Act to furnish to the State Government security for such sum, not
exceeding two hundred rupees, as may be prescribed.(8)Nothing contained in
this section shall apply to the sale by a user (who is not a maker,
manufacturer, dealer or repairer) of any weight or measure:Provided that no
sale of any weight or measure of the prescribed description shall be made
except with the written permission of the Controller.(9)Every licence issued
or renewed under this Act shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the
premises where the licensee carries on his business.

### 20. Suspension and cancellation of licence

.-(1) The Controller may, if he has any reasonable cause to believe that the
holder of any licence issued, renewed or continued under this Act has made any
statement in, or in relation to, any application for the issue, renewal or
continuance of the licence, which is incorrect or false in any material
particular or has contravened any provision of the Standards Act or any State
Act or this Act or any rule or order made thereunder, suspend such licence,
pending the completion of any inquiry or trial against the holder of such
licence:Provided that no such licence shall be suspended unless the holder
thereof has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the
proposed action:Provided further that where the inquiry or trial referred to
in this sub-section is not completed within a period of three months from the
date of suspension of a licence, such suspension shall, on the expiry of the
period aforesaid, stand vacated.(2)The Controller may, if he is satisfied,
after making such inquiry as he may think fit, that the holder of a licence
has made a false or incorrect statement of the nature referred to in sub-
section (1), or has contravened any law or order referred to in that sub-
section, cancel such licence:Provided that no such licence shall be cancelled
unless the holder thereof has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing
cause against the proposed action.(3)Every person whose licence has been
suspended shall, immediately after such suspension, stop functioning as such
licensee and shall not resume business as such licensee until the order of
such suspension has been or stands, vacated.(4)Every licensee whose licence
has been suspended or cancelled shall, after such suspension or cancellation,
as the case may be, surrender such licence to the authority by which such
licence was issued.(5)Every licensee whose licence has been cancelled shall,
within a period of thirty days from the date of such cancellation, or within
such further period, not exceeding three months from such date, as the
Controller may, on sufficient cause being shown, allow, dispose of the weights
or measures which were in his possession, custody or control on the date of
such cancellation, and in the event of his failure to do so, the Controller or
any other officer authorised by him, in writing, in this behalf, may seize and
dispose of the same and distribute the proceeds thereof in such manner as may
be prescribed.

### 21. Manufacture of weights or measures.

\- Save as otherwise provided in the Standards Act, no person shall-(a)make or
manufacture any weight or measure unless such weight or measure conforms to
the standards established by or under the Standards Act;(b)make or manufacture
any weight or measure with indications thereon of any weights or measures in
accordance with unit other than the units of weight or measure specified by or
under the Standards Act.

### 22. Prohibition of sale or use of unstamped weights or measures

.-No weight or measure shall be sold, or offered, exposed or possessed for
sale, or used or kept for use in any transaction or for industrial production
or for protection unless it has been verified and stamped:Provided that
nothing in this section shall apply to any weight or measure which has been
initially verified and stamped with a special seal referred to in sub-section
(3) of section 41 of the Standards Act.

### 23. Manufacturer, etc., to maintain records and registers

.-(1) Every maker, manufacturer, repairer or dealer and every person using any
weight or measure in any transaction or for industrial production or for
protection shall maintain such records and registers as may be prescribed and,
if required so to do by an Inspector, shall produce such records and registers
before the Inspector for inspection.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (1), if the Controller is of opinion that having regard to the
nature or volume of the business carried on by any maker manufacturer, dealer,
repairer or user of any weight or measure, it is necessary so to do, he may,
by order, exempt such maker, manufacturer, dealer, repairer or user from the
operation of sub-section (1).

## Chapter VII  
Verification And Stamping Of Weights Or Measures

### 24. Verification and stamping of weights or measures

.-(1) Every person having any weight or measure in his possession, custody or
control in circumstances indicating that such weight or measure is being, or
is intended or likely to be, used by him in any transaction or for industrial
production or for protection, shall, before putting such weight or measure
into such use, have such weight or measure verified at such place and during
such hours as the Controller may, by general or special order, specify in this
behalf (hereinafter referred to as the specified place or specified time), on
payment of such fees as may be prescribed.(2)Every weight or measure referred
to in sub-section (1) shall be re-verified at such periodical intervals as may
be prescribed.Explanation .-For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared
that no periodical re-verification shall be necessary is relation to any
weight or measure which is used exclusively for domestic purposes.(3)Every
Inspector shall, for the purpose of verification of any weight or measure,
attend the specified place (with the local limits of his jurisdiction) at the
specified time and verify every weight or measure which is brought to him at
such place and within such time and shall, if he is satisfied that such weight
or measure conforms to the standards established by or under the Standards
Act, put his stamp thereon:Provided that where any weight or measure is such
that it cannot, or should not, be moved from its location, the Inspector shall
take such steps for the verification of such weight or measure at the place of
its location as may be prescribed.(4)Where any verification has been made
under sub-section (3), the Inspector shall grant to the person referred to in
sub-section (1) a certificate in the prescribed form indicating therein the
particulars of the weight or measure verified and stamped by him.(5)Where the
Controller is of opinion that by reason of the size or nature of any weight or
measure, it is not desirable or practicable to put a stamp thereon, he may, by
an order in writing, direct that instead of putting a stamp on such weight or
measure, a certificate may be issued to the effect that such weight or measure
conforms to the standards established by or under the Standards Act and every
weight or measure so certified shall be deemed to have been duly verified and
stamped under this Act on the date on which such certificate was
issued.(6)Every certificate referred to in sub-section (5) shall be in such
form as may be prescribed and shall contain such details as to enable a clear
identification of the weight or measure to which it relates.

### 25. Display of certificate of verification

.-Every certificate of verification granted under this Act shall be displayed
in a conspicuous place in the premises where such weight or measure is being,
or is intended or likely to be, used in any transaction or for industrial
production or for protection.

### 26. Validity of weights or measures duly stamped

.-(1) A weight or measure which is, or is deemed to be, duly verified and
stamped under this Act shall be deemed to conform to the standards established
by or under the Standards Act at every place within the State in which it is
stamped unless it is found on inspection or verification that such weight or
measure has ceased to conform to the standards established by or under the
Standards Act.(2)No weight or measure which is, or is deemed to be, duly
verified and stamped under this Act shall require to be re-stamped merely by
reason of the fact that it is being used at any place within the State other
than the place at which it was originally verified and stamped:Provided that
where a verified weight or measure, installed at one place, is dismantled and
re-installed at a different place, such weight or measure shall not be put
into use unless it has been duly re-verified and stamped, notwithstanding that
periodical re-verification of such weight or measure has not become
due.(3)Where a verified weight or measure has been repaired, whether by a
licensed repairer or by the person owning and possessing the same, such weight
or measure shall not be put into use unless it has been duly re-verified and
stamped, notwithstanding that periodical re-verification of such weight or
measure has not become due.

## Chapter VIII  
Inspection, Search, Seizure And Forfeiture

### 27. Power to inspect

.-(1) An Inspector may, within the local limits of his jurisdiction, inspect
and test, at all reasonable times, any weight or measure which-(i)is in the
possession, custody or control of any person, or(ii)is in or on any
premises,in such circumstances as to indicate that such weight or measure is
being, or is intended or likely to be, used in any transaction or for
industrial production or for protection, and may also verify whether such
weight or measure is in conformity with the standards established by or under
the Standards Act.(2)For the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of any
weight or measure use in any transaction, an Inspector may also test the
weight or measure of the article sold or delivered to any person in the course
of such transaction.

### 28. Power of Inspector to require production of weight or measure or
records for inspection

.-(1) An Inspector may, if he has any reasonable cause to believe that an
offence punishable under this Act has been, or is likely to be, committed in
respect of any weight or measure or that any weight or measure does not
conform to the standards established by or under the Standards Act, require,
at all reasonable times, the person having the custody or control of such
weight or measure to produce before him for inspection every such weight or
measure which-(i)is used by such person or is caused by such person to be used
by any other person, or(ii)is in the possession, custody or control of such
person for use, or(iii)is kept in or on any premises for use, in any
transaction or for industrial production or for protection.(2)The Inspector
may also require the production of every document or other record relating to
the weight or measure referred to in sub-section (1) and the person having the
custody of such weight or measure shall comply with such requisition.(3)On
inspection, whether under section 27 or under this section, the Inspector
shall obliterate the stamp on-(a)any weight or measure which, being due for
verification, has not been submitted for such verification;(b)any weight or
measure which, since the last verification and stamping, has been repaired or
re-adjusted, and does not, after such repair or re-adjustment, conform to the
standards established by or under the Standards Act;(c)any weight or measure
which does not admit of proper adjustment by reason of its being broken,
indented or otherwise defective;(d)any weight or measure other than those
specified in clause (b) or clause (c) which does not, or cannot be made to,
conform to the standards established by or under the Standards Act:Provided
that where the Inspector is of opinion that the defect or error in such weight
or measure is not such as to require immediate obliteration of the stamp, he
shall serve a notice on the user of such weight or measure informing him of
the defect or error found in the weight or measure and calling upon him to
remove the defect or error within such time, not exceeding eight days, as he
may specify, and shall-(i)if the user fails to remove the defect or error
within that period, obliterate the stamp, or(ii)if the defect or error is so
removed as to make the weight or measure conform to the standards established
by or under the Standards Act, verify such weight or measure and put his stamp
thereon.Explanation .-The obliteration of the stamp on any weight or measure
shall not take away or abridge the power of the Inspector to seize such weight
or measure in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

### 29. Power of Inspector to enter premises

.-An Inspector may, if he has any reason to believe, whether from any
information given to him by any person and taken down by him in writing or
from personal knowledge or otherwise, that an offence punishable under this
Act has been, or is likely to be, committed in relation to any weight, measure
or other goods which are sold, delivered or distributed by weight, measure or
number, enter, at all reasonable times, into any premises-(i)where such weight
or measure is-(a)made manufactured, repaired, or sold, or(b)used, or kept or
believed to be kept for use, in any transaction or for industrial production
or for protection;(ii)where such goods are manufactured, packed, distributed
or sold or kept or offered for sale in packaged form,and inspect or verify any
weight or measure or the net contents, by weight, measure or number, of any
package, and may also examine any document or other record relating thereto.

### 30. Power to search

.-(1) Where the Controller has reason to believe that any weight or measure,
liable to be seized under this Act, or any document or thing in relation to
any weight or measure, will be, in his opinion, useful for or relevant to, any
proceeding under this Act, is secreted in any place, he may search or
authorise any officer, not below the rank of an Inspector, to search for, and
seize, such weight or measure, document or thing, and the provisions of
sections 100 and 102 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974),
shall apply to every such search.(2)Every authorisation made by the Controller
under sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be a warrant referred to in section
93 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).

### 31. Power of Inspector to seize any weight or measure

.-(1) An Inspector may seize and detain any weight or measure in relation to
which an offence under this Act is being, or appears to have been, committed,
or which is intended or likely to be used in the commission of such offence,
and may also seize and detain any goods sold or delivered, or cause to be sold
or delivered, by such weight or measure:Provided that where any goods seized
under this sub-section are subject to speedy or natural decay, the Inspector
may dispose of such goods in such manner as may be prescribed.(2)Where any
weight, measure or any article is seized and detained under sub-section (1),
the Inspector may also seize and detain any document or other record relating
to such weight, measure or article.(3)The provisions of section 102 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), shall apply to every seizure
made under this section.

### 32. Forfeiture

.-Every false or unverified weight or measure (other than those referred to in
section 30 of the Standards Act) seized under the provisions of this Act shall
be liable to be forfeited to Government:Provided that such unverified weight
or measure shall not be forfeited to the Government if the person from whom
such weight or measure was seized gets the same verified and stamped within
such time as may be prescribed.

## Chapter IX  
Provisions With Regard To The Sale And Distribution Of Commodities In Packaged
Form Within The State

### 33. Provisions of the Standards Act and the rules made thereunder relating
to commodities in packaged form to apply to commodities in packaged form sold
or distributed within the State

.-(1) The provisions of the Standards Act and the rules made thereunder, as in
force immediately before the commencement of this Act, with regard to
commodities in packaged form shall, as far as may be, apply to every commodity
in packaged form which is distributed, sold, or kept, offered or exposed for
sale, in the State as if the provisions aforesaid were enacted by, or made
under, this Act subject to the modification that any reference therein to the
"Central Government", "Standards Act" and the "Director" shall be construed as
references respectively, to the "State Government", "this Act" and the
"Controller".(2)The State Government may make rules, not inconsistent with the
Standards Act or any rule made thereunder, to regulate the packaging of any
commodity intended to be sold or distributed, within the State, in packaged
form, or to regulate the sale or distribution, within the State, of any
commodity in packaged form.Explanation .-For the purposes of this section,
"commodity in packaged form" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the
Standards Act and shall include a pre-packed commodity.

## Chapter X  
Provisions With Regard To Any Custom Or Usage Relating To The Sale Of Any
Commodity, Whether By Quantity Or Number, And Sale Of Commodities By Heaps

### 34. Custom or usage requiring delivery of additional quantities to cease.

(1)Any custom, usage, practice or method of whatever nature which permits a
person to demand, receive, or cause to be demanded or received, any quantity
of article, thing or service in excess of, or less than, the quantity
specified by weight, measure or number in any contract or other agreement in
relation to the said article, thing or service, shall be void.(2)Where, in
relation to any commodity sold by number, there is a custom or usage of
delivering a fixed number of such commodity in addition to the number of
commodities paid for, such custom or usage shall, on and from the commencement
of this Act, cease.

### 35. Sale by heaps

.-(1) Where any commodity is sold by heaps, the approximate weight, measure or
number of the commodity contained in each heap shall be conspicuously
announced by the seller or his agent, if any, either by word of mouth or by a
written notice placed on each heap:Provided that no such announcement shall be
necessary in the case of a heap where the total price of the commodity
contained in such heap does not exceed two rupees.(2)Where, on weighment,
measurement or counting of any commodity sold by heap, it is found that the
weight, measure or number, determined by such weighment, measurement or
counting, is less than the approximate weight, measure or number announced by
the seller or his agent and the deficiency is more than five per cent of such
announced weight, measure or number, the seller shall be deemed to have used a
false weight or measure.

## Chapter XI  
Offences And Penalties

### 36. Penalty for manufacturing, etc., of non-standard weights or measures

.-Whoever-(a)makes or manufactures, or causes to be made or manufactured
(except where he is permitted under the Standards Act so to do), any weight or
measure in accordance with any standards other than the standards established
by or under the Standards Act, or(b)(i)sells or otherwise transfers, or causes
to be sold or otherwise transferred, or(ii)lets, or causes to be let, on
hire,any weight or measure which has been manufactured in accordance with any
standards other than the standards established by or under the Standards Act,
[shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than
three months but which may extend to one year, and, for the second or
subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than
six months, but which may extend to three years, and also with fine.]

### 37. Penalty for counterfeiting of seals, etc .-(1) Whoever-

(i)counterfeits any seal specified by or under this Act or the Standards Act,
or(ii)sells or otherwise disposes of any counterfeit seal, or(iii)possesses
any counterfeit seal, or(iv)counterfeits any stamp, specified by or under this
Act or the Standards Act or any rule made under either of those Acts,
or(v)removes any stamp made, whether under this Act or the Standards Act or
any rule made under either of those Acts, or tampers with any stamp so made,
or(vi)removes any stamp made, whether under this Act or the Standards Act or
any rule made under either of those Acts, and affixes the stamp so removed on,
or inserts the same into, any other weight or measure, or(vii)increases or
diminishes or alters in any way any weight or measure with a view to deceiving
any person or knowing or having reason to believe that any person is likely to
be deceived thereby,[shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which
shall not be less than six months but which may extend to two years, and, for
the second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which shall not
be less than one year but which may extend to five years and also with
fine.](2)Whoever obtains, by unlawful means, possession of any seal specified
by or under this Act or the Standards Act and uses, or causes to be used, any
such seal for making any stamp on any weight or measure with a view to
representing that the stamp made by such seal is authorised by or under this
Act or the Standards Act, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which
shall not be less than six months but which may extend to two years, and, for
the second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which shall not
be less than one year but which may extend to five years and also with
fine.(3)Whoever, being in lawful possession of a seal specified by or under
this Act or the Standards Act uses, or causes to be used, such seal without
any lawful authority for such use, [shall be punished with imprisonment for a
term which shall not be less than six months but which may extend to two
years, and, for the second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term
which shall not be less than one year but which may extend to five years and
also with fine.] [Substituted by Act 72 of 1986, Section 3, for certain words
(w.e.f. 1-7-1987). ](4)Whoever sells, or offers or exposes for sale or
otherwise disposes of any weight or measure which, he knows or has reason to
believe, bears thereon a counterfeit stamp, [shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months but which may
extend to two years, and, for the second or subsequent offence, with
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may
extend to five years and also with fine.] [Substituted by Act 72 of 1986,
Section 3, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-7-1987). ]

### 38. Penalty for sale or delivery of commodities, etc., by non-standard
weight or measure .-(1) Except where he is permitted under the Standards Act
so to do, whoever sells, or causes to be sold, delivers, or causes to be
delivered, any commodity, article or thing by any weight, measure or number
other than the standard weight or measure, [shall be punished with fine which
shall not be less than five hundred rupees but which may extend to two
thousand rupees, and, for the second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment
for a term which shall not be less than three months but which may extend to
one year and also with fine.]

(2)Whoever renders, or causes to be rendered, any service in terms of any
weight, measure or number other than the standard weight or measure, [shall be
punished with fine which shall not be less than five hundred rupees but which
may extend to two thousand rupees, and, for the second or subsequent offence,
with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three months but
which may extend to one year and also with fine.] [Substituted by Act 72 of
1986, Section 4, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-7-1987). ]

### 39. Penalty for keeping non-standard weights or measures for use and for
other contraventions .-(1) Whoever keeps any weight or measure other than the
standard weight or measure in any premises in such circumstances as to
indicate that such weight or measure is being, or is likely to be, used for
any-

(a)weighment or measurement, or(b)transaction or for industrial production or
for protection,shall be punished with fine which may extend to two thousand
rupees, and, for the second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to one year and also with fine.(2)Whoever,-(i)in selling
any article or thing by weight, measure or number, delivers or causes to be
delivered to the purchaser any quantity or number of that article or thing
less than the quantity or number contracted for and paid for, or(ii)in
rendering any service by weight, measure or number, renders that service less
than the service contracted for and paid for, or(iii)in buying any article or
thing by weight, measure or number, fraudulently receives, or causes to be
received any quantity or number of that article or thing in excess of the
quantity or number contracted for and paid for, or(iv)in obtaining any service
by weight, measure or number, obtains that service in excess of the service
contracted for and paid for,shall be punished with fine which may extend to
five thousand rupees, and, for the second or subsequent offence, with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and also with
fine.(3)Whoever enters, after the commencement of this Act, into any contract
or other agreement (not being a contract or other agreement for export) in
which any weight, measure or number is expressed in terms of any standard
other than the standard weight or measure, shall be punished with fine which
may extend to two thousand rupees, and, for the second or subsequent offence,
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and also with fine.

### 40. Penalty for contravention of section 10

.-Whoever, in relation to any specified class of goods, services, undertakings
or users of weights or measures, uses in any transaction or for industrial
production or for protection, any weight, measure or number, other than the
weight, measure or number specified by rules made under section 10, shall be
punished with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, and, for the
second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
one year and also with fine.

### 41. Penalty for contravention of section 11

.-Except where he is permitted under the Standards Act so to do, whoever, in
relation to any goods or things which are sold, transferred, distributed or
delivered, or any service rendered,-(a)quotes any price or charge, or makes
any announcement with regard to the price or charge, or(b)issues or exhibits
any price list, invoice, cash memo, or other document, or(c)mentions any
weight or measure in any advertisement, poster or other document,
or(d)indicates the weight, measure or number of the net contents of any
package or on any label, carton or other thing, or(e)expresses, in relation to
any transaction, industrial production or protection, any quantity or
dimension,otherwise than in accordance with the standard weight or measure,
shall be punished with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, and, for
the second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one year and also with fine.

### 42. Penalty for contravention of section 19

.-Whoever, being required to obtain a licence under this Act, makes,
manufactures, repairs or sells or offers, exposes or possesses for repair or
sale, any weight or measure, without being in possession of a valid licence
empowering him to do so, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees,
or with both, and, for the second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for
a term which may extend to three years and also with fine.

### 43. Penalty for contravention of section 20

.-A licensee who after the suspension or cancellation of the licence issued to
him or renewed or continued under this Act, omits or fails to stop functioning
as a licensee under this Act, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to one year.

### 44. Penalty for contravention of section 21

.-Except where he is permitted under the Standards Act so to do, whoever makes
or manufactures any weight or measure which,-(a)though ostensibly purports to
conform to the standards established by or under that Act, does not actually
conform to the said standards, or(b)bears thereon any indication of weight or
measure which is not in conformity with the standards of weight or measure
established by or under that Act, whether such indication is or is not in
addition to the indication of weight or measure in accordance with the said
standards,shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
one year, or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with both,
and, for the second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to three years and also with fine.

### 45. Penalty for contravention of section 22

.-Whoever-(a)sells, offers, exposes or possesses for sale, any weight or
measure which has not been verified and stamped under this Act, or(b)uses, or
keeps for use, any weight or measure which, being required to be verified and
stamped under this Act, has not been so verified and stamped, shall be
punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with
fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both, and, for the
second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
one year and also with fine:Provided that nothing in clause (b) shall apply,
in relation to any weight or measure which is used for domestic purposes.

### 46. Penalty for contravention of section 23

.-Whoever, being required by section 23 to maintain any record or register,
omits or fails to do so, or being required by an Inspector to produce any
records or registers for his inspection, omits or fails to do so, shall be
punished with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, and, for the
second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
one year and also with fine.

### 47. Penalty for contravention of section 24

.-Whoever, being required by section 24 to present any weight or measure for
verification or re-verification, omits or fails, without any reasonable cause
to do so, shall be punished with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees,
and, for the second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to one year and also with fine.

### 48. Penalty for contravention of section 28

.-Whoever, being required by an Inspector, or any person authorised by or
under this Act to exercise the powers of an Inspector, to produce before him
for inspection any weight or measure or any document or other record relating
thereto, omits or fails, without any reasonable cause, to do so, shall be
punished with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, and, for the
second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
one year and also with fine.

### 49. Penalty for contravention of section 29

.-Whoever obstructs the entry of an Inspector, or any person authorised by or
under this Act to exercise the powers of an Inspector, into any premises for
the inspection and verification of any weight or measure or any document or
other record relating thereto or the net contents of any packaged commodity or
for any other prescribed purpose, shall be punished with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to two years, and, for the second or subsequent offence,
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years.

### 50. Penalty for contravention of sections 30 and 31

.-Whoever prevents the Controller or any officer authorised by the Controller
in this behalf, from searching any premises or prevents an Inspector from
making any seizure of any weight, measure, packaged commodity, goods,
document, record or label, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to two years, and, for the second or subsequent offence, with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and also with fine.

### 51. Penalty for contravention of section 33

.-(1) Whoever manufactures, distributes, packs, sells or keeps for sale or
offers or exposes for sale, or has in his possession for sale, any commodity
in packaged form, shall, unless each such package conforms to the provisions
of the Standards Act and the rules made thereunder, read with section 33, be
punished with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, and, for the
second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
five years and also with fine.(2)Whoever manufactures, packs, distributes or
sells, or causes to be manufactured, packed, distributed or sold, any
commodity in packaged form, knowing or having reason to believe that the
commodity contained in such package is lesser in weight, measure or number
than the weight, measure or number, as the case may be, stated on the package
or label thereon, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to three thousand rupees,
or with both, and, for the second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for
a term which may extend to five years and also with fine.Explanation .-In
determining, for the purpose of this sub-section, whether the quantity
contained in a package is lesser than the quantity declared on the package or
label thereon, the maximum permissible error specified under the Standards Act
in relation to the commodity contained in such package, shall be taken into
account.

### 52. Penalty for contravention of section 35

.-Whoever sells any commodity by heaps without complying with the provisions
of section 35, shall be punished with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees, and, for the second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one
thousand rupees, or with both.

### 53. Penalty for tampering with licence

.-Whoever alters or otherwise tampers with any licence issued or renewed under
this Act or any rule made thereunder, otherwise than in accordance with any
authorisation made by the Controller in this behalf, shall be punished with
fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to one year, or with both.

### 54. Penalty for selling or delivering rejected weights and measures

.-Whoever sells, delivers or disposes of, or causes to be sold, delivered or
disposed of, any weight or measure which has been rejected on verification
under this Act or the Standards Act, or any rule made under either of the said
Act, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one
year, or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with
both:Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to the sale, as scrap,
or any rejected weight or measure which has been defaced in the prescribed
manner.

### 55. Penalty for personation of officials

.-Whoever personates in any way the Controller, Additional Controller or an
Inspector or any other officer authorised by the Controller, shall be punished
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years.

### 56. Penalty for giving false information or maintaining false records or
registers

.-(1) Whoever gives information to a Controller, Additional Controller or an
Inspector or any other officer authorised by the Controller, which he may
require or ask for in the course of his duty and which such person either
knows or has reason to believe to be false or does not believe to be true,
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months,
or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.(2)Whoever,
being required by or under this Act so to do, submits a return or maintains
any record or register which is false in any material particular, shall be
punished with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, and, for the
second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
one year and also with fine.

### 57. Wilful verification or disclosure in contravention of law

.-(1) If any Inspector or any other officer exercising powers under this Act
or any rule made thereunder wilfully verifies or stamps any weight or measure
in contravention of the provisions of this Act or of any rule made thereunder,
he shall, for every such offence, be punished with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to two thousand
rupees, or with both.(2)If any Inspector or other officer who enters into any
premises in the course of his duty wilfully discloses, except in the
performance of such duty, to any person any information obtained by him from
such premises with regard to any trade secret or any secret in relation to any
manufacturing process, he shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees,
or with both.

### 58. Vexatious search

.-An Inspector or any other officer exercising powers under this Act or any
rule or order made thereunder who knows that there are no reasonable grounds
for so doing and yet-(a)searches, or causes to be searched, any house,
conveyance or place, or(b)searches any person, or(c)seizes any weight, measure
or other movable property,shall, for every such offence, be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine which may
extend to two thousand rupees, or with both.

### 59. Penalty for contraventions not separately provided for

.-Whoever contravenes any provision of this Act for the contravention of which
no punishment has been separately provided for in this Act, shall be punished
with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees.

### 60. Presumption to be made in certain cases

.-(1) If any person-(a)makes or manufactures, or causes to be made or
manufactured, any false weight or measure, or(b)uses, or causes to be used,
any false or unverified weight or measure in any transaction or for industrial
production or for protection, or(c)sells, distributes, delivers or otherwise
transfers, or causes to be sold, distributed, delivered or otherwise
transferred, any false or unverified weight or measure,it shall be presumed,
until the contrary is proved, that he had done so with the knowledge that the
weight or measure was a false or unverified weight or measure, as the case may
be.(2)If any person has in his possession, custody or control any false or
unverified weight or measure in such circumstances as to indicate that such
weight or measure is likely to be used in any transaction or for industrial
production or for protection, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is
proved, that such false or unverified weight or measure was possessed, held or
controlled by such person with the intention of using the same in any
transaction or for industrial production or for protection.

### 61. When employer to be deemed to have abetted an offence

.-(1) Any employer, who knows or has reason to believe that any person
employed by him has, in the course of such employment, contravened any
provision of this Act or any rule made thereunder, shall be deemed to have
abetted an offence against this Act:Provided that no such abetment shall be
deemed to have taken place if such employer has, before the expiry of seven
days from the date on which-(a)he comes to know of the contravention, or(b)he
has reason to believe that such contravention has been made,intimated, in
writing, to the Controller the name of the person by whom such contravention
was made and the date and other particulars of such contravention.(2)Whoever
is deemed under sub-section (1) to have abetted an offence against this Act
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year,
or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with both, and, for
the second or subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to five years and also with fine.Explanation .-Dismissal or termination
of service of an employee after the expiry of the period specified in the
proviso to sub-section (1) shall not absolve any employer of his liability
under this sub-section.

### 62. Offences by companies

.-(1) If the person committing an offence under this Act is a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any person liable to punishment if
he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge, or that he had
exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to, any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation. -For the
purposes of this section,-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a
firm or other association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a
firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 63. Cognizance of offences

.-Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974),-(a)[ no Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable
under this Act except upon a complaint, in writing, made by-(i)the
Controller;(ii)any other officer authorised in this behalf by the Controller
by general or special order;(iii)any person aggrieved; or(iv)a recognised
consumer association whether the person aggrieved is a member of such
association or not.Explanation .-For the purposes of this clause "recognised
consumer association" means a voluntary consumer association registered under
the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or any other law for the time being in
force;](b)no Court inferior to that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial
Magistrate of the first class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.

### 64. Summary trial of certain offences .-Notwithstanding anything contained
in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), an offence punishable
under section 36, section 38, section 39, section 40, section 41, section 42,
section 45, section 51, section 52 or sub-section (3) of section 72 may be
tried summarily.

### 65. Compounding of offences

.-(1) Any offence punishable under section 39, section 40, section 41, section
42, section 44, section 45, section 46, section 47, section 48, section 51,
section 52, section 54 or section 59 or any rule made under sub-section (3) of
section 72, may either before or after the institution of the prosecution, be
compounded, by the Controller or such other officer as may be authorised in
this behalf by the Controller, on payment, for credit to the State Government,
of such sum as the Controller or such other officer may specify:Provided that
such sum shall not, in any case, exceed the maximum amount of the fine which
may be imposed under this Act for the offence so compounded.(2)Nothing
contained in sub-section (1) shall apply to a person who commits the same or
similar offence within a period of three years from the date on which the
first offence, committed by him, was compounded.Explanation .-For the purpose
of this sub-section, any second or subsequent offence committed after the
expiry of a period of three years from the date on which the offence was
previously compounded, shall be deemed to be a first offence.(3)Where an
offence has been compounded under sub-section (1), no proceeding or further
proceeding, as the case may be, shall be taken against the offender, in
respect of the offence so compounded, and the offender, if in custody, shall
be discharged forthwith.(4)No offence punishable under this Act shall be
compounded except as provided by this section.

### 66. Provisions of Indian Penal Code not to apply to any offence under this
Act

.-The provisions of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), in so far as such
provisions relate to offences with regard to weights or measures, shall not
apply to any offence which is punishable under this Act.

## Chapter XII  
Miscellaneous

### 67. Transfer or transmission of business

.-(1) Where the business of a person licensed under this Act is transmitted by
succession, intestate or testamentary, the heir or legatee, as the case may
be, of such person shall not carry on the business of such licensee either in
his own name or in any other name, unless the heir or legatee has, before the
expiry of sixty days after the date of such transmission, made to the
Controller an application for the issue of a licence in accordance with the
provisions of this Act:Provided that nothing in this section shall be deemed
to prohibit the heir or legatee from carrying on business as such licensee for
the aforesaid period of sixty days, and, if he has applied for such licence,
until he is granted the licence or is, by a notice in writing informed by the
Controller that such licence cannot be granted to him.(2)Where the business of
any person licensed under this Act is transferred by sale, gift, lease or
otherwise, the transferee or lessee, as the case may be, shall not carry on
such business either in his own name or in any other name unless he has
obtained a licence to carry on such business.

### 68. Licences neither saleable nor transferable

.-A licence issued or renewed under this Act shall not be saleable or
otherwise transferable.

### 69. Appeals

.-(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), an appeal shall
lie-(a)from every decision given or order made under Chapter V, Chapter VI,
Chapter VII, Chapter VIII, Chapter IX or Chapter X of this Act, by-(i)an
Inspector, or(ii)an Additional Controller, to the Controller; and(b)from every
decision given or order made by the Controller under Chapter V, Chapter VI,
Chapter VII, Chapter VIII, Chapter IX or Chapter X of this Act, not being a
decision made in appeal under clause (a), to the State Government or any
officer specially authorised in this behalf by that Government.(2)Every such
appeal shall be preferred within sixty days from the date of the decision or
order appealed against:Provided that the appellate authority may, if it is
satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from preferring
the appeal within the said period of sixty days, permit the appellant to
prefer the appeal within a further period of sixty days.(3)On receipt of any
such appeal, the appellate authority shall, after giving the parties to the
appeal, a reasonable opportunity of being heard and after making such inquiry
as it deems proper, make such order, as it may think fit, confirming,
modifying or reversing the decision or order appealed against, or may send
back the case with such direction as it may think fit for a fresh decision or
order after taking additional evidence, if necessary.(4)Every appeal shall be
preferred on payment of such fees as may be prescribed.(5)The State Government
may, on its own motion or otherwise, call for and examine the record of any
proceeding (including a proceeding in appeal) in which any decision or order
has been made, for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the correctness,
legality or propriety of such decision or order and may pass such orders
thereon as it may think fit:Provided that no decision or order shall be varied
under this sub-section so as to prejudicially affect any person unless such
person has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the
proposed action.

### 70. Levy of fees

.-The State Government may, by rules made under section 72, levy such fees,
not exceeding-(a)five hundred rupees, for the application for the issue or
renewal of a licence for making or manufacturing of any weight or
measure,(b)one hundred rupees, for the issue of a licence for repairing or
selling of any weight or measure,(c)fifty rupees, for the alteration of any
licence,(d)five thousand rupees, on a graded scale, for the verification of
any weight or measure, having regard to the time and labour which may be
involved in making such verification,(e)ten rupees, for the adjustment of any
weight or measure,(f)ten rupees, for the issue of a duplicate licence or
certificate of verification,(g)one rupee, for every one hundred words or less,
for the grant of copies of any document, not being a document of a
confidential nature,(h)twenty-five rupees, for any appeal preferred under this
Act,(i)five rupees, for application for registration or renewal of
registration under section 17.

### 71. Delegation of powers

.-(1) The State Government may, by notification, direct that any power
exercisable by it under this Act or rule made thereunder, not being a power
conferred by section 69 (relating to appeal) or section 70 (power to lay down
scale of fee) or section 72 (power to make rules), in relation to such matters
and subject to such conditions as may be specified, may be exercised also by
such officer subordinate to it as may be specified in the
notification.(2)Subject to any general or special direction or condition
imposed by the State Government, any person authorised by the State Government
to exercise any powers may exercise those powers in the same manner and to the
same extent as if they had been conferred on that person directly by this Act
and not by way of delegation.

### 72. Power to make rules

.-(1) The State Government may, by notification and after consultation with
the Central Government, make rules to carry out the provisions of this
Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the class of goods, services, undertakings or users in relation to
which no transaction, dealing or contract, or industrial production or use for
protection shall be made or had or undertaken except by such weight, measure
or number as required by section 10;(b)the places at which, and the custody in
which, the following standards shall be kept, namely:-(i)reference
standards,(ii)secondary standards,(iii)working standards, as required by
section 12 and sub-section (5) of section 14;(c)the form and details of
particulars for identification of weight or measure referred to in sub-section
(2) of section 15;(d)the time within which an application referred to in sub-
section (1) of section 17 shall be made, the particulars which such
application shall contain and the form and manner in which such application
shall be made;(e)the form and manner in which the register referred to in sub-
section (2) of section 17 shall be maintained;(f)the form and manner in which
an application shall be made under sub-section (3) of section 17;(g)the form
in which an application shall be made for the issue or renewal of a licence to
carry on business as a maker, manufacturer, repairer or dealer of any weight
or measure, as required by sub-section (4) of section 19;(h)the form in which
and the conditions, limitations and restrictions subject to which any licence
may be issued and the period of validity of such licence, as required by sub-
section (2) of section 19;(i)the sum to be furnished by a repairer as security
as required by sub-section (7) of section 19;(j)the description of weight or
measure which may not be sold by a user except with the written permission of
the Controller as required by sub-section (8) of section 19;(k)the manner of
disposal of weights or measures after cancellation of licence and the
distribution of proceeds thereof as required by sub-section (5) of section
20;(l)the records and registers relating to weights or measures to be
maintained in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section
23;(m)the period within which weights or measures shall be verified or re-
verified as required by sub-section (2) of section 24;(n)the steps to be taken
for verifying any weight or measure which cannot, or should not, be moved from
its location, as required by the proviso to sub-section (3) of section
24;(o)the form in which a certificate of verification of any weight or measure
shall be granted as required by sub-section (4) of section 24 and the form in
which the certificate referred to in sub-section (5) of section 24 shall be
issued and the details which such certificate shall contain, as required by
sub-section (6) of section 24;(p)the manner of disposal of seized articles
which are subject to speedy or natural decay, as required by the proviso to
sub-section (1) of section 31;(q)the time within which an unverified weight or
measure seized under this Act may be permitted under the proviso to section 32
to be verified and stamped;(r)the manner in which, and the conditions,
restrictions and limitations subject to which,-(i)any commodity intended to be
sold or distributed, within the State, shall be packaged, or(ii)the sale or
distribution of any commodity in packaged form shall be made within the
State,as required by sub-section (2) of section 33;(s)the manner of
obliteration of stamps on rejected weights or measures, as required by the
proviso to section 54;(t)the form in which appeals may be preferred under
section 69 and the procedure for the hearing of appeals;(u)the amount of fees
which may be levied and collected for each of the matters specified in section
70;(v)any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)In
making any rule under this section, the State Government may provide that a
breach thereof shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees.(4)The power to make rules under this section shall be subject to the
condition of the rule being made after previous publication in the Official
Gazette.(5)Every rule made under this section shall, as soon as may be after
it is made, be laid before each House of the State Legislature where there are
two Houses, and where there is one House of the State Legislature, before that
House.

### 73. Power of State Government to make provisions of the Standards Act
relating to approval of models applicable to models of weights or measures
intended to be used exclusively within the State

.-(1) Where any type of weight or measure manufactured by a licensed
manufacturer is such that all the weights or measures of that type
manufactured by him within the State is intended to be sold, distributed or
delivered therein, the State Government may, by notification, direct that the
model of every such type of weight or measure shall be submitted for approval
in accordance with the provisions of sections 36, 37 and 38 of the Standards
Act, and thereupon, the provisions of the said sections 36, 37 and 38 shall
become applicable to such model, and references in those sections to the
Central Government and to the Standards Act shall be construed as references,
respectively, to the State Government and this Act.(2)Where the State
Government makes a direction under sub-section (1) in relation to any type of
weight or measure, any contravention of the provisions of section 39, section
40 or section 41 of the Standards Act in relation to that type of weight or
measure shall be an offence punishable under this Act and the punishment
provided therefore in the Standards Act shall be deemed to be the punishment
provided therefor in this Act as if the said provisions relating to
punishments were enacted by this Act.

### 74. Act not to apply in certain cases

.-The provisions of this Act, in so far as they relate to the verification and
stamping of weight and measures, shall not apply to any weight or
measure,-(a)used in any factory exclusively engaged in the manufacture of any
arms, or ammunition, or both, for the use of the Armed Forces of the
Union;(b)used for scientific investigation or for research;(c)manufactured
exclusively for export.

### 75. Repeal and savings

.-(1) On the commencement of any provisions of this Act in a State, the
corresponding provision of any law in force for the time being in that State
shall stand repealed, and on such repeal, the provisions of section 6 of the
General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), shall apply as if the provisions so
repealed were the provisions of a Central Act.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal,
any appointment, notification, rule, order, registration, licence,
certificate, notice, decision, approval, authorisation or consent made, issued
or given under such law shall, if in force at the commencement of this Act,
continue to be in force and have effect as if it were made, issued or given
under the corresponding provisions of this Act.

