## Union of India - Act

## The Special Protection Group Act, 1988

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Special Protection Group Act, 1988

## Act 34 of 1988

  * Published in Gazette 34 on 2 June 1988 
  * Assented to on 2 June 1988 
  * Commenced on 2 June 1988 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 December 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Special Protection Group (Amendment) Act, 2003 (Act 20 of 2003) on 1 January 2003] 
  2. [Amended by THE SPECIAL PROTECTION GROUP (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2019 (Act 43 of 2019) on 9 December 2019] 

The Special Protection Group Act, 1988(34 of 1988)Last Updated 10th December,
2019Amendment Act 20 of 2003-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Special
Protection Group Act, 1988 (SP G Act) was enacted, inter alia, for providing
proximate security to the Prime Minister and his immediate family members.2\.
The aforesaid Act was amended by the Special Protection Group (Amendment) Act,
1991 so as to provide proximate security by the Special Protection Group (SPG)
to former Prime Ministers and the members of their immediate families for a
period of five years from the date on which the former Prime Minister ceased
to hold the office of the Prime Minister. It also provided that any former
Prime Minister or any member of the immediate family of the Prime Minister or
of the former Prime Minister might decline such proximate security.3\. The SPG
Act was further amended in 1995 to extend the protection of the Special
Protection Group to former Prime Ministers and members of their immediate
families for a period of ten years instead of five years.4\. The SPG Act was
again amended in 1999 to provide proximate security to any former Prime
Minister or to any member of the immediate family of such former Prime
Minister even beyond the period of ten years, where the level of threat
justified such security. However, if the level of threat justified
continuation of Special Protection Group's security or alternative security,
the same was to be provided by the Government. It was further provided that
where the proximate security was withdrawn from a former Prime Minister, such
security shall also stand withdrawn from members of the immediate family of
such former Prime Minister.5\. The Central Government has considered the
matter further. In view of the manpower constraints being faced by the SPG and
the financial burden being borne by the Government on providing such security,
it is considered that proximate security to be provided to the former Prime
Ministers and their spouses should be made available for a period of one year
from the date on which the former Prime Minister ceases to hold office and
beyond one year as decided by the Central Government, so however that not more
than twelve months shall elapse between two consecutive assessments made in
this regard. The proximate security to members of the immediate family of a
former Prime Minister is proposed to be restricted to a period of three months
from the date on which he ceases to hold office, but may be continued subject
to review by the Central Government on a case to case basis. It has also been
decided that a former Prime Minister and his spouse shall be provided
proximate security, on their visits abroad, based on entitlement to proximate
security and the level of threat as assessed by the Central Government.6\. It
is proposed to further amend the Special Protection Group Act, 1988,
accordingly.An Act to provide for the constitution and regulation of an armed
force of the Union for providing proximate security to the Prime Minister of
India and the [former Prime Ministers of India and members of his immediate
family] [Substituted by Act 48 of 1991, Section 2, for "members of his
immediate family" (w.e.f. 25.9.1991).] and for matters connected therewith.Be
it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:{||-|Received the assent of the President on 2.6.1988 and published in
the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt.II, Section 1, dated 2.6.1988.Enforced on
1.8.1988.|}

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called The Special Protection Group Act , 1988.(2)It shall
come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)active duty in
relation to a member of the Group means any duty as such member during the
period when he is posted to physically protect the Prime Minister of India and
the members of [his immediate family or a former Prime Minister and the
members of his immediate family,] [Substituted by Act 48 of 1991, Section 3,
for "his immediate family" (w.e.f. 25.9.1991).] wherever he or they may
be;(b)Director means the Director of the Group appointed under sub-section (1)
of section 5;(c)Group means the Special Protection Group constituted under
section 4;(d)member of the Group means a person who has been appointed to the
Group by the prescribed authority whether before or after the commencement of
this Act;(e)members of immediate family means wife, husband, children and
parents;(f)prescribed means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(g)Proximate security means protection provided from close quarters,
during journey by road, rail, aircraft, watercraft or on foot or any other
means of transport and shall include the places of functions, engagements,
residence or halt and shall comprise ring round teams, isolation cordons, the
sterile zone around, and the rostrum and access control to the person or
members of his immediate family;(h)all words and expressions used and not
defined in this Act but defined in the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), shall
have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Code.

### 3. Members subject to this Act.

\- Every member of the Group shall be subject to this Act, wherever he may be.

### 4. Constitution of the Group.

\- [(1) There shall be an armed force of the Union called the Special
Protection Group for providing proximate security to, -(a)the Prime Minister
and members of his immediate family residing with him at his official
residence; and(b)any former Prime Minister and such members of his immediate
family as are residing with him at the residence alloted to him, for a period
of five years from the date he ceases to hold the office of Prime
Minister.][(1-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1),(a)any
former Prime Minister or any member of the immediate family of the Prime
Minister or of a former Prime Minister may decline proximate security;(b)[
where the proximate security is withdrawn from a former Prime Minister, such
proximate security shall also stand withdrawn from members of immediate family
of such former Prime Minister.]](2)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
Group shall be constituted in such manner as may be prescribed and the terms
and conditions of service of the members of the Group shall be such as may be
prescribed.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, any person
or any member of any other armed force of the Union may be appointed to the
Group by the Central Government by a general or special order and for such
period as may be specified in such order and the person so appointed shall,
during the period of his appointment, be deemed to be a member of the Group
and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be, apply to such person
or member.

### 5. Control, direction, etc.

(1)The general superintendence, direction and control of the Group shall vest
in, and be exercised by, the Central Government and subject thereto and to the
provisions of this Act and the rules, the command and supervision of the Group
shall vest in an officer to be appointed by the Central Government as the
Director of the Group.(2)The Director shall, in the discharge of his duties
under this Act, be assisted by such number of [Inspectors General, Deputy
Inspectors General, Assistant Inspectors General] [Substituted by Act 20 of
2003, Section 3, for certain words (w.e.f. 13.3.2003).] and other officers as
may be appointed by the Central Government.

### 6. Liability for service in and outside India.

\- Every member of the Group shall be liable to service in any part of India
as well as outside India.

### 7. Members of the Group always on active duty.

\- Every member of the Group, not on leave or under suspension, shall, for all
purposes of this Act, be always on active duty and may at any time be employed
or deployed in any manner which is consistent with the duties and
responsibilities of the Group under this Act.

### 8. Resignation and withdrawal from the post.

\- No member of the Group shall be at liberty,(a)to resign his appointment
during the term of his engagement; or(b)to withdraw himself from all or any of
the duties of his appointment,except with the previous permission in writing
of the prescribed authority.

### 9. Tenure of service.

\- Every member of the Group shall hold office during the pleasure of the
President.

### 10. Restrictions respecting right to form associations, freedom of speech,
etc.

(1)No member of the Group shall, without the previous sanction in writing of
the Central Government or of the prescribed authority,(a)be a member of, or be
associated in any way with, any trade union, labour union, political
association or with any class of trade unions, labour unions or political
associations; or(b)be a member of, or be associated in any way with, any
society, institution, association or organisation that is not of a purely
social, recreational or religious nature; or(c)communicate with the press or
publish or cause to be published any book, letter or other document except
where such communication or publication is in the bona fide discharge of his
duties or is of a purely literary, artistic or scientific character or is of a
prescribed nature.Explanation. If any question arises as to whether any
society, institution, association or organisation is of a purely social,
recreational or religious nature under clause (b) or whether any book, letter
or document is a communication or publication in the bona fide discharge of
his duties or is of a purely literary, artistic or scientific character or is
of a prescribed nature under clause (c), the decision of the Central
Government thereon shall be final.(2)No member of the Group shall participate
in, or address, any meeting or take part in any demonstration organised by any
body of persons for any political purposes or for such other purposes as may
be prescribed.

### 11. Termination of service.

\- The prescribed authority may, by order in writing, terminate the
appointment of any member of the Group in the public interest and such
termination shall be deemed to be discharge simpliciter and shall not amount
to dismissal or removal.

### 12. Appeal.

(1)Any member of the Group aggrieved by an order under section 11 may, within
thirty days from the date of such order, prefer an appeal to a Board to be
constituted by the Central Government.(2)The Board shall consist of such
persons as may be prescribed.(3)The decision of the Board shall be final and
shall not be called in question in any Court or tribunal.(4)The Board shall
have power to regulate its own procedure.

### 13. Powers and duties conferrable on members of the Group.

\- The Central Government may, by general or special order published in the
Official Gazette, direct that, subject to such conditions and limitations as
may be specified in that order, any member of the Group may exercise or
discharge such powers or duties as may be specified in the said order for
giving effect to the provisions of this Act.

### 14. Assistance to Group.

\- It shall be the duty of every Ministry and Department of the Central
Government or the State Government or the Union Territory Administration,
every Indian Mission, every local or other authority or every civil or
military authority to act in aid of the Director or any member of the Group
whenever called upon to do so in furtherance of the duties and
responsibilities assigned to such Director or member.

### 15. Protection of action taken under this Act.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Group
or any member thereof on whom powers have been conferred or duties have been
imposed under this Act, or any order issued or any rule made thereunder for
anything which is in good faith done or purported to be done or omitted to be
done in pursuance of this Act or any order issued or any rule made thereunder
or any order issued under any such rule.

### 16. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely:(a)the manner in which the Group
shall be constituted and the terms and conditions of service of its members
under sub-section (2) of section 4;(b)the authorities to be prescribed under
section 8, sub-section (1) of section 10 and section 11;(c)the nature of the
communication or publication under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section
10;(d)the purposes, other than political purposes, for which a person subject
to this Act shall not participate in, or address, any meeting or take part in
any demonstration under sub-section (2) of section 10;(e)the persons who shall
be members of the Board under sub-section (2) of section 12;(f)any other
matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed.

### 17. Laying of orders and rules.

\- Every order issued under section 13 and every rule made under section 16
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is issued or made, before each House
of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the order or the rule or both Houses agree that the order or rule should not
be made, the order or rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified
form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that order or rule.

### 18. Provision as to existing Special Protection Group.

(1)The Special Protection Group in existence at the commencement of this Act
shall be deemed to the Group constituted under this Act.(2)The member of the
Special Protection Group in existence at the commencement of this Act shall be
deemed to have been appointed as such under this Act.(3)Anything done or any
action taken before the commencement of this Act in relation to the
constitution of the Special Protection Group referred to in sub-section (1)
and in relation to any person appointed, shall be as valid and as effective in
law as if such thing or action was done or taken under this Act.[Substituted
by Act no. 35 of 1999, Section 2 (w.r.e.f. 18.11.1999).][Substituted by Act
No. 43 of 2019, dated 9.12.2019]

