## Union of India - Act

## The State Mental Health Rules, 1990

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The State Mental Health Rules, 1990

## Rule THE-STATE-MENTAL-HEALTH-RULES-1990 of 1990

  * Published on 29 December 1990 
  * Commenced on 29 December 1990 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 December 1990.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The State Mental Health Rules, 1990Published vide Notification G.S.R. 1005(E),
dated 29.12.1990, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2,
Section 3(i), dated 29.12.1990.

### 15.

/736G.S.R. 1005(E), dated 29th December, 1990. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 94 of the Mental Health
Act, 1987 (14 of 1987), read with section 22 of the General Clauses Act, 1897
(10 of 1897), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules,
namely:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called The State
Mental Health Rules, 1990.

(2)They shall come into force in a State on the date of commencement of the
Act in the State.

### 2. Definitions .-In these rules unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"Act" means the Mental Health Act, 1987 (14 of 1987);(b)"applicant" means
the person who makes an application to the licensing authority for grant of a
licence;(c)"Authority" means the State Mental Health Authority constituted
under section 4 of the Act;(d)"Chairman" means the Chairman nominated under
rule 5;(e)"Form" means Form annexed to these rules;(f)"licence" means licence
granted under section 8 of the Act;(g)"member" means a member of the Authority
appointed under rule 3;(h)"membership" means membership of the Authority
established under section 4 of the Act;(i)"non-official member" means a member
appointed under sub-rule (2) of rule 3;(j)"Official member" means a member
appointed under sub-rule (1) of rule 3;(k)"Secretary" means Secretary to the
Authority appointed under rule 13;(l)Words and expressions used herein and not
defined but defined in the Act shall respectively have the meanings assigned
to them in the Act.

## Chapter II  
State Mental Health Authority

### 3. Constitution of the Authority .-The Authority shall consist of the
following members, namely:-

(1)Official members.-(a) Secretary, Department of Health;(b)Joint Secretary,
Department of Health dealing with Mental Health;(c)Director of Health
Services;(d)Medical Superintendent, Government Mental Hospital or Head of the
Department of Psychiatry, Government Medical College and Hospital.(2)Non-
official members.-Three members including one Social Worker, one Clinical
Psychologist and one Medical Psychiatrist, who in the opinion of the State
Government, have special interest in the field of Mental Health.

### 4. Disqualification .-A person shall be disqualified for being appointed
as a member or shall be removed from membership by the State Government, if
he,-

(a)has been convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for an offence which in
the opinion of the State Government involves moral turpitude; or(b)is an
undischarged insolvent; or(c)is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a
competent Court; or(d)has been removed or dismissed from the service of the
Government or a body corporate owned or controlled by the Government.

### 5. Chairman .-(1) The State Government may nominate any official member to
act as the Chairman of the Authority.

(2)The Chairman shall cease to hold office when he ceases to be a member of
the Authority.

### 6. Term of office of members .-(1) Every official member shall hold office
as such member so long as he holds the office by virtue of which he was so
appointed.

(2)Every non-official member shall hold office for a period of three years
from the date of his appointment and shall be eligible for re-appointment.(3)A
non-official member may at any time resign from membership of the Authority by
forwarding his letter of resignation to the Chairman and such resignation
shall take effect only from the date on which it is accepted.(4)Where a
vacancy occurs by resignation of a non-official member under sub-rule (3) or
otherwise, the State Government shall fill the vacancy by appointing from
amongst category of persons referred to in sub-rule (2) of rule 3 and the
person so appointed, shall hold office for the remainder of the term of office
of the member in whose place he was so appointed.(5)Where the term of office
of any non-official member is about to expire, the State Government may
appoint a successor at any time within three months before the expiry of the
term of such member but the successor shall not assume duty until the term of
the member expires.

## Chapter III  
Proceedings Of The Authority

### 7. Meetings of the Authority .-(1) The Authority shall ordinarily meet
once in every six months at such time and place as may be fixed by the
Chairman:

Provided that the Chairman,-(i)may call a special meeting at any time to deal
with any urgent matter requiring the attention of the Authority;(ii)shall call
a special meeting if he receives a requisition in writing signed by not less
than four members and stating the purposes for which they desire the meeting
to be called.(2)The first meeting of the Authority to be held in any calendar
year shall be the annual meeting for that year.

### 8. Subjects for special meeting .-Where a meeting referred to in the
proviso to sub-rule (1) of rule 7 has been convened, only the subjects for the
consideration of which the meeting was convened, shall be discussed.

### 9. Subjects for the annual meeting .-At the annual meeting of the
Authority, the following subjects shall be considered and disposed of,
namely:-

(a)review of the progress of implementation of the various provisions of the
Mental Health Act during the preceding one year;(b)other business on the
agenda; and(c)any other business brought forward with the consent of the
Chairman or where he is absent, with the consent of the Officer presiding at
the meeting.

### 10. Procedure for holding meetings .-(1) Every notice calling for meeting
of the Authority shall,-

(a)specify the place, date and hour of the meeting;(b)be served upon every
member of the Authority not less than twenty-one clear days in the case of
annual meeting and fifteen clear days in the case of other meetings before the
day appointed for the meeting.(2)The Secretary shall prepare and circulate to
the members alongwith the notice of the meeting, an agenda for such meeting
showing the business to be transacted.(3)A member who wishes to move a
resolution on any matter included in the agenda, shall give notice thereof to
the Secretary not less than seven days before the date fixed for the
meeting.(4)A member who wishes to move any motion not included in the agenda
shall give notice thereof to the Secretary not less than fourteen days before
the date fixed for the meeting.

### 11. Proceedings of the Authority .-(1) The Chairman or in his absence any
member authorised by him shall preside at the meetings of the Authority.

(2)The quorum for the meeting of the Authority shall be four members.(3)If
within half an hour from the time appointed for holding a meeting of the
Authority quorum is not present, the meeting shall be adjourned to the same
day in the following week at the same time and place and the presiding officer
of such meeting shall inform the members present and send notice to other
members.(4)If at the adjourned meeting also, quorum is not present within half
an hour from the time appointed for holding the meeting, the members present
shall constitute the quorum.(5)In the adjourned meeting if the Chairman is not
present and no member has been authorised to preside at such meeting, the
members present shall elect a member to preside at the meeting.(6)Each member
including the Chairman shall have one vote. In the case of an equality of
votes, the Chairman or any member presiding over such meeting, shall in
addition, have a casting vote.(7)All decisions of the meeting of the Authority
shall be taken by a majority of the members present and voting.

### 12. Approval by circulation .-Any business which may be necessary for the
Authority to transact except such as may be placed before the annual meeting,
may be carried out by circulation among all members and any resolution so
circulated and approved by a majority of members shall be valid and binding as
if such resolution had been passed at the meeting of the Authority.

### 13. Secretary to the Authority .-(1) The Chairman shall cause to be
appointed a Secretary to the Authority from amongst persons possessing post-
graduate degree in Psychiatry and having three years; experience in the field
of psychiatry.

(2)The Secretary shall be a full-time or part-time servant of the Authority
and shall function as the Administrative Officer of the Authority.(3)The
Secretary shall be responsible for the control and management of office
accounts and correspondence.(4)The Secretary shall attend and take notes of
the proceedings of the meeting of the Authority.(5)The Secretary shall cause
to be appointed such members of the ministerial and non-ministerial staff
which are essential for efficient functioning of the Authority.(6)The
Secretary shall exercise such other powers and discharge such other functions
as may be authorised in writing by the Chairman for the efficient functioning
of the Authority.

### 14. Forwarding of copies of the proceedings of the Authority to the State
Government .-The Secretary shall forward copies of the proceedings of the
Authority to the State Government periodically.

## Chapter IV  
Licence

### 15\. Application for licence .-(1) Every application for a licence under
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 7 of the Act shall be,-

(a)made to the licensing authority in Form I or Form II as the case may
be;(b)accompanied by a fee of rupees two hundred in the form of a bank draft
drawn in favour of the licensing authority.

### 16. Grant of licence .-If the licensing authority is satisfied that the
applicant fulfils the conditions laid down in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of
section 8 of the Act, it shall grant the licence in Form III.

### 17. Refusal of licence and manner of communicating the order .-(1) If the
licensing authority is satisfied that the applicant does not fulfil the
conditions laid down in section 8 of the Act, it may, after giving the
applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard against the proposed refusal
of licence, by order setting out the reasons therein, refuse to grant the
licence.

(2)Every order refusing to grant a licence under section 8, shall be
communicated to the applicant by sending a copy of the order by registered
post to the address given in the application.(3)A copy of the order shall also
be conspicuously displayed on the notice board of the licensing authority.

### 18. Application for renewal .-Every application for renewal of a licence
under sub-section (5) of section 9 of the Act shall be,-

(a)made to the licensing authority in Form IV,(b)accompanied by a fee of
rupees one hundred in the form of a bank draft drawn in favour of the
licensing authority.

### 19. Refusal of licence .-(1) If the licensing authority is satisfied that
the conditions mentioned in the proviso to sub-section (5) of section 9 of the
Act are not attracted, it shall renew the licence.

(2)If the licensing authority is of the opinion that the licence should not be
renewed in view of the fact the conditions mentioned in the proviso to sub-
section (4) of section 9 are attracted, it may, after giving the applicant a
reasonable opportunity of being heard against the proposed refusal of renewal
of the licence, by order setting out the reasons therein, refuse to renew the
licence.(3)Every order refusing to renew the licence under the proviso to sub-
section (5) of section 9 shall be communicated to the applicant by sending a
copy of the order by registered post to the address given in the application
for renewal.

### 20. Manner and conditions of maintaining psychiatric hospitals or
psychiatric nursing homes .-Every psychiatric hospitals or nursing home shall
be maintained subject to the condition that,-

(a)such hospital or nursing home is located only in an area approved by the
local authority;(b)such hospital or nursing home is located in a building
constructed with the approval of the local authority;(c)the building, where
such hospital or nursing home is situated, has sufficient ventilation and is
free from any pollution which may be detrimental to the patients admitted in
such hospital or nursing home;(d)such hospital or nursing home has enough beds
to accommodate the patients;(e)the nurses and other staff employed in such
hospital or nursing home are duly qualified and competent to handle the work
assigned to them;(f)the supervising officer-in-charge of such hospital or
nursing home is a person duly qualified having a post-graduate qualification
in Psychiatry recognised by the Medical Council of India.

### 21. Time for appeal .-(1) Any person aggrieved by the order of the
licensing authority refusing to grant or renew a licence or revoking a
licence, may prefer an appeal to the State Government, within sixty days of
the communication of such order:

Provided that the State Government may entertain an appeal preferred after the
expiry of the period specified in sub-rule (1) if it is satisfied that the
applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from preferring the appeal in
time.(2)The appeal shall be in Form V and shall be sent to the State
Government by registered post or by appearing in person before and delivering
the same to the Secretary to State Government, Department of Health or any
other officer nominated by him in this behalf.(3)Every appeal shall be
accompanied with a fee of rupees five hundred.

## Chapter V  
Psychiatric Hospital And Nursing Home

### 22. Minimum facilities for treatment of out-patients .-The minimum
facilities required for every psychiatric hospital or psychiatric nursing home
for treatment of patients mentioned in section 14 of the Act shall be as
follows:-

### 1\. [ Staff for medical hospital or nursing home with hundred beds or
fractions thereof.-(a) One full time qualified Psychiatrist.

(b)One Mental Health Professional Assistant (Clinical) Psychologist or
Psychiatric Social Worker.(c)Staff Nurses in the Nurse: Patient ratio
1:10.(d)Attenders in the Attendant: Patient ratio 1:5.(e)Medical Officers
having recognised M.B.B.S. Degree: Patient ratio of 1:50.]

### 2\. Physical features.-Adequate floor space depending on the number of
beds shall be provided.

### 3\. Support/facilities.-The minimum support/facilities shall be as under:-

(a)Provision for emergency care for out-patients and for handling medical
emergencies for out-patients and in-patients;(b)A well equipped Electro
Convulsive Therapy facility;(c)Psychodiagnostic facilities;(d)Provision for
recreational/rehabilitation activities; and(e)Facilities for regular out-
patient care.

### 23. Revocation of licence .-(1) Where the licensing authority is satisfied
that the licence of any psychiatric hospital or nursing home is required to be
revoked in pursuance of clause (a) or (b) of sub-section (1) of section 11 of
the Act, it may, after giving the licensee a reasonable opportunity of being
heard against the proposed revocation, by order setting out the grounds
therein, revoke the licence.

(2)Every order revoking the licence under sub-rule (1) shall be communicated
to the licensee by sending a copy of the order by registered post to the
address given in the application.(3)A copy of the order shall also be
conspicuously displayed on the notice board of the office of the licensing
authority and in the psychiatric hospital or nursing home.

### 24. Maintenance of records .-Every psychiatric hospital or a psychiatric
nursing home shall maintain the records of the treatment of patient in Form
VI.

## Chapter VI  
Miscellaneous

### 25. Admission and detention in psychiatric hospital or psychiatric nursing
home .-(1) Application by Medical Officer-in-charge-

(a)The application for reception order may be made by the Medical Officer-in-
charge of a psychiatric hospital or psychiatric nursing home in Form VII,
or(b)by the husband, wife or any other relative of the mentally ill person in
Form VIII.(2)Application from husband or wife.(a)Every application by the
husband or wife, relative or friend by a person who is alleged to be mentally
ill shall be accompanied by necessary medical certificates;(b)Such application
shall be signed either by the husband or wife or a relative or a friend, as
the case may be, and verified by two independent witnesses;(c)The name,
address, occupation and other details of all the applicants and the attesting
witnesses shall be clearly given in such application.

### 26. The qualification and functions of the visitors .-(1) The
qualifications of persons to be appointed as visitors under section 37 of the
Act shall be as follows:-

(a)a degree in Medicine with post-graduate degree in psychiatry awarded by any
University in India recognised by the Medical Council of India and having at
least ten years' standing in the profession, who has held/is holding the post
of Medical Superintendent/Professor in psychiatric hospital or psychiatric
wing of a hospital; or(b)experience as a social worker/clinical
psychologist/psychiatric nurse connected with any mental hospital for a period
of not less than ten years.(2)The visitors appointed by the Government under
section 37 of the Act shall be responsible for-(a)review of admission and
discharge of patients;(b)inspection of the wards, outdoor patient department
and kitchen;(c)facilities to be provided;(d)suggestion for improvement;
and(e)functioning as liaison officer between the Government and hospital.

### 27. Leave or absence .-Every application by relative or any other person
on behalf of the patient for leave or absence under section 45 of the Act
shall be made in Form IX.

### 28. Interception of the letters and other communications addressed to the
mentally ill persons .-No letter or other communication addressed to a
mentally ill person intended for delivery either through the postal department
or otherwise shall be intercepted, detained or destroyed except under
following circumstances, namely:-

(i)any letter or other communication intended for delivery to a mentally ill
person shall be opened only if the person having the supervisory control over
the hospital or nursing home is of the opinion that such letter or
communication contain any information or material which if communicated to
such patient will be detrimental to his health; or(ii)that the interception,
detention or destruction of any letter or communication intended to be
delivered to the mentally ill person is necessary in the interests of the
public or the State.Form I(See rule 15)Application for maintaining a
psychiatric hospital/nursing
homeToThe...............Officer,Government..............................................................Dear
Sir/Madam,I/We intend to establish/maintain a Psychiatric Hospital/Psychiatric
Nursing Home in respect of which I am/we are holding a valid licence for the
establishment/maintenance of such hospital/nursing home. The details of the
hospital/nursing home are given below :

### 1\. Name of Applicant

### 2\. Details of licence with reference to the name of the Authority issuing
the licence and date.

### 3\. Age............................

### 4\. Professional experience in Psychiatry

### 5\. Permanent address of the applicant

### 6\. Location of the proposed Hospital/Nursing Home.

### 7\. Address of the proposed Nursing Home/Hospital

### 8\. Proposed accommodations:

(a)Number of rooms(b)Number of bedsFacilities provided:(a)Out-
patient(b)Emergency services(c)In-patient facilities(d)Occupational and
recreational facilities(e)ECT facilities(f)X-ray facilities(g)Psychological
testing facilities(h)Investigation and laboratory facilities(i)Treatment
facilities.Staff Pattern :(a)Number of Doctors(b)Number of Nurses(c)Number of
Attenders(d)OthersI am sending herewith a bank draft for Rs............ Drawn
in favour of............ as licence fee.I hereby undertake to abide by the
rules and regulations of the Mental Health Authority.I request you to consider
my application and grant the licence for establishment/maintenance of
Psychiatric Hospital/nursing home.Yours
faithfully,Signature...............................Name
............................Date ..............................Form II(See
Rule 16)Application for Establishment of Psychiatric Hospital/Nursing Home
Under Sub Section (2) of Sec.
7ToThe.............................Government.............................................................Dear
Sir/Madam,I/We intend to establish a Psychiatric Nursing Home/Psychiatric
Hospital at ........................ (mention the place). I am herewith giving
you the details.

### 1\. Name of the Applicant

### 2\. Qualification of Medical officer to be incharge of Nursing
Home/Hospital (Certificate to be attached).

### 3\. Age..............................

### 4\. Professional experience in Psychiatry

### 5\. Permanent Address of the applicant

### 6\. Location of the proposed Hospital/Nursing Home

### 7\. Address of the proposed Nursing Home/Hospital

### 8\. Proposed accommodation:

(a)Number rooms,(b)Number of beds.Facilities provided:(a)Out-
patient(b)Emergency services(c)In-patient facilities.(d)Occupational and
recreational facilities(e)ECT facilities(f)X-ray facilities(g)Psychological
testing facilities(h)Investigation and laboratory facilities(i)Treatment
facilitiesStaff Pattern:(a)Number of Doctors(b)Number of Nurses(c)Number of
Attenders(d)OthersI am herewith sending a bank draft for
Rs......................drawn in favour of........................... as
licence fee.I hereby undertake to abide by the rules and regulations of the
Mental Health Authority. I request you to consider my application and grant
licence.Yours faithfully,Signature ....................Date
.........................................Form III(See rule 16)Grant of Licence
for Establishment Of Psychiatric Hospital/Nursing HomeI..........being the
licensing authority under the Mental Health Act, 1987, after considering the
application received under Section 7 and satisfying the requirements provided
for in Section 8 and the other provisions of the Mental Health Act, 1987
(Central Act 14 of 1987) and the rules made thereunder, hereby grant the
licence for establishment/maintenance of a psychiatric hospital or nursing
home in favour of.............................( the applicant).The licence
shall be valid for the period commencing from..............................
and ending with......................... The licence shall be subject to the
conditions laid down in the Mental Health Act, 1987 (14 of 1987) and the rules
made thereunder.Licensing
AuthorityPlace.................................Date..................................Form
IV(See rule 18)Application For Renewal Of
LicenceFromDr........................................................................................ToDistrict
Health
Officer..................................................................Sir,Subject
: Renewal of Licence No...............dated.......... I request you to kindly
renew my licence No.......... dated the..........for the next 5 years. I am
providing the facilities as prescribed by the Act and the rules framed
thereunder. I have herewith attached a demand draft for Rs. 100 only.Thanking
you.Yours faithfullySignature.......................Name
.........................Place............................Date.............................Form
V(See rule 21)Application For AppealTo,The Appellate
AuthorityGovernment....................................................................................Sir,I,
Dr...............of...............had applied for licence for establishing a
Pspychiatric Nursing Home/Hospital at...............(copy of the earlier
application to be attached). My application was rejected by the licensing
authority as per his/her letter No. ............................
dated........................... with the following reasons :

### 1\.

### 2\.

### 3\.

(copy enclosed)The above reason(s) appear to be not valid. I request you to
reconsider my application. My justifications are :I am willing to appear
before you for a personal hearing, if necessary. I am herewith enclosing a
draft for Rs. 500.Thanking you.Yours
faithfully,Signature.......................Name............................Place..................................Date....................................Form
VI(See rule 24)Proforma Of Case RecordName of the hospital/nursing
home............... Patient's name............... Age..............
Sex............... Date of admission.............. date of discharge........
Mode of admission.............. Voluntary.Reception order.Complaints (report
from relative/other sources)Mental State ExaminationPhysical
ExaminationLaboratory investigationsProvisional diagnosis.Initial
treatmentTreatment and Progress notesClinical State and side effect
TreatmentDateFinal diagnosisCondition at dischargeFollow-up
recommendations.Form VII(See rule 25)Application For Reception Order(By
Medical Officer-in charge of a Psychiatric
Hospital)FromDr.................................To*The
Magistrate.......................................................................................Sir,Subject
: Reception order for.............. son/daughter of......... I,
Dr.............. maintain psychiatric hospital/nursing home at..............
Under licence No......... dated.........I request you to issue reception order
in respect of Sh/Smt... ... ... son/daughter Of ........ who is being treated
at my hospital as a voluntary patient and is not willing to continue. He/she
has the following symptoms and/or signs.

### 1\.

### 2\.

### 3\.

### 4\.

### 5\.

He/She requires to be in the hospital for treatment/personal safety/others
Protection.Thanking you.Yours Sincerely,Signature
.............................Name
.............................................Place
........................................Date
.........................................."Magistrate" means -In relation to a
metropolitan area within the meaning of Cl.(k) of Section 2 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure. 1973, a Metropolitan Magistrate.In relation to any other
area, the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate or
such other Judicial Magistrate of the first class as the State Government may,
by notification, empower to perform the functions of a Magistrate under this
Act.Form VIII(See rule 25)Application For Reception Order(By relative or
other)To...............................................................................................................................Sir,Subject:
Admission of ............son/daughter of .........into psychiatry
hospital/nursing home as in-patient.I .........son/daughter of
.........residing at .........request you kindly arrange for admission in
respect of Sh/Smt ................... Aged ......... Years
..........son/daughter of ............ An in-patient To .........(name of the
hospital) or any other hospital/nursing home. He/She has the following
suggestive of mental illness.

### 1\.

### 2\.

### 3\.

### 4\.

### 5\.

I, who is ............(relationship) of Sh./Smt .............. have an income
.........Rs ...... and agree to pay the charges of treatment, if any of the
institution. I state that, I have/bave not made any such regard to the mental
condition of .........as required. I herewith enclose the two medical
certificates needed for the purpose.Witnesses:Yours faithfully,Signature
..........Name in Capital ...................................Name
.............................Address ..........................Occupation
...............................-do-Form IX(See rule 27)Application For Leave
Of Absence(By relative or
others)ToDr...........................................................................Sir,Subject:
Request for leave of absence of Sh/Smt .........aged .........years Admitted
on ..............to your Institute.I request that Sh/Smt ........son/daughter
of ......... Be delivered to my care and custody on leave of absence.I hereby
bind myself that on the said Sh/Smt. .............. being made over to my care
and custody, I will have him here/properly taken care of and prevent from
doing injury to himself or to others.Yours faithfully,Signature
..............................Name ...................................

