## Union of India - Act

## The Securitisation And Reconstruction Of Financial Assets And Enforcement
Of Security Interest Act, 2002

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Securitisation And Reconstruction Of Financial Assets And Enforcement Of
Security Interest Act, 2002

## Act 54 of 2002

  * Published on 17 December 2002 
  * Commenced on 17 December 2002 
  * [This is the version of this document at 12 August 2016.] 

  1. [Amended by THE ENFORCEMENT OF SECURITY INTEREST AND RECOVERY OF DEBTS LAWS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2004 (Act 30 of 2004) on 29 December 2004] 
  2. [Amended by THE ENFORCEMENT OF SECURITY INTEREST AND RECOVERY OF DEBTS LAWS AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2016 (Act 44 of 2016) on 12 August 2016] 

The Securitisation And Reconstruction Of Financial Assets And Enforcement Of
Security Interest Act, 2002(54 of 2002)

### 081.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The financial sector has been one of the key
drivers in India's efforts to achieve success in rapidly developing its
economy. While the banking industry in India is progressively complying with
the international prudential norms and accounting practices, there are certain
areas in which the banking and financial sector do not have a level playing
field as compared to other participants in the financial markets in the world.
There is no legal provision for facilitating securitisation of financial
assets of banks and financial institutions. Further, unlike international
banks, the banks and financial institutions in India do not have power to take
possession of securities and sell them. Our existing legal framework relating
to commercial transactions has not kept pace with the changing commercial
practices and financial sector reforms. This has resulted in slow pace of
recovery of defaulting loans and mounting levels of non-performing assets of
banks and financial institutions. Narasimham Committee I and II and
Andhyarujina Committee constituted by the Central Government for the purpose
of examining banking sector reforms have considered the need for changes in
the legal system in respect of these areas. These Committees, inter alia, have
suggested enactment of a new legislation for securitisation and empowering
banks and financial institutions to take possession of the securities and to
sell them without the intervention of the Court. Acting on these suggestions,
the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of
Security Interest Ordinance, 2002 was promulgated on the 21st June, 2002 to
regulate securitisation and reconstruction of financial assets and enforcement
of security interest and for matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto. The provisions of the Ordinance would enable banks and financial
institutions to realise long-term assets, manage problem of liquidity, asset
liability mismatches and improve recovery by exercising powers to take
possession of securities, sell them and reduce non-performing assets by
adopting measures for recovery or reconstruction.2\. It is now proposed to
replace the Ordinance by a Bill, which, inter alia, contains provisions of the
Ordinance to provide for-(a) registration and regulation of [asset
reconstruction company] by the Reserve Bank of India;(b) facilitating
securitisation of financial assets of banks and financial institutions with or
without the benefit of underlying securities;(c) facilitating easy
transferability of financial assets by the [asset reconstruction company] to
acquire financial assets of banks and financial institutions by issue of
debentures or bonds or any other security in the nature of a debenture;(d)
empowering [asset reconstruction company] to raise funds by issue of security
receipts to [qualified buyers];(e) facilitating reconstruction of financial
assets acquired by exercising powers of enforcement of securities or change of
management or other powers which are proposed to be conferred on the banks and
financial institutions;(f) declaration of any [asset reconstruction company]
registered with the Reserve Bank of India as a public financial institution
for the purpose of section 4-A of the Companies Act, 1956;(g) defining
"security interest" as any type of security including mortgage and change on
immovable properties given for due repayment of any financial assistance given
by any bank or financial institution;(h) empowering banks and financial
institutions to take possession of securities given for financial assistance
and sell or lease the same or take over management in the event of default,
i.e., classification of the borrower's account as non-performing asset in
accordance with the directions given or under guidelines issued by the Reserve
Bank of India from time to time;(i) the rights of a secured creditor to be
exercised by one or more of its officers authorised in this behalf in
accordance with the rules made by the Central Government;(j) an appeal against
the action of any bank or financial institution to the concerned Debts
Recovery Tribunal and a second appeal to the Appellate Debts Recovery
Tribunal;(k) setting up or causing to be set up a Central Registry by the
Central Government for the purpose of registration of transactions relating to
securitisation, asset reconstruction and creaiion of security interest;(l)
application of the proposed legislation initially to banks and financial
institutions and empowerment of the Central Government to extend the
application of the proposed legislation to non-banking financial companies and
other entities;(m) non-application of the proposed legislation to security
interests in agricultural lands, loans not exceeding rupees one lakh and cases
where eighty per cent. of the loans are repaid by the borrower.Amendment Act
30 of 2004-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Securitisation and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act,
2002 was enacted to regulate securitisation and reconstruction of financial
assets and enforcement of security interest and for matters connected thereto.
The Act enables the banks and financial institutions to realise long-term
assets, manage problems of liquidity, asset liability mis-match and improve
recovery by exercising powers to take possession of securities, sell them and
reduce non-performing assets by adopting measures for recovery or
reconstruction. The Act further provides for setting up of asset
reconstruction companies which are empowered to take possession of secured
assets of the borrower including the right to transfer by way of lease,
assignment or sale and realise the secured assets and take over the management
of the business of the borrower.2\. The Hon'ble Supreme Court, in the case of
Mardia Chemicals Ltd. v. Union of India A.I.R. 2004 S.C. 2371: (2004) 4 S.C.C.
311, inter alia,(a) upheld the validity of the provisions of the said Act
except that of sub-section (2) of section 17 which was declared ultra vires
article 14 of the Constitution. The said sub-section provides for deposit of
seventy-five per cent. of the amount claimed before entertaining an appeal
(petition) by the Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT) under section 17;(b) observed
that in cases where a secured creditor has taken action under sub-section (4)
of section 13 of the said Act, it would be open to borrowers to file appeals
under section 17 of the Act within the limitation as prescribed therefor. It
also observed that if the borrower, after service of notice under sub-section
(2) of section 13 of the said Act, raises any objection or places facts for
consideration of the secured creditor, such reply to the notice must be
considered with due application of mind and the reasons for not accepting the
objections, howsoever brief that may be, must be communicated to the borrower.
The reasons so communicated shall only be for the purposes of the
information/knowledge of the borrower without giving rise to any right to
approach the Debts Recovery Tribunal under section 17 of the Act, at that
stage.3\. In view of the above judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and also
to discourage the borrowers to postpone the repayment of their dues and also
enable the secured creditor to speedily recover their debts, if required, by
enforcement of security or other measures specified in sub-section (4) of
section 13 of the said Act, it had become necessary to amend the provisions of
the said Act.4\. Since the Parliament was not in session and it was necessary
to take immediate action to amend the said Act for the above reasons, the
Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment)
Ordinance, 2004 was promulgated on the 11th November, 2004.5\. The said
Ordinance amends the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and
Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks
and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 and the Companies Act, 1956. Chapter II
of the Ordinance which amends the Securitisation and Reconstruction of
Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002,-(a) require
the secured creditor to consider, in response to the notice issued by the
secured creditor under sub-section (2) of section 13 of the said Act, any
representation made or objection raised by the borrower and cast an obligation
upon the secured creditor to communicate within one week of receipt of such
representation or objection the reasons for non-acceptance of the
representation or objection to the borrower and take possession of the secured
asset only after reasons for not accepting the objections of the borrower have
been communicated to him in writing;(b) enable the borrower to make an
application before the Debts Recovery Tribunal without making any deposit
(instead of filing an appeal before the Debts Recovery Tribunal after
depositing seventy-five per cent. of the amount claimed with the notice by the
secured creditor);(c) provides that the Debts Recovery Tribunal shall dispose
of the application as expeditiously as possible and dispose of such
application within sixty days from the date of such applications so that the
total period of pendency of the application with such Tribunal shall not
exceed four months;(d) make provision for transfer of pending applications to
any one of the Debts Recovery Tribunal in certain cases;(e) enables any person
aggrieved by any order made by the Debts Recovery Tribunal to file an appeal
to the Debts Recovery Appellate Tribunal after depositing with the Appellate
Tribunal fifty per cent. of amount of debt due from him, as claimed by the
secured creditor or determined by the Debts Recovery Tribunal, whichever is
less;(f) enables the borrower residing in the State of Jammu and Kashmir to
make an application to the Court of District Judge in that State having
jurisdiction over the borrower and make provision for filing an appeal to the
High Court from the order of the Court of District Judge;(g) makes provision
for validation of the fees levied under the said Act before the commencement
of this Ordinance.6\. Chapter III of the Ordinance amends the Recovery of
Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 so as to enable the
bank or financial institution to withdraw, with the permission of the Debts
Recovery Tribunal, the application made to it and thereafter take action under
the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of
Security Interest Act, 2002.7\. Chapter IV of the Ordinance amends the
Companies Act, 1956 so as to provide that any reference made under section
424-A of that Act shall abate if the secured creditors representing three-
fourth in value of the amount outstanding against financial assistance
disbursed to the borrower have taken measures to recover their secured debt
under sub-section (4) of section 13 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction
of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002.8\. The
Bill seeks to replace the aforesaid Ordinance.[17th December, 2002]...[An Act
to regulate securitisation and reconstruction of financial assets and
enforcement of security interest and to provide for a Central database of
security interests created on property rights, and for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto.] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]Be it
enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-third Year of the Republic of India as
follows:

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called The Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial
Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act , 2002.(2)It extends to the
whole of India.(3)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 21st day
of June, 2002.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)Appellate Tribunal
means a Debts Recovery Appellate Tribunal established under sub-section (1) of
section 8 of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions
Act, 1993 (51 of 1993);(b)asset reconstruction means acquisition by any [asset
reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] of any right or
interest of any bank or financial institution in any financial assistance for
the purpose of realisation of such financial assistance;(ba)[ "asset
reconstruction company" means a company registered with Reserve Bank under
section 3 for the purposes of carrying on the business of asset reconstruction
or securitisation, or both;] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.](c)bank
means(i)a banking company; or(ii)a corresponding new bank; or(iii)the State
Bank of India; or(iv)a subsidiary bank; or(iva)[ a multi-State co-operative
bank; or] [Inserted by Act No. 1 of 2013](v)such other bank which the Central
Government may, by [notification] [The Central Government has specified "Co-
operative Banks" as defined in clause (cci) of section 5 of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) as "bank" vide S.O.105(E), dated 28.1.2003,
published in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt.II, Section 3(ii), dated
28.1.2003.], specify for the purposes of this Act;(d)banking company shall
have the meaning assigned to it in clause (c) of section 5 of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949);(e)Board means the Securities and Exchange
Board of India established under section 3 of the Securities and Exchange
Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);(f)borrower means any person who has
been granted financial assistance by any bank or financial institution or who
has given any guarantee or created any mortgage or pledge as security for the
financial assistance granted by any bank or financial institution and includes
a person who becomes borrower of a [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted
by Act No. 44 of 2016.] consequent upon acquisition by it of any rights or
interest of any bank or financial institution in relation to such financial
assistance [or who has raised funds through issue of debt securities]
[Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.];(g)Central Registry means the registry set
up or cause to be set up under sub-section (1) of section 20;(ga)[ "company"
means a company as defined in clause (20) of section 2 of the Companies Act,
2013;] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.](h)corresponding new bank shall have
the meaning assigned to it in clause (da) of section 5 of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949);(ha)[ "debt" shall have the meaning assigned
to it in clause (g) of section 2 of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and
Financial Institutions Act, 1993 and includes- [Substituted by Act No. 44 of
2016.](i)unpaid portion of the purchase price of any tangible asset given on
hire or financial lease or conditional sale or under any other
contract;(ii)any right, title or interest on any intangible asset or licence
or assignment of such intangible asset, which secures the obligation to pay
any unpaid portion of the purchase price of such intangible asset or an
obligation incurred or credit otherwise extended to enable any borrower to
acquire the intangible asset or obtain licence of such asset;](i)Debts
Recovery Tribunal means the Tribunal established under sub-section (1) of
section 3 of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions
Act, 1993 (51 of 1993);(ia)[ "debt securities" means debt securities listed in
accordance with the regulations made by the Board under the Securities and
Exchange Board of India Act,1992;] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.](j)[
"default" means- [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.](i)non-payment of any
debt or any other amount payable by the borrower to any secured creditor
consequent upon which the account of such borrower is classified as non-
performing asset in the books of account of the secured creditor; or(ii)non-
payment of any debt or any other amount payable by the borrower with respect
to debt securities after notice of ninety days demanding payment of dues
served upon such borrower by the debenture trustee or any other authority in
whose favour security interest is created for the benefit of holders of such
debt securities;](k)financial assistance means any loan or advance granted or
any debentures or bonds subscribed or any guarantees given or letters of
credit established or any other credit facility extended by any bank or
financial institution [including funds provided for the purpose of acquisition
of any tangible asset on hire or financial lease or conditional sale or under
any other contract or obtaining assignment or licence of any intangible asset
or purchase of debt securities;] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of
2016.];(l)financial asset means debt or receivables and includes(i)a claim to
any debt or receivables or part thereof, whether secured or unsecured;
or(ii)any debt or receivables secured by, mortgage of, or charge on, immovable
property; or(iii)a mortgage, charge, hypothecation or pledge of movable
property; or(iv)any right or interest in the security, whether full or part
underlying such debt or receivables; or(v)any beneficial interest in property,
whether movable or immovable, or in such debt, receivables, whether such
interest is existing, future, accruing, conditional or contingent;or(va)[ any
beneficial right, title or interest in any tangible asset given on hire or
financial lease or conditional sale or under any other contract which secures
the obligation to pay any unpaid portion of the purchase price of such asset
or an obligation incurred or credit otherwise provided to enable the borrower
to acquire such tangible asset; or [Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.](vb)any
right, title or interest on any intangible asset or licence or assignment of
such intangible asset, which secures the obligation to pay any unpaid portion
of the purchase price of such intangible asset or an obligation incurred or
credit otherwise extended to enable the borrower to acquire such intangible
asset or obtain licence of the intangible asset; or;](vi)any financial
assistance;(m)financial institution means(i)a public financial institution
within the meaning of section 4-A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
1956);(ii)any institution specified by the Central Government under sub-clause
(ii) of clause (h)of section 2 of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and
Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of 1993);(iii)the International Finance
Corporation established under the International Finance Corporation (Status,
Immunities and Privileges) Act, 1958 (42 of 1958);(iiia)[ a debenture trustee
registered with the Board and appointed for secured debt securities;[Inserted
by Act No. 44 of 2016.](iiib)asset reconstruction company, whether acting as
such or managing a trust created for the purpose of securitisation or asset
reconstruction, as the case may be;](iv)any other institution or non-banking
financial company as defined in clause (f) of section 45-I of the Reserve Bank
of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934), which the Central Government may, by
[notification] [The Central Government has specified [Asian Development Bank"
as [financial institution" vide S.O.1275(E), dated 30.10.2003.], specify as
financial institution for the purposes of this Act;(ma)[ "financial lease"
means a lease under any lease agreement of tangible asset, other than
negotiable instrument or negotiable document, for transfer of lessor's right
therein to the lessee for a certain time in consideration of payment of agreed
amount periodically and where the lessee becomes the owner of the such assets
at the expiry of the term of lease or on payment of the agreed residual
amount, as the case may be;] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.](n)hypothecation
means a charge in or upon any movable property, existing or future, created by
a borrower in favour of a secured creditor without delivery of possession of
the movable property to such creditor, as a security for financial assistance
and includes floating charge and crystallisation of such charge into fixed
charge on movable property;(na)[ "negotiable document" means a document, which
embodies a right to delivery of tangible assets and satisfies the requirements
for negotiability under any law for the time being in force including
warehouse receipt and bill of lading;] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of
2016.](o)non-performing asset means an asset or account of a borrower, which
has been classified by a bank or financial institution as sub-standard,
[doubtful or loss asset, [Substituted by the Enforcement of Security Interest
and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 2, for
" doubtful or loss asset, in accordance with the directions or under
guidelines relating to assets classification issued by the Reserve Bank"
(w.e.f 11.11.2004).](a)in case such bank or financial institution is
administered or regulated by any authority or body established, constituted or
appointed by any law for the time being in force, in accordance with the
directions or guidelines relating to assets classifications issued by such
authority or body;(b)in any other case, in accordance with the directions or
guidelines relating to assets classifications issued by the Reserve
Bank;](p)notification means a notification published in the Official
Gazette;(q)obligor means a person liable to the originator, whether under a
contract or otherwise, to pay a financial asset or to discharge any obligation
in respect of a financial asset, whether existing, future, conditional or
contingent and includes the borrower;(r)originator means the owner of a
financial asset which is acquired by a [asset reconstruction company]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] for the purpose of securitisation or
asset reconstruction;(s)prescribed means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(t)property means(i)immovable property;(ii)movable property;(iii)any debt
or any right to receive payment of money, whether secured or
unsecured;(iv)receivables, whether existing or future;(v)intangible assets,
being know-how, patent, copyright, trade mark, licence, franchise or any other
business or commercial right of similar nature [as may be prescribed by the
Central Government in consultation with Reserve Bank] [Inserted by Act No. 44
of 2016.];(u)[qualified buyer] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] means a
financial institution, insurance company, bank, state financial corporation,
state industrial development corporation, [trustee or [asset reconstruction
company] [Substituted by the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of
Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 2, for "trustee or any
asset management company making investment on behalf of mutual fund or
provident fund or gratuity fund or pension fund" (w.e.f. 11.11.2004).] which
has been granted a certificate of registration under sub-section (4) of
section 3 or any asset management company making investment on behalf of
mutual fund] or a foreign institutional investor registered under the
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) or regulations
made thereunder, [any category of non-institutional investors as may be
specified by the Reserve Bank under sub-section (1) of section 7] [Inserted by
Act No. 44 of 2016.] or any other body corporate as may be specified by the
Board;(v)[ * * *] [Omitted 'asset reconstruction company means a company
formed and registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) for the
purpose of asset reconstruction;' by Act No. 44 of 2016.](w)Registrar of
Companies means the Registrar defined in clause (40) of section 2 of the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);(x)Reserve Bank means the Reserve Bank of
India constituted under section 3 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of
1934);(y)scheme means a scheme inviting subscription to security receipts
proposed to be issued by a [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act
No. 44 of 2016.] under that scheme;(z)securitisation means acquisition of
financial assets by any [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No.
44 of 2016.] from any originator, whether by raising of funds by such [asset
reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] from [qualified
buyers] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] by issue of security receipts
representing undivided interest in such financial assets or otherwise;(za)[ *
* *] [Omitted 'asset reconstruction company means any company formed and
registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) for the purpose of
securitisation;' by Act No. 44 of 2016.](zb)security agreement means an
agreement, instrument or any other document or arrangement under which
security interest is created in favour of the secured creditor including the
creation of mortgage by deposit of title deeds with the secured
creditor;(zc)secured asset means the property on which security interest is
created;(zd)[ "secured creditor" means- [Substituted by Act No. 44 of
2016.](i)any bank or financial institution or any consortium or group of banks
or financial institutions holding any right, title or interest upon any
tangible asset or intangible asset as specified in clause (l);(ii)debenture
trustee appointed by any bank or financial institution; or(iii)an asset
reconstruction company whether acting as such or managing a trust set up by
such asset reconstruction company for the securitisation or reconstruction, as
the case may be; or(iv)debenture trustee registered with the Board appointed
by any company for secured debt securities; or(v)any other trustee holding
securities on behalf of a bank or financial institution,in whose favour
security interest is created by any borrower for due repayment of any
financial assistance.](ze)secured debt means a debt which is secured by any
security interest;(zf)[ "security interest" means right, title or interest of
any kind, other than those specified in section 31, upon property created in
favour of any secured creditor and includes- [Substituted by Act No. 44 of
2016.](i)any mortgage, charge, hypothecation, assignment or any right, title
or interest of any kind, on tangible asset, retained by the secured creditor
as an owner of the property, given on hire or financial lease or conditional
sale or under any other contract which secures the obligation to pay any
unpaid portion of the purchase price of the asset or an obligation incurred or
credit provided to enable the borrower to acquire the tangible asset;
or(ii)such right, title or interest in any intangible asset or assignment or
licence of such intangible asset which secures the obligation to pay any
unpaid portion of the purchase price of the intangible asset or the obligation
incurred or any credit provided to enable the borrower to acquire the
intangible asset or licence of intangible asset;](zg)security receipt means a
receipt or other security, issued by a [asset reconstruction company]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] to any [qualified buyer] [Substituted by
Act No. 44 of 2016.] pursuant to a scheme, evidencing the purchase or
acquisition by the holder thereof, of an undivided right, title or interest in
the financial asset involved in securitisation;(zh)sponsor means any person
holding not less than ten per cent. of the paid-up equity capital of a [asset
reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] ;(zi)State Bank
of India means the State Bank of India constituted under section 3 of the
State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955);(zj)subsidiary bank shall have the
meaning assigned to it in clause (k) of section 2 of the State Bank of India
(Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959 (38 of 1959).(2)Words and expressions used and
not defined in this Act but defined in the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (9 of
1872) or the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882) or the Companies Act,
1956 (1 of 1956) or the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15
of 1992)shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in those
Acts.

## Chapter II  
Regulation Of Securitisation And Reconstruction Of Financial Assets Of Banks
And Financial Institutions

### 3. Registration of [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No.
44 of 2016.].

(1)No [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]
shall commence or carry on the business of securitisation or asset
reconstruction without(a)obtaining a certificate of registration granted under
this section; and(b)[ having net owned fund of not less than two crore rupees
or such other higher amount as the Reserve Bank, may, by notification,
specify:] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]Provided that the Reserve Bank
may, by notification, specify different amounts of owned fund for different
class or classes of [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44
of 2016.]:Provided further that a [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted
by Act No. 44 of 2016.] existing on the commencement of this Act, shall make
an application for registration to the Reserve Bank before the expiry of six
months from such commencement and notwithstanding anything contained in this
sub-section may continue to carry on the business of securitisation or asset
reconstruction until a certificate of registration is granted to it or, as the
case may be, rejection of application for registration is communicated to
it.(2)Every [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of
2016.] shall make an application for registration to the Reserve Bank in such
[form] [Reserve Bank of India has specified the form of application for
registration, vide Noti.No.DMNS.1/CCM (CSM)-2003, dated 7.3.2003.] and manner
as it may specify.(3)The Reserve Bank may, for the purpose of considering the
application for registration of a [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted
by Act No. 44 of 2016.] to commence or carry on the business of securitisation
or asset reconstruction, as the case may be, require to be satisfied, by an
inspection of records or books of such [asset reconstruction company]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] or otherwise, that the following
conditions are fulfilled, namely:(a)that the [asset reconstruction company]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] has not incurred losses in any of the
three preceding financial years;(b)that such [asset reconstruction company]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] has made adequate arrangements for
realisation of the financial assets acquired for the purpose of securitisation
or asset reconstruction and shall be able to pay periodical returns and redeem
on respective due dates on the investments made in the company by the
[qualified buyers] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] or other
persons;(c)that the directors of [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted
by Act No. 44 of 2016.] have adequate professional experience in matters
related to finance, securitisation and reconstruction;(d)[ * * *] [Omitted
'that the board of directors of such asset reconstruction company does not
consist of more than half of its total number of directors who are either
nominees of any sponsor or associated in any manner with the sponsor or any of
its subsidiaries;' by Act No. 44 of 2016.](e)that any of its directors has not
been convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude;(f)[ that a sponsor of
an asset reconstruction company is a fit and proper person in accordance with
the criteria as may be specified in the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank
for such persons;] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.](g)that the [asset
reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] has complied with
or is in a position to comply with prudential norms specified by the Reserve
Bank;(h)[ that [asset reconstruction company] [Inserted by the Enforcement of
Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of
2004), Section 3 (w.e.f. 11.11.1004).] has complied with one or more
conditions specified in the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank for the said
purpose.](4)The Reserve Bank may, after being satisfied that the conditions
specified in sub-section (3) are fulfilled, grant a certificate of
registration to the [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44
of 2016.] to commence or carry on business of securitisation or asset
reconstruction, subject to such conditions, which it may consider, fit to
impose.(5)The Reserve Bank may reject the application made under sub-section
(2) if it is satisfied that the conditions specified in sub-section (3) are
not fulfilled:Provided that before rejecting the application, the applicant
shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(6)Every [asset
reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] shall obtain
prior approval of the Reserve Bank for any substantial change in its
management [including appointment of any director on the board of directors of
the asset reconstruction company or managing director or chief executive
officer thereof] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] or change of location of
its registered office or change in its name:Provided that the decision of the
Reserve Bank, whether the change in management of a [asset reconstruction
company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] is a substantial change in its
management or not, shall be final.Explanation. For the purposes of this
section, the expression substantial change in management means the change in
the management by way of transfer of shares [change affecting the sponsorship
in the company by way of transfer of shares or] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of
2016.] or amalgamation or transfer of the business of the company.

### 4. Cancellation of certificate of registration.

(1)The Reserve Bank may cancel a certificate of registration granted to a
[asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.], if such
company(a)ceases to carry on the business of securitisation or asset
reconstruction; or(b)ceases to receive or hold any investment from a
[qualified buyer] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]; or(c)has failed to
comply with any conditions subject to which the certificate of registration
has been granted to it; or(d)at any time fails to fulfil any of the conditions
referred to in clauses (a) to (g) of sub-section (3) of section 3; or(e)fails
to(i)comply with any direction issued by the Reserve Bank under the provisions
of this Act; or(ii)maintain accounts in accordance with the requirements of
any law or any direction or order issued by the Reserve Bank under the
provisions of this Act; or(iii)submit or offer for inspection its books of
account or other relevant documents when so demanded by the Reserve Bank;
or(iv)obtain prior approval of the Reserve Bank required under sub-section (6)
of section 3:Provided that before cancelling a certificate of registration on
the ground that the [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44
of 2016.] has failed to comply with the provisions of clause (c) or has failed
to fulfil any of the conditions referred to in clause (d) or sub-clause (iv)
of clause (e), the Reserve Bank, unless it is of the opinion that the delay in
cancelling the certificate of registration granted under sub-section (4) of
section 3 shall be prejudicial to the public interest or the interests of the
investors or the [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of
2016.], shall give an opportunity to such company on such terms as the Reserve
Bank may specify for taking necessary steps to comply with such provisions or
fulfilment of such conditions.(2)A [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted
by Act No. 44 of 2016.] aggrieved by the order of [* * *] [The words
"rejection of application for registration or" omitted by the Enforcement of
Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of
2004), Section 4 (w.e.f. 11.11.2004).] cancellation of certificate of
registration may prefer an appeal, within a period of thirty days from the
date on which [such order of cancellation] [Substituted by the Enforcement of
Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004, Section 4
(30 of 2004), for "such order of rejection or cancellation" (w.e.f.
11.11.2004).] is communicated to it, to the Central Government:Provided that
before rejecting an appeal such company shall be given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard.(3)A [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by
Act No. 44 of 2016.] which is holding investments of [qualified buyers]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] and whose application for grant of
certificate of registration has been rejected or certificate of registration
has been cancelled shall, notwithstanding such rejection or cancellation, be
deemed to be a [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of
2016.] until it repays the entire investments held by it (together with
interest, if any) within such period as the Reserve Bank may direct.

### 5. Acquisition of rights or interest in financial assets.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement or any other law for
the time being in force, any [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by
Act No. 44 of 2016.] may acquire financial assets of any bank or financial
institution,(a)by issuing a debenture or bond or any other security in the
nature of the debenture, for consideration agreed upon between such company
and the bank or financial institution, incorporating therein such terms and
conditions as may be agreed upon between them; or(b)by entering into an
agreement with such bank or financial institution for the transfer of such
financial assets to such company on such terms and conditions as may be agreed
upon between them.(1A)[ Any document executed by any bank or financial
institution under sub-section (1) in favour of the asset reconstruction
company acquiring financial assets for the purposes of asset reconstruction or
securitisation shall be exempted from stamp duty in accordance with the
provisions of section 8F of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899:Provided that the
provisions of this sub-section shall not apply where the acquisition of the
financial assets by the asset reconstruction company is for the purposes other
than asset reconstruction or securitisation.] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of
2016.](2)If the bank or financial institution is a lender in relation to any
financial assets acquired under sub-section (1) by the [asset reconstruction
company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.], such [asset reconstruction
company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] shall, on such acquisition, be
deemed to be the lender and all the rights of such bank or financial
institution shall vest in such company in relation to such financial
assets.(2A)[ If the bank or financial institution is holding any right, title
or interest upon any tangible asset or intangible asset to secure payment of
any unpaid portion of the purchase price of such asset or an obligation
incurred or credit otherwise provided to enable the borrower to acquire the
tangible asset or assignment or licence of intangible asset, such right, title
or interest shall vest in the asset reconstruction company on acquisition of
such assets under sub-section (1).] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.](3)Unless
otherwise expressly provided by this Act, all contracts, deeds, bonds,
agreements, powers-of-attorney, grants of legal representation, permissions,
approvals, consents or no-objections under any law or otherwise and other
instruments of whatever nature which relate to the said financial asset and
which are subsisting or having effect immediately before the acquisition of
financial asset under sub-section (1) and to which the concerned bank or
financial institution is a party or which are in favour of such bank or
financial institution shall, after the acquisition of the financial assets, be
of as full force and effect against or in favour of the [asset reconstruction
company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] as the case may be, and may be
enforced or acted upon as fully and effectually as if, in the place of the
said bank or financial institution, [asset reconstruction company]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] as the case may be, had been a party
thereto or as if they had been issued in favour of [asset reconstruction
company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] as the case may be.(4)If, on the
date of acquisition of financial asset under sub-section (1), any suit, appeal
or other proceeding of whatever nature relating to the said financial asset is
pending by or against the bank or financial institution, save as provided in
the third proviso to sub-section (1) of section 15 of the Sick Industrial
Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (1 of 1986) the same shall not abate,
or be discontinued or be, in any way, prejudicially affected by reason of the
acquisition of financial asset by the [asset reconstruction company]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] as the case may be, but the suit, appeal
or other proceeding may be continued, prosecuted and enforced by or against
the [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] as the
case may be.(5)[ On acquisition of financial assets under sub-section (1), the
[asset reconstruction company] [Inserted by Act No.1 OF 2013] may with the
consent of the originator, file an application before the Debts Recovery
Tribunal or the Appellate Tribunal or any court or other Authority for the
purpose of substitution of its name in any pending suit, appeal or other
proceedings and on receipt of such application, such Debts Recovery Tribunal
or the Appellate Tribunal or court or Authority shall pass orders for the
substitution of the [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44
of 2016.] in such pending suit, appeal or other proceedings.][5-A. Transfer of
pending applications to any one of Debts Recovery Tribunals in certain cases.
[Inserted by the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws
(Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 5 (w.e.f. 11.11.2004).](1)If any
financial asset, of a borrower acquired by a [asset reconstruction company]
comprise of secured debts of more than one bank or financial institution for
recovery of which such banks or financial institutions has filed applications
before two or more Debts Recovery Tribunals, the [asset reconstruction
company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] may file an application to the
Appellate Tribunal having jurisdiction over any of such Tribunals in which
such applications are pending for transfer of all pending applications to any
one of the Debts Recovery Tribunals as it deems fit.(2)On receipt of such
application for transfer of all pending applications under sub-section (1),
the Appellate Tribunal may, after giving the parties to the application an
opportunity of being heard, pass an order for transfer of the pending
applications to any one of the Debts Recovery Tribunals.(3)Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial
Institutions Act, 1993 (51of 1993), any order passed by the Appellate Tribunal
under sub-section (2)shall be binding on all the Debts Recovery Tribunals
referred to in sub-section (1) as if such order had been passed by the
Appellate Tribunal having jurisdiction on each such Debts Recovery
Tribunal.(4)Any recovery certificate, issued by the Debts Recovery Tribunal to
which all the pending applications are transferred under sub-section (2),
shall be executed in accordance with the provisions contained in sub-section
(23) of section 19 and other provisions of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks
and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of 1993) shall, accordingly, apply to
such execution.]

### 6. Notice to obligor and discharge of obligation of such obligor.

(1)The bank or financial institution may, if it considers appropriate, give a
notice of acquisition of financial assets by any [asset reconstruction
company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] to the concerned obligor and any
other concerned person and to the concerned registering authority (including
Registrar of Companies)in whose jurisdiction the mortgage, charge,
hypothecation, assignment or other interest created on the financial assets
had been registered.(2)Where a notice of acquisition of financial asset under
sub-section (1) is given by a bank or financial institution, the obligor, on
receipt of such notice, shall make payment to the concerned [asset
reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] as the case may
be, and payment made to such company in discharge of any of the obligations in
relation to the financial asset specified in the notice shall be a full
discharge to the obligor making the payment from all liability in respect of
such payment .(3)Where no notice of acquisition of financial asset under sub-
section (1) is given by any bank or financial institution, any money or other
properties subsequently received by the bank or financial institution, shall
constitute monies or properties held in trust for the benefit of and on behalf
of the [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] as
the case may be, and such bank or financial institution shall hold such
payment or property which shall forthwith be made over or delivered to such
[asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] as the
case may be, or its agent duly authorised in this behalf.

### 7. Issue of security by raising of receipts or funds by [asset
reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.].

(1)Without prejudice to the provisions contained in the Companies Act, 1956 (1
of 1956), the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) and the
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), any [asset
reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] may, after
acquisition of any financial asset under sub-section (1) of section 5, offer
security receipts to [qualified buyers] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]
[or such other category of investors including non-institutional investors as
may be specified by the Reserve Bank in consultation with the Board, from time
to time,] [Substituted 'other than by offer to public' by Act No. 44 of 2016.]
for subscription in accordance with the provisions of those Acts.(2)A [asset
reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] may raise funds
from the [qualified buyers] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] by
formulating schemes for acquiring financial assets and shall keep and maintain
separate and distinct accounts in respect of each such scheme for every
financial asset acquired out of investments made by a [qualified buyer]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] and ensure that realisations of such
financial asset is held and applied towards redemption of investments and
payment of returns assured on such investments under the relevant
scheme.[(2-A)(a) The scheme for the purpose of offering security receipts
under sub-section (1) or raising funds under sub-section (2), may be in the
nature of a trust to be managed by the [asset reconstruction company]
[Inserted by the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws
(Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 6, (w.e.f. 11.11.2004.] and the
[asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] shall hold
the assets so acquired or the funds so raised for acquiring the assets, in
trust for the benefit of the [qualified buyers] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of
2016.] holding the security receipts or from whom the funds are raised.(b)The
provisions of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (2 of 1882) shall, except in so far
as they are inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, apply with respect
to the trust referred to in clause (a) above.](3)In the event of non-
realisation under sub-section (2) of financial assets, the [qualified buyers]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] of a [asset reconstruction company]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] holding security receipts of not less
than seventy-five per cent. of the total value of the [security receipts
issued under a scheme by such company] [Substituted by the Enforcement of
Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of
2004), Section 6, for "security receipts issued by such company" (w.e.f.
11.11.2004).], shall be entitled to call a meeting of all the [qualified
buyers] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] and every resolution passed in
such meeting shall be binding on the company.(4)The [qualified buyers]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] shall, at a meeting called under sub-
section (3), follow the same procedure, as nearly as possible as is followed
at meetings of the board of directors of the [asset reconstruction company]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] as the case may be.

### 8. Exemption from registration of security receipt.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 17 of the
Registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908),(a)any security receipt issued by the
[asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] as the
case may be, under sub-section (1) of section 7, and not creating, declaring
assigning, limiting or extinguishing any right, title or interest, to or in
immovable property except insofar as it entitles the holder of the security
receipt to an undivided interest afforded by a registered instrument; or(b)any
transfer of security receipts,shall not require compulsory registration.

### 9. [ Measures for assets reconstruction. [Substituted by Act No. 44 of
2016.]

(1)Without prejudice to the provisions contained in any other law for the time
being in force, an asset reconstruction company may, for the purposes of asset
reconstruction, provide for any one or more of the following measures,
namely:-(a)the proper management of the business of the borrower, by change
in, or take over of, the management of the business of the borrower;(b)the
sale or lease of a part or whole of the business of the
borrower;(c)rescheduling of payment of debts payable by the
borrower;(d)enforcement of security interest in accordance with the provisions
of this Act;(e)settlement of dues payable by the borrower;(f)taking possession
of secured assets in accordance with the provisions of this Act;(g)conversion
of any portion of debt into shares of a borrower company:Provided that
conversion of any part of debt into shares of a borrower company shall be
deemed always to have been valid, as if the provisions of this clause were in
force at all material times.(2)The Reserve Bank shall, for the purposes of
sub-section (1), determine the policy and issue necessary directions including
the direction for regulation of management of the business of the borrower and
fees to be charged.(3)The asset reconstruction company shall take measures
under sub-section (1) in accordance with policies and directions of the
Reserve Bank determined under sub-section (2).]

9\. Measures for assets reconstruction.- Without prejudice to the provisions
contained in any other law for the time being in force, a asset reconstruction
company may, for the purposes of asset reconstruction, having regard to the
guidelines framed by the Reserve Bank in this behalf, provide for any one or
more of the following measures, namely:(a) the proper management of the
business of the borrower, by change in, or take over of, the management of the
business of the borrower;(b) the sale or lease of a part or whole of the
business of the borrower;(c) rescheduling of payment of debts payable by the
borrower;(d) enforcement of security interest in accordance with the
provisions of this Act;(e) settlement of dues payable by the borrower;(f)
taking possession of secured assets in accordance with the provisions of this
Act.(g) [ to convert any portion of debt into shares of a borrower company
:-Provided that conversion of any part of debt into shares of a borrower
company shall be deemed always to have been valid, as if the provisions of
this clause were in force at all material times.] [Inserted by Act No.1 OF
2013]  
---  
  
### 10. Other functions of [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act
No. 44 of 2016.].

(1)Any [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]
registered under section 3may(a)act as an agent for any bank or financial
institution for the purpose of recovering their dues from the borrower on
payment of such fees or charges as may be mutually agreed upon between the
parties;(b)act as a manager referred to in clause (c) of sub-section (4) of
section 13 on such fee as may be mutually agreed upon between the
parties;(c)act as receiver if appointed by any Court or tribunal:Provided that
no [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] shall
act as a manager if acting as such gives rise to any pecuniary
liability.(2)Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (1), no [asset
reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] which has been
granted a certificate of registration under sub-section (4) of section 3,
shall commence or carry on, without prior approval of the Reserve Bank, any
business other than that of securitisation or asset reconstruction:Provided
that a [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]
which is carrying on, on or before the commencement of this Act, any business
other than the business of securitisation or asset reconstruction or business
referred to in sub-section (1), shall cease to carry on any such business
within one year from the date of commencement of this Act.Explanation. For the
purposes of this section, [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act
No. 44 of 2016.] does not include its subsidiary.

### 11. Resolution of disputes.

\- Where any dispute relating to securitisation or reconstruction or non-
payment of any amount due including interest arises amongst any of the
parties, namely, the bank or financial institution or [asset reconstruction
company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] or [qualified buyer]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.], such dispute shall be settled by
conciliation or arbitration as provided in the Arbitration and Conciliation
Act, 1996 (26 of 1996), as if the parties to the dispute have consented in
writing for determination of such dispute by conciliation or arbitration and
the provisions of that Act shall apply accordingly.

### 12. Power of Reserve Bank to determine policy and issue directions.

(1)If the Reserve Bank is satisfied that in the public interest or to regulate
financial system of the country to its advantage or to prevent the affairs of
any [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] from
being conducted in a manner detrimental to the interest of investors or in any
manner prejudicial to the interest of such [asset reconstruction company]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] it is necessary or expedient so to do, it
may determine the policy and give directions to all or any [asset
reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] in matters
relating to income recognition, accounting standards, making provisions for
bad and doubtful debts, capital adequacy based on risk weights for assets and
also relating to deployment of funds by the [asset reconstruction company]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] as the case may be, and such company
shall be bound to follow the policy so determined and the directions so
issued.(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the power vested under sub-
section (1), the Reserve Bank may give directions to any [asset reconstruction
company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] generally or to a class of
[asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] or to any
[asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] in
particular as to(a)the type of financial asset of a bank or financial
institution which can be acquired and procedure for acquisition of such assets
and valuation thereof;(b)the aggregate value of financial assets which may be
acquired by any [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of
2016.].(c)[ the fee and other charges which may be charged or incurred for
management of financial assets acquired by any asset reconstruction company;
[Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.](d)transfer of security receipts issued to
qualified buyers.]

### 12A. [ Power of Reserve Bank to call for statements and information.
[Inserted by the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws
(Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 7 (w.e.f. 11.11.2004).]

\- The Reserve Bank may at any time direct a [asset reconstruction company] to
furnish it within such time as may be specified by the Reserve Bank, with such
statements and information relating to the business or affairs of such [asset
reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] (including any
business or affairs with which such company is concerned) as the Reserve Bank
may consider necessary or expedient to obtain for the purposes of this Act.]

### 12B. [ Power of Reserve Bank to carry out audit and inspection. [Inserted
by Act No. 44 of 2016.]

(1)The Reserve Bank may, for the purposes of this Act, carry out or caused to
be carried out audit and inspection of an asset reconstruction company from
time to time.(2)It shall be the duty of an asset reconstruction company and
its officers to provide assistance and cooperation to the Reserve Bank to
carry out audit or inspection under sub-section (1).(3)Where on audit or
inspection or otherwise, the Reserve Bank is satisfied that business of an
asset reconstruction company is being conducted in a manner detrimental to
public interest or to the interests of investors in security receipts issued
by such asset reconstruction company, the Reserve Bank may, for securing
proper management of an asset reconstruction company, by an order-(a)remove
the Chairman or any director or appoint additional directors on the board of
directors of the asset reconstruction company; or(b)appoint any of its
officers as an observer to observe the working of the board of directors of
such asset reconstruction company:Provided that no order for removal of
Chairman or director under clause (a) shall be made except after giving him an
opportunity of being heard.(4)It shall be the duty of every director or other
officer or employee of the asset reconstruction company to produce before the
person, conducting an audit or inspection under sub-section (1), all such
books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and to provide
him such statements and information relating to the affairs of the asset
reconstruction company as may be required by such person within the stipulated
time specified by him.]

## Chapter III  
Enforcement Of Security Interest

### 13. Enforcement of security interest.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 69 or section 69-A of the
Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882), any security interest created in
favour of any secured creditor may be enforced, without the intervention of
the Court or tribunal, by such creditor in accordance with the provisions of
this Act.(2)Where any borrower, who is under a liability to a secured creditor
under a security agreement, makes any default in repayment of secured debt or
any installment thereof, and his account in respect of such debt is classified
by the secured creditor as non-performing asset, then, the secured creditor
may require the borrower by notice in writing to discharge in full his
liabilities to the secured creditor within sixty days from the date of notice
failing which the secured creditor shall be entitled to exercise all or any of
the rights under sub-section (4).[Provided that-(i)the requirement of
classification of secured debt as non-performing asset under this sub-section
shall not apply to a borrower who has raised funds through issue of debt
securities; and(ii)in the event of default, the debenture trustee shall be
entitled to enforce security interest in the same manner as provided under
this section with such modifications as may be necessary and in accordance
with the terms and conditions of security documents executed in favour of the
debenture trustee;](3)The notice referred to in sub-section (2) shall give
details of the amount payable by the borrower and the secured assets intended
to be enforced by the secured creditor in the event of non-payment of secured
debts by the borrower.[(3-A) If, on receipt of the notice under sub-section
(2), the borrower makes any representation or raises any objection, the
secured creditor shall consider such representation or objection and if the
secured creditor comes to the conclusion that such representation or objection
is not acceptable or tenable, he shall communicate [within fifteen days]
[Inserted by the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws
(Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 8 (w.e.f. 11.11.2004).] of receipt
of such representation or objection the reasons for non-acceptance of the
representation or objection to the borrower:Provided that the reasons so
communicated or the likely action of the secured creditor at the stage of
communication of reasons shall not confer any right upon the borrower to
prefer an application to the Debts Recovery Tribunal under section 17 or the
Court of District Judge under section 17-A.] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of
2016.](4)In case the borrower fails to discharge his liability in full within
the period specified in sub-section (2), the secured creditor may take
recourse to one or more of the following measures to recover his secured debt,
namely:(a)take possession of the secured assets of the borrower including the
right to transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale for realising the
secured asset;(b)[ take over the management of the business of the borrower
including the right to transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale for
realising the secured asset: [Substituted by the Enforcement of Security
Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004, Section 8 (30 of
2004), for Cl.(b) (w.e.f. 11.11.2004).]Provided that the right to transfer by
way of lease, assignment or sale shall be exercised only where the substantial
part of the business of the borrower is held as security for the debt:Provided
further that where the management of whole of the business or part of the
business is severable, the secured creditor shall take over the management of
such business of the borrower which is relatable to the security for the
debt.]

Prior to its substitution, Clause(b) read;(b) take over the management of the
secured assets of the borrower including the right to transfer by way of
lease, assignment or sale and realise the secured asset;  
---  
  
(c)appoint any person (hereafter referred to as the manager), to manage the
secured assets the possession of which has been taken over by the secured
creditor;(d)require at any time by notice in writing, any person who has
acquired any of the secured assets from the borrower and from whom any money
is due or may become due to the borrower, to pay the secured creditor, so much
of the money as is sufficient to pay the secured debt.(5)Any payment made by
any person referred to in clause (d) of sub-section (4) to the secured
creditor shall give such person a valid discharge as if he has made payment to
the borrower.(5A)[ Where the sale of an immovable property, for which a
reserve price has been specified, has been postponed for want of a bid of an
amount not less than such reserve price, it shall be lawful for any officer of
the secured creditor, if so authorised by the secured creditor in this behalf,
to bid for the immovable property on behalf of the secured creditor at any
subsequent sale.(5B)Where the secured creditor, referred to in sub-section
(5A), is declared to be the purchaser of the immovable property at any
subsequent sale, the amount of the purchase price shall be adjusted towards
the amount of the claim of the secured creditor for which the auction of
enforcement of security interest is taken by the secured creditor, Under sub-
section (4) of section 13.(5C)The provisions of section 9 of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 shall, as far as may be, apply to the immovable property
acquired by secured creditor under sub-section (5A).] [Inserted by Act No. 1
of 2013](6)Any transfer of secured asset after taking possession thereof or
take over of management under sub-section (4), by the secured creditor or by
the manager on behalf of the secured creditor shall vest in the transferee all
rights in, or in relation to, the secured asset transferred as if the transfer
had been made by the owner of such secured asset.(7)Where any action has been
taken against a borrower under the provisions of sub-section (4), all costs,
charges and expenses which, in the opinion of the secured creditor, have been
properly incurred by him or any expenses incidental thereto, shall be
recoverable from the borrower and the money which is received by the secured
creditor shall, in the absence of any contract to the contrary, be held by him
in trust, to be applied, firstly, in payment of such costs, charges and
expenses and secondly, in discharge of the dues of the secured creditor and
the residue of the money so received shall be paid to the person entitled
thereto in accordance with his rights and interests.(8)[ Where the amount of
dues of the secured creditor together with all costs, charges and expenses
incurred by him is tendered to the secured creditor at any time before the
date of publication of notice for public auction or inviting quotations or
tender from public or private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment
or sale of the secured assets,-(i)the secured assets shall not be transferred
by way of lease assignment or sale by the secured creditor; and(ii)in case,
any step has been taken by the secured creditor for transfer by way of lease
or assignment or sale of the assets before tendering of such amount under this
subsection, no further step shall be taken by such secured creditor for
transfer by way of lease or assignment or sale of such secured
assets.](9)[Subject to the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code,
2016, in the case of] [Substituted 'In the case of' by Insolvency and
Bankruptcy Code, 2016, Section 251.] financing of a financial asset by more
than one secured creditors or joint financing of a financial asset by secured
creditors, no secured creditor shall be entitled to exercise any or all of the
rights conferred on him under or pursuant to sub-section (4) unless exercise
of such right is agreed upon by the secured creditors representing not less
than [sixty per cent.] [Substituted for the words "three-fourth" by Act No. 1
OF 2013] in value of the amount outstanding as on a record date and such
action shall be binding on all the secured creditors:Provided that in the case
of a company in liquidation, the amount realised from the sale of secured
assets shall be distributed in accordance with the provisions of section 529-A
of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956):Provided further that in the case of a
company being wound up on or after the commencement of this Act, the secured
creditor of such company, who opts to realise his security instead of
relinquishing his security and proving his debt under proviso to sub-section
(1) of section 529 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1of 1956), may retain the sale
proceeds of his secured assets after depositing the workmens dues with the
liquidator in accordance with the provisions of section 529-A of that
Act:Provided also that the liquidator referred to in the second proviso shall
intimate the secured creditor the workmens dues in accordance with the
provisions of section 529-A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and in case
such workmens dues cannot be ascertained, the liquidator shall intimate the
estimated amount of workmens dues under that section to the secured creditor
and in such case the secured creditor may retain the sale proceeds of the
secured assets after depositing the amount of such estimated dues with the
liquidator:Provided also that in case the secured creditor deposits the
estimated amount of workmens dues, such creditor shall be liable to pay the
balance of the workmens dues or entitled to receive the excess amount, if any,
deposited by the secured creditor with the liquidator:Provided also that the
secured creditor shall furnish an undertaking to the liquidator to pay the
balance of the workmens dues, if any.Explanation. For the purposes of this
sub-section,(a)record date means the date agreed upon by the secured creditors
representing not less than three-fourth in value of the amount outstanding on
such date;(b)amount outstanding shall include principal, interest and any
other dues payable by the borrower to the secured creditor in respect of
secured asset as per the books of account of the secured creditor.(10)Where
dues of the secured creditor are not fully satisfied with the sale proceeds of
the secured assets, the secured creditor may file an application in the form
and manner as may be prescribed to the Debts Recovery Tribunal having
jurisdiction or a competent Court, as the case may be, for recovery of the
balance amount from the borrower.(11)Without prejudice to the rights conferred
on the secured creditor under or by this section, the secured creditor shall
be entitled to proceed against the guarantors or sell the pledged assets
without first taking any of the measures specified in clauses (a)to (d) of
sub-section (4) in relation to the secured assets under this Act.(12)The
rights of a secured creditor under this Act may be exercised by one or more of
his officers authorised in this behalf in such manner as may be
prescribed.(13)No borrower shall, after receipt of notice referred to in sub-
section (2), transfer by way of sale, lease or otherwise (other than in the
ordinary course of his business) any of his secured assets referred to in the
notice, without prior written consent of the secured creditor.

### 14. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate to assist secured
creditor in taking possession of secured asset.

(1)Where the possession of any secured asset is required to be taken by the
secured creditor or if any of the secured asset is required to be sold or
transferred by the secured creditor under the provisions of this Act, the
secured creditor may, for the purpose of taking possession or control of any
such secured asset, request, in writing, the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or
the District Magistrate within whose jurisdiction any such secured asset or
other documents relating thereto may be situated or found, to take possession
thereof, and the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or, as the case may be, the
District Magistrate shall, on such request being made to him(a)take possession
of such asset and documents relating thereto; and(b)forward such asset and
documents to the secured creditor.[Provided that any application by the
secured creditor shall be accompanied by an affidavit duly affirmed by the
authorised officer of the secured creditor, declaring that-(i)the aggregate
amount of financial assistance granted and the total claim of the Bank as on
the date of filing the application;(ii)the borrower has created security
interest over various properties and that the Bank or Financial Institution is
holding a valid and subsisting security interest over such properties and the
claim of the Bank or Financial Institution is within the limitation
period;(iii)the borrower has created security interest over various properties
giving the details of properties referred to in sub-clause (ii) above.(iv)the
borrower has committed default in repayment of the financial assistance
granted aggregating the specified amount;(v)consequent upon such default in
repayment of the fInancial assistance the account of the borrower has been
classified as a nonperforming asset;(vi)affirming that the period of sixty
days notice as required by the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 13,
demanding payment of the defaulted financial assistance has been served on the
borrower;(vii)the objection or representation in reply to the notice received
from the borrower has been considered by the secured creditor and reasons for
non-acceptance of such objection or representation had been communicated to
the borrower;(viii)the borrower has not made any repayment of the financial
assistance in spite of the above notice and the Authorised Officer is,
therefore, entitled to take possession of the secl1red assets under the
provisions of sub-section (4) of section 13 read with section 14 of the
principal Act;(ix)that the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder had been complied with:Provided further that on receipt of the
affidavit from the Authorised Officer, the District Magistrate or the Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, shall after satisfying the
contents of the affidavit pass suitable orders for the purpose of taking
possession of the secured assets [within a period of thirty days from the date
of application] [Inserted by Act No. 1 of 2013]:-Provided also that the
requirement of filing affidavit stated in the first proviso shall not apply to
proceeding pending before any District Magistrate or the Chief Metropolitan
Magistrate, as the case may be, on the date of commencement of this Act.]
[Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.][Provided further that if no order is
passed by the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate within the
said period of thirty days for reasons beyond his control, he may, after
recording reasons in writing for the same, pass the order within such further
period but not exceeding in aggregate sixty days.] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of
2016.](1A)[ The District Magistrate or the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate may
authorise any officer subordinate to him,-(i)to take possession of such assets
and documents relating thereto; and(ii)to forward such assets and documents to
the secured creditor.](2)For the purpose of securing compliance with the
provisions of sub-section (1), the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or the
District Magistrate may take or cause to be taken such steps and use, or cause
to be used, such force, as may, in his opinion, be necessary.(3)No act of the
Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or the District Magistrate [any officer
authorised by the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate]
[Inserted by Act No. 1 of 2013] done in pursuance of this section shall be
called in question in any Court or before any authority.

### 15. Manner and effect of take over of management.

(1)[When the management of business of a borrower is taken over by a [asset
reconstruction company] [Substituted by the Enforcement of Security Interest
and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 9, for
"When the management of business of a borrower is taken over by a secured
creditor" (w.e.f. 11.11.2004).] under clause (a) of section 9 or, as the case
may be, by a secured creditor under clause (b) of sub-section (4) of section
13] [Inserted by Act No. 1 of 2013], the secured creditor may, by publishing a
notice in a newspaper published in English language and in a newspaper
published in an Indian language in circulation in the place where the
principal office of the borrower is situated, appoint as many persons as it
thinks fit(a)in a case in which the borrower is a company as defined in the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), to be the directors of that borrower in
accordance with the provisions of that Act;or(b)in any other case, to be the
administrator of the business of the borrower.(2)On publication of a notice
under sub-section (1),(a)in any case where the borrower is a company as
defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), all persons holding office as
directors of the company and in any other case, all persons holding any office
having power of superintendence, direction and control of the business of the
borrower immediately before the publication of the notice under sub-section
(1), shall be deemed to have vacated their offices as such;(b)any contract of
management between the borrower and any director or manager thereof holding
office as such immediately before publication of the notice under sub-section
(1), shall be deemed to be terminated;(c)the directors or the administrators
appointed under this section shall take such steps as may be necessary to take
into their custody or under their control all the property, effects and
actionable claims to which the business of the borrower is, or appears to be,
entitled and all the property and effects of the business of the borrower
shall be deemed to be in the custody of the directors or administrators, as
the case may be, as from the date of the publication of the notice;(d)the
directors appointed under this section shall, for all purposes, be the
directors of the company of the borrower and such directors or as the case may
be, the administrators appointed under this section, shall alone be entitled
to exercise all the powers of the directors or as the case may be, of the
persons exercising powers of superintendence, direction and control, of the
business of the borrower whether such powers are derived from the memorandum
or articles of association of the company of the borrower or from any other
source whatsoever.(3)Where the management of the business of a borrower, being
a company as defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), is taken over by
the secured creditor, then, notwithstanding anything contained in the said Act
or in the memorandum or articles of association of such borrower,(a)it shall
not be lawful for the shareholders of such company or any other person to
nominate or appoint any person to be a director of the company;(b)no
resolution passed at any meeting of the shareholders of such company shall be
given effect to unless approved by the secured creditor;(c)no proceeding for
the winding up of such company or for the appointment of a receiver in respect
thereof shall lie in any Court, except with the consent of the secured
creditor.(4)Where the management of the business of a borrower had been taken
over by the secured creditor, the secured creditor shall, on realisation of
his debt in full, restore the management of the business of the borrower to
him.[Provided that if any secured creditor jointly with other secured
creditors or any asset reconstruction company or financial institution or any
other assignee has converted part of its debt into shares of a borrower
company and thereby acquired controlling interest in the borrower company,
such secured creditors shall not be liable to restore the management of the
business to such borrower.] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]

### 16. No compensation to directors for loss of office.

(1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any contract or in
any other law for the time being in force, no managing director or any other
director or a manager or any person in charge of management of the business of
the borrower shall be entitled to any compensation for the loss of office or
for the premature termination under this Act of any contract or management
entered into by him with the borrower.(2)Nothing contained in sub-section
(1)shall affect the right of any such managing director or any other director
or manager or any such person in charge of management to recover from the
business of the borrower, moneys recoverable otherwise than by way of such
compensation.

### 17. [Application against measures to recover secured debts.] [Substituted
'Right to appeal' by Act No. 44 of 2016.]

(1)Any person (including borrower), aggrieved by any of the measures referred
to in sub-section (4) of section 13 taken by the secured creditor or his
authorised officer under this Chapter, [may make an application alongwith such
fee, as may be prescribed,] [Substituted by the Enforcement of Security
Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004),
Section 10, for "may prefer an appeal" (w.r.e.f. 21.6.2002).] to the Debts
Recovery Tribunal having jurisdiction in the matter within forty-five days
from the date on which such measures had been taken:[Provided that different
fees may be prescribed for making the application by the borrower and the
person other than the borrower.] [Inserted by the Enforcement of Security
Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004),
Section 10 (w.r.e.f. 21.6.2002).][Explanation. For the removal of doubts, it
is hereby declared that the communication of the reasons to the borrower by
the secured creditor for not having accepted his representation or objection
or the likely action of the secured creditor at the stage of communication of
reasons to the borrower shall not entitle the person (including borrower) to
make an application to the Debts Recovery Tribunal under this sub-section.]
[Inserted by the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws
(Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 10 (w.r.e.f. 11.11.2004).](1A)[ An
application under sub-section (1) shall be filed before the Debts Recovery
Tribunal within the local limits of whose jurisdiction-(a)the cause of action,
wholly or in part, arises;(b)where the secured asset is located; or(c)the
branch or any other office of a bank or financial institution is maintaining
an account in which debt claimed is outstanding for the time being.](2)[ The
Debts Recovery Tribunal shall consider whether any of the measures referred to
in sub-section (4) of section 13 taken by the secured creditor for enforcement
of security are in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules
made thereunder.] [ Sub-sections (2) and (3) substituted by the Enforcement of
Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of
2004), Section 10, (w.e.f. 11-11-2004)](3)[ If, the Debts Recovery Tribunal,
after examining the facts and circumstances of the case and evidence produced
by the parties, comes to the conclusion that any of the measures referred to
in sub-section (4) of section 13, taken by the secured creditor are not in
accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder, and
require restoration of the management or restoration of possession, of the
secured assets to the borrower or other aggrieved person, it may, by
order,-(a)declare the recourse to any one or more measures referred to in sub-
section (4) of section 13 taken by the secured creditor as invalid;
and(b)restore the possession of secured assets or management of secured assets
to the borrower or such other aggrieved person, who has made an application
under sub-section (1), as the case may be; and(c)pass such other direction as
it may consider appropriate and necessary in relation to any of the recourse
taken by the secured creditor under sub-section (4) of section 13.](4)If, the
Debts Recovery Tribunal declares the recourse taken by a secured creditor
under sub-section (4) of section 13, is in accordance with the provisions of
this Act and the rules made thereunder, then, notwithstanding anything
contained in any other law for the time being in force, the secured creditor
shall be entitled to take recourse to one or more of the measures specified
under sub-section (4) of section 13 to recover his secured debt.(4A)[
Where-(i)any person, in an application under sub-section (1), claims any
tenancy or leasehold rights upon the secured asset, the Debt Recovery
Tribunal, after examining the facts of the case and evidence produced by the
parties in relation to such claims shall, for the purposes of enforcement of
security interest, have the jurisdiction to examine whether lease or
tenancy,-(a)has expired or stood determined; or(b)is contrary to section 65A
of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882; or(c)is contrary to terms of mortgage;
or(d)is created after the issuance of notice of default and demand by the Bank
under sub-section (2) of section 13 of the Act; and(ii)the Debt Recovery
Tribunal is satisfied that tenancy right or leasehold rights claimed in
secured asset falls under the sub-clause (a) or sub-clause (b) or sub-clause
(c) or sub-clause (d) of clause (i), then notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in any other law for the time being in force, the Debt
Recovery Tribunal may pass such order as it deems fit in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.](5)Any application made under sub-section (1) shall be
dealt with by the Debts Recovery Tribunal as expeditiously as possible and
disposed of within sixty days from the date of such application:Provided that
the Debts Recovery Tribunal may, from time to time, extend the said period for
reasons to be recorded in writing, so, however, that the total period of
pendency of the application with the Debts Recovery Tribunal, shall not exceed
four months from the date of making of such application made under sub-section
(1).(6)If the application is not disposed of by the Debts Recovery Tribunal
within the period of four months as specified in sub-section (5), any party to
the application may make an application, in such form as may be prescribed, to
the Appellate Tribunal for directing the Debts Recovery Tribunal for
expeditious disposal of the application pending before the Debts Recovery
Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal may, on such application, make an order
for expeditious disposal of the pending application by the Debts Recovery
Tribunal.(7)Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the Debts Recovery
Tribunal shall, as far as may be, dispose of the application in accordance
with the provisions of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial
Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of 1993) and the rules made thereunder.[Inserted by
Act No. 44 of 2016.]

Prior to their substitution, sub-Sections (2) and (3) read as under:-(2) Where
an appeal is preferred by a borrower, such appeal shall not be entertained by
the Debts Recovery Tribunal unless the borrower has deposited with the Debts
Recovery Tribunal seventy-five per cent.of the amount claimed in the notice
referred to in sub-section (2) of section 13:Provided that the Debts Recovery
Tribunal may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, waive or reduce the
amount to be deposited under this section.(3) Save as otherwise provided in
this Act, the Debts Recovery Tribunal shall, as far as may be, dispose of the
appeal in accordance with the provisions of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks
and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of 1993) and rules made thereunder."  
---  
  
[17-A. Making of application to Court of District Judge in certain cases.
[Inserted by the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws
(Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 11 (w.e.f. 11.11.2004).] \- In the
case of a borrower residing in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, the application
under section 17 shall be made to the Court of District Judge in that State
having jurisdiction over the borrower which shall pass an order on such
application.Explanation. For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that
the communication of the reasons to the borrower by the secured creditor for
not having accepted his representation or objection or the likely action of
the secured creditor at the stage of communication of reasons shall not
entitle the person (including borrower) to make an application to the Court of
District Judge under this section.] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]

### 18. Appeal to Appellate Tribunal.

(1)Any person aggrieved, by any order made by the Debts Recovery Tribunal
[under section 17, may prefer an appeal alongwith such fee, as may be
prescribed] [Substituted by the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery
of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 12, for "under
section 17, may prefer an appeal" (w.r.e.f. 21.6.2002).] to the Appellate
Tribunal within thirty days from the date of receipt of the order of Debts
Recovery Tribunal:[Provided that different fees may be prescribed for filing
an appeal by the borrower or by the person other than the borrower:] [Inserted
by the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment)
Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 12 (w.r.e.f. 21.6.2002).][Provided further
that no appeal shall be entertained unless the borrower has deposited with the
Appellate Tribunal fifty per cent. of the amount of debt due from him, as
claimed by the secured creditors or determined by the Debts Recovery Tribunal,
whichever is less:Provided also that the Appellate Tribunal may, for the
reasons to be recorded in writing, reduce the amount to not less than twenty-
five per cent. of debt referred to in the second proviso.] [Inserted by the
Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act,
2004 (30 of 2004), Section 12 (w.e.f. 11.11.2004).](2)Save as otherwise
provided in this Act, the Appellate Tribunal shall, as far as may be, dispose
of the appeal in accordance with the provisions of the Recovery of Debts Due
to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of 1993) and rules made
thereunder.[18-A. Validation of fees levied. [Inserted by the Enforcement of
Securtity Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of
2004), Section 13 (w.e.f. 11.11.2004).]\- - Any fee levied and collected for
preferring, before the commencement of the Enforcement of Security Interest
and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004, an appeal to the Debts
Recovery Tribunal or the Appellate Tribunal under this Act, shall be deemed
always to have been levied and collected in accordance with law as if
amendments made to sections 17 and 18 of this Act by sections 11 and 12 of the
said Act were in force at all material times.

### 18\.

-B. Appeal to High Court in certain cases.\- Any borrower residing in the State of Jammu and Kashmir and aggrieved by any order made by the Court of District Judge under section 17-A may prefer an appeal, to the High Court having jurisdiction over such Court, within thirty days from the date of receipt of the order of the Court of District Judge:Provided that no appeal shall be preferred unless the borrower has deposited, with the Jammu and Kashmir High Court, fifty per cent. of the amount of the debt due from him as claimed by the secured creditor or determined by the Court of District Judge, whichever is less:Provided further that the High Court may, for the reasons to be recorded in writing, reduce the amount to not less than twenty-five per cent. of the debt referred to in the first proviso.] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.][18C. Right to lodge a caveat. -(1) Where an application or an appeal is expected to be made or has been made under sub-section (1) of section 17 or section 17A or sub-section (1) of section 18 section 18B, the secured creditor or any person claiming a right to appear before the Tribunal or the Court of District Judge or the Appellate Tribunal or the High Court, as the case may be, on the hearing of such application or appeal, may lodge a caveat in respect thereof.(2)Where a caveat has been lodged under sub-section (1),-(a)the secured creditor by whom the caveat has been lodged (hereafter in this section referred to as the caveator) shall serve notice of the caveat by registered post, acknowledgement due, on the person by whom the application . has been or is expected to be made under sub-section (1);(b)any person by whom the caveat has been lodged (hereafter in this section referred to as the caveator) shall serve notice of the caveat by registered post, acknowledgement due, on the person by whom the application has been or is expected to be made under sub-section (1).(3)Where after a caveat has been lodged under sub-section (1), any application or appeal is filed before the Tribunal or the court of District Judge or the Appellate Tribunal or the High Court, as the case may be, the Tribunal or the District Judge or the Appellate Tribunal or the High Court, as the case may be, shall serve a notice of application or appeal filed by the applicant or the appellant on the caveator.(4)Where a notice of any caveat has been served on the applicant or the Appellant, he shall periodically furnish the caveator with a copy of the application or the appeal made by him and also with copies of any paper or document which has been or may be filed by him in support of the application or the appeal.(5)Where a caveat has been lodged under sub-section (I), such caveat shall not remain in force after the expiry of the period of ninety days from the date on which it was lodged unless the application or appeal referred to in sub-section (1) has been made before the expiry of the said period.] [Inserted by Act No. 1 of 2013]

### 19. [ Right of borrower to receive compensation and costs in certain
cases. [Section 19 substituted by the Enforcement of Security Interest and
Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 14, (w.e.f.
11-11-2004). ]

\- If the Debts Recovery Tribunal or the Court of District Judge, on an
application made under section 17 or section 17-A or the Appellate Tribunal or
the High Court on an appeal preferred under section 18 or section 18-A, holds
that the possession of secured assets by the secured creditor is not in
accordance with the provisions of this Act and rules made thereunder and
directs the secured creditors to return such secured assets to the [concerned
borrowers or any other aggrieved person, who has filed the application under
section 17 or section 17A or appeal under section 18 or section 18A, as the
case may be, the borrower or such other person] shall be entitled to the
payment of such compensation and costs as may be determined by such Tribunal
or Court of District Judge or Appellate Tribunal or the High Court referred to
in section 18-B.]

Prior to its substitution, Section 19 read as under:-"19. Right of borrower to
receive compensation and costs in certain cases.- If the Debts Recovery
Tribunal or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, on an appeal filed
under Section 17 or section 18 holds the possession of secured assets by
assets to the concerned borrower, such borrower shall be entitled to payment
of such compensation and costs as may be determined by such Tribunal or
Appellate Tribunal."  
---  
  
## Chapter IV  
Central Registry

### 20. Central Registry.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, set up or cause to be set up
from such date as it may specify in such notification, a registry to be known
as the Central Registry with its own seal for the purposes of registration of
transaction of securitisation and reconstruction of financial assets and
creation of security interest under this Act.(2)The head office of the Central
Registry shall be at such place as the Central Government may specify and for
the purpose of facilitating registration of transactions referred to in sub-
section (1), there may be established at such other places as the Central
Government may think fit, branch offices of the Central Registry.(3)The
Central Government may, by notification, define the territorial limits within
which an office of the Central Registry may exercise its functions.(4)The
provisions of this Act pertaining to the Central Registry shall be in addition
to and not in derogation of any of the provisions contained in the
Registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908), the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), the
Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), the Patents Act, 1970 (39 of 1970),
the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988) and the Designs Act, 2000 (16 of
2000) or any other law requiring registration of charges and shall not affect
the priority of charges or validity thereof under those Acts or laws.

### 20A. [ Integration of registration systems with Central Registry.
[Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]

(1)The Central Government may, for the purpose of providing a Central
database, in consultation with State Governments or other authorities
operating registration system for recording rights over any property or
creation, modification or satisfaction of any security interest on such
property, integrate the registration records of such registration systems with
the records of Central Registry established under section 20, in such manner
as may be prescribed.Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-section, the
registration records includes records of registration under the Companies Act,
2013, the Registration Act, 1908, the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958, the Motor
Vehicles Act, 1988, the Patents Act, 1970, the Designs Act, 2000 or other such
records under any other law for the time being in force.(2)The Central
Government shall after integration of records of various registration systems
referred to in sub-section (1) with the Central Registry, by notification,
declare the date of integration of registration systems and the date from
which such integrated records shall be available; and with effect from such
date, security interests over properties which are registered under any
registration system referred to in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be
registered with the Central Registry for the purposes of this Act.

### 20B. Delegation of powers.

\- The Central Government may, by notification, delegate its powers and
functions under this Chapter, in relation to establishment, operations and
regulation of the Central Registry to the Reserve Bank, subject to such terms
and conditions as may be prescribed.]

### 21. Central Registrar.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, appoint a person for the
purpose of registration of transactions relating to securitisation,
reconstruction of financial assets and security interest created over
properties, to be known as the Central Registrar.(2)The Central Government may
appoint such other officers with such designations as it thinks fit for the
purpose of discharging, under the superintendence and direction of the Central
Registrar, such functions of the Central Registrar under this Act as he may,
from time to time, authorise them to discharge.

### 22. Register of securitisation, reconstruction and security interest
transactions.

(1)For the purposes of this Act, a record called the Central Register shall be
kept at the head office of the Central Registry for entering the particulars
of the transactions relating to(a)securitisation of financial
assets;(b)reconstruction of financial assets; and(c)creation of security
interest.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), it shall be
lawful for the Central Registrar to keep the records wholly or partly in
computer, floppies, diskettes or in any other electronic form subject to such
safeguards as may be prescribed.(3)Where such register is maintained wholly or
partly in computer, floppies, diskettes or in any other electronic form, under
sub-section (2), any reference in this Act to entry in the Central Register
shall be construed as a reference to any entry as maintained in computer or in
any other electronic form.(4)The register shall be kept under the control and
management of the Central Registrar.

### 23. Filing of transactions of securitisation, reconstruction and creation
of security interest.

\- [(1)] [Section 23 renumbered as sub-section (1) by Act No. 44 of 2016.] The
particulars of every transaction of securitisation, asset reconstruction or
creation of security interest shall be filed, with the Central Registrar in
the manner and on payment of such fee as may be prescribed [* * *] [Omitted
'within thirty days after the date of such transaction or creation of
security, by the asset reconstruction company or the secured creditor, as the
case may be:' by Act No. 44 of 2016.][* * *] [Omitted 'Provided that the
Central Registrar may allow the filing of the particulars of such transaction
or creation of security interest within thirty days next following the expiry
of the said period of thirty days on payment of such additional fee not
exceeding ten times the amount of such fee.' by Act No. 44 of 2016.][Provided
[* * *] [Inserted by Act No. 1 of 2013] that the Central Government may, by
notification, require registration of all transactions of securitisation, or
asset reconstruction or creation of security interest which are subsisting on
or before the date of establishment of the Central Registry under sub-section
(1) of section 20 within such period and on payment of such fees as may be
prescribed.](2)[ The Central Government may, by notification, require the
registration of transaction relating to different types of security interest
created on different kinds of property with the Central Registry.(3)The
Central Government may, by rules, prescribe forms for registration for
different types of security interest under this section and fee to be charged
for such registration.] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]

### 24. Modification of security interest registered under this Act.

\- Whenever the terms or conditions, or the extent or operation, of any
security interest registered under this Chapter, are, or is, modified, it
shall be the duty of the [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act
No. 44 of 2016.] or the secured creditor, as the case may be, to send to the
Central Registrar, the particulars of such modification, and the provisions of
this Chapter as to registration of a security interest shall apply to such
modification of such security interest.

### 25. Securitisation company or [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted
by Act No. 44 of 2016.] or secured creditor to report satisfaction of security
interest.

(1)The [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] or
the secured creditor as the case may be, shall give intimation to the Central
Registrar of the payment or satisfaction in full, of any security interest
relating to the [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of
2016.] or the secured creditor and requiring registration under this Chapter,
within thirty days from the date of such payment or satisfaction.[(1-A) On
receipt of intimation under sub-section (1), the Central Registrar shall order
that a memorandum of satisfaction shall be entered in the Central Register.]
[Inserted by the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws
(Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 15 (w.e.f. 11.11.2004).](2)[If the
concerned borrower gives an intimation to the Central Registrar for not
recording the payment or satisfaction referred to in sub-section (1), the
Central Registrar shall on receipt of such intimation] [Substituted by the
Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act,
2004 (30 of 2004), Section 15 for "The Central Registrar shall, on receipt of
such intimation" (w.e.f. 11.11.2004).], cause a notice to be sent to the
[asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] or the
secured creditor calling upon it to show cause within a time not exceeding
fourteen days specified in such notice, as to why payment or satisfaction
should not be recorded as intimated to the Central Registrar.(3)If no cause is
shown, the Central Registrar shall order that a memorandum of satisfaction
shall be entered in the Central Register.(4)If cause is shown, the Central
Registrar shall record a note to that effect in the Central Register, and
shall inform the borrower that he has done so.

### 26. Right to inspect particulars of securitisation, reconstruction and
security interest transactions.

(1)The particulars of securitisation or reconstruction or security interest
entered in the Central Register of such transactions kept under section 22
shall be open during the business hours for inspection by any person on
payment of such fee as may be prescribed.(2)The Central Register, referred to
in sub-section (1) maintained in electronic form, shall also be open during
the business hours for the inspection of any person through electronic media
on payment of such fee as may be prescribed.

### 26A. [ Rectification' by Central Government in matters of registration,
modification and satisfaction, etc. [Inserted by Act No. 1 of 2013] \- (1) The
Central Government, on being satisfied-

(a)that the omission to file with the Registrar the particulars of any
transaction of securitisation, asset reconstruction or security interest or
modification or satisfaction of such transaction or; the omission or mis-
statement of any particular with respect to any such transaction or
modification or with respect to any satisfaction or other entry made in
pursuance of section 23 or section 24 or section 25 of the principal Act was
accidental or due to inadvertence or some other sufficient cause or it is not
of a nature to prejudice the position of creditors; or(b)that on other
grounds, it is just and equitable to grant relief, may, on the application of
a secured creditor or [asset reconstruction company] or any other person
interested on such terms and conditions as it may seem to the Central
Government just and expedient, direct that the time for filing of the
particulars of the transaction for registration or modification or
satisfaction shall be extended or, as the case may require, the omission or
mis-statement shall be rectified.(2)Where the Central Government extends the
time for the registration of transaction of security interest or
securitisation or asset reconstruction or modification or satisfaction
thereof, the order shall not prejudice any rights acquired in respect of the
property concerned or financial asset before the transaction is actually
registered.][Chapter IVA] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] Registration by
Secured Creditors and other Creditors

### 26B. Registration by secured creditors and other creditors.

(1)The Central Government may by notification, extend the provisions of
Chapter IV relating to Central Registry to all creditors other than secured
creditors as defined in clause (zd) of sub-section (1) of section 2, for
creation, modification or satisfaction of any security interest over any
property of the borrower for the purpose of securing due repayment of any
financial assistance granted by such creditor to the borrower.(2)From the date
of notification under sub-section (1), any creditor including the secured
creditor may file particulars of transactions of creation, modification or
satisfaction of any security interest with the Central Registry in such form
and manner as may be prescribed.(3)A creditor other than the secured creditor
filing particulars of transactions of creation, modification and satisfaction
of security interest over properties created in its favour shall not be
entitled to exercise any right of enforcement of securities under this
Act.(4)Every authority or officer of the Central Government or any State
Government or local authority, entrusted with the function of recovery of tax
or other Government dues and for issuing any order for attachment of any
property of any person liable to pay the tax or Government dues, shall file
with the Central Registry such attachment order with particulars of the
assessee and details of tax or other Government dues from such date as may be
notified by the Central Government, in such form and manner as may be
prescribed.(5)If any person, having any claim against any borrower, obtains
orders for attachment of property from any court or other authority empowered
to issue attachment order, such person may file particulars of such attachment
orders with Central Registry in such form and manner on payment of such fee as
may be prescribed.

### 26C. Effect of the registration of transactions, etc.

(1)Without prejudice to the provisions contained in any other law, for the
time being in force, any registration of transactions of creation,
modification or satisfaction of security interest by a secured creditor or
other creditor or filing of attachment orders under this Chapter shall be
deemed to constitute a public notice from the date and time of filing of
particulars of such transaction with the Central Registry for creation,
modification or satisfaction of such security interest or attachment order, as
the case may be.(2)Where security interest or attachment order upon any
property in favour of the secured creditor or any other creditor are filed for
the purpose of registration under the provisions of Chapter IV and this
Chapter, the claim of such secured creditor or other creditor holding
attachment order shall have priority over any subsequent security interest
created upon such property and any transfer by way of sale, lease or
assignment or licence of such property or attachment order subsequent to such
registration, shall be subject to such claim:Provided that nothing contained
in this sub-section shall apply to transactions carried on by the borrower in
the ordinary course of business.

### 26D. Right of enforcement of securities.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, from the date of commencement of the provisions of this Chapter, no
secured creditor shall be entitled to exercise the rights of enforcement of
securities under Chapter III unless the security interest created in its
favour by the borrower has been registered with the Central Registry.

### 26E. Priority to secured creditors.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, after the registration of security interest, the debts due to any
secured creditor shall be paid in priority over all other debts and all
revenues, taxes, cesses and other rates payable to the Central Government or
State Government or local authority.Explanation. - For the purposes of this
section, it is hereby clarified that on or after the commencement of the
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, in cases where insolvency or bankruptcy
proceedings are pending in respect of secured assets of the borrower, priority
to secured creditors in payment of debt shall be subject to the provisions of
that Code.

## Chapter V  
Offences And Penalties

### 27. Penalties.

\- If a default is made(a)in filing under section 23, the particulars of every
transaction of any securitisation or asset reconstruction or security interest
created by a [asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of
2016.] or secured creditor; or(b)in sending under section 24, the particulars
of the modification referred to in that section; or(c)in giving intimation
under section 25,every company and every officer of the company or the secured
creditor and every officer of the secured creditor who is in default shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees for every day
during which the default continues.[Provided that provisions of this section
shall be deemed to have been omitted from the date of coming into force of the
provisions of this Chapter and section 23 as amended by the Enforcement of
Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws and Miscellaneous Provisions
(Amendment) Act, 2016.] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]

### 28.

[* * *] [Omitted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]

28\. Penalties for non-compliance of direction of Reserve Bank.- If any asset
reconstruction company fails to comply with any direction issued by the
Reserve Bank[under section 12 or section 12-A] [Substituted by the Enforcement
of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of
2004), Section 16, for "under section 12" (w.e.f. 11.11.2004).], such company
and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to five lakh rupees and in the case of a continuing
offence, with an additional fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees for
every day during which the default continues.  
---  
  
### 29. Offences.

\- If any person contravenes or attempts to contravene or abets the
contravention of the provisions of this Act or of any rules made thereunder,
he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one
year, or with fine, or with both.

### 30. [ Cognizance of offences [Substituted by Act No. 1 OF 2013]

(1)No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under of section
27 in relation to non-compliance with the provisions of section 23, section 24
or section 25 or under section 28 or section 29 or any other provisions of the
Act, except upon a complaint in writing made by an officer of the Central
Registry or an officer of the Reserve Bank, generally or specially authorised
in writing in this behalf by the Central Registrar or, as the case may be, the
Reserve Bank.(2)No court inferior to that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a
Judicial Magistrate of the first class shall try any offence punishable under
this Act.]

Prior to substitution section 30 read as;30\. Cognizance of offence.- No Court
inferior to that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the
First Class shall try an offence punishable under this Act.  
---  
  
### 30A. [ Power of adjudicating authority to impose penalty. [Inserted by Act
No. 44 of 2016.]

(1)Where any asset reconstruction company or any person fails to comply with
any direction issued by the Reserve Bank under this Act the adjudicating
authority may, by an order, impose on such company or person in default, a
penalty not exceeding one crore rupees or twice the amount involved in such
failure where such amount is quantifiable, whichever is more, and where such
failure is a continuing one, a further penalty which may extend to one lakh
rupees for every day, after the first, during which such failure
continues.(2)For the purpose of imposing penalty under sub-section (1), the
adjudicating authority shall serve a notice on the asset reconstruction
company or the person in default requiring such company or person to show
cause why the amount specified in the notice should not be imposed as a
penalty and a reasonable opportunity of being heard shall be given to such
person.(3)Any penalty imposed under this section shall be payable within a
period of thirty days from the date of issue of notice under sub-section
(2).(4)Where the asset reconstruction company fails to pay the penalty within
the specified period under sub-section (3), the adjudicating authority shall,
by an order, cancel its registration:Provided that an opportunity of being
heard shall be given to such asset reconstruction company before cancellation
of registration.(5)No complaint shall be filed against any person in default
in any court pertaining to any failure under sub-section (1) in respect of
which any penalty has been imposed and recovered by the Reserve Bank under
this section.(6)Where any complaint has been filed against a person in default
in the court having jurisdiction no proceeding for imposition of penalty
against that person shall be taken under this section.Explanation. - For the
purposes of this section and sections 30B, 30C and 30D,-(i)"adjudicating
authority" means such officer or a committee of officers of the Reserve Bank,
designated as such from time to time, by notification, by the Central Board of
Reserve Bank;(ii)"person in default" means the asset reconstruction company or
any person which has committed any failure, contravention or default under
this Act and any person incharge of such company or such other person, as the
case may be, shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished under
section 33 for such failure or contravention or default committed by such
company or person.

### 30B. Appeal against penalties.

\- A person in default, aggrieved by an order passed under sub-section (4) of
section 30A, may, within a period of thirty days from the date on which such
order is passed, prefer an appeal to the Appellate Authority:Provided that the
Appellate Authority may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said
period of thirty days, if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for
not filing it within such period.

### 30C. Appellate Authority.

(1)The Central Board of Reserve Bank may designate such officer or committee
of officers as it deems fit to exercise the power of Appellate
Authority.(2)The Appellate Authority shall have power to pass such order as it
deems fit after providing a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the
person in default.(3)The Appellate Authority may, by an order stay the
enforcement of the order passed by the adjudicating authority under section
30A, subject to such terms and conditions, as it deems fit.(4)Where the person
in default fails to comply with the terms and conditions imposed by order
under sub-section (3) without reasonable cause, the Appellate Authority may
dismiss the appeal.

### 30D. Recovery of penalties.

(1)Any penalty imposed under section 30A shall be recovered as a "recoverable
sum" and shall be payable within a period of thirty days from the date on
which notice demanding payment of the recoverable sum is served upon the
person in default and, in the case of failure of payment by such person within
such period, the Reserve Bank may, for the purpose of recovery,-(a)debit the
current account, if any, of the person in default maintained with the Reserve
Bank or by liquidating the securities, if any, held to the credit of such
person in the books of the Reserve Bank;(b)issue a notice to the person from
whom any amount is due to the person in default, requiring such person to
deduct from the amount payable by him to the person in default, such amount
equivalent to the amount of the recoverable sum, and to make payment of such
amount to the Reserve Bank.(2)Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (4), a
notice issued under clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall be binding on every
person to whom it is issued, and, where such notice is issued to a post
office, bank or an insurance company, it shall not be necessary to produce any
pass book, deposit receipt, policy or any other document for the purpose of
any entry or endorsement thereof before payment is made, notwithstanding any
rule, practice or requirement to the contrary.(3)Any claim in respect of any
amount, arising after the date of issue of notice under sub-section (1) shall
be void as against the demand contained in such notice.(4)Any person, to whom
the notice is sent under sub-section (1), objects to such notice by a
statement on oath that the sum demanded or any part thereof is not due to the
person in default or that he does not hold any money for or on account of the
person in default, then nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to
require, such person to pay such sum or part thereof, as the case may
be.(5)Where it is found that statement made by the person under sub-section
(4) is false in material particulars, such person shall be personally liable
to the Reserve Bank to the extent of his own liability to the person in
default on the date of the notice, or to the extent of the recoverable sum
payable by the person in default to the Reserve Bank, whichever is less.(6)The
Reserve Bank may, at any time, amend or revoke any notice issued under sub-
section (1) or extend the time for making the payment in pursuance of such
notice.(7)The Reserve Bank shall grant a receipt for any amount paid to it in
compliance with a notice issued under this section and the person so paying
shall be fully discharged from his liability to the person in default to the
extent of the amount so paid.(8)Any person discharging any liability to the
person in default after the receipt of a notice under this section shall be
personally liable to the Reserve Bank-(a)to the extent of his own liability to
the person in default so discharged; or(b)to the extent of the recoverable sum
payable by the person in default to the Reserve Bank,whichever is
less.(9)Where the person to whom the notice is sent under this section, fails
to make payment in pursuance thereof to the Reserve Bank, he shall be deemed
to be the person in default in respect of the amount specified in the notice
and action or proceedings may be taken or instituted against him for the
realisation of the amount in the manner provided in this section.(10)The
Reserve Bank may enforce recovery of recoverable sum through the principal
civil court having jurisdiction in the area where the registered office or the
head office or the principal place of business of the person in default or the
usual place of residence of such person is situated as if the notice issued by
the Reserve Bank were a decree of the Court.(11)No recovery under sub-section
(10) shall be enforced, except on an application made to the principal civil
court by an officer of the Reserve Bank authorised in this behalf certifying
that the person in default has failed to pay the recoverable sum.]

## Chapter VI  
Miscellaneous

### 31. Provisions of this Act not to apply in certain cases.

\- The provisions of this Act shall not apply to(a)a lien on any goods, money
or security given by or under the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (9 of 1872) or the
Sale of Goods Act, 1930 (3 of 1930) or any other law for the time being in
force;(b)a pledge of movables within the meaning of section 172 of the Indian
Contract Act, 1872 (9 of 1872);(c)creation of any security in any aircraft as
defined in clause (1) of section 2 of the Aircraft Act, 1934(24 of
1934);(d)creation of security interest in any vessel as defined in clause (55)
of section 3 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958);[* * *] [Omitted
'(e) any conditional sale, hire-purchase or lease or any other contract in
which no security interest has been created;' by Act No. 44 of 2016.](f)any
rights of unpaid seller under section 47 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 (3 of
1930);(g)[any properties not liable to attachment (excluding the properties
specifically charged with the debt recoverable under this Act)] [Substituted
by the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment)
Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 17, for "any properties not liable to
attachment" (w.e.f. 11.11.2004).] or sale under the first proviso to sub-
section (1)of section 60 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908);(h)any security interest for securing repayment of any financial asset
not exceeding one lakh rupees;(i)any security interest created in agricultural
land;(j)any case in which the amount due is less than twenty per cent. of the
principal amount and interest thereon.

### 31A. [ Power to exempt a class or classes of banks or financial
institutions [Inserted by Act No. 1 of 2013]

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the public interest, direct
that any of the provisions of this Act,-(a)shall not apply to such class or
classes of banks or financial institutions; or(b)shall apply to the class or
classes of banks or financial institutions with such exceptions, modifications
and adaptations, as may be specified in the notification.](2)[ A copy of every
notification proposed to be issued under sub-section (1), shall be laid in
draft before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total
period of thirty days, and if, both Houses agree in disapproving the issue of
notification or both Houses agree in making any modification in the
notification, the notification shall not be issued or, as the case may be,
shall be issued only in such modified form as may be agreed upon by both the
Houses.(3)In reckoning any such period of thirty days as is referred to in
sub-section (2), no account shall be taken of any period during which the
House referred to in sub-section (2) is prorogued or adjourned for more than
four consecutive days.(4)The copies of every notification issued under this
section shall, as soon as may be after it has been issued, be laid before each
House of Parliament.] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]

### 32. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against [the
Reserve Bank or the Central Registry or any secured creditor or any of its
officers] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.] for anything done or omitted to
be done in good faith under this Act.

### 33. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company, for the conduct of the business of the company,
as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall
be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that
nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to
any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent
or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of, any
director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director,
manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of the
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation. For the purposes of this section,(a)company means any
body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals;
and(b)director, in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 34. Civil Court not to have jurisdiction.

\- No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding
in respect of any matter which a Debts Recovery Tribunal or the Appellate
Tribunal is empowered by or under this Act to determine and no injunction
shall be granted by any Court or other authority in respect of any action
taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act
or under the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act,
1993 (51 of 1993).

### 35. The provisions of this Act to override other laws.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect, notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force
or any instrument having effect by virtue of any such law.

### 36. Limitation.

\- No secured creditor shall be entitled to take all or any of the measures
under sub-section (4) of section 13, unless his claim in respect of the
financial asset is made within the period of limitation prescribed under the
Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963).

### 37. Application of other laws not barred.

\- The provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder shall be in
addition to, and not in derogation of, the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956),
the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the Securities
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Recovery of Debts Due
to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of 1993) or any other law
for the time being in force.

### 38. Power of Central Government to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification and in the Electronic Gazette
as defined in clause (s)of section 2 of the Information Technology Act, 2000
(21 of 2000), make rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.(2)In
particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:(a)[
other business or commercial rights of similar nature under clause (t) of
section 2;] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.](aa)[] [Clause (a) renumbered as
clause (aa) by Act No. 44 of 2016.] the form and manner in which an
application may be filed under sub-section (10) of section 13;(b)the manner in
which the rights of a secured creditor may be exercised by one or more of his
officers under sub-section (12) of section 13;(ba)[ the fee for making an
application to the Debts Recovery Tribunal under sub-section (1) of section
17; [Inserted by the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts
Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (30 of 2004), Section 18 (w.e.f.
11.11.2004).](bb)the form of making an application to the Appellate Tribunal
under sub-section (6) of section 17;(bc)the fee for preferring an appeal to
the Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (1) of section 18;](bca)[ the manner
of integration of records of various registration systems with the records of
Central Registry under sub-section (1) of section 20A; [Inserted by Act No. 44
of 2016.](bcb)the terms and conditions of delegation of powers by the Central
Government to the Reserve Bank under section 20B.](c)the safeguards subject to
which the records may be kept under sub-section (2) of section 22;(d)the
manner in which the particulars of every transaction of securitisation shall
be filed under section 23 and fee for filing such transaction;(da)[ the form
for registration of different types of security interests and fee thereof
under sub-section (3) of section 23;] [Inserted by Act No. 44 of 2016.](e)the
fee for inspecting the particulars of transactions kept under section 22 and
entered in the Central Register under sub-section (1) of section 26;(f)the fee
for inspecting the Central Register maintained in electronic form under sub-
section (2) of section 26;(fa)[ the form and the manner for filing particulars
of transactions under sub-section (2) of section 26B; [Inserted by Act No. 44
of 2016.](fb)the form and manner of filing attachment orders with the Central
Registry and the date under sub-section (4) of section 26B;(fc)the form and
manner of filing particulars of attachment order with the Central Registry and
the fee under sub-section (5) of section 26B.](g)any other matter which is
required to be, or may be, prescribed, in respect of which provision is to be,
or may be, made by rules.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as
soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is
in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both
Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be;so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 39. Certain provisions of this Act to apply after Central Registry is set
up or cause to be set up.

\- The provisions of sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) of section 20 and sections
21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27 shall apply after the Central Registry is set up
or cause to be set up under sub-section (1) of section 20.

### 40. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as may appear
to be necessary for removing the difficulty:Provided that no order shall be
made under this section after the expiry of a period of two years from the
commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this section shall be laid,
as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament.

### 41. Amendments of certain enactments.

\- The enactments specified in the Schedule shall be amended in the manner
specified therein.

### 42. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement
of Security Interest (Second) Ordinance, 2002(Ord. 3 of 2002) is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken
under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the
corresponding provisions of this Act.THE SCHEDULE(See section 41)

Year | Act No. | Short title | Amendment  
---|---|---|---  
1956 | 1 | The Companies Act, 1956 |  In section 4A in sub-section (1) after clause (vi) insert the following:--"(vii) the[asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]which has obtained a certificate of registration under sub-section (4) of section 3 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act 2002".  
1956 | 42 | The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 |  In section 2 in clause (h) after sub-clause (ib) insert the following:--"(ic) security receipt as defined in clause (zg) of section 2 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act 2002".  
1986 | 1 | The Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provision) Act, 1985. |  In section 15 in sub-section (1) after the proviso insert the following:--"Provided further that no reference shall be made to the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction after the commencement of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act 2002 where financial assets have been acquired by any[asset reconstruction company] [Substituted by Act No. 44 of 2016.]under sub-section (1) of section 5 of that Act:Provided also that on or after the commencement of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act 2002 where a reference is pending before the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction such reference shall abate if the secured creditors representing not less than three-fourth in value of the amount outstanding against financial assistance disbursed to the borrower of such secured creditors have taken any measures to recover their secured debt under sub-section (4) of section 13 of that Act."

