## Union of India - Act

## The State Of Mizoram Act, 1986

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The State Of Mizoram Act, 1986

## Act 34 of 1986

  * Published on 14 August 1986 
  * Commenced on 14 August 1986 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 June 2012.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The North-Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) and other Related Laws (Amendment) Act, 2012 (Act 26 of 2012) on 4 June 2012] 

The State Of Mizoram Act, 1986No. 34 OF 1986

### 133.

[14th August, 1986.]An Act to provide for the establishment of the State of
Mizoram and for matters connected therewith.BE it enacted by Parliament in the
Thirty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Part I – Preliminary

### 1. Short title.

\- This Act may be called the State of Mizoram Act, 1986.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Administrator"
means the administrator appointed by the President under article 239 of the
Constitution;(b)"[appointed day] [20-2-1987, Vide Notification No.S.O.72(E),
dated 11-2-1987, Gazette of India , 1987, Extra-ordinary, Part II, Section
3(ii).] means the day which the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint;(c)"article" means an article of the
Constitution;(d)"Election Commission" means the Election Commission appointed
by the President under article 324;(e)"existing Union territory of Mizoram"
means the Union territory of Mizoram as existing immediately before the
appointed day;(f)"law" includes any enactment, ordinance, regulation, order,
bye-law, rule, scheme, notification or other instrument having, immediately
before the appointed day, the force of law in the whole or any part of the
existing Union territory of Mizoram;(g)"sitting member", in relation to either
House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly of the existing Union
territory of Mizoram, means a person who, immediately before the appointed
day, is a member of that House or that Assembly;(h)"treasury" includes a sub-
treasury.

## Part II – Establishment Of The State Of Mizoram

### 3. Establishment of the State of Mizoram.

\- On and from the appointed day, there shall be established a new State, to
be know as the State of Mizoram, comprising the territories which immediately
before that day were comprised in the existing Union territory of Mizoram.

### 4. Amendment of First Schedule to the Constitution.

\- On and from the appointed day, in the First Schedule to the
Constitution,-(a)under the heading "I.THE STATES", after entry 22, the
following entry shall be inserted, namely:-"23. Mizoram The territories
specified in section 6 of the North-Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) Act,
1971."(b)under the heading "II.THE UNION TERRITORIES", entry 8 relating to
Mizoram shall be omitted and entry 9 shall be re-numbered as entry 8.

## Part III – Representation In The Legislatures

The Council of States

### 5. Amendment of Fourth Schedule to the Constitution.

\- On and from the appointed day, in the Fourth Schedule to the Constitution,
in the Table,-(a)entries 23 and 24 shall be re-numbered as entries 24 and 25
respectively, and before entry 24 as so re-numbered, the following entry shall
be inserted, namely:-"23. Mizoram.....1";(b)entry 25 shall be omitted.

### 6. Allocation of sitting member.

(1)On and from the appointed day, the sitting member of the Council of State
representing the existing Union territory of Mizoram shall be deemed to have
been duly elected under clause (4) of article 80 to fill the seat allotted to
the State of Mizoram in that Council.(2)The term of office of such sitting
member shall remain unaltered.

### 7. Amendment of section 27A of Act 43 of 1950.

\- On and from the appointed day, in section 27A of the Representation of the
People Act, 1950, in sub-section (4), the word ", Mizoram" shall be
omitted.The House of the People

### 8. Allocation of seat in the existing House of the People.

(1)On and from the appointed day, the allocation of seats to the State of
Mizoram in the House of the People and the number of seats to be reserved for
the Scheduled Tribes of that State shall be one; and the First Schedule to the
Representation of the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950), shall be deemed to be
amended, accordingly,(2)On and from the appointed day, the parliamentary
constituency of the existing Union territory of Mizoram shall be deemed to be
the parliamentary constituency of the State of Mizoram and the Delimitation of
Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies Order, 1976, shall be construed
accordingly.

### 9. Provision as to sitting member.

\- The sitting member of the House of the People representative the
constituency which on the appointed day, by virtue of the provisions of
section 8 becomes the constituency of the State of Mizoram, shall be deemed to
have been elected under sub-clause (a) of clause (1) article 81 to the House
of the People by that constituency.

### 10. Provision as to Legislative Assembly.

\- On and from the appointed day, the total number of seats in the Legislative
Assembly of the State of Mizoram to be filled by persons, chosen by direct
election from assembly constitutions shall be forty; and the Second Schedule
to the Representation of the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950), shall be deemed to
be amended accordingly.

### 11. Delimitation of constituencies.

(1)The Election Commission shall, before the appointed day, and in the manner
herein provided, distribute the seats assigned to the Legislative Assembly of
the State of Mizoram under section 10 to single-member territorial
constituencies and delimit them, having regard to the provisions of the
Constitution and to the following provisions, namely:-(a)all constituencies
shall, as far as practicable, be geographically compact, areas, and in
delimiting them regard shall be had to physical features, existing boundaries
of administrative units, facilities of communication and public convenience;
and(b)constituencies in which seats are reserved for the Scheduled Tribes
shall, as far as practicable, be located in areas where the proportion of
their population to the total population is the largest.(2)For the purpose of
assisting it in the performance of its functions under sub-section (1), the
Election Commission shall associate with itself as associate members,-(a)the
sitting member of the House of the People referred to in section 9; and(b)such
six of the members of the Legislative Assembly of the existing Union territory
of Mizoram as the Speaker thereof may nominate:Provided that none of the
associate members shall have a right to vote or to sign any decision of the
Election Commission.(3)If owing to death or resignation, the office of an
associate member falls vacant, it shall be filed, it practicable, in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2).(4)The Election Commission
shall-(a)publish its proposals for the delimitation of constituencies together
with the dissenting proposals, if any, of any associate member who desires
publication thereof, in the Official Gazette and in such other manner as the
Commission may consider fit, together with a notice inviting objections and
suggestions in relation to the proposals and specifying a date on or after
which the proposals will be further considered by it;(b)consider all
objections and suggestions which may have been received by it before the date
so specified;(c)after considering all objections and suggestions which may
have been received by it before the date so specified, determine by one or
more orders the delimitation of constituencies and cause such order or orders
to be published in the Official Gazette; and upon such publication, the order
or orders shall have the full force of law and shall not be called in question
in any court.(5)As soon as may be after such publication, every such order
relating to assembly constituencies shall be laid before the Legislative
Assembly of the existing Union territory of Mizoram.

### 12. Power of Election Commission to maintain delimitation orders up-to-
date.

(1)The Election Commission may, from time to time, by notification in the
Official Gazette,-(a)correct any printing mistake in any order made under
section 11 or any error arising therein from inadvertent slip or
omission;(b)where the boundaries or name of any territorial division mentioned
in any such order are or is altered, make such amendments as appear to it to
be necessary or expect for bringing such order up-to-date.(2)Every
notification under this section relating to an assembly constituency shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is issued, before the Legislative Assembly of
the existing Union territory of Mizoram.

### 13. Amendment of Scheduled Castes Orders.

(1)On and from the appointed day, the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order,
1950, shall stand amended as directed in the First Schedule.(2)On and from the
appointed day, the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) (Union Territories) Order,
1951, shall stand amended as directed in the Second Schedule.

### 14. Amendment of Scheduled Tribes Orders.

(1)On and from the appointed day, the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order,
1950, shall stand amended as directed in the Third Schedule.(2)On and from the
appointed day, the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) (Union Territories) Order,
1951, shall stand amended as directed in the Fourth Schedule.

## Part IV – High Court

### 15. Common High Court for Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura and
Mizoram.

(1)On and from the appointed day,-(a)there shall be a common High Court for
the States of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura and Mizoram to be
called the Gauhati High Court (the High Court of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya,
Manipur, Tripura and Mizoram) (hereinafter referred to as the common High
Court);(b)the Judges of the High Court of Assam, Nagaland Meghalaya, Manipur
and Tripura holding office immediately before that day shall, unless they have
elected otherwise, become on that day the Judges of the common High
Court.(2)The expenditure in respect of the salaries and allowance of the
Judges of the common High Court shall be allocated amongst the States of
Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura and the Union in such
proportion as the President may, by order, determine.

### 16. Provision as to Advocates.

(1)On and from the appointed day,-(a)in the Advocates Act, 1961 (25 of 1961),
in section 3, in sub-section (1), for clause (b), the following clause shall
be substituted, namely:-"(b) for the States of Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya,
Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura and the Union territory of Arunachal Pradesh, to
be known as the Bar Council of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura
and Mizoram;";(b)the Bar Council of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur and
Tripura shall be deemed to be the Bar Council of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya,
Manipur, Tripura and Mizoram.(2)Any person who, immediately before the
appointed day, is an advocate entitled to practice in the High Court of Assam,
Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura, shall be entitled to practise as an
advocate in the common High Court.(3)All persons who, immediately before the
appointed day, are advocate on the roll of the Bar Council of Assam, Nagaland,
Meghalaya, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura, shall as from that day, become
advocates on the roll of the Bar Council of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya,
Manipur, Tripura and Mizoram.(4)The right of audience in the common High Court
shall be regulated in accordance with the like principles as, immediately
before the appointed day, are in force with respect to the right of audience
in the High Court of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura:Provided
that as among the Advocates-General of the State of Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya,
Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura, the right of audience shall be determined with
reference to their dates of enrolment as advocates.

### 17. Practice and procedure in the common High Court.

\- Subject to the provisions of this part, the law in force immediately before
the appointed day with respect to practice and procedure in the High Court of
Assam.Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura shall, with the necessary
modifications, apply in relation to the common High Court.

### 18. Custody of seal of the common High Court.

\- The law in force immediately before the appointed day with respect to the
custody of the Seal of the High Court of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur
and Tripura shall, with the necessary modifications, apply with respect to the
custody of the seal of the common High Court.

### 19. Form of write and other processes.

\- The law in force immediately before the appointed day with respect to the
form of writs and other processes used, issued or awarded by the High Court of
Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura shall, with necessary
modifications, apply with respect to the form of writs and other processes
used, issued or awarded by the common High Court.

### 20. Powers of Judges.

\- The law in force immediately before the appointed day with respect to the
powers of the Chief Justice, single Judges and division courts of the High
Court of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura and with respect to
all matter, ancillary to the exercise of those powers shall, with the
necessary modifications, apply in relation to the common High Court.

### 21. Principal seat and other places of sitting of the common High Court.

(1)The principal seat of the common High Court shall be at the same place at
which the principal seat of the High Court of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya,
Manipur and Tripura is located immediately before the appointed day.(2)The
President may, be notified order, provide for the establishment of a permanent
bench or benches of the common High Court at one or more places within the
territories to which the jurisdiction of the High Court extends, other than
the principal seat of the High Court, and for any matters connected
therewith:Provided that before issuing any order under this sub-section, the
President shall consult the Chief Justice of the common High Court and the
Governor of the State in which the bench or benches is or are proposed to be
established.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2), the Judges and division courts of the common High Court may also
sit at such other place or places in the States of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya,
Manipur, Tripura and Mizoram as the Chief Justice may, with the approval of
the Governor of the State concerned, appoint.

### 22. Procedure as to appeals to Supreme Court.

\- The law in force immediately before the appointed day relating to appeals
to the Supreme Court from the High Court of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya,
Manipur and Tripura and the judges and division courts thereof shall, with the
necessary modifications, apply in relation to the common High Court.

### 23. Transfer of proceedings from the High Court of Assam, Nagaland,
Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura to the common High Court.

(1)All proceedings pending in the High Court of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya,
Manipur and Tripura immediately before the appointed day shall, from such day,
stand transferred to the common High Court.(2)Every proceeding transferred
under sub-section (1) shall be disposed of by the common High Court as if such
proceeding was entertained by that High Court.

### 24. Interpretation.

\- For the purposes of section 23,-(a)proceedings shall be deemed to be
pending in a court until that court has disposed of all issues between the
parties, including any issues with respect to the taxation of the costs of the
proceedings and shall include appeals, applications for leave to appeal to the
Supreme Court, applications for review, petition for revision and petitions
for writs; and(b)references to a High Court shall be construed as including
references to a Judge or division court thereof; and references to an order
made by a court or a Judge shall be construed as including references to a
sentence, judgement or decree passed or made by that court or Judge.

### 25. Right to appear or to act in proceedings transferred to the common
High Court.

\- Any person who, immediately before the appointed day, is an advocate
entitled to practise in the High Court of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur
and Tripura and was authorised to appear or to act in any proceedings
transferred from the said High Court to the common High Court under section 23
shall have the right to appear or to act, as the case may be, in the common
High Court in relation to those proceedings.

### 26. Saving.

\- Nothing in this Part shall affect the application to the common High Court
of any provisions of the Constitution, and this part shall have effect subject
to any provision that may be made on or after the appointed day with respect
to that High Court by any Legislature or other authority having power to make
such provisions.

### 26A. [ Non-applicability of this Part to the States of Meghalaya, Manipur
and Tripura. [Inserted by Act No. 26 of 2012 section 87]

\- On and from the date of commencement of the North-Eastern Areas
(Reorganisation) and Other Related Laws (Amendment) Act, 2012, the provisions
of sections 15 to 26 (both inclusive) shall not apply to the States of
Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura.]

## Part V – Authorisation Of Expenditure And Distribution Of Revenues

### 27. Authorisation of expenditure pending its sanction by the Legislature.

(1)The President may, at any time before the appointed day, authorise by order
such expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of the State of Mizoram as he
deems necessary for a period of not more than six months beginning with the
appointed day, pending the sanction of such expenditure by the Legislative
Assembly of the State of Mizoram:Provided that the Governor of Mizoram may,
after the appointed day, authorise by order such further expenditure as he
deems necessary from the Consolidated Fund of the State of Mizoram for any
period not extending beyond the said period of six months.(2)The President or,
as the case may be, the Governor of Mizoram shall make separate orders under
sub-section (1) in respect of periods falling in different financial years.

### 28. Reports relating to the accounts of the existing Union territory of
Mizoram.

(1)The reports of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India referred to in
section 49 of the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963 (20 of 1963),
relating to the accounts of the existing Union territory of Mizoram in respect
of any period prior to the appointed day, shall be submitted to the Governor
of Mizoram who shall cause them to be laid before the Legislative Assembly of
the State.(2)The Government may, by order,-(a)declare any expenditure incurred
out of the Consolidated Fund of the existing Union territory of Mizoram on any
service in respect of any period prior to the appointed day during the
financial year 1986-87 or in respect of any earlier financial year in excess
of the amount granted for that service and for that year as disclosed in the
reports referred to in sub-section (1) to have been duly authorised,
and(b)provide for any action to be taken on any matter arising out of the said
reports.

### 29. Allowance and privileges of Governor of Mizoram.

\- The allowances and privileges of the Governor of Mizoram shall, until
provision in that behalf is made by Parliament by law under clause (3) of
article 158, be such as the President may, by order, determine.

### 30. Distribution of revenues.

\- The President shall, by order, determine the grants-in-aid of the revenues
of the State of Mizoram and the share of that State in the Union duties of
excise, estate duty and taxes on income and for that purpose amend thereby the
relevant provisions of the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special
Importance) Act, 1957(58 of 1957), the Union Duties of Excise (Distribution)
Act, 1979(24 of 1979), the Estate Duty (Distribution) Act, 1962 (9 of 1962)
and the Constitution (Distribution of Revenues) Order, 1985 in such manner as
he thinks fit.

## Part VI – Assets And Liabilities

### 31. Property, assets, rights, liabilities, obligations, etc.

(1)All such property and assets within the existing Union territory of Mizoram
as are held immediately before the appointed day by the Union for purposes of
governance of that Union territory shall, on and from that day, pass to the
State of Mizoram unless the purposes for which such property and assets are so
held are Union purposes:Provided that the cash balances in the treasuries in
the Union territory of Mizoram before the appointed day shall, as from that
day, vest in the State of Mizoram.(2)All rights, liabilities and obligations
(other than those relatable to, or in connecting with, a Union purpose),
whether arising out of any contract or otherwise, which are, immediately
before the appointed day,-(a)the rights, liabilities and obligations of the
Capital Government arising out of, or in connection with, the governance of
the Union territory of Mizoram; or(b)the rights, liabilities an obligations of
the Administrator of the existing Union territory of Mizoram in his capacity
as such, or of the Government of that Union territory.shall, on and from the
appointed day, be the rights, liabilities and obligations of the Government of
the State of Mizoram.(3)The right to recover arrears of-(a)any tax or duty
being a tax or duty enumerated in the State List in the Seventh Schedule to
the Constitution; or(b)any duty referred to in article 268; or(c)any-tax under
the Capital Sales Tax Act, 1956 (74 of 1956),which have fallen due in the
existing Union territory of Mizoram shall pass to the State of Mizoram.(4)The
provisions of this section shall not apply to or in relation to,-(a)any
institution, undertaking or project the expenditure in relation to which is
immediately before the appointed day, met from and out of the Consolidated
Fund of India;(b)any property which has been placed by the Union at the
disposal of the administration of the existing Union territory of Mizoram
subject to the condition that the ownership thereof will continue to vest in
the Union.Explanation. -For the purposes of this section-(a)"liability"
includes liability in respect of any civil deposit, local fund deposit,
charitable or other endowment, provided fun account, pension or actionable
wrong;(b)"Union purposes" means the purpose of Government relatable to any of
the matters mentioned in the Union List.

## Part VII – Provisions As To Services

### 32. Provision relating to All-India Services.

\- Every member of the Indian Administrative Service, the Indian Police
Service and the Indian Forest-Service who, immediately before the appointed
day, is holding any post in the existing Union territory of Mizoram shall,
until otherwise directed by the Central Government, be deemed to be on
deputation, on and from the appointed day, to the Government of the State of
Mizoram on the same terms and conditions of service as are applicable to him
under the relevant cadre rules:Provided that the period of such deputation
shall in no case extend beyond a period of three years from the appointed
day.Explanation. -In this section, "cadre rules" means the Indian
Administration Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, the Indian Police Service (Cadre)
Rules, 1954 or the Indian Forest Service (Cadre) Rules, 1966, as the case may
be.

### 33. Provisions relating to other services.

(1)Every person who immediately before the appointed day is serving in
connection with the affairs of the Union under the administrative control of
the Administrator of the Union territory of Mizoram shall, unless otherwise
directed by an order of the Central Government, be deemed to have been
allocated for service as from that day in connection with the affairs of the
State of Mizoram:Provided that no directions shall be issued under this
section after the expiry of a period of one year from the appointed day.(2)The
provisions of this section shall not apply in relation to persons to whom the
provisions of section 32 apply.

### 34. Other provisions as to services.

(1)Nothing in this section or section 33 shall be deemed to affect on or after
the appointed day the operations of the provisions of Chapter I of Part XIV of
the Constitution in relation to determination of the conditions of service of
persons serving in connection with the affairs of the State of
Mizoram:Provided that the condition of service applicable immediately before
the appointed day in the case of any person referred to in section 33 shall
not be varied to his disadvantage except with the previous approval of the
Central Government.(2)All services prior to the appointed day rendered by a
person deemed to have been allocated under section 33 in connection with the
administration of the Union territory of Mizoram, shall be deemed to have been
rendered in connection with the affairs of the State of Mizoram for the
purposes of the rules regulating his conditions of services.

### 35. Provisions as to continuance of officers in same posts.

\- Every person who immediately before the appointed day, is holding or
discharging the duties of any post of office in connection with the affairs of
the Union territory of Mizoram shall continue to hold the same post or office
and shall be deemed, on and from that day, to have been duly appointed to the
post or office by the Government of, or other appropriate authority in, the
State of Mizoram on the same terms and conditions of appointment and on the
same tenure as he was holding the post or office immediately before that
day:Provided that holding in this section shall be deemed to prevent a
competent authority on or after the appointed day from passing in relations to
such person any order affecting his continuance in such post or office.

### 36. Advisory Committees.

\- The Central Government may, be order, establish one or more Advisory
Committees for the purpose of assisting it in regard to-(a)the discharge of
its functions under this part, and(b)the ensuring of fair and equitable
treatment to all persons affected by the provisions of this Part and the
proper consideration of any representations made by such persons.

### 37. Prohibition of representation after certain period.

\- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law or rule for
the time being in force, no representation shall be against any order passed
under the provisions of this Part on the expiry of three months from the date
of publications or service, whichever is earlier, of such order:Provided that
the Central Government may, suo motu or otherwise and for reasons to be
recorded, re-open any matter and pass such orders thereon as may appear to it
to be appropriate if it is satisfied that it is necessary to do in order to
prevent any miscarriage of justice to any affected person.

### 38. Power of Central Government to give directions.

\- The Central Government may give such directions to the Government of the
State of Mizoram as may appear to it to be necessary for the purpose of giving
effect to the foregoing provisions of this Part and the State Government shall
comply with such directions.

## Part VIII – Legal And Miscellaneous Provisions

### 39. Amendment of article 210, article 239A, article 240, article 244, the
Fifth Schedule and the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution.

\- On and from the appointed day-(a)in article 210, in clause (2), after the
proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:-Provided further
that in relation to the Legislature of the State of Mizoram, this clause shall
have effect as if for the words "fifteen years" occurring therein, the words
"forty years" were substituted.';(b)in article 239A, in clause (1), the word,
"Mizoram" shall be omitted;(c)in article 240, in clause (1),-(i)entry (f)
shall be omitted;(ii)in the provisos, the word, "Mizoram" shall be
omitted;(d)in article 244,-(i)in clause (1), for the words "Meghalaya and
Tripura", the words "Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram" shall be
substituted;(ii)in clause (2), for the words "Meghalaya and Tripura and the
Union territory of Mizoram", the words "Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram" shall
be substituted;(e)in the Fifth Schedule, in paragraph 1, for the words
"Meghalaya and Tripura", the words "Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram" shall be
substituted;(f)in the Sixth Schedule,-(i)in the heading, for the words "the
State of Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura and in the Union territory of Mizoram",
the words "the State of Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram" shall be
substituted;(ii)in paragraph 12B, for the words "Union territory", wherever
they occur, the word "State" shall be substituted;(iii)in paragraph 17, after
the words "or Tripura", at both the places where they occur, the words "or
Mizoram" shall be inserted;(iv)in paragraph 20, in sub-paragraph (1), for the
words "Union territory", the words "State" shall be substituted.

### 40. Amendment of Act 28 of 1958.

\- One and from the appointed day, in the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act,
1958, in the long title and in sub-section (2) of section 1, for the words
"Meghalaya, Nagaland and Tripura and the Union territories of Arunachal
Pradesh and Mizoram", the words "Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura and
the Union territory of Arunachal Pradesh" shall be substituted.

### 41. Amendment of Act 20 of 1963.

\- On and from the appointed day, in the Government of Union Territories Act,
1963,-(i)in clause (h) of sub-section (1) of section 2, the words ", Mizoram"
shall be omitted;(ii)in section 33, in the proviso to sub-section (2), for the
words "the Legislative Assemblies of the Union territories of Arunachal
Pradesh and Mizoram", the words "the Legislative Assembly of the Union
territory of Arunachal Pradesh" shall be substituted;(iii)in section
44,-(a)the second proviso to sub-section (1) shall be omitted;(b)in sub-
section (2) for the words "each of the Union territories of Arunachal Pradesh
and Mizoram", the words "the Union territory of Arunachal Pradesh" shall be
substituted.

### 42. Amendment of Act 84 of 1971.

\- On and from the appointed day, in the North-Eastern Council Act,
1971,-(a)in section 2, for clauses (b) and (c), the following clauses shall be
substituted, namely:-"(b) "north-eastern area" means the area comprising the
State of Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura and the
Union territory of Arunachal Pradesh;(c)"State" includes the Union territory
of Arunachal Pradesh;(b)for clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 3, the
following clause shall be substituted, namely:-"(b) the Chief Ministers of the
States of Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura and of the
Union territory of Arunachal Pradesh;.

### 43. Continuance of existing laws and their adaptations.

(1)All laws in force, immediately before the appointed day, in the existing
Union territory of Mizoram shall continue to be in force in the State of
Mizoram until altered, repealed or amended by a competent Legislature or other
competent authority.(2)For the purpose of facilitating the application in
relation to the State of Mizoram of any law made before the appointed day, the
appropriate Government may, within two years from that day, by order, make
such adaptations and modifications of the law, whether by way of repeal or
amendment, as may be necessary or expedient, and thereupon every such law
shall have effect subject to the adaptations and modifications so made until
altered, repealed or amended by a competent Legislature or other competent
authority.Explanation. -In this section, the expression "appropriate
Government" means, as respects any law relating to a matter enumerated in the
Union List in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, the Central
Government, and as respect any other law, the Government of the State of
Mizoram.

### 44. Power to construe laws.

\- Notwithstanding that no provision or insufficient revision has been made
under section 43 for the adaptation of a law made before the appointed day,
any court, tribunal or authority required or empowered to enforce such law
may, for the purpose of facilitating its application in relation to the State
of Mizoram construe the law in such manner not affecting the substance as may
be necessary or proper in regard to the matter before the court, tribunal or
authority, as the case may be.

### 45. Provisions as to continuance of courts, etc.

\- All courts and tribunal and all authorities discharging lawful functions
throughout the existing Union territory of Mizoram or any part thereof
immediately before the appointed day shall, unless their continuance is
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or until other provisions is
made by a competent legislature or other competent authority, continue to
exercise their respective functions.

### 46. Effect of provisions of Act inconsistent with other laws.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law.

### 47. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the President may, by order, do anything not inconsistent with such provisions
which appear to him to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing
the difficulty.(2)Every order made under this section be laid before each
House of Parliament.

### 48. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to give effect to the provisions of this Act(2)Every rule made under
this section shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made before each
House of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions,
and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or
the successive sessions aforesaid both Houses agree in making any modification
in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule
shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be no effect, as
the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule.THE FIRST SCHEDULE[See section 13(1)]AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION
(SCHEDULED CASTES) ORDER, 1950In the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order,
1950.(1)In paragraph 2, for the figures "XIX", the figures "XX" shall be
substituted;(2)In the Schedule, after Part XIX, the following Part shall be
inserted, namely:-"PART XX.-Mizoram

### 1\. Bansphor

### 2\. Bhuinmali or Mali

### 3\. Brittial-Bania or Bania

### 4\. Dhupi or Dhobi

### 5\. Dugla or Dholi

### 6\. Hira

### 7\. Jalkeot

### 8\. Jhalo, Malo or Jhalo-Malo

### 9\. Kaibartta or Jaliya

### 10\. Lalbegi

### 11\. Mahara

### 12\. Mehtar or Bhangi

### 13\. Muchi or Rishi

### 14\. Namasudra

### 15\. Patni

### 16\. Sutradhar.".

THE SECOND SCHEDULE[See section 13(2)]AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION
(SCHEDULED CASTES) (UNION TERRITORIES) ORDER, 1951In the Constitution
(Scheduled Castes) (Union Territories) Order, 1951,-(1)In paragraph 2, for the
words figures "Parts I to IV", the words and figures "Part III" shall be
substituted;(2)In paragraph 4, for the words and figures "Parts III and IV",
the word and figures "Part III" shall be substituted;(3)In the Schedule, PART
III.-Mizoram shall be omitted and Part IV shall be renumbered as Part III.THE
THIRD SCHEDULE[See section 14(1)]AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION (SCHEDULED
TRIBES) ORDERS, 1950In the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950,-(1)In
paragraph 2, for the figures "XVI", the figures "XVII" shall be
substituted;(2)In the Schedule, after Part XVI, the following Part shall be
inserted, namely;-"PART XVII.-Mizoram

### 1\. Chakma

### 2\. Dimasa (Kachari)

### 3\. Garo

### 4\. Hajong

### 5\. Hmar

### 6\. Khasi and Jaintia (including Khasi, Synteng or Pnar, War, Bhoi or
Lyngnam)

### 7\. Any Kuki tribes, including,-

(i)Baite or
Biete(ii)Changsan(iii)Chongloi(iv)Doungel(v)Gamalhou(vi)Gangte(vii)Guite(viii)Hanneng(ix)Haokip
or Haupit(x)Haolai(xi)Hengna(xii)Hongsungh(xiii)Hrangkhwal or
Rangkhol(xiv)Jongbe(xv)Khawchung(xvi)Khawathlang or
Khothalong(xvii)Khelma(xviii)Kholhou(xix)Kipgen(xx)Kuki(xxi)Lengthang(xxii)Lhangum(xxiii)Lhoujem(xxiv)Lhouvum(xxv)Lupheng(xxvi)Mangjel(xxvii)Missao(xxviii)Riang(xxix)Sairhem(xxxx)Selnam(xxxi)Singson(xxxii)Sitlhou(xxxiii)Sukte(xxxiv)Thado(xxxv)Thangngeu(xxxvi)Uibuh(xxxvii)Vaiphei

### 8\. Lakher

### 9\. Man (Tai-Speaking)

### 10\. Any Mizo (Lushai) tribes

### 11\. Mikir

### 12\. Any Naga tribes

### 13\. Pawi

### 14\. Synteng.".

THE FOURTH SCHEDULE[See section 14(2)]AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION
(SCHEDULED TRIBES) (UNION TERRITORIES) ORDER, 1951In the Constitution
(Scheduled Tribes) (Union Territories) Order, 1951,-(1)In paragraph 2, for the
words and figures "Parts I to III", the words and figures "Parts I and II"
shall be substituted;(2)In paragraph 3, for the words and figures "Parts II
and III", the words and figures "Part II" shall be substituted;(3)In the
Schedule Part II shall be omitted and Part III shall be renumbered a Part II.

