## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The State Co-Operative Societies (Re-Constitution and Formation) Act, 1954

TAMILNADU  
India

# The State Co-Operative Societies (Re-Constitution and Formation) Act, 1954

## Act 4 of 1954

  * Published on 31 January 1954 
  * Commenced on 31 January 1954 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 January 1954.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The State Co-Operative Societies (Re-Constitution and Formation) Act,
1954Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1954Received the assent of the President on the 31st
January 1954 and first published in the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary,
dated the 4th February 1954.An Act to give permanent effect to the
reconstitution and formation of State Cooperative Societies in the [State of
Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the expression 'State of
Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (second Amendment) Order, 1969.],Whereas, in
pursuance of the Madras State Co-operative Societies (Re-constitution and
Formation) Ordinance, 1953 (Madras Ordinance II of 1953), each of the
following societies, that is to say, the [Tamil Nadu] [These words were
substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] State Co-operative Bank Limited, the [Tamil Nadu] [These words
were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Co-operative Central Land Mortgage Bank Limited and
the [Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Luxes' Order, 1369, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] State Handloom Weavers'
Co-operative Society Limited, was re-constituted by excluding from its area of
operations, the territory now comprised in the State of Andhra and with the
said territory as their area of operations, three new societies, called the
Andhra co-operative Bank, the Andhra Co-operative Central Land Mortgage Bank,
and the Andhra Handloom Weavers' Co-operative Society, were formed;And whereas
it is necessary to give permanent effect to the reconstitution of the then
existing societies and the formation of the new societies; It is hereby
enacted as follows:-

### 1. Short title, excent and Commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the State Co-operative Societies (Re-constitution
and Formation) Act, 1954.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil
Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].(3)It shall come into
force at once.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context-(a)'Ordinance' means the Madras State Co-operative Societies
(Reconstitution and Formation) Ordinance, 1953 (Madras Ordinance II of
1953);(b)'the then existing societies' means the Madras State Co-operative
Bank, Limited, the Madras Co-operative Central Land Mortgage Bank, Limited,
and the Madras State Handloom Weavers' Co-operative Society, Limited, as they,
existed on the date of the promulgation of the Ordinance;(c)'reconstituted
societies' means the Madras State Co-operative Bank, Limited, the Madras Co-
operative Central Land Mortgage Bank, Limited, and the Madras State Handloom
Weavers' Co-operative Society Limited, as reconstituted in pursuance of the
Ordinance;(d)'new societies' means the Andhra Co-operative Bank, the Andhra
Co-operative Central Land Mortgage Bank and the Andhra Handloom Weavers' Co-
operative Society;(e)'corresponding new society' means the Andhra Co-operative
Bank in relation to the reconstituted Madras Co-operative Bank, Limited, the
Andhra Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank in relation to the reconstituted
Madras Co-operative Central Land Mortgage Bank, Limited, and the Andhra
Handloom Weavers Co-operative Society in relation to the reconstituted Madras
State Handloom Weavers' Co-operative Society, Limited.

### 3. Acts done under Ordinance to be effective and binding on shareholders
and creditors.

\- The reconstitution of the then existing societies, the registration of
changes in their by-laws consequent on the reconstitution of the said
societies, the formation of the new societies and their registration, the
division of assets and liabilities as between, in each ease, the reconstituted
society, and the corresponding new society, the terms and conditions subject,
to which such division of assets and liabilities was made, the adjustments of
rights, liabilities and guarantees, and the creation; transfer and allotment
of liabilities as between, in each asset the reconstituted society and the
corresponding new society and all acts done and decisions made in pursuance of
the Ordinance shall, in all respects, be effective and binding on all the
shareholders and the creditors of each of the then existing societies, the
share-holders and the creditors of each of the reconstituted societies and the
Government of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [The expression was substituted for
the expression 'State of Madras by the Tamil Nadu Adaption of Laws Order, 1969
as amended by the Tamil Nidu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.].

### 4. Act to over-ride certain enactments.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect, notwithstanding anything to
the contrary, in the [Madras Co-operative Societies Act, 1932] [Now the Tamil
Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 53 of 1961).] (Madras
Act VI of 1932), and the [Tamil Nadu] [Tamil Nadu Co-operative Land
Development Banks Act, 1934 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1934).] Co-operative, Land
Mortgage Banks Act, 1934] ([Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the Tami Nadu Adaptation of Laws Older, 1969 as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act X of
1934).

