## Union of India - Act

## The Seeds Act, 1966

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Seeds Act, 1966

## Act 54 of 1966

  * Published on 29 December 1966 
  * Commenced on 29 December 1966 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 December 1966.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Seeds Act, 1966(54 OF 1966)

### 22.

/979[29th December, 1966]An Act to provide for regulating the quality of
certain seeds for sale, and for matters connected therewith.Be it enacted by
Parliament in the Seventeenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

Sections 1 to 6,8 to 11, 18, 22 to 25 (both inclusive) were brought into force
on 2.9.1968; Sections 7, 12 to 17 (both inclusive) and 19 to 21 (both
inclusive) were brought into force on 1.10.1969, in the whole of India.2.  
---  
  
### 1. Short title, extent and commencement. - (1) This Act may be called The
Seeds Act, 1966.

(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date
as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint, and different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this
Act, and for different [States] or for different areas thereof.

### 2. Definitions. - In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(1)"agriculture" includes horticulture;(2)"Central Seed Laboratory" means the
Central Seed Laboratory established or declared as such under sub-section (1)
of section 4;(3)"certification agency" means the certification agency
established under section 8 or recognised under section 18;(4)"Committee"
means the Central Seed Committee constituted under sub-section (1) of section
3;(5)"container" means a box, bottle, casket, tin, barrel, case, receptacle,
sack, bag, wrapper or other thing in which any article or thing is placed or
packed;(6)"export" means taking out of India to a place outside
India;(7)"import" means bringing into India from a place outside
India;(8)"kind" means one or more related species or sub-species of crop
plants each individually or collectively known by one common name such as
cabbage, maize, paddy and wheat;(9)"notified kind or variety", in relation to
any seed, means any kind or variety thereof notified under section
5;(10)"prescribed" means prescribed, by rules made under this Act;(11)"seed"
means any of the following classes of seeds used for sowing or
planting-(i)seeds of food crops including edible oil-seeds and seeds of fruits
and vegetables;(ii)cotton seeds;(iii)seeds of cattle fodder;(iv)[ jute seeds],
and includes seedlings, and tubers, bulbs, rhizomes, roots, cutting, all types
of grafts and other vegetatively propagated material, of food crops or cattle
fodder;(12)"Seed Analyst" means a Seed Analyst appointed under section
12;(13)"Seed Inspector" means a Seed Inspector appointed under section
13;(14)"State Government" in relation to a Union territory, means the
administrator thereof;(15)"State Seed Laboratory", in relation to any State,
means the State Seed Laboratory established or declared as such under sub-
section (2) of section 4 for that State; and(16)"variety" means a sub-division
of a kind identifiable by growth, yield, plant, fruit, seed or other
characteristic.

### 3. Central Seed Committee. - (1) The Central Government shall, as soon as
may be after the commencement of this Act, constitute a Committee called the
Central Seed Committee to advise the Central Government and the State
Governments on matters arising out of the administration of this Act and to
carry out the other functions assigned to it by or under this Act.

(2)The Committee shall consist of the following members, namely:-(i)a Chairman
to be nominated by the Central Government;(ii)eight persons to be nominated by
the Central Government to represent such interests as that Government thinks
fit, of whom not less than two persons shall be representatives of growers of
seed;(iii)one person to be nominated by the Government of each of the
States.(3)The members of the Committee shall, unless their seats become vacant
earlier by resignation, death or otherwise, be entitled to hold office for two
years and shall be eligible for re-nomination.(4)The Committee may, subject to
the previous approval of the Central Government, make bye-laws fixing the
quorum and regulating its own procedure, and the conduct of all business to be
transacted by it.(5)The Committee may appoint one or more sub-Committees
consisting wholly of members of the Committee or wholly of other persons or
partly of members of the Committee and partly of other persons, as it thinks
fit, for the purpose of discharging such of its functions as may be delegated
to such Sub-Committee or Sub-Committees by the Committee.(6)The functions of
the Committee or any Sub-Committee thereof may be exercised notwithstanding
any vacancy therein.(7)The Central Government shall appoint a person to be the
Secretary of the Committee and shall provide the Committee with such clerical
and other staff as the Central Government considers necessary.

### 4. Central Seed Laboratory and State Seed Laboratory. - (1) The Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, establish a Central
Seed Laboratory or declare any Seed Laboratory as the Central Seed Laboratory
to carry out the functions entrusted to the Central Seed Laboratory by or
under this Act.

(2)The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
establish one or more State Seed Laboratories or declare any Seed Laboratory
as a State Seed Laboratory where analysis of seeds of any notified kind or
variety shall be carried out by Seed Analysts under this Act in the prescribed
manner.

### 5. Power to notify kinds or varieties of seeds. - If the Central
Government, after consultation with the Committee, is of opinion that it is
necessary or expedient to regulate the quality of seed of any kind or variety
to be sold for purposes of agriculture, it may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, declare such kind or variety to be a notified kind or
variety for the purposes of this Act and different kinds or varieties may be
notified for different States or for different areas thereof.

### 6. Power to specify minimum limits of germination and purity, etc. - The
Central Government may, after consultation with the Committee and by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify-

(a)the minimum limits of germination and purity with respect to any seed of
any notified kind or variety;(b)the mark or label to indicate that such seed
conforms to the minimum limits of germination and purity specified under
clause (a) and the particulars which such mark or label may contain.

### 7. Regulation of sale of seeds of notified kinds or varieties. - No person
shall, himself or by any other person on his behalf, carry on the business of
selling, keeping for sale, offering to sell, bartering or otherwise supplying
any seed of any notified kind or variety, unless-

(a)such seed is identifiable as to its kind or variety;(b)such seed conforms
to the minimum limits of germination and purity specified under clause (a) of
section 6;(c)the container of such seed bears in the prescribed manner, the
mark or label containing the correct particulars thereof, specified under
clause (b) of section 6; and(d)he complies with such other requirements as may
be prescribed.

### 8. Certification agency. - The State Government or the Central Government,
in consultation with the State Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, establish a certification agency for the State to carry out the
functions entrusted to the certification agency by or under this Act.

### 8A. [ The Central Seed Certification Board.

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
establish a Central Seed Certification Board (hereinafter referred to as the
Board) to advise the Central Government and the State Governments on all
matters relating to certification, and to co-ordinate the functioning of the
agencies established under section 8.(2)The Board shall consist of the
following members, namely:-(i)a Chairman, to be nominated by the Central
Government;(ii)four members, to be nominated by the Central Government from
out of the persons employed by the State Governments as Directors of
Agriculture;(iii)three members, to be nominated by the Central Government from
out of the persons employed by the Agricultural Universities as Directors of
Research;(iv)thirteen persons, to be nominated by the Central Government to
represent such interests as that Government thinks fit, of whom not less than
four persons shall be representatives of seed producers or tradesmen;(3)A
member of the Board shall, unless his seat becomes vacant earlier by
resignation or otherwise, be entitled to hold office for two years from the
date of his nomination:Provided that a person nominated under clause (ii) or
clause (iii) of sub-section (2) shall hold office only for so long as he holds
the appointment by virtue of which his nomination was made.

### 8\.

-B. Other Committees. - The Board may appoint as many Committees as it deems fit consisting wholly of the members of the Board or wholly of other persons or partly of members of the Board and partly of other persons as it thinks fit to exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be delegated to them, subject to such conditions as it may think fit, by the Board.

### 8C. Proceedings of Board or Committee not to be invalid by reason of any
vacancy therein. - No proceeding of the Board or any Committee thereof shall
become invalid merely by reason of the existence of any vacancy therein or any
defect in the constitution thereof.

### 8D. Procedure for Board. - The Board may, subject to the previous approval
of the Central Government, make bye-laws for the purpose of regulating its own
procedure and the procedure of any Committee thereof and the conduct of all
business to be transacted by it or such Committee.

### 8E. Secretary and other officers. - The Central Government shall-

(i)appoint a person to be the Secretary of the Board, and(ii)provide the Board
with such technical and other staff as the Central Government considers
necessary.]

### 9. Grant of certificate by certification agency. - (1) Any person selling,
keeping for sale, offering to sell, bartering or otherwise supplying any seed
of any notified kind or variety may, if he desires to have such seed certified
by the certification agency, apply to the certification agency for the grant
of a certificate for the purpose.

(2)Every application under sub-section (1) shall be made in such form, shall
contain such particulars and shall be accompanied by such fees as may be
prescribed.(3)On receipt of any such application for the grant of a
certificate, the certification agency may, after such enquiry as it thinks fit
and after satisfying itself that the seed to which the application relates
conforms to the [prescribed standards], grant a certificate in such form and
on such conditions as may be prescribed:[Provided that such standards shall
not be lower than the minimum limits of germination and purity specified for
that seed under clause (a) of section 6.] [Inserted by Act 55 of 1972, Section
4 (w.e.f. 16.1.1973).]

### 10. Revocation of certificate. - If the certification agency is satisfied,
either on a reference made to it in this behalf or otherwise, that-

(a)the certificate granted by it under section 9 has been obtained by
misrepresentation as to an essential fact; or(b)the holder of the certificate
has, without reasonable cause, failed to comply with the conditions subject to
which the certificate has been granted or has contravened any of the
provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder, then without prejudice to
any other penalty to which the holder of the certificate may be liable under
this Act, the certification agency may, after giving the holder of the
certificate an opportunity of showing cause, revoke the certificate.

### 11. Appeal. - (1) Any person aggrieved by the decision of a certification
agency under section 9 or section 10, may, within thirty days from the date on
which the decision is communicated to him and on payment of such fees as may
be prescribed, prefer an appeal to such authority as may be specified by the
State Government in this behalf:

Provided that the appellate authority may entertain an appeal after the expiry
of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied that the appellant was
prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.(2)On receipt of
an appeal under sub-section (1), the appellate authority shall, after giving
the appellant an opportunity of being heard, dispose of the appeal as
expeditiously as possible.(3)Every order of the appellate authority under this
section shall be final.

### 12. Seed Analysts. - The State Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint such persons as it thinks fit, having the prescribed
qualifications, to be Seed Analysts and define the areas within which they
shall exercise jurisdiction.

### 13. Seed Inspectors. - (1) The State Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, appoint such persons as it thinks fit, having the
prescribed qualifications, to be Seed Inspectors and define the areas within
which they shall exercise jurisdiction.

(2)Every Seed Inspector shall be deemed to be a public servant within the
meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and shall be
officially subordinate to such authority as the State Government may specify
in this behalf.

### 14. Powers of Seed Inspector. - (1) The Seed Inspector may-

(a)take samples of any seed of any notified kind or variety from-(i)any person
selling such seed; or(ii)any person who is in the course of conveying,
delivering or preparing to deliver such seed to a purchaser or a consignee;
or(iii)a purchaser or a consignee after delivery of such seed to him;(b)send
such sample for analysis to the Seed Analyst for the area within which such
sample has been taken;(c)enter and search at all reasonable times, with such
assistance, if any, as he considers necessary, any place in which he has
reason to believe that an offence under this Act has been or is being
committed and order in writing the person in possession of any seed in respect
of which the offence has been or is being committed not to dispose of any
stock of such seed for a specific period not exceeding thirty days or, unless
the alleged offence is such that the defect may be removed by the possessor of
the seed, seize the stock of such seed;(d)examine any record, register,
document or any other material object found in any place mentioned in clause
(c) and seize the same if he has reason to believe that it may furnish
evidence of the commission of an offence punishable under this Act;
and(e)exercise such other powers as may be necessary for carrying out the
purposes of this Act or any rule made thereunder.(2)Where any sample of any
seed of any notified kind or variety is taken under clause (a) of sub-section
(1), its cost, calculated at the rate at which such seed is usually sold to
the public, shall be paid on demand to the person from whom it is taken.(3)The
power conferred by this section includes power to break open any container in
which any seed of any notified kind or variety may be contained or to break
open the door of any premises where any such seed may be kept for
sale:Provided that the power to break open the door shall be exercised only
after the owner or any other person in occupation of the premises, if he is
present therein, refuses to open the door on being called upon to do
so.(4)Where the Seed Inspector takes any action under clause (a) of sub-
section (1), he shall, as far as possible, call not less than two persons to
be present at the time when such action is taken and take their signatures on
a memorandum to be prepared in the prescribed form and manner.(5)The
provisions of the [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)], shall, so
far as may be, apply to any search or seizure under this section as they apply
to any search or seizure made under the authority of a warrant issued under
section 98 of the said Code.

### 15. Procedure to be followed by Seed Inspectors. - (1) Whenever a Seed
Inspector intends to take sample of any seed of any notified kind or variety
for analysis, he shall-

(a)give notice in writing, then and there, of such intention to the person
from whom he intends to take sample;(b)except in special cases provided by
rules made under this Act, take three representative samples in the prescribed
manner and mark and seal or fasten up each sample in such manner as its nature
permits.(2)When samples of any seed of any notified kind or variety are taken
under sub-section (1), the Seed Inspector shall-(a)deliver one sample to the
person from whom it has been taken;(b)send in the prescribed manner another
sample for analysis to the Seed Analyst for the area within which such sample
has been taken; and(c)retain the remaining samples in the prescribed manner
for production in case any legal proceedings are taken or for analysis by the
Central Seed Laboratory under sub-section (2) of section 16, as the case may
be.(3)If the person from whom the samples have been taken refuses to accept
one of the samples, the Seed Inspector shall send intimation to the Seed
Analyst of such refusal and thereupon the Seed Analyst receiving the sample
for analysis shall divide it into two parts and shall seal or fasten up one of
those parts and shall cause it, either upon receipt of the sample or when he
delivers his report, to be delivered to the Seed Inspector who shall retain it
for production in case legal proceedings are taken.(4)Where a Seed Inspector
takes any action under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 14,-(a)he
shall use all despatch in ascertaining whether or not the seed contravenes any
of the provisions of section 7 and if it is ascertained that the seed does not
so contravene, forthwith revoke the order passed under the said clause or, as
the case may be, take such action as may be necessary for the return of the
stock of the seed seized;(b)if he seizes the stock of the seed, he shall, as
soon as may be, inform a Magistrate and take his orders as to the custody
thereof;(c)without prejudice to the institution of any prosecution, if the
alleged offence is such that the defect may be removed by the possessor of the
seed, he shall, on being satisfied that the defect has been so removed,
forthwith revoke the order passed under the said clause.(5)Where a Seed
Inspector seizes any record, register, document or any other material object
under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 14, he shall, as soon as may
be, inform a Magistrate and take his orders as to the custody thereof.

### 16. Report of Seed Analyst. - (1) The Seed Analyst shall, as soon as may
be after the receipt of the sample under sub-section (2) of section 15,
analyse the sample at the State Seed Laboratory and deliver, in such form as
may be prescribed, one copy of the report of the result of the analysis to the
Seed Inspector and another copy thereof to the person from whom the sample has
been taken.

(2)After the institution of a prosecution under this Act, the accused vendor
or the complainant may, on payment of the prescribed fee, make an application
to the Court for sending any of the samples mentioned in clause (a) or clause
(c) of sub-section (2) of section 15 to the Central Seed Laboratory for its
report and on receipt of the application, the Court shall first ascertain that
the mark and the seal or fastening as provided in clause (b) of sub-section
(1) of section 15 are intact and may then despatch the sample under its own
seal to the Central Seed Laboratory which shall thereupon send its report to
the Court in the prescribed form within one month from the date of receipt of
the sample, specifying the result of the analysis.(3)The report sent by the
Central Seed Laboratory under sub-section (2) shall supersede the report given
by the Seed Analyst under sub-section (1).(4)Where the report sent by the
Central Seed Laboratory under sub-section (2) is produced in any proceedings
under section 19, it shall not be necessary in such proceedings to produce any
sample or part thereof taken for analysis.

### 17. Restriction on export and import of seeds of notified kinds or
varieties. - No person shall, for the purpose of sowing or planting by any
person (including himself), export or import or cause to be exported or
imported any seed of any notified kind or variety, unless-

(a)it conforms to the minimum limits of germination and purity specified for
that seed under clause (a) of section 6; and(b)its container bears, in the
prescribed manner, the mark or label with the correct particulars thereof
specified for that seed under clause (b) of section 6.

### 18. Recognition of seed certification agencies of foreign countries. - The
Central Government may, on the recommendation of the Committee and by
notification in the Official Gazette, recognise any seed certification agency
established in any foreign country, for the purposes of this Act.

### 19. Penalty. - If any person-

(a)contravenes any provision of this Act or any rule made thereunder;
or(b)prevent a Seed Inspector from taking sample under this Act; or(c)prevents
a Seed Inspector from exercising any other power conferred on him by or under
this Act, he shall, on conviction, be punishable-(i)for the first offence with
fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, and(ii)in the event of such
person having been previously convicted of an offence under this section, with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.

### 20. Forfeiture of property. - When any person has been convicted under
this Act for the contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or the
rules made thereunder, the seed in respect of which the contravention has been
committed may be forfeited to the Government.

### 21. Offences by companies. - (1) Where an offence under this Act has been
committed by a company, every person who at the time the offence was committed
was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the
business of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty
of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly:

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such
person liable to any punishment under this Act if he proves that the offence
was committed without his knowledge and that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent
or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of, any
director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director,
manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section,-(a)"company"
means anybody corporate and includes a firm or other association of
individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a firm, means a partner in the
firm.

### 22\. Protection of action taken in good faith. - No suit, prosecution or
other legal proceeding shall lie against the Government or any officer of the
Government for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done
under this Act.

### 23. Power to give directions. - The Central Government may give such
directions to any State Government as may appear to the Central Government to
be necessary for carrying into execution in the State any of the provisions of
this Act or of any rule made thereunder.

### 24. Exemption. - Nothing in this Act shall apply to any seed of any
notified kind or variety grown by a person and sold or delivered by him on his
own premises direct to another person for being used by that person for the
purpose of sowing or planting.

### 25. Power to make rules. - (1) The Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, make [rules] to carry out the purposes of this Act.

(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for-(a)the functions of the Committee and the
travelling and daily allowances payable to members of the Committee and
members of any sub-Committee appointed under sub-section (5) of section
3;(b)the functions of the Central Seed Laboratory;(c)the functions of a
certification agency;(d)the manner of marking or labelling the container of
seed of any notified kind or variety under clause (c) of section 7 and under
clause (b) of section 17;(e)the requirements which may be complied with by a
person carrying on the business referred to in section 7;(f)the form of
application for the grant of a certificate under section 9, the particulars,
it may contain, the fees which should accompany it, the form of the
certificate and the conditions subject to which the certificate may be
granted;(ff)[ the standards to which seeds should conform;] [Inserted by Act
55 of 1972, Section 5 (w.e.f. 16.1.1973).](g)the form and manner in which and
the fee on payment of which an appeal may be preferred under section 11 and
the procedure to be followed by the appellate authority in disposing of the
appeal;(h)the qualifications and duties of Seed Analysts and Seed
Inspectors;(i)the manner in which samples may be taken by the Seed Inspector,
the procedure for sending such samples to the Seed Analyst or the Central Seed
Laboratory and the manner of analysing such samples;(j)the form of report of
the result of the analysis under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section
16 and the fees payable in respect of such report under the said sub-section
(2);(k)the records to be maintained by a person carrying on the business
referred to in section 7 and the particulars which such records shall contain;
and(l)any other matter which is to be or may be prescribed.(3)Every rule made
under this Act shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made, before each
House of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days
which may be comprised in one session or [in two or more successive sessions,
and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or
successive sessions aforesaid] [Substituted by Act 55 of 1972, Section 5, for
" in two successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session in
which it is so laid or th session immediately follwing" (w.e.f. 16.1.1973).]
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree
that the rule should not be made, that rule shall, thereafter have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done under that rule.

