## Union of India - Act

## The Small Industries Development Bank Of India Act, 1989

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Small Industries Development Bank Of India Act, 1989

## Act 39 of 1989

  * Published on 25 October 1989 
  * Commenced on 25 October 1989 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 October 1989.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Small Industries Development Bank Of India Act, 1989(39 OF 1989)

### 22.

/997Statement of Objects and Reasons.-There has been a long standing demand of
the tiny and small industries that there should be an apex bank for them. The
intention of the Government to establish the Small Industries Development Bank
of India to strengthen and broad-base the existing institutional arrangements
to meet the requirements of industries in the small-scale sector was made
clear in the budget speech for the year 1988-89. Hence this Bill.2\. In this
Bill it is proposed to establish a statutory corporation known as "the Small
Industries Development Bank of India", wholly owned subsidiary of the
Industrial Development Bank of India, to function as principal financial
institution for the promotion, financing and development of industry in the
small-scale sector and to coordinate the functions of the institutions engaged
in the promotion, financing or developing industry in that sector. It is also
proposed that the Bank would give special attention to the export oriented
industrial units in that sector.3\. The resources of this Bank will mainly
comprise of contributions from the Industrial Development Bank of India in the
form of loans and shares and may include market borrowings and short-term and
long-term funds from the Reserve Bank of India and loans from the Government
of India. It is also proposed to transfer to this Bank the business assets and
liabilities, rights, interests, privileges and obligations of the Industrial
Development Bank of India relating to the Small Industries Development Fund
and the National Equity Fund.[25th October, 1989]An Act to establish the Small
Industries Development Bank of India as the principal financial institution
for the promotion financing and development of industry in the small-scale
sector and to co-ordinate the functions of the institutions engaged in the
promotion, financing or developing industry in the small-scale sector and for
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by Parliament
in the Fortieth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

Brought into force on 7.3.1990 vide S.O. 137(E), dated 7.3.1990, published in
the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(ii), dated
7.3.1990.2\. Established w.e.f. 7.3.1990, vide S.O. 198(E), dated 7.3.1990,
published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(ii),
dated 7.3.1990.3\. 2.4.1990, vide S.O. 195(E), dated 7.3.1990, published in
the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(ii), dated
7.3.1990.2.4.1990, vide S.O. 196(E), dated 7.3.1990, published in the Gazette
of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(ii), dated 7.3.1990.  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The
Small Industries Development Bank of India Act, 1989.

(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date
as the Central Government may, by notification, appoint and different dates
may be appointed for different provisions of this Act.

### 2. Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Small Industries Development
Bank of India referred to in section 5;(b)[ "Chairman and Managing Director"
means the Chairman and Managing Director referred to in clause (a) of sub-
section (1) of section 6;](c)"Court" means the High Court within the local
limits of whose jurisdiction,-(i)the defendant or respondent or, where there
is more than one defendant or respondent, any one of them-(1)has his
registered office, or(2)carries on the whole or part of his business, at the
time of commencement of any legal proceedings against him under this Act,
or(ii)the cause of action for such legal proceedings, wholly or in part,
arises;(d)"Development Bank" means the Industries Development Bank of India
established under section 3 of the Industries Development Bank of India Act,
1964 (18 of 1964);(e)"Director" means a Director nominated under sub-section
(1) of section 6 and includes the [Chairman and Managing Director and whole-
time Director] [ Substituted by Act 7 of 2000, Section 2, for " Managing
Director" (w.e.f. 27.3.2000).];(f)"export" means export from India of products
or services of any industrial concern in small-scale sector;(fa)[ "General
Insurance Corporation" means the General Insurance Corporation of India formed
under section 9 of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972
(57 of 1972);] [ Inserted by Act 7 of 2000, Section 2 (w.e.f.
27.3.2000).](g)"import" means import into India of services or goods including
all materials, commodities and articles in a solid, liquid or gaseous state
and all forms of energy for the use of any industrial concern in the small-
scale sector;(h)[ "industrial concern in the small scale sector" means any
concern engaged or to be engaged in,- [ Substituted by Act 53 of 2003, Section
12 and Sch., for Clause (h)(w.e.f. 2.7.2004).](i)the manufacture, preservation
or processing of goods;(ii)shipping;(iii)mining including development of
mines;(iv)the hotel industry;(v)the transport of passengers or goods by road
or by water or by air or by ropeway or by lift;(vi)the generation, storage or
distribution of electricity or any other form of energy;(vii)the maintenance,
repair, testing or servicing of machinery or equipment of any description or
vehicles or vessels or motor boats or trailers or tractors;(viii)assembling,
repairing or packing any article with the aid of machinery or power;(ix)the
setting up of, or development of, an industrial area or an industrial
estate;(x)fishing or providing shore facilities for fishing or maintenance
thereof;(xi)providing special or technical knowledge or other services for the
promotion of industrial growth;(xii)providing engineering, technical,
financial, management, marketing or other services or facilities for
industry;(xiii)service industry such as altering, ornamenting, polishing,
finishing, oiling, washing, cleaning or otherwise treating or adapting any
article or substance with a view to its use, sale, transport, delivery or
disposal;(xiv)providing medical, health or other allied services;(xv)providing
services relating to information technology, telecommunication or
electronics;(xvi)leasing, sub-leasing or giving on hire-purchase of industrial
plants, equipments, machinery or other assets including vehicles, ships and
aircraft;(xvii)such other activity as the Central Government may, having
regard to the objects of this Act, by notification, specify in this behalf;
or(xviii)the research and development of any concept, technology, design,
process or product whether in relation to any of the matters afore-said,
including any activities specified under sub-clause (xvii), or any other
matter and which is regarded as a small-scale undertaking under section 11B of
the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951);Explanation
.-The expression "processing of goods" includes any art or pro-cess for
producing, preparing or making an article by subjecting any material to a
manual mechanical, chemical, electrical or any other like operation;](ha)[
"Life Insurance Corporation" means the Life Insurance Corporation of India
established under section 3 of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 (31 of
1956);] [ Inserted by Act 7 of 2000, Section 2 (w.e.f. 27.3.2000).][* * *] [
Clause (i) omitted by Act 7 of 2000, Section 2 (w.e.f.
27.3.2000).](j)"National Small Industries Corporation" means the National
Small Industries Corporation Limited registered under the Companies Act, 1956
(1 of 1956);(k)"notification" means a notification published in the Official
Gazette;(l)"prescribed" means prescribed by regulations made under this
Act;(la)"public sector bank" means the State Bank of India constituted under
the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955), a subsidiary bank as defined
in the State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959 (38 of 1959), a
corresponding new Bank constituted under section 3 of the Banking Companies
(Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970) or under
section 3 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings)
Act, 1980 (40 of 1980);[(l-b) "Reserve Bank" means the Reserve Bank of India
constituted under the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934(2 of 1934); [ Inserted
by Act 53 of 2003, Section 12 and Sch. (w.e.f. 2.7.2004).](l-c) "scheduled
bank" means a bank for the time being included in the Second Schedule to the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934(2 of 1934);](m)"Small Industries Bank" means
the Small Industries Development Bank of India established under sub-section
(1) of section 3;(n)"State Small Industries Corporation" means a State
Corporation, registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), for small
industries in a State;(o)"State Financial Corporation" means a financial
corporation established under section 3 or section 3-A or an institution,
notified under section 46 of the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (63 of
1951);(p)"State Industrial Development Corporation" means a State Corporation
registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), for the development of
industries in a State;[* * *] [ Clause (q) omitted by Act 53 of 2003, Section
12 and Sch. (w.e.f. 2.7.2004).]

## Chapter II  
Establishment Of The Small Industries Development Bank Of India And Capital
Thereof

### 3. Establishment and incorporation of Small Industries Development Bank of
India .-(1) With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by
notification, appoint, there shall be established, for the purposes of this
Act, a corporation to be known as the Small Industries Development Bank of
India.

(2)The Small Industries Bank shall be a body corporate with the name aforesaid
having perpetual succession and a common seal with power, subject to the
provisions of this Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of property and to
contract, and may, by that name, sue or be sued.(3)The head office of the
Small Industries Bank shall be at Lucknow or at such other place as the
Central Government may, by notification, specify.(4)The Small Industries Bank
shall establish offices, branches or agencies at any place in or outside
India.

### 4. [ Authorised capital

.-(1) The authorised capital of the Small Industries Bank shall be one
thousand crores of rupees divided into seventy five crores fully paid-up
equity shares of rupees ten each and twenty-five crores fully paid-up
redeemable preference shares of rupees ten each:Provided that the Central
Government may, on the recommendation of the Board, by notification, increase
the authorised capital to an amount not exceeding two thousand crores of
rupees consisting of such number of equity shares and redeemable preference
shares as it may deem fit.][4-A. Conversion of equity shares into redeemable
preference shares.-(1) The Central Government may, at any time after the
commencement of the Small Industries Development Bank of India (Amendment)
Act, 2000, by notification, convert such number of equity shares held by the
Development Bank, the public sector banks, the General Insurance Corporation,
the Life Insurance Corporation and other institutions owned or controlled by
the Central Government, not exceeding twenty-five crores, as it may decide,
into redeemable preference shares:Provided that such conversion shall in no
case reduce the equity shares held in aggregate by the Development Bank, the
public sector Banks, the General Insurance Corporation, the Life Insurance
Corporation and other institutions owned or controlled by the Central
Government to less than fifty-one per cent.(2)The redeemable preference shares
referred to in sub-section (1) shall-(a)carry such fixed rate of dividend as
the Central Government may specify at the time of such conversion,
and(b)neither be transferable nor carry any voting rights.(3)The redeemable
preference shares referred to in sub-section (1) shall be redeemed by the
Small Industries Bank within three years from the date of such conversion in
such instalments and in such manner as the Board may determine.

### 4\.

-B. Transfer of capital .-On such date as the Central Government may, in consultation with the Development Bank, by notification, specify (hereinafter referred to as "the specified date"), not less than fifty-one percent of the issued capital of the Small Industries Bank which has been subscribed by the Development Bank as on the date immediately preceding the specified date shall, stand transferred to, and vested in, the public sector banks, the General Insurance Corporation, the Life Insurance Corporation and other institutions owned or controlled by the Central Government in such proportion, manner and on such terms and conditions as may be determined by that Government.

### 4\.

-C. Issued capital .-(1) The issued capital of the Small Industries Bank, of four hundred and fifty crores of rupees, immediately before the commencement of the Small Industries Development Bank of India (Amendment) Act, 2000, shall, on such commencement, stand divided into forty-five crores equity shares of rupees ten each.(2)The Board may, from time to time, increase the issued equity share capital or redeemable preference share capital of the Small Industries Bank by allotment of shares to such persons and on such terms and conditions as the Board may determine:Provided that no increase in the issued equity capital shall be made in such a manner that the Development Bank, the public sector Banks, the General Insurance Corporation, the Life Insurance Corporation and other institutions owned or controlled by the Central Government, hold in aggregate at any time, less than fifty-one per cent. of the issued equity share capital of the Small Industries Bank.

### 4\.

-D. Reduction of share capital .-(1) The Small Industries Bank may, with the prior approval of the Central Government, by a resolution passed in a general meeting of the shareholders, reduce its share capital in any way.(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the share capital may be reduced by-(a)extinguishing or reducing the liability on any of its equity shares in respect of the share capital not paid-up;(b)either with or without extinguishing or reducing liability on any of its equity shares, cancelling any paid-up share capital which is lost, or is unrepresented by available assets; or(c)either with or without extinguishing or reducing liability on any of its equity shares, paying off any paid-up share capital which is in excess of the wants of the Small Industries Bank.(3)In any general meeting referred to in sub-section (1), the resolution for reduction of share capital shall be passed by shareholders entitled to vote, voting in person, or, where proxies are allowed, by proxy, and the votes cast in favour of the resolution are not less than three times the number of the votes, if any, cast against the resolution by shareholders so entitled and voting.

### 4\.

-E. Restriction on exercising of voting right .-Every shareholder of the Small Industries Bank holding equity shares shall have a right to vote in respect of such shares on every resolution and his voting right on a poll shall be in proportion to his share of the paid-up equity share capital of the Small Industries Bank:Provided, however, that no shareholder, other than the Development Bank, the public sector Banks, the General Insurance Corporation, the Life Insurance Corporation and other institutions owned or controlled by the Central Government, shall be entitled to exercise voting rights in respect of any equity shares held by him in excess of ten per cent. of the issued equity share capital.]

## Chapter III  
Management Of The Small Industries Bank

### 5. [ Management

.-(1) The general superintendence, direction and management of affairs and
business of the Small Industries Bank shall vest in the Board of Directors
which may exercise all powers and do all such acts and things as may be
exercised or done by the Small Industries Bank and are not by this Act
expressly directed or required to be done by the Small Industries Bank in
general meeting.(2)The Board may direct that any power exercisable by it under
this Act shall also be exercisable in such cases and subject to such
conditions, if any, as may be specified by it, by the Chairman and Managing
Director or the whole-time Directors.(3)Subject to the provisions of this Act,
the Board in discharging its functions shall act on business principles with
due regard to public interest.

### 6. Constitution of Board .-(1) The Board shall consist of the following,
namely:-

(a)a Chairman and Managing Director appointed by the Central Government;(b)two
whole-time Directors appointed by the Central Government;(c)two Directors who
shall be officials of the Central Government nominated by the Central
Government ;(d)three Directors to be nominated in the prescribed manner by the
Development Bank, the public sector banks, the General Insurance Corporation,
the Life Insurance Corporation and other institutions owned or controlled by
the Central Government;(e)three Directors, including one Director from the
officials of the State Financial Corporations, nominated by the Central
Government from amongst the persons having special knowledge of, or
professional experience in, science, technology, economics, industry, banking,
industrial co-operatives, law, industrial finance, investment, accountancy,
marketing or any other matter, the special knowledge of, or professional
experience in, which would, in the opinion of the Central Government, be
useful to the Small Industries Bank;(f)such number of Directors not exceeding
four elected in the prescribed manner, by shareholders, other than the
Development Bank, the public sector banks, the General Insurance Corporation,
the Life Insurance Corporation and other institutions owned or controlled by
the Central Government, whose names are entered in the register of
shareholders of the Small Industries Bank ninety days before the date of the
meeting in which such election takes place on the following basis,
namely:-(i)where the total amount of equity share capital issued to such
shareholders is ten per cent. or less of the total issued equity share
capital, two Directors;(ii)where the total amount of equity share capital
issued to such shareholders is more than ten per cent., but less than twenty-
five per cent. of the total issued equity share capital, three Directors;
and(iii)where the total amount of equity share capital issued to such
shareholders is twenty-five per cent. or more of the total issued equity share
capital, four Directors:Provided that if the percentage of holding of issued
equity share capital with the shareholders, other than the Development Bank,
the public sector Banks, the General Insurance Corporation, the Life Insurance
Corporation and other institutions owned or controlled by the Central
Government, does not permit election of four Directors or until the assumption
of charge by the elected Directors, the Board may, at any time, co-opt such
number of Directors, not exceeding four, from amongst the persons having
special knowledge of, or professional experience in, science, technology,
economics, industry, banking, industrial co-operatives, law, industrial
finance, investment, accountancy, marketing or any other matter, the special
knowledge of, or professional experience in, which would, in the opinion of
the Board, be useful to the Small Industries Bank for carrying out its
functions, who shall hold office until the assumption of charge by the elected
Directors and an equal number of such co-opted Directors shall retire in the
order of co-option.(2)The Chairman and Managing Director and the whole-time
Directors shall hold office for such term not exceeding five years as the
Central Government may specify in this behalf and any person so appointed
shall be eligible for re-appointment.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (1), the Central Government shall have the right to terminate the
term of office of the Chairman and Managing Director or the whole-time
Director, as the case may be, at any time before the expiry of the term
specified under sub-section (2) by giving him notice of not less than three
months in writing or three months' salary and allowances in lieu of such
notice and the Chairman and Managing Director or the whole-time Director, as
the case may be, shall also have the right to relinquish his office at any
time before the expiry of the term specified under sub-section (2) by giving
to the Central Government, notice of not less than three months in
writing.(4)The Chairman and Managing Director and the whole-time Directors
shall receive such salary and allowances as may be determined by the Central
Government.(5)The Central Government may, at any time, remove the Chairman and
Managing Director or the whole-time Director, as the case may be, from
office:Provided that no person shall be removed from his office, under this
sub-section, unless he has been given an opportunity of showing cause against
his removal.(6)Every Director nominated under clauses (c), (d) and (e) of sub-
section (1), shall hold office during the pleasure of the authority nominating
him.(7)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (6),-(a)every Director
nominated under clauses (d) and (e) of sub-section (1) shall hold office for
such term not exceeding three years as the Central Government, or the
authority nominating him, as the case may be, may specify in this behalf and
thereafter until his successor assumes office, and shall be eligible for re-
nomination:Provided that no such Director shall hold office continuously for a
period exceeding six years; and(b)every Director elected under clause (f) of
sub-section (1) shall hold office for three years and thereafter until his
successor assumes office and shall be eligible for re-election:Provided that
no such Director shall hold office continuously for a period exceeding six
years.(8)The shareholders, other than the Development Bank, the public sector
Banks, the General Insurance Corporation, the Life Insurance Corporation and
other institutions owned or controlled by the Central Government may, after
giving the Director a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the manner as
prescribed, by resolution passed by majority of the votes of such shareholders
holding in the aggregate not less than one-half of the equity share capital
held by such shareholders, remove any Director elected under clause (f) of
sub-section (1) and elect another Director in his place to fill the vacancy so
caused.(9)(i)A meeting of the Board shall be held atleast once every three
months and atleast four meetings shall be held every year and the meetings may
be held at such places as may be prescribed.(ii)Notice of every meeting of the
Board shall be given in writing to every Director for the time being in India,
and at his usual address in India to every other Director.(10)Subject to the
provisions contained in this Chapter, the Board may meet at such times and
places and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to transaction of
its business including the manner of adoption of resolutions as may be
prescribed.(11)The Chairman and Managing Director , if for any reason, is
unable to attend a meeting of the Board, any other Director nominated by the
Chairman and Managing Director in this behalf and in the absence of such
nomination any Director elected by the Directors present from among
themselves, shall preside at the meeting.(12)All questions which come up
before any meeting of the Board shall be decided by a majority of votes of the
Directors present and voting, and in the event of an equality of votes, the
Chairman and Managing Director, or in his absence, the person presiding, shall
have a second or casting vote.(13)Save as provided in sub-section (12), every
Director of the Board shall have one vote.]

### 7. Managing Director .-[ Repealed by the Small Industries Development Bank
of India (Amendment) Act , 2000 (7 of 2000), section 4 (w.e.f.27-3-2000).]

### 8. [ Disqualifications of Directors

.-(1) A person shall not be eligible for being elected as a Director under
clause (f) of sub-section (1) of section 6, if he-(a)has been found to be of
unsound mind by a Court of competent jurisdiction and the finding is in
force;(b)is an undischarged insolvent;(c)has applied to be adjudicated as an
insolvent and his application is pending;(d)has been convicted by a Court of
competent jurisdiction, of any offence involving moral turpitude and sentenced
in respect thereof to imprisonment for not less than six months and a period
of five years has not elapsed from the date of expiry of the sentence;
or(e)has not paid any call in respect of shares of the Small Industries Bank
held by him, whether alone or jointly with others, and six months have elapsed
from the last day fixed for the payment of the call.

### 9. Vacation and resignation of office by Directors .-(1) The office of a
Director shall become vacant if he-

(a)becomes subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in section 8;
or(b)resigns his office by giving notice in writing under his hand and
theresignation is accepted; or(c)absents himself from three consecutive
meetings of the Board without obtaining leave of absence from the
Board.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (a) of sub-section (1),
the disqualifications referred to in that clause shall not take effect-(a)for
thirty days from the date of the adjudication, sentence or order;(b)where any
appeal or petition is preferred within thirty days aforesaid against the
adjudication, sentence or conviction resulting in the sentence or order until
the expiry of seven days from the date on which such appeal or petition is
disposed of; or(c)where within the seven days aforesaid, any further appeal or
petition is preferred in respect of the adjudication, sentence, conviction or
order and the appeal or petition, if allowed, would result in the removal of
the disqualification, until such further appeal or petition is disposed of.

### 10. Casual vacancies in office of Managing Director .-[ Repealed by the
Small Industries Development Bank of India (Amendment) Act , 2000 (7 of 2000),
section 6 (w.e.f.27-3-2000).]

### 11. Meetings of the Board .-[ Repealed by the Small Industries Development
Bank of India (Amendment) Act , 2000 (7 of 2000), section 6
(w.e.f.27-3-2000).]

### 12. [ Executive Committee and other Committees

.-(1) The Board shall constitute an Executive Committee consisting of the
Chairman and Managing Director, the whole-time Directors and such other
Directors as it may deem fit.(2)The Executive Committee shall discharge such
functions as may be prescribed or as may, without prejudice to the provisions
contained in section 34, be delegated to it by the Board.(3)The Board may
constitute such other committees whether consisting wholly of Directors or
wholly of other persons or partly of Directors and partly of other persons for
such purpose or purposes as it may think fit.(4)The Executive Committee or any
other committee constituted under this section shall meet at such times and
places and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction
of business at its meetings as may be prescribed.

### 12\.

-A. Fees and allowances of Directors and members of Committees .-The Directors and the members of a Committee shall be paid such fees and allowances as may be prescribed for attending the meetings of the Board or of any Committee constituted in pursuance of this Act and for attending to any other work of the Small Industries Bank:Provided that no fees shall be payable to the Chairman and Managing Director or to the whole-time Directors or to any other Director who is an official of the Government.]

## Chapter IV  
Business Of The Small Industries Bank

### 13. Business of Small Industries Bank .-(1) The Small Industries Bank
shall function as the principal financial institution for the promotion,
financing and development of industrial concerns in the small-scale sector and
shall also co-ordinate the functions of institutions engaged in promoting,
financing and developing the industrial concerns in the small-scale sector and
may carry on and transact any of the following business, namely:-

(i)[ granting loans and advances to any State Financial Corporation, State
Industrial Development Corporation, State Small Industries Corporation,
scheduled Bank, State Cooperative Bank or such other financial institutions,
approved by the Board in this behalf, by way of refinance on such terms and
conditions as it may deem fit to impose, of any loans or advances granted to
industrial concerns in the small scale sector by such corporation, Bank, or
institution or, of any loans or advances granted by the State Financial
Corporation or State Industrial Development Corporation to any other
industrial concern, which are repayable within a period not exceeding twenty
five years;](ii)accepting, discounting or rediscounting bills of exchange and
promissory notes made, drawn, accepted or endorsed by industrial concerns in
the small-scale sector or by any person selling products manufactured by an
industrial concern in the small-scale sector;(iii)subscribing to, or
purchasing stocks, shares, bonds or debentures of, any State Financial
Corporation, State Industrial Development Corporation, State Small Industries
Corporation, National Small Industries Corporation or [such other financial
institutions as may be approved by the Board in this behalf] [ Substituted by
Act 7 of 2000, Section 8, for certain words (w.e.f. 27.3.2000).];(iv)granting
lines of credit or loans and advances to any State Financial Corporation,
State Industrial Development Corporation, State Small Industries Corporation,
National Small Industries Corporation or [such other financial institutions as
may be approved by the Board in this behalf] [Substituted by Act 7 of 2000,
Section 8, for certain words (w.e.f. 27.3.2000). ];(v)granting loans and
advances to any industrial concern in the small-scale sector or subscribing
to, or purchasing, or underwriting the issue of stocks, shares, bonds or
debentures of, any such concern:Provided that nothing contained in this clause
shall be deemed to preclude the Small Industries Bank from granting loans or
advances to, or subscribing to the debentures of, an industrial concern in the
small-scale sector, the amounts outstanding thereon may be convertible at the
option of the Small Industries Bank into stocks or shares of that concern
within the period the loan, advance or debenture is repayable.Explanation .-In
this clause, the expression "the amounts outstanding thereon" used in relation
to any loan or advance, shall mean the principal, interest and other charges
payable on such loan or advance as at the time when the amounts are sought to
be converted into stocks or shares;(vi)granting loans and advances-(a)to any
person exporting; or(b)to any person outside India, in connection with the
export; or(c)for the execution of turn-key projects outside India by any
industrial concern in the small-scale sector;(vii)granting loans and advances
to a scheduled bank or any other bank or such financial institutions approved
by the Board in this behalf, by way of refinance of loans and advances granted
by it for purposes of export;(viii)accepting, collecting, discounting,
rediscounting, purchasing, selling or negotiating in or outside India, bills
of exchange or promissory notes arising out of transactions, relating to
export or import and granting of loans and advances in or outside India
against such bills or promissory notes;(ix)granting, opening, issuing,
confirming or endorsing letters of credit and negotiating or collecting bills
or other documents drawn thereunder;(x)granting lines of credit to the
Government of any foreign State or any financial institution or person outside
India for the purpose of export or import;(xi)financing export from or import
into India of machinery, equipment or other assets including vehicles, ships
and aircrafts on lease, sub-lease or hire purchase basis by or for any
industrial concern in small-scale sector;(xii)buying or selling of, or
entering into such other dealings in, foreign exchange, as may be necessary
for the discharge of the functions of the Small Industries Bank;(xiii)opening
of any account in any Bank in or outside India or making of any agency
arrangements with, or acting as an agent or correspondent of, any bank or
other institution in or outside India;(xiv)transferring for consideration any
instrument relating to loans and advances granted by it to any industrial
concern in the small-scale sector;(xv)granting loans and advances to any
person for purposes of investment in any industrial concern in the small-scale
sector;(xvi)guaranteeing loans raised from, or credit arrangements made with,
any Bank, financial institution or other lending agency in any country outside
India in foreign currency, with the approval of the Central Government, by
industrial concern in the small-scale sector;(xvii)guaranteeing deferred
payments due from any industrial concern in the small-scale
sector;(xviii)guaranteeing-(a)loans raised by industrial concerns in the
small-scale sector which are floated in the public market, or(b)loans raised
by any industrial concern in the small-scale sector from any scheduled Bank or
State Co-operative Bank or State Financial Corporation or State Industrial
Corporation or such other financial institutions as approved by the Board in
this behalf;(xix)guaranteeing the obligations of any scheduled bank or State
Co-operative Bank or State Financial Corporation or State Industrial
Development Corporation or State Small Industries Corporation or such other
financial institutions [as approved by the Board in this behalf] [ Substituted
by Act 7 of 2000, Section 8, for certain words (w.e.f. 27.3.2000).], arising
out of, or in connection with, underwriting the issue of stocks, shares, bonds
or debentures of any industrial concern in the small-scale
sector;(xx)providing factoring services to any industrial concern in the
small-scale sector;(xxi)providing technical and financial consultancy,
merchant banking and extension services;(xxii)undertaking activities for
promotion of industry in the small-scale sector including entrepreneural
development programmes, raw material purchase, marketing support and promotion
of, or financial support to, agencies engaged in such
activities;(xxiii)acquiring, with the approval of [the Central Government] [
Substituted by Act 7 of 2000, Section 8, for " the Central Govenment on the
recommendation the Development Bank" (w.e.f. 27.3.2000).], the undertaking
including the business, assets and liabilities of any institution the
principal object of which is the promotion or development of industry in the
small-scale sector in India, or the grant of financial assistance for such
promotion or development;(xxiv)leasing, sub-leasing or giving on hire or hire-
purchase any movable or immovable assets to any industrial concern in the
small-scale sector;(xxv)undertaking research and surveys for evaluating or
dealing with marketing or investments and undertaking and carrying on techno-
economic studies in connection with the development of industry in the small-
scale sector;(xxvi)providing technical, legal, marketing and administrative
assistance to any industrial concern in the small-scale sector or any person
for promotion, management or expansion of any industrial concern in the small-
scale sector;(xxvii)planning, promoting and developing industries in the
small-scale sector;(xxviii)promoting, forming or conducting or associating in
the promotion, formation or conduct of companies, subsidiaries, societies,
trusts or such other association of persons as it may deem fit;(xxix)acting as
agent of-(a)the Central Government or of the Reserve Bank or of the
Development Bank, or(b)such other Government or person as the Board may
authorise;(xxx)doing any other kind of business which the Central Government
may, on the recommendation of [the Board] [ Substituted by Act 7 of 2000,
Section 8, for the " Development Bank" (w.e.f. 27.3.2000).] ,
authorise;(xxxi)generally doing such other acts and things as may be
incidental to, or consequential upon, the exercise of its powers or the
discharge of its duties under this Act or any other law for the time being in
force including sale or transfer of any of its assets.(2)The Small Industries
Bank may receive in consideration of any of the services mentioned in sub-
section (1) such commission, brokerage, interest, remuneration or fees as may
be agreed upon.(3)The Small Industries Bank shall not grant any loan or
advance or other financial accommodation on the security of its own bonds or
debentures.

### 14. Loans by Central Government .-The Central Government may, after due
appropriation made by Parliament by law in this behalf, advance to the Small
Industries Bank-

(a)an interest free loan of such amount and repayable in such instalments and
in such other manner as may be determined by the Central Government;
and(b)such further sums of money by way of loan on such terms and conditions
as may be agreed upon:Provided that the Central Government may, on a request
being made to it by the Small Industries Bank, increase the number of
instalments or alter the amount of any instalment or vary the date on which
any instalment is payable under clause (a).

### 15. Borrowings and acceptance of deposits by the Small Industries Bank
.-(1) The Small Industries Bank may, for the purpose of carrying out its
functions under this Act,-

(a)issue and sell bonds and debentures with or without the guarantee of the
Central Government;(b)borrow money from the Reserve Bank-(i)repayable on
demand or on the expiry of the fixed periods not exceeding ninety days from
the date on which the money is so borrowed against the security of stocks,
funds and securities (other than immovable property) in which a trustee is
authorised to invest trust money by any law for the time being in force in
India;(ii)against bills of exchange or promissory notes arising out of bona
fide commercial or trade transactions, bearing two or more good signatures and
maturing within five years from the date of the borrowing;(iii)out of the
National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund established under
section 46-C of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934), for any of
the purposes specified in that section;(c)borrow money from the Development
Bank or such other authority, organisation or institution as may be generally
or specially [approved by the Board];(d)accept deposits repayable after the
expiry of such period and on such terms as may be generally or specially
[approved by the Board] [Substituted by Act 7 of 2000, Section 9, for "
approved by the Development Bank" (w.e.f. 27.3.2000). ].(2)The Central
Government may, on a request being made to it by the Small Industries Bank,
guarantee the bonds and debentures issued by that Bank as to the repayment of
principal and the payment of interest at such rate as may be fixed by that
Government.

### 16. [ Investment

.-The Small Industries Bank may invest ( whether by way of deposits in banks
or otherwise) the amounts available in the Small Industries Development
Assistance Fund or the Small Industries General Fund or any other fund or
account which are not for the time being required for the transaction of
business in such manner as may be approved by the Board.]

### 17. Power to transfer rights .-The rights and interests of the Small
Industries Bank (including any other rights incidental thereto) in relation to
any loan or advance granted, or any amount recoverable, by it may be
transferred by the Small Industries Bank, either in whole or in part, by the
execution or issue of any instrument or by the transfer of any instrument by
endorsement, or in any other manner in which the rights and interests in
relation to such loan or advance may be lawfully transferred, and the Small
Industries Bank may, notwithstanding such transfer, act as the trustee for the
transferee.

### 18. Power to acquire rights .-The Small Industries Bank shall have the
right to acquire, by transfer or assignment, the rights and interests of any
public financial institution as defined in section 4-A of the Companies Act,
1956 (1 of 1956) (including any other rights incidental thereto) in relation
to any loan or advance granted, or any amount recoverable by such institution,
either in whole or in part, by the execution or issue of any instrument or by
the transfer of any instrument or in any other manner.

### 19. Loans in foreign currency .-(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in
the [Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973)], or in any other
enactment for the time being in force relating to foreign exchange, the Small
Industries Bank may for the purposes of granting loans and advances under this
Act, borrow, with the previous consent of the Central Government [* * *] [[The
words " and the Development Bank" omitted by Act 7 of 2000, Section 11 (w.e.f.
27.3.2000).

]], foreign currency from any Bank or financial institution in any foreign
country or otherwise.(2)The Central Government may, where necessary, guarantee
any loan taken by the Small Industries Bank under sub-section (1) or any part
thereof as to the repayment of principal and the payment of interest and other
incidental charges.(3)All loans and advances granted by the Small Industries
Bank out of foreign currency borrowed under sub-section (1) shall be expressed
in terms of foreign currency as equivalent of Indian currency calculated in
accordance with the rate of exchange prevailing at the time of grant thereof,
and the amount due thereunder shall be repayable in equivalent Indian
currency, calculated in accordance with the rate of exchange prevailing at the
time of repayment of such loan or advance.(4)Unless otherwise provided by the
Central Government, any loss or profit in connection with any borrowing of
foreign currency under sub-section (1) for the purpose of granting loans and
advances under this Act or with its repayment to the concerned foreign lending
agency, on account of any fluctuations in the exchange accruing-(a)during the
period within which the loan or advance is repayable by the industrial concern
in the small-scale sector or the period of actual repayment thereof by the
concern, whichever is longer, shall be reimbursed by, or paid to, as the case
may be, the recipient of such loans and advances;(b)after the expiry of the
period specified in clause (a),-(i)shall be borne by the Small Industries Bank
in respect of normal market fluctuations in the rate of foreign
exchange;(ii)shall be reimbursed by, or paid to, as the case may be, the
Central Government in respect of fluctuations other than the normal market
fluctuations in foreign exchange.Explanation .-If any question arises as to
whether any fluctuation as aforesaid is a normal market fluctuation or not,
the same shall be decided by the Central Government whose decision thereon
shall be final.

### 20. Grants, donations, etc., to the Small Industries Bank .-The Small
Industries Bank may receive gifts, grants, donations, benefactions or other
monies from Government or any other source.

[CHAPTER IV-A] Shares

### 20\.

-A. Free transferability of shares .-(1) Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (2), the equity shares of the Small Industries Bank shall be freely transferable.(2)Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall entitle the Development Bank, the public sector banks, the General Insurance Corporation, the Life Insurance Corporation and other institutions owned or controlled by the Central Government to transfer any shares held by them in the Small Industries Bank if such transfer will result in reducing the equity shares held in aggregate by them to less than fifty-one per cent. of the issued equity share capital of the Small Industries Bank.

### 20\.

-B. Register of shareholders .-(1) The Small Industries Bank shall keep at its head office a register, in one or more books, of the shareholders and shall enter therein the following particulars so far as they may be available, namely:-(i)the names, addresses and occupations, if any, of the shareholders and a statement of the shares held by each shareholder, distinguishing each share by its denoting number;(ii)the date on which each person is so entered as a shareholder;(iii)the date on which any person ceases to be a shareholder; and(iv)such other particulars as may be prescribed:Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to the shares held with a depository under the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996).(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), it shall be lawful for the Small Industries Bank to keep the register of the shareholders in computer floppies, diskettes, compact disk or any other electronic form, subject to such safeguards, as may be prescribed.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), a copy of, or extract from, the register of the shareholders, certified to be a true copy under the hand of an officer of the Small Industries Bank authorised in this behalf, shall, in all legal proceedings, be admissible in evidence.(4)The register of beneficial owners maintained by a depository under section 11 of the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996) shall be deemed to be a register of the shareholders for the purposes of this Act.

### 20\.

-C. Trust not to be entered on the register of shareholders .-Notwithstanding anything contained in section 20-B, no notice of any trust, express, implied or constructive, shall be entered on the register of shareholders or be receivable by the Small Industries Bank:Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to a depository in respect of the shares held by it as a registered owner on behalf of a beneficial owner.Explanation .-For the purposes of section 20-B and this section, the expressions "beneficial owner", "depository" and "registered owner" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in clauses (a), (e) and (j) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996).

### 20\.

-D. Board's right to refuse registration of transfer of shares .-(1) The Board may refuse to register the transfer of any shares in the name of the transferees on any one or more of the following grounds, and on no other ground, namely:-(a)the transfer of the shares is in contravention of the provisions of this Act or regulations made thereunder or any other law;(b)the transfer of the shares, in the opinion of the Board, is prejudicial to the interests of the Small Industries Bank or to the public interest;(c)the transfer of shares is prohibited by an order of a Court, Tribunal or any other authority under any law for the time being in force.(2)The Board shall, before the expiry of two months from the date on which the instrument of transfer of shares of the Small Industries Bank is lodged with it for the purpose of registration of such transfer, not only form, in good faith, its opinion as to whether such registration ought not or ought to be refused on any of the grounds referred to in sub-section (1) but also,-(a)if it has formed the opinion that such registration ought not be so refused, effect such registration; and(b)if it has formed the opinion that such registration ought to be refused on any of the grounds mentioned in sub-section (1), intimate the transferor and the transferee by notice in writing.(3)An appeal against the order of refusal of the Board under sub-section (2) shall lie to the Central Government and the procedure for filing and hearing of such appeal shall be in accordance with the rules made by the Central Government in this behalf.

### 20\.

-E. Shares to be securities under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882.-Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (2 of 1882), the shares of the Small Industries Bank shall be deemed to be included among the securities enumerated in section 20 of the said Act.[CHAPTER IV-B] Meetings And Proceedings

### 20\.

-F. Annual general meeting .-(1) The Small Industries Bank shall in each year hold, in addition to any other meetings, a general meeting as its annual general meeting and shall specify the meeting as such in the notices calling it; and not more than fifteen months shall elapse between the date of one annual general meeting and that of the next:Provided that the Small Industries Bank may hold the first annual general meeting within a period of six months from the date on which it allots shares for the first time to public for subscription:Provided further that the Central Government may extend the time within which any annual general meeting shall be held by a period not exceeding three months.(2)Every annual general meeting shall be called for a time during business hours, on a day that is not a public holiday, and shall be held either at head office or at some other place within the city or town in which the head office is situated.Explanation .-For the purposes of this section, "public holiday" means a public holiday within the meaning of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (36 of 1881).Provided that no Sunday shall be deemed to be such a holiday in relation to any meeting:Provided further that no day declared by the Central Government to be a public holiday shall be deemed to be such a holiday, in relation to any meeting, unless the declaration was notified before the issue of the notice convening such meeting.

### 20\.

-G. Matters to be discussed and procedure in annual general meeting .-(1) The shareholders present at an annual general meeting shall be entitled to discuss and adopt-(a)the balance-sheet and profit and loss account of the Small Industries Bank made upto the date on which its accounts are closed and balanced;(b)the report of working of the Small Industries Bank for the period covered by the accounts;(c)the auditor's report on the balance-sheet and accounts;(d)proposals for declaration of dividend and capitalisation of reserves;(e)appointment of auditors referred to in sub-section (1) of section 30.(2)The shareholders present at an annual general meeting may also discuss any other matter to be transacted at such meetings in accordance with the provisions of this Act.(3)The matters relating to-(a)the manner in which annual general meeting or other meetings are held under this Act and the procedure to be followed thereat;(b)the manner in which voting rights may be exercised and resolutions may be passed; and(c)the procedure for transaction of business at such meetings and related matters.shall be such as may be prescribed.

## Chapter V  
Small Industries Development Assistance Fund

### 21. Small Industries Development Assistance Fund .-(1) With effect from
such date as the Central Government may, by notification, appoint, the Small
Industries Bank shall establish and maintain, a special fund to be called the
Small Industries Development Assistance Fund.

(2)The Small Industries Bank may, at any time, establish any fund as part of
the Small Industries Development Assistance Fund for such purpose or purposes
as may be approved by the Central Government on the recommendation of the
[Board], or establish any other fund as may be required by or under any law
for the time being in force.

### 22\. Credits to Small Industries Development Assistance Fund .-To the
Small Industries Development Assistance Fund shall be credited-

(a)all amounts received for the purpose of that Fund by way of loans, gifts,
grants, donations, benefactions or otherwise from Government or any other
source;(b)repayments or recoveries in respect of loans, advances or other
facilities granted from the Fund;(c)income or profits from investments made
from the Fund; and(d)income accruing or arising to the Fund, by way of
interest or otherwise, on account of the application of the Fund in accordance
with the provisions of section 23.

### 23. Utilisation of Small Industries Development Assistance Fund .-The
Small Industries Bank may disburse or spend from the Small Industries
Development Assistance Fund, any amount for such purposes as the Central
Government may, on the recommendation of the [Board], specify.

### 24. Debits to Small Industries Development Assistance Fund .-(1) To the
Small Industries Development Assistance Fund shall be debited-

(a)such amounts as may from time to time be disbursed or spent under section
23;(b)such amounts as may be required for discharging the liabilities in
respect of loans received for the purpose of that Fund;(c)any loss arising on
account of investment made out of that Fund; and(d)such expenditure arising
out of, or in connection with, the administration and application of that Fund
as may be determined by the Board.(2)No amount shall be debited to the Small
Industries Development Assistance Fund except as provided for in sub-section
(1).

### 25. Accounts and audit of Small Industries Development Assistance Fund
.-(1) The balance-sheet and accounts of Small Industries Development
Assistance Fund shall be prepared in such form and manner as may be
prescribed.

(2)The Board shall cause the books and accounts of the Small Industries
Development Assistance Fund to be closed and balanced as on the 31st day of
March each year or such other date as the [Board] may specify.(3)[ The Small
Industries Development Assistance Fund shall be audited by the auditors,
appointed under sub-section (1) of section 30, who shall make a separate
report thereon.] [ Substituted by Act 7 of 2000, Section 15, for sub-Section
(3)(w.e.f. 27.3.2000).](4)The provisions of sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) of
section 30 shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the audit of the
Small Industries Development Assistance Fund.(5)The Small Industries Bank
shall furnish to the Central Government [* * *] [ The words " and the
Development Bank" omitted by Act 7 of 2000, Section 15 (w.e.f. 27.3.2000).]
within four months from the date on which the accounts of the Small Industries
Development Assistance Fund are closed and balanced, a copy of balance-sheet
and accounts together with a copy of its auditors' report and a report on the
operation of that Fund during the relevant year and the Central Government
shall, as soon as may be after they are received by it, cause the same to be
laid before each House of Parliament.

### 26. Liquidation of Small Industries Development Assistance Fund .-The
Small Industries Development Assistance Fund shall not be closed or wound up
save by order of the Central Government and in such manner as the Government
may, [* * *], direct.

## Chapter VI  
Small Industries General Fund, Accounts And Audit

### 27. Small Industries General Fund .-All receipts of the Small Industries
Bank other than those which are to be credited to the Small Industries
Development Assistance Fund under this Act shall be credited to a fund to be
called the Small Industries General Fund and all payments by the Small
Industries Bank, other than those which are to be debited to the Small
Industries Development Assistance Fund, shall be made out of the Small
Industries General Fund.

### 28. Preparation of accounts and balance-sheet .-(1) The balance-sheet and
accounts of the Small Industries Bank shall be prepared in such form and
manner as may be prescribed.

(2)The Board shall cause the books and accounts of the Small Industries Bank
to be closed and balanced as on the 31st day of March each year or such other
date, as the [Board] may specify.

### 29. Disposal of profits accruing to Small Industries General Fund .-(1)
The Small Industries Bank may establish a reserve fund to which may be
transferred such sums as the Bank may deem fit out of the annual profits
accruing to the Small Industries General Fund.

(2)[ After making provision for bad and doubtful debts, depreciation of assets
and for all other matters for which provision is necessary or expedient or
which is usually provided for by bankers and for the reserve fund referred to
in sub-section (1), and after transferring a part of the profits to such other
reserves or funds as may be considered appropriate, the Board may, out of its
net profits, propose a dividend.]

### 30. Audit .- [(1) The accounts of the Small Industries Bank shall be
audited by auditors duly qualified to act as auditors under sub-section (1) of
section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), who shall be appointed by
the Small Industries Bank in general meeting of the shareholders out of the
panel of auditors approved by the Reserve Bank for such term and on such
remuneration as the Reserve Bank may fix.]

(2)The auditors shall be supplied with a copy of the annual balance-sheet of
the Small Industries Bank and it shall be their duty to examine it together
with the accounts and vouchers relating thereto and they shall have a list
delivered to them of all books kept by the Small Industries Bank and shall at
all reasonable times have access to the books, accounts, vouchers and other
documents of the Small Industries Bank.(3)The auditors may, in relation to
such accounts, examine any Director or any officer or other employee of the
Small Industries Bank and shall be entitled to require from the Board or
officers or other employees of the Small Industries Bank such information and
explanation as they may think necessary for the performance of their
duties.(4)The auditors shall make a report to the Small Industries Bank upon
the annual balance-sheet and accounts examined by them and in every such
report they shall state whether in their opinion the balance-sheet is a full
and fair balance-sheet containing all necessary particulars and properly drawn
up so as to exhibit a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Small
Industries Bank and in case they had called for any explanation or information
from the Board or any officer or other employee of the Small Industries Bank
whether it has been given and whether it is satisfactory.(5)The Small
Industries Bank shall furnish to the Central Government [* * *] [ The words "
and the Development Bank" omitted by Act 7 of 2000, Section 19 (w.ef.
27.3.2000).] within four months from the date on which its accounts are closed
and balanced, a copy of its balance-sheet and accounts together with a copy of
the auditors' report and a report of the working of the Small Industries Bank
during the relevant year, and the Central Government shall, as soon as may be
after they are received by it, cause the same to be laid before each House of
Parliament.

### 31. Saving .-Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (4) of section 25,
nothing contained in this Chapter shall apply to the Small Industries
Development Assistance Fund.

## Chapter VII  
Transfer Of Part Of Business Of Development Bank

### 32. Transfer of part of business of Development Bank .-(1) On such date as
the Central Government may, by notification, appoint, the business, assets and
liabilities, rights, interests, privileges and obligations of the Development
Bank relating to the Small Industries Development Fund and the National Equity
Fund (hereinafter in this section referred to as Fund) shall stand transferred
to, and vest in, the Small Industries Bank.

Explanation .-"Small Industries Development Fund" and "National Equity Fund"
mean the Small Industries Development Fund and National Equity Fund referred
to as such in the books and accounts of the Development Bank on the day
immediately preceding the date appointed in this sub-section.(2)For the
transfer to, and vesting in, the Small Industries Bank under sub-section (1),
of the Funds, that Bank shall pay to the Development Bank such amount and on
such terms and conditions as the Development Bank may determine.(3)All
contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements, powers of attorney, grants of legal
representation and other instruments of whatever nature which relate to the
Funds and which are subsisting or having effect immediately before the date
referred to in sub-section (1) and to which the Development Bank is a party or
which are in favour of the Development Bank shall,-(a)if they relate
exclusively to the Funds, be of full force and effect against or in favour of
the Small Industries Bank and may be enforced and acted upon as fully and
effectively as if, instead of the Development Bank, the Small Industries Bank
had been a party thereto or as if they had been issued in favour of the Small
Industries Bank; and(b)if they relate not only to the Funds but also to any of
the other business or functions of the Development Bank, be of full force and
effect against or in favour of both the Development Bank and the Small
Industries Bank and may be enforced or acted upon as fully and effectively as
if, in addition to the Development Bank, the Small Industries Bank had also
been a party thereto or as if they had been issued in favour of the
Development Bank and also the Small Industries Bank.(4)If, on the date
referred to in sub-section (1), any suit, appeal or other legal proceeding of
whatever nature relating to the Funds is pending, the same shall not abate, be
discontinued or be in any way prejudicially affected by reason of the transfer
to the Small Industries Bank of the business of the Development Bank or of
anything contained in this Act, but the suit, appeal or other proceeding
may,-(a)where it relates exclusively to the Funds, be continued, prosecuted
and enforced by or against the Small Industries Bank; and(b)where it relates
not only to the Funds but also to any of the other business or functions of
the Development Bank, be continued, prosecuted and enforced by or against the
Development Bank and the Small Industries Bank or, if the Central Government
by order in writing so directs, by or against such one of them, as may be
specified in such order.(5)If any question arises as to whether any contract,
deed, bond, agreement, power of attorney, grant of legal representation or
other instrument referred to in sub-section (3) or any suit, appeal or other
legal proceeding referred to in sub-section (4) relates or relate exclusively
to the Funds, it shall be referred to the Development Bank for decision and
the decision of the Development Bank thereon shall be final.(6)The provisions
of this section shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the
Industrial Development Bank of India Act, 1964 (18 of 1964), or any other law
or any instrument having force by virtue of the said Act or other law.

## Chapter VIII  
Miscellaneous

### 33. Staff of Small Industries Bank .-(1) The Small Industries Bank may
appoint such number of officers and other employees as it considers necessary
or desirable for the efficient performance of its functions and determine the
terms and conditions of their appointment and service.

(2)At any time before the expiry of six months from the appointed day, the
Development Bank may, in public interest, transfer to the Small Industries
Bank such members of its staff whom the Development Bank considers as relevant
to, or suitable for, the functions of the Small Industries Bank, as on
deputation with the Small Industries Bank, but such members shall hold office
by the same tenure and upon the same terms and conditions of service as
respects remuneration, leave, provident fund, retirement or other terminal
benefits as they would have held such office if the Small Industries Bank had
not been established and shall continue to do so until the Development Bank
either on its own motion or at the request of the Small Industries Bank
recalls such member of staff to its service:Provided that every member of the
staff so transferred may elect to go back to the Development Bank by
exercising an option in writing to that effect before the expiry of a period
of nine months from the appointed day and on the exercise of such option, the
Development Bank shall, before the expiration of a period of eighteen months
from the appointed day, take back such member of the staff and he shall be
deemed to have been on deputation to the Small Industries Bank during the
period he was a member of the staff of the Small Industries
Bank.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial Disputes Act,
1947 (14 of 1947), or in any other law for the time being in force, the
absorption of any member of the staff by the Small Industries Bank in its
regular service under this section shall not entitle such employee to any
compensation under that Act or other law and no such claim shall be
entertained by any Court, tribunal or other authority.Explanation .-For the
purposes of this section, "appointed day" means the date of establishment of
the Small Industries Bank under section 3.

### 34. Delegation of powers .-The Board may, by general or special order,
delegate to any director or committee constituted under section 12 or to any
officer or other employee of the Small Industries Bank, subject to such
conditions and limitations, if any, as may be specified in the order, such of
its powers and duties under this Act as it may deem necessary.

### 35. Returns .-The Small Industries Bank shall furnish from time to time to
[the Central Government and the Reserve Bank] such returns as they may
require.

### 36. Obligations as to fidelity and secrecy .-(1) The Small Industries Bank
shall not, except as otherwise required by this Act or any other law, divulge
any information relating to, or to the affairs of, its constituents except in
circumstances in which it is, in accordance with the law or practice and usage
customary among bankers necessary or appropriate for the Small Industries Bank
to divulge such information.

(2)The Small Industries Bank may, for the purpose of the efficient discharge
of the functions under this Act, collect from or furnish to the Central
Government, Reserve Bank, Development Bank, State Bank, any subsidiary Bank,
nationalised Bank or other scheduled Bank, State Co-operative Bank, State
Financial Corporation, State Industrial Development Corporation, State Small
Industries Corporation or the National Small Industries Corporation or such
other institutions [as may be specified by the Board], credit information or
other information as it may consider useful for the purpose, in such manner
and at such times, as it may think fit.Explanation .-For the purpose of this
sub-section, the expression "credit information" shall have the same meaning
as in clause (c) of section 45-A of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of
1934), subject to the modification that "banking company" referred to therein
shall mean a bank, corporation or other institution referred to in this sub-
section.(3)Every director, member of a committee, auditor, officer or other
employee of the Small Industries Bank [* * *] [ The words " or the Development
Bank" omitted by Act 7 of 2000, Section 21 (w.e.f. 27.3.2000).] whose services
are utilised by the Small Industries Bank under the provisions of this Act,
shall, before entering upon his duties, make a declaration of fidelity and
secrecy in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Act.

### 37. Defects in appointment not to invalidate acts, etc .-(1) No act or
proceeding of the Board or of any Committee of the Small Industries Bank shall
be questioned on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in, or
defect in the constitution of, the Board or the committee, as the case may be.

(2)No act done by any person acting in good faith as a cirector shall be
deemed to be invalid merely on the ground that he was disqualified to be a
director or that there was any other defect in this appointment.[37-A. Amounts
and securities to be held in trust.-(1) Any sums received by a borrowing
institution in repayment or realisation of loans and advances refinanced
either wholly or partly by the Small Industries Bank shall, to the extent of
the accommodation granted by the Small Industries Bank and remaining
outstanding, be deemed to have been received by the borrowing institution in
trust for the Small Industries Bank, and shall accordingly be paid by such
institution to the Small Industries Bank, as per the repayment schedule fixed
by the Small Industries Bank.(2)Where an accommodation has been granted to a
borrowing institution, all securities held, or which may be held, by such
borrowing institution, on account of any transaction in respect of which such
accommodation has been granted by the Small Industries Bank, shall be held by
such institution in trust for the Small Industries Bank.]

### 38. Rights of Small Industries Bank in case of default .-(1) Where any
industrial concern in the small-scale sector, which is under a liability to
the Small Industries Bank under an agreement, makes any default in repayment
of any loan or advance or any instalment thereof or in meeting its obligations
in relation to any guarantee given by the Small Industries Bank or otherwise
fails to comply with the terms of its agreement, with the Small Industries
Bank, the Small Industries Bank shall have the right to take over the
management, or possession, or both of such industrial concern in the small-
scale sector, as well as the right to transfer by way of lease or sale and
realise the property pledged, mortgaged, hypothecated or assigned to the Small
Industries Bank.

(2)Any transfer of property made by the Small Industries Bank, in exercise of
its powers under sub-section (1), shall vest in the transferee all rights in
or to the property transferred as if the transfer had been made by the owner
of the property.(3)The Small Industries Bank shall have the same rights and
powers with respect to goods manufactured or produced wholly or partly from
goods forming part of the security held by it as it had with respect to the
original goods.(4)Where any action has been taken against an industrial
concern in the small-scale sector under the provisions of sub-section (1), all
costs, charges and expenses which in the opinion of the Small Industries Bank
have been properly incurred by it as incidental thereto shall be recoverable
from the industrial concern in the small-scale sector and the money which is
received by it shall, in the absence of any contract to the contrary, be held
by it in trust to be applied firstly, in payment of such costs, charges and
expenses and, secondly, in discharge of the debt due to the Small Industries
Bank, and the residue of the money so received shall be paid to the person
entitled thereto in accordance with his rights and interests.(5)Where the
Small Industries Bank takes over the management or possession of an industrial
concern in the small-scale sector under the provisions of sub-section (1), the
Small Industries Bank shall be deemed to be the owner of such concern, for the
purposes of suits by or against the concern, and shall sue and be sued in the
name of the concern.

### 39. Power to seek assistance of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District
Magistrate .-(1) Where any property, effects or actionable claims are sold or
leased in pursuance of any power conferred by section 38, the Small Industries
Bank or any other person authorised by it may, for the purpose of taking into
custody or under control any such property, effects or actionable claims,
request, in writing, the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or the District
Magistrate within whose jurisdiction any such property, effects, actionable
claims, books of account or other documents relating thereto may be situated
or found, to take possession thereof, and the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or
the District Magistrate shall, on such request being made to him,-

(a)take possession of such property, effects, actionable claims, or books of
account or other documents relating thereto; and(b)forward them to the Small
Industries Bank or such other person, as the case may be.(2)For the purpose of
securing compliance with the provisions of sub-section (1), the Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate or the District Magistrate may take or cause to be
taken such steps and use, or cause to be used, such force as may, in his
opinion, be necessary.(3)No act of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or the
District Magistrate done in pursuance of this section shall be called in
question in any Court or before any authority.

### 40. Power to call for repayment before agreed period .-Notwithstanding
anything in any agreement to the contrary, the Small Industries Bank may, by
notice in writing, require any industrial concern in the small-scale sector to
which it has granted any loan or advance to discharge forthwith in full its
liabilities to the Small Industries Bank,-

(a)if it appears to the Board that false or misleading information in any
material particular was given in the application for the loan or advance;
or(b)if the industrial concern in the small-scale sector has failed to comply
with the terms of its contract with the Small Industries Bank in the matter of
the loan or advance; or(c)if there is a reasonable apprehension that the
industrial concern in the small-scale sector is unable to pay its debt or that
proceedings for liquidation may be commenced in respect thereof; or(d)if the
property pledged, mortgaged, hypothecated or assigned to the Small Industries
Bank as security for the loan or advance is not insured and kept insured by
the industrial concern in the small-scale sector to the satisfaction of the
Small Industries Bank, or depreciates in value to such an extent that, in the
opinion of the Board, further security to the satisfaction of the Board should
be given and such security is not given; or(e)if, without the permission of
the Board, any machinery, plant or other equipment, whether forming part of
the security or otherwise, is removed from the premises of the industrial
concern in the small-scale sector without being replaced; or(f)if for any
reason it is necessary to protect the interests of the Small Industries Bank.

### 41. Special provisions for enforcement of claims by Small Industries Bank
.-(1) Where an industrial concern in the small-scale sector, in breach of any
agreement, makes any default in repayment of any loan or advance or any
instalment thereof or in meeting its obligations in relation to any guarantee
given by the Small Industries Bank or otherwise fails to comply with the terms
of its agreement with that Bank, or where the Small Industries Bank requires
any industrial concern in the small-scale sector to make repayment of any loan
or advance under section 40 and such industrial concern fails to make such
repayment, then, without prejudice to the provisions of section 38 of this Act
and section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882), any officer
of that Bank, generally or specially authorised by that Bank in this behalf,
may apply to the Court for one or more of the following reliefs, namely:-

(a)for an order for the sale of the property assigned, charged, hypothecated,
mortgaged or pledged to that Bank as security for the loan or advance;
or(b)for enforcing the liability of any surety; or(c)for an ad interim
injunction restraining the industrial concern in the small-scale sector from
transferring or removing its machinery, plant or equipment from the premises
of such industrial concern without the permission of the Small Industries
Bank, where such transfer or removal is apprehended.(2)An application under
sub-section (1) shall state the nature and extent of the liability of the
industrial concern in the small-scale sector to the Small Industries Bank, the
ground on which it is made and such other particulars as may be necessary for
obtaining the relief prayed for.(3)Where the application is for the reliefs
mentioned in clause (a) and clause (c) of sub-section (1), the Court shall
pass an ad interim order attaching the security, or so much of the property of
the industrial concern in the small-scale sector as would on being sold
realise in its estimation an amount equivalent in value to the outstanding
liability of such industrial concern to the Small Industries Bank together
with costs of the proceedings taken under this section with or without an ad
interim injunction restraining such industrial concern from transferring or
removing its machinery, plant or equipment.(4)Where the application is for the
relief mentioned in clause (b) of sub-section (1), the Court shall issue a
notice calling upon the surety to show cause on a date to be specified in the
notice as to why the liability should not be enforced.(5)Before passing any
order under sub-section (3) or issuing a notice under sub-section (4), the
Court may, if it thinks fit, examine the officer making the application.(6)At
the same time as it passes an order under sub-section (3), the Court shall
issue to the industrial concern in the small-scale sector or to the owner of
the security attached, a notice accompanied by copies of the order, the
application and the evidence, if any, recorded by the Court calling upon such
industrial concern or owner, to show cause on a date to be specified in the
notice, as to why the ad interim order of attachment should not be made
absolute or the injunction confirmed.(7)If no cause is shown, on or before the
date specified in the notice under sub-section (4), the Court shall forthwith
order the enforcement of the liability of the surety.(8)If no cause is shown
on or before the date specified in the notice under sub-section (6), the Court
shall forthwith make the ad interim order absolute and direct the sale of the
attached property or confirm the injunction.(9)If cause is shown, the Court
shall proceed to investigate the claim of the Small Industries Bank in
accordance with the provisions contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(5 of 1908), insofar as such provisions may be applied thereto.(10)After
making an investigation under sub-section (9), the Court may-(a)confirm the
order of attachment and direct the sale of the attached property;(b)vary the
order of attachment so as to release a portion of the property from attachment
and direct the sale of the remainder of the attached property;(c)release the
property from attachment;(d)confirm or dissolve the injunction; or(e)direct
the enforcement of the liability of the surety or reject the claim made in
this behalf:Provided that when making an order under clause (c) or making an
order rejecting the claim to enforce the liability of the surety under clause
(e), the Court may make such further orders as it thinks necessary to protect
the interests of the Small Industries Bank and may apportion the cost of the
proceedings in such manner as it thinks fit:Provided further that unless the
Small Industries Bank intimates to the Court that it will not appeal against
any order releasing any property from attachment or rejecting the claim to
enforce the liability of the surety, such order shall not be given effect to,
until the expiry of the period fixed under sub-section (12) within which an
appeal may be preferred or, if an appeal is preferred, unless the Court
empowered to hear appeals from the decisions of the said Court otherwise
directs, until the appeal is disposed of.(11)An order of attachment or sale of
property under this section shall be carried into effect as far as practicable
in the manner provided in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), for
the attachment or sale of property in execution of a decree as if the Small
Industries Bank were the decree holder.(12)Any party aggrieved by an order
under sub-section (7), sub-section (8) or sub-section (10) may, within thirty
days from the date of the order, appeal to the Court empowered to hear appeals
from the decisions of the Court which passed the order and upon such appeal
the appellate Court may, after hearing the parties, pass such orders as it
thinks proper.(13)Where proceedings for liquidation in respect of an
industrial concern in the small-scale sector have commenced before an
application is made under sub-section (1), nothing in this section shall be
construed as giving to the Small Industries Bank any preference over the other
creditors of such industrial concern not conferred on it by any other
law.(14)For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that any Court
competent to grant an ad interim injunction under this section shall also have
the power to appoint a receiver and to exercise all the other powers
incidental thereto.

### 42. Small Industries Bank to have access to records .-(1) The Small
Industries Bank shall have free access to all such records of any institution
which seeks to avail of any credit facilities from the Small Industries Bank
and to all such records of any such person who seeks to avail of any credit
facilities from such institution, perusal whereof may appear to the Small
Industries Bank to be necessary in connection with the providing of finance or
other assistance to such institution or the refinancing of any loan or advance
made to such person by the borrowing institution.

(2)The Small Industries Bank may require any institution or person referred to
in sub-section (1) to furnish to it copies of any of the records referred to
in that sub-section and the institution or the person, as the case may be,
shall be bound to comply with such requisition.

### 43. Validity of loan or advance not to be questioned .-Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being in
force, the validity of any loan or advance granted by the Small Industries
Bank in pursuance of the provisions of this Act shall not be called in
question merely on the ground of non-compliance with the requirements of such
other law as aforesaid or of any resolution, contract, memorandum, articles of
association or other instrument:

Provided that nothing in this section shall render valid any loan or advance
obtained by any company or co-operative society where such company or co-
operative society is not empowered by its memorandum to obtain loans or
advances.

### 44. Indemnity of directors .-(1) Every Director shall be indemnified by
the Small Industries Bank against all losses and expenses incurred by him in,
or in relation to, the discharge of his duties, except such as are caused by
his own wilful act or default.

(2)A director shall not be responsible for any other director or for any
officer or other employee of the Small Industries Bank or for any loss or
expenses resulting to the Small Industries Bank or from the insufficiency or
deficiency of the value of, or title to, any property or security acquired or
taken on behalf of the Small Industries Bank or the insolvency or wrongful act
of any debtor or any person under obligation to the Small Industries Bank or
anything done in good faith in the execution of the duties of his office or in
relation thereto.

### 45. Protection of action taken under this Act .-No suit or other legal
proceeding shall lie against the Small Industries Bank, [Chairman and Managing
Director, the whole-time Director] or any director or any officer or other
employee of such Bank or any other person authorised by that Bank to discharge
any functions under this Act for any loss or damage caused or likely to be
caused by anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act or any other law or provision having the force of law.

### 46. Nomination by depositors or holders of bonds or other securities .-(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, where a nomination in
respect of any deposits, bonds or other securities kept with or issued by the
Small Industries Bank is made in the prescribed manner, the amount due on such
deposits, bonds or other securities shall, on the death of the depositor or
holder thereof, vest in, and be payable to, the nominee subject to any right,
title, interest or claim of any other person, in relation to such deposits,
bonds or other securities.

(2)Any payment by the Small Industries Bank in accordance with the provisions
of sub-section (1) shall be a full discharge of its liability in respect of
such deposits, bonds or securities.

### 47. Arrangement with Small Industries Bank on appointment of directors to
prevail .-(1) Where any arrangement entered into by the Small Industries Bank
with an industrial concern in the small-scale sector provides for the
appointment by the Small Industries Bank of one or more directors of such
industrial concern, such provision and any appointment of directors made in
pursuance thereof shall be valid and effective notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or in any other law
for the time being in force or in the memorandum, articles of association or
any other instrument relating to that industrial concern, and any provision
regarding share qualification, age-limit, number of Directorship, removal from
office of directors and such like conditions contained in any such law or
instrument aforesaid, shall not apply to any director appointed by the Small
Industries Bank in pursuance of the arrangement as aforesaid.

(2)Any Director appointed as aforesaid shall-(a)hold office during the
pleasure of the Small Industries Bank and may be removed or substituted by any
person by order in writing of the Small Industries Bank;(b)not incur any
obligation or liability by reason only of his being a director or for anything
done or omitted to be done in good faith in the discharge of his duties as a
Director or anything in relation thereto;(c)not be liable to retirement by
rotation and shall not be taken into account for computing the number of
Directors liable to such retirement.

### 48. Act 18 of 1891 to apply in relation to Small Industries Bank .-The
Bankers' Books Evidence Act, 1891 (18 of 1891) shall apply in relation to
Small Industries Bank as if it were a bank as defined in section 2 of that
Act.

### 49. Act 10 of 1949 not to apply to Small Industries Bank .-Nothing
contained in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), except section
34-A and section 36-AD thereof, shall apply to the Small Industries Bank.

### 50. Act 43 of 1961 not to apply to Small Industries Bank .-[ Repealed by
the Finance Act , 2001 (14 of 2001) section 42 (w.e.f.1-4-2002).]

### 51. Liquidation of Small Industries Bank .-No provision of law relating to
the winding up of companies or corporations shall apply to the Small
Industries Bank and that Bank shall not be placed in liquidation save by order
of the Central Government and in such manner as it may direct.

[51-A. Power to make rules by Central Government.-(1) The Central Government
may, by notification, make rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.(2)In
particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-(i)the
procedure for filing and hearing of appeal against the refusal to register the
transfer of shares by the Board under sub-section (3) of section 20-D;
and(ii)any other matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed by rules under
this Act.]

### 52. Power to make regulations .-(1) The Board may, [* * *] by
notification, make regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act to provide for all matters for which provision is necessary or expedient
for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act.

(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such regulations may provide for-(a)[ the removal of Director under
sub-section (8) of section 6; [ Substituted by Act 7 of 2000, Section 25, for
Clause (a)(w.e.f. 27.3.2000).](aa)the places of meetings of the Board under
this Act and the procedure to be followed at such meetings including the
quorum necessary for transaction of business and the manner of adoption of
resolution under section 6;(ab)the functions to be discharged by the Executive
Committee under sub-section (2) of section 12;(ac)the places of meetings of
the Executive Committee and the procedure to be followed at such meetings
under sub-section (4) of section 12;(ad)such fees and allowances which may be
paid to the Directors and members of the Executive Committee under section
12-A;(ae)the particulars to be prescribed in the register of shareholders
under clause (iv) of sub-section (1) of section 20-B;(af)the procedure
relating to maintenance of register of shareholders in electronic form under
sub-section (2) of section 20-B;(ag)the matters relating to the annual general
meeting under sub-section (3) of section 20-G;](b)the form and manner in which
the balance-sheets and the accounts of the Small Industries Development
Assistance Fund under sub-section (1) of section 25 and the Small Industries
Bank under sub-section (1) of section 28 shall be prepared;(c)the manner in
which nominations may be made in terms of sub-section (1) of section
46;(d)generally the efficient conduct of the affairs of the Small Industries
Bank;(e)any other matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)[ Every rule
made by the Central Government, and every regulation made by the Board under
this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House
of Parliament, while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or regulation or both Houses agree that the rule or regulation should
not be made, the rule or regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or regulation.] [ Substituted by Act
7 of 2000, Section 25, for sub-Section (3)(w.e.f. 27.3.2000).]

### 53. Amendment of certain enactments .-The enactments specified in Parts I,
II, III and IV of the Second Schedule to this Act shall be amended in the
manner specified therein and such amendments shall take effect on the date of
establishment of the Small Industries Bank.

### 54. Power to remove difficulties .-If any difficulty arises in giving
effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, in
consultation with the Development Bank, by order, do anything, not
inconsistent with such provisions, for the purpose of removing the difficulty:

Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiration of three years
from the date on which this Act receives the assent of the President.THE FIRST
SCHEDULE[See Section 36(3)]DECLARATION OF FIDELITY AND
SECRECYI............................................................. do
hereby declare that I will faithfully, truly and to the best of my skill and
ability execute and perform the duties required of me as director, member of
................................. committee, auditor, officer or other
employee (as the case may be) of the Small Industries Development Bank of
India and which properly relate to the office or position held by me in or in
relation to the said bank.I further declare that I will not communicate or
allow to be communicated to any person not legally entitled thereto any
information relating to the affairs of the Small Industries Development Bank
of India or to the affairs of any person having any dealing with the said
Bank, nor will I allow any such person to inspect or have access to any books
or documents belonging to or in the possession of the said Bank and relating
to the business of the said Bank or the business of any person having any
dealing with the said Bank.Signed before
me...........................(Signature)THE SECOND SCHEDULE(See Section
53)AMENDMENT OF CERTAIN ENACTMENTSPART - IAMENDMENTS TO THE RESERVE BANK OF
INDIA ACT, 1934(2 OF 1934)

### 1\. In section 2, after clause (l), insert the following clause, namely :-

(el)"Small Industries Bank" means the Small Industries Development Bank of
India established under section 3 of the Small Industries Development Bank of
India Act, 1989.;

### 2\. In section 17, -

(a)In clause (4G), after the words "the Reconstruction Bank" insert the words
"or the Small Industries Bank";(b)in clause (4H), after the words "the
Development Bank" insert the words "or the Small Industries Bank";(c)in clause
(4I) for the words "or the Reconstruction Bank" substitute the words " the
Reconstruction Bank or the Small Industries Bank";(d)in clause (12B) for the
words "the Reconstruction Bank" substitute the words "the Reconstruction Bank
or the Small Industries Bank";

### 3\. In section 42, in sub-clause (ii) of clause (c) of the Explanation to
sub-section (1) after the words "or from the National Bank", insert the words
"or from the Small Industries Bank";

### 4\. In section 46C, in sub-section (2) in clauses (c) and (d) after the
words "or the Reconstruction Bank" wherever they occur, insert the words "or
the Small Industries Bank";

## Part II

AMENDMENTS TO THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, 1947(14 OF 1947)In section 2, in
clause (bb) after the words, "the Industrial Development Bank of India",
insert the words "the Small Industries Development Bank of India established
under section 3 of the Small Industries Development Bank of India Act, 1989."

## Part III

AMENDMENT TO THE BANKING REGULATION ACT, 1949(10 OF 1949)

### 1\. In section 5, after clause (n), insert the following clause, namely
:--

'(ni) "Small Industries Bank" means the Small Industries Development Bank of
India established under section 3 of the Small Industries Development Bank of
India Act, 1989,".

### 2\. In section 18, in sub-section (1), in the Explanation, in clause (a),
in sub-clause (ii), after the words "or from the National Bank", insert the
words "or from the Small Industries Bank,".

### 3\. In section 34A, in sub-section (3), after the words "the National
Bank", insert the words, "the Small Industries Bank,".

### 4\. In section 36AD, in sub-section (3), after the words "the National
Bank", insert the words, "the Small Industries Bank,".

### 5\. In section 56, in sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of the Explanation
under clause (j), after the words "the National Bank", insert the words, "the
Small Industries Bank,".

## Part IV

AMENDMENT TO THE PAYMENT OF BONUS ACT, 1965(21 OF 1965)In section 32, in
clause (IX), after sub-clause (f), the following sub-clause shall be inserted,
namely :-"(fa) the Small Industries Development Bank of India established
under section 3 of the Small Industries Development Bank of India Act, 1989."

