## Union of India - Act

## The Salary and Allowances Of Leaders of Opposition in Parliament Act, 1977

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Salary and Allowances Of Leaders of Opposition in Parliament Act, 1977

## Act 33 of 1977

  * Published on 18 August 1977 
  * Commenced on 18 August 1977 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2002.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Salaries And Allowances Of Officers Of Parliament And Leaders Of Opposition In Parliament (Amendment) Act, 2002 (Act 29 of 2002) on 1 January 2002] 
  2. [Amended by The Salaries And Allowances Of Officers Of Parliament And Leaders Ofopposition In Parliament (Second Amendment) Act, 2002 (Act 56 of 2002) on 1 January 2002] 

The Salary and Allowances Of Leaders of Opposition in Parliament Act, 1977ACT
NO. 33 OF 1977

### 1246.

[18th August, 1977]An Act to provide for the Salary and Allowances of Leaders
of Opposition in Parliament.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-eighth
Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Salary and Allowences of Leaders of Opposition
in Parliament Act, 1977.(2)It shall come into force on such date as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

1st November, 1977, see Notification No. G.S.R. 664 AEQ, dated 1st November,
1977 Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 1977. Pt. II, Section 3(i)p. 2075.  
---  
  
### 2. Definition.

In this Act, "Leader of the Opposition", in relation to either House of
Parliament, means that member of the Council of States or the House of the
People, as the case may be, who is, for the time being, the Leader in that
House of the party in opposition to the Government having the greatest
numerical strength and recognised as such by the Chairman of the Council of
States or the Speaker of the House of the People, as the case may
be.Explanation.-Where there are two or more parties in opposition to the
Government, in the Council of States or in the House of the People having the
same numerical strength, the Chairman of the Council of States or the Speaker
of the House of the People, as the case may be, shall, having regard to the
status of the parties, recognise any one of the Leaders of such parties as the
Leader of the Opposition for the purposes of this section and such recognition
shall be final and conclusive.

### 3. [ Salary, and daily, constituency and sumptuary allowances. [
Substituted by Act 78 of 1985, Section 2 (w.e.f. 26-12-1985]

(1)Each Leader of the Opposition shall, so long as he continues as such
leader, be entitled to receive a salary per mensem and allowance for each day
at the same rates as are specified in section 3 of the Salary, Allowances and
Pension of Members of Parliament Act, 1954 with respect to members of
Parliament.(2)Each Leader of the Opposition shall also be entitled to receive
a constituency allowance at the same rate as is for the time being specified
under section 8 of the said Act with respect to members of Parliament.(3)There
shall be paid to each Leader of the Opposition a sumptuary allowance of one
thousand rupees per mensem.]

### 4. Residence for Leaders of Opposition.

(1)Each Leader of the Opposition shall, so long as he continues as such Leader
and for a period of one month immediately thereafter, be entitled without
payment of rent to the use of a furnished residence and no charge shall fall
on the Leader of the Opposition personally in respect of the maintenance of
such residence.(2)In the event of death of a Leader of the Opposition, his
family shall be entitled to the use of the furnished residence occupied by
him-(a)for a period of one month immediately after his death, without payment
of rent and no charge shall fall on his family in respect of the maintenance
of such residence; and(b)for a further period of one month, on payment of rent
at such rates as may be prescribed by rules made in this behalf by the Central
Government and also charges in respect of electricity and water consumed in
that residence during such further period.Explanation.- For the purposes of
this section, "residence" includes the staff quarters and other buildings
appurtenant thereto, and the garden thereof, and "maintenance" in relation to
a residence includes the payment of local rates and taxes and the provision of
electricity and water.

### 5. Travelling and daily allowances to Leaders of Opposition.

[(1)] [ Renumbered by Act 78 of 1985, Section 3 (w.e.f. 26-12-1985) ] Subject
to any rules made in this behalf by the Central Government, a Leader of the
Opposition shall be entitled to-(a)travelling allowances for himself and the
members of his family and for transport of his and his family's effects-(i)in
respect of the journey to Delhi from his usual place of residence outside
Delhi for assuming office; and(ii)in respect of the journey from Delhi to his
usual place of residence outside Delhi on relinquishing office;
and(b)travelling and daily allowances in respect of tours undertaken by him in
the discharge of his duties as Leader of the Opposition, whether by sea, land
or air.(2)[ A Leader of the Opposition and any One member of his family
accompanying him shall be entitled to travelling allowances in respect of not
more than six return journeys performed, during each year, within India at the
same rates at which travelling allowances are payable to such Leader under
clause (b) of sub-section (1) in respect of tours referred to in that
clause.Explanation.--For the purposes of this sub-section, "return journey"
means a journey from one place to another place and the return journey from
such other place to the first mentioned place.] [ Inserted by Act 78 of 1985,
Section 3 (w.e.f. 26-12-1985) ]

### 6. Medical treatment, etc, to Leaders of Opposition.

Subject to any rules made in this behalf by the Central Government, a Leader
of the Opposition and the members of his family shall be entitled free of
charge to accommodation in hospitals maintained by the Government and also to
medical treatment.

### 7. Leaders of Opposition not to draw salary or allowances as Members of
Parliament.

No Leader of the Opposition in receipt of a salary or allowance under this Act
shall be entitled to receive any sum out of funds provided by Parliament by
way of salary or allowance in respect of his membership of either House of
Parliament.

### 8. Amenities to Leaders of Opposition.

(1)Subject to any rules made in this behalf by the Central government, each
Leader of the Opposition shall be entitled to telephone and secretarial
facilities.(2)Subject to any rules made in this behalf by the Central
Government, each Leader of the Opposition shall be entitled to a conveyance
allowance of [three thousand rupees] [ Substituted by Act 7 of 1991, s.2
(w.e.f. 1-10-1991)] per month:[Provided that where a Leader of the Opposition
is provided with conveyance facility with a driver for the purposes of
security or otherwise for any period, he shall not be entitled to the
conveyance allowance for that period.] [ Inserted by S.2 Act 7 of 1991 (w.e.f.
1-10-1991)]

### 8A. [ Advance to Leader of Opposition for purchase of motor car. [Inserted
by s.3, Act 7 of 1991 (w.e.f. 1-10-1991)]

There may be paid to a Leader of the Opposition, by way of a repayable
advance, such sum of money as may be prescribed by rules made in this behalf
by the Central Government for the purchase of a motor car in order that he may
be able to discharge conveniently and efficiently the duties of his office.]

### 9. Notification respecting the date on which persons became or ceased to
be Leaders of Opposition to be conclusive evidence thereof.

The date on which any person became or ceased to be a Leader the Opposition
shall be published in the Official Gazette, and any such notification shall be
conclusive evidence of the fact that he became, or ceased to be, a Leader of
the Opposition on that date for all the purposes of this Act.

### 9A. [ Exemption from liability to pay income-tax on certain perquisites
received by a Leader of the Opposition. [Inserted by Act 78 of 1985 , s.4
(w.e.f. 26-12-1985) ]

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Income-tax Act, 1961, the value of
rent free furnished residence (including maintenance thereof) provided to a
Leader of the Opposition under sub-section (1) of section 4 shall not be
included in the computation of his income chargeable under the heading
"Salaries" under section 15 of the Income-tax Act. 1961]

### 10. Power to make rule.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely :-(a)the rates at which rent shall
be payable by the family of a deceased Leader of the Opposition to the use of
the furnished residence occupied by him under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of
section 4 ;(b)the travelling and daily allowances admissible to a Leader of
the Opposition under section 5;(c)the medical treatment admissible to a Leader
of the Opposition and the members of his family under section 6;(d)the
telephone and secretarial facilities admissible to a Leader of the Opposition
and the conditions subject to which he shall be entitled to conveyance
allowance under section 8.(e)[ the advance payable to a Leader of the
Opposition under section 8A.] [Inserted by Act 7 of 1991, S.4, (w.e.f.
1-10-1991)](3)Every rule made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule.Section 11 Repealed by Repealing
and Amending Act 1988 (19 of 1988)Section 12 Repealed by Repealing and
Amending Act 1988 (19 of 1988)

