## Union of India - Act

## The Transfer Of Property (Amendment) Act, 2002

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Transfer Of Property (Amendment) Act, 2002

## Act 3 of 2003

  * Published on 1 January 2003 
  * Commenced on 1 January 2003 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2003.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Transfer of Property Act, 1882.BE it enacted by
Parliament in the Fifty- third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Transfer of Property (Amendment) Act, 2002 .

### 2. Substitution of new section for section 106.-

For section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882 )
(hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), the following section shall be
substituted, namely:-

### 106. Duration of certain leases in absence of written contract or local
usage.-

(1)In the absence of a contract or local law or usage to the contrary, a lease
of immovable property for agricultural or manufacturing purposes shall be
deemed to be a lease from year to year, terminable, on the part of either
lessor or lessee, by six months' notice; and a lease of immovable property for
any other purpose shall be deemed to be a lease from month to month,
terminable, on the part of either lessor or lessee, b fifteen days'
notice.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time
being in force, the period mentioned in sub- section (1) shall commence from
the date of receipt of notice.(3)A notice under sub- section (1) shall not be
deemed to be invalid merely because the period mentioned therein falls short
of the period specified under that sub- section, where a suit or proceeding is
filed after the expiry of the period mentioned in t at sub- section.(4)Every
notice under sub- section (1) must be in writing, signed by or on behalf of
the person giving it, and either be sent by post to the party who is intended
to be bound by it or be tendered or servants at his residence, or (if such
tender or delivery is not practicable) affixed to a conspicuous part of the
property.

### 3. Transitory provisions.-

The provisions of section 106 of the principal Act, as amended by section 2,
shall apply to-(a)all notices in pursuance of which any suit or proceeding is
pending at the commencement of this Act; and(b)all notices which have been
issued before the commencement of this Act but where no suit or proceeding has
been filed before such commencement.

