## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Prohibition Of Ragging Act, 1997

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Prohibition Of Ragging Act, 1997

## Act 07 of 1997

  * Published in Gazette 07 on 20 December 2016 
  * Assented to on 20 December 2016 
  * Commenced on 20 December 2016 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 December 2016.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Prohibition Of Ragging Act, 1997Act No. 7 of 1997An Act to
prohibit ragging in educational institutions in the State of Tamil Nadu.

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.—

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Ragging Act,
1997.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall be
deemed to have come into force on the 19th day of December 1996.

### 2. Definition.—

In this Act unless the context otherwise requires, "ragging" means display of
noisy, disorderly conduct doing any act which causes or is likely to cause
physical or psychological harm or raise apprehension or fear or shame or
embarrassment to a student in any educational institution and
includes,—(a)teasing, abusing of, playing practical jokes on, or causing hurt
to such student; or(b)asking the student to do any act or perform something
which such student will not in the ordinary course willingly do.

### 3. Prohibition of ragging.—

Ragging within or without any educational institution is prohibited.

### 4. Penalty for ragging.—

Whoever directly or indirectly commits, participates in, abets or propagates
"ragging" within or without any educational institution, shall be punished
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years and shall also be
liable to a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees.

### 5. Dismissal of student.—

Any student convicted of an offence under section 4 shall also be dismissed
from the educational institution and such student shall not be admitted in any
other educational institution.

### 6. Suspension of student.—

(1)Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions, whenever any student
complaints of ragging to the head of an educational institution, or to any
other person responsible for the management of the educational institution,
such head of the educational institution or person responsible for the
management of the educational institution shall inquire into the same
immediately and if found true shall suspend the student, who has committed the
offence, from the educational institution.(2)The decision of the head of the
educational institution or the person responsible for the management of the
educational institution that any student has indulged in ragging under sub-
section (1) shall be final.

### 7. Deemed abetment.—

If the head of the educational institution or the person responsible for the
management of the educational institution fails or neglects to take act ion in
the manner specified in sub-section (1) of section 6 when a complaint of
ragging is made, such person shall be deemed to have abetted the offence of
ragging and shall be punished as provided for in section 4.

### 8. Power to make rules.—

(1)The State Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the
purposes of this Act .(2)All rules made under this Act shall be published in
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless, they are expressed to come into
force on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are
so published.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall, as soon as possible
after it is made, be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly and in
before the expiry of me session in which it is so placed or the next session,
the Assembly makes any modification in any such rule, or the Assembly decides
that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 9. Repeal and saving.—

(1)The Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Ragging Ordinance, 1996 (Tamil Nadu
Ordinance10 of 1996) is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal,
anything done or any act ion taken under the Ordinance shall be deemed to have
been done or taken under this Act.

