## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Building and Construction Workers (Conditions of Employment
and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1984

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Building and Construction Workers (Conditions of Employment
and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1984

## Act 29 of 1986

  * Published on 16 May 1986 
  * Commenced on 16 May 1986 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 May 1986.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Building and Construction Workers (Conditions of Employment and
Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1984Act No. 29 of 1986Statement of Objects and
Reasons. - At present there is no separate legislation to safeguard the
interest of the workers engaged in building and construction works in regard
to their wages, health and safety and other working conditions. The need to
enact a separate legislation in this regard has been keenly felt. The
Government have, therefore, decided to enact a separate legislation to
regulate the working conditions of the workmen engaged in building and
construction works in this State.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decision.3\. The provisions of the Bill are explained in the Notes on
Clauses appended to the Bill.Published in Part IV - Section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 16th May 1986An Act to
regulate the employment and conditions of service of building and (instruction
workers and to provide for their safety, health and welfare and for certain
other matters connected therewith.Be it enacted by the Legislature of the
State of Tamil Nadu in the Thirty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent, commencement and application.

(1)Tins Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Building and Construction Workers
(Conditions of Employment and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1984.(2)It
extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come into force on
such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint; and different dates
may be appointed for different areas and for different provisions of the
Act.(4)It applies to every establishment:-(i)engaged in the work of building
construction or work of engineering construction which is not of a hazardous
work wherein fifty or more workers are working or were working on any day of
the proceeding twelve months and in any part of which any such building
operation which is not of a hazardous work is being carried on or is
ordinarily so carried on;(ii)engaged in the work of building construction or
work of engineering construction which is a hazardous work and in any part of
which any such operation of a hazardous nature is being carried on or is
ordinarily so carried on, irrespective of the number of workers being employed
therein or is ordinarily so employed:Provided that the Government may, after
giving not less than two months' notice of their intention so to do, by
notification, apply all or any of the provisions of this Act to any
establishment engaged in any work of building construction or work of
engineering construction employing less than fifty workers.Explanation. - For
computing the number of workers for the purpose of this sub-section, all the
workers working under the principal employer himself or his contractor in
different relays in a day shall be taken into account whether called
permanent, temporary or substitute or casual.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"adolescent" means a
person who has completed his fifteenth year of age but has not completed his
eighteenth year of age;(b)"adult" means a person who has completed his
eighteenth year of age;(c)"child" means a person who has not completed his
fifteenth year of age;(d)"contractor" in relation to an establishment means a
person who undertakes to produce a given result for the establishment other
than a mere supply of goods or articles of manufacture to such establishment,
through contract labour or who supplies contract labour for any work "of the
establishment and includes a sub-contractor,(e)"contract labour" means any
person engaged or employed in any work by or through a contractor with or
without knowledge of the principle employer,(f)"day" means a period of twenty-
four hours beginning at midnight;(g)"employer" includes the contractor and the
principal employer,(h)"establishment" means-(i)any establishment engaged in
the work of building construction or the work of engineering construction;
or(ii)any place where any work of building construction or work of engineering
construction is carried on but does not include-(1)any establishment
pertaining to any industry carried on by or under the authority of the Central
Government; or(2)any establishment or railway/ cantonment board, aerodromes,
major ports; or(3)any establishment of a banking or insurance company;
or(4)any establishment of Corporation and other agencies under the
administrative control of the Central Government; or(5)any establishment or
any mine or oil-field.Explanation I. - For the purposes of the clause, where
an establishment consists of different departments or has branches whether
situate in the same place or in different places all such departments or
branches shall be treated as parts of the same establishment.Explanation II. -
For the purposes of the clause, where an establishment referred to in items
(i) to (v) above carries on any work of building construction or work of
engineering construction not directly but through any contractor, then, such
establishment shall be deemed to be an establishment and the provisions of
this Act shall apply to such establishment and to such contractor and to such
work of building construction or work of engineering construction carried on
by such contractor on behalf of such establishment,(i)"Government" means the
State Government;(j)"hazardous work" means any work which involves risk and
which is specified in tire- Schedule and includes any other work Which the
Government may by notification, specify in this behalf, to be included in such
Schedule;(k)"owner" means the person or body having ultimate control over the
establishment or the person or body to whom such powers have been
delegated;(l)"power" means electrical energy or any other form of energy which
is generated by using mechanical appliances or machinery and is not generated
by human or animal agency.(m)"principal employer" means-(i)in relation to any
office or department of the Government or a local authority, the head of that
office or department or such other officer as the Government or the local
authority, as the case may be, may specify in this behalf;(ii)in relation to a
factory, the owner or occupier of the factor}' and which a person has been
named as the manager of the factory under the factories Act, 1948 (Central Act
LXIII of 1948) the person so named.;(iii)in relation to any other
establishment, any person responsible for the supervision and control of the
establishment;(n)"work" means a work of building construction or a work of
engineering construction;(o)"worker" means any person (including an
apprentice) employed in any work to do any skilled, semi-skilled or unskilled,
manual, supervisory, technical, or clerical work for hire or reward whether
the terms of employment be express or implied, but does not include any such
person.(i)who is employed mainly in a managerial capacity; or(ii)who being
employed in a supervisor capacity draws wages exceeding one thousand and six
hundred rupees per mensem or exercises, either by the nature of the duties
attached to the office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions
mainly of a managerial and administrative nature, but includes a worker
employed as "contract labour" in any work when he is employed by or through a
contractor, with or without the knowledge of the principal employer for
executing any kind of work in that work;(p)"work of building construction"
means the construction, structural alteration, repair or maintenance or
demolition of a building or the preparation for and the laying of the
foundation of an intended building and includes the construction of furnace,
chimney, well or any ancillary structure but does not include-(i)a work of
engineering construction; or(ii)any work of building construction carried on
otherwise than through a contractor in any mine covered by the Mines Act 1952
(Central Act 35 of 1952); or(iii)any work of building construction carried on
otherwise than through a contractor in any oil-field;(q)"work of engineering
construction" means the construction of any railway line or siding otherwise
than upon an existing railway, the construction, structural alteration or
repair, maintenance and laying of foundation or demolition of any tramway
dock, harbour, canal, dams and ancillary works including river valley
projects, tanks and water courses, inland navigation, dam, tunnel, bridge,
viaduct water works, reservoir pipeline, aqueduct sewer, sewage works, river
works, private air fields, sea defence works, gas works and any steel or
reinforced concrete structure other than a building, or any other civil or
constructional engineering work of a nature similar to any of the foregoing
work or operation connected with the installation of machinery, but does not
include-(i)any work of engineering construction carried on otherwise than
through a contractor in any mine covered by the Mines Act, 1952 (Central Act
35 of 1952); or(ii)any work of engineering construction carried on otherwise
than through a contractor in any oil-field; or(iii)any work connected with
erection or installation of machinery in a factory as defined in the Factories
Act, 1948 (Central Act LXIII of 1948).

### 3. Power to declare different works to be separate works or two or more
works to be a single work.

\- The Government may, on an application made in this behalf by the employer
or otherwise, direct, by an order in writing, that for all or any of the
purposes of this Act different works of an employer specified in the order
shah be treated as separate works or that two or more works of the employer
specified in the order shall be treated as a single work.

### 4. Power to exempt.

\- The Government, may by notification, exempt by a general or special order
notified in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, any work, worker or
establishment or class of work or workers or establishment from all or any of
the provisions of this Act [except sections 26 and 27 (2)] and the rule made
thereunder for such period and subject to such conditions and restrictions if
any, as the Government may think fit.

### 5. Power to exempt in special cases.

\- The Government may, in the case of an emergency, direct by notification,
that subject to such conditions and restrictions, if any, and for such period
or periods, as may be specified in the notification, all or any of the
provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder shall not apply to any
establishment or class of establishments or any class of contractors.

### 6. Registration and licensing.

(1)The Government may make rules-(a)requiring registration of establishments
and licensing of contractors and prescribing the fee payable for such
registration and licensing and for the renewal of licence;(b)requiring that no
licence shall be shifted or renewed unless the notice specified in section 7
has been given;(c)providing for appeal from the decision of the authority
competent to grant registration or licence, refusing to grant registration or
licence;(2)No contractor shall undertake or execute any work except under or
in accordance with a licence issued in that behalf under the rules made under
subsection (1).

### 7. Notice of commencement.

(1)The principal employer shall, at least thirty days before the commencement
of any work, send or cause to be sent to the Inspector having jurisdiction in
the area where the proposed work is to be executed a written notice
containing-(a)the name and situation of the work;(b)the name and address of
the principal employer;(c)the address to which communications relating to the
work may be send;(d)the nature of the work involved and the type of
construction facilities including any plant and machinery provided;(e)the
arrangement for storing of explosives, if any, to be used in the work;(f)the
number of workers likely to be employed during the various stages of
construction;(g)the name and designation of the person or authority in overall
charge of the work;(h)the approximate capital outlay involved;(i)the
approximate duration of the work:Provided that the limit of thirty days for
sending notice shall not apply in the case of any work undertaken in the event
of war or other emergency endangering national safety, epidemics, natural
calamities endangering human life, or urgent repairs to avoid danger to the
safety of the people:Provided further that the principal employer shall, in
the case where he decides to execute the work through any contractor, give the
notice aforesaid within a week from the date of making such decision.(2)The
contractor to whom the principal employer has entrusted the execution of the
proposed work shall, at least fifteen days before the commencement of such
work send or cause to be sent, to the Inspector having jurisdiction in the
area where the proposed work is to be executed a written notice containing the
particulars specified in sub- section (1):Provided that the limit of fifteen
days for sending notice shall not apply in the case of any work undertaken in
the event of war or other emergency endangering national safety, epidemics,
natural calamities endangering human life or urgent repairs to avoid danger to
the safety of the people.(3)where any change occurs in any of the particulars
furnished, the principal employer or the contractor, as the case may be, shall
intimate the change to the Inspector within two days of such a change.(4)A
copy of the notice referred to in sub-section (1) shall be displayed at a
conspicuous place at or near the site of the work, prior to commencement of
any work. Any intimation of a change sent to the Inspector as required under
subsection (3) shall also be displayed along with a copy of the notice
aforesaid.

## Chapter II  
State Advisory Board

### 8. State Advisory Board.

(1)The Government shall, as soon as may be constitute a Board to be called the
State Advisory Board and Construction Worker's Board (hereinafter referred to
as the "State Board") to advise the Government on such matters arising out of
the administration of this Act, as may be referred to it, and to carry out
other functions assigned to it under this Act.(2)The State Board shall consist
of such number of members as the Government may determine and they shall be
chosen in such manner as maybe prescribed;Provided that the number of members
representing the Government the employers and workers shall be equal.(3)The
Government shall appoint one of the members of the State Board to be its
Chairman. The term of office and the manner of filling casual vacancies among
the members of the State Board shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 9. Power to constitute committees.

\- The State Board may constitute such committees and for such purpose or
purposes as it may think fit.

## Chapter III  
Health and Welfare

### 10. Drinking water.

\- The employer shall make in every establishment effective arrangements to
provide and maintain for all workers therein, a sufficient supply of wholesome
drinking water.

### 11. First Aid.

\- Every establishment shall provide such first-aid facilities as may be
prescribed.

### 12. Creches.

\- In every establishment wherein fifty or more female workers are ordinarily
employed on any day in a year, there shall be provided and maintained a
suitable place for the use of children under the age of six years of such
female workers and the Government may make rules relating to maintenance of
such creches.

### 13. Provision for canteen and other facilities.

\- The Government may by rule, regulate the provisions for canteens and other
facilities and matters connected therewith in every establishment wherein one
hundred or more workers are ordinarily employed on any day in a year.

## Chapter IV  
Hours of Work and Limitations of Employment

### 14. Hours of work.

(1)No adult workers shall be required or allowed to work in any establishment
for more than nine hours in any day or for more than forty-eight hours in any
week.(2)No adolescent shall be employed or required to work for more than six
hours a day inclusive of half an hour rest.

### 15. Rest interval.

\- The hours of an adult worker in an establishment each day shall be so fixed
that no period shall exceed five hours and that no worker shall work more than
five hours before he has had an interval of rest of at least half an hour.

### 16. Weekly holidays.

\- The Government may make rules providing for a day of rest with wages in
every period of seven days which shall be allowed to all workers covered by
this Act.

### 17. Overtime wages.

(1)Where an adult worker works for more than nine hours in any day or for more
than forty-eight hours in any week or where he is required to work on any day
of rest he shall be entitled to wages at twice his ordinal v rate of wages in
respect of the overtime work; and in the case of work done on the date of
rest, he shall at his option, be entitled to twice his ordinary rate of wages
or his ordinary rate of wages for such day and to avail himself of a
substituted day of rest With his ordinary rate of wages on one of the three
days immediately before or after the day on which he so works.(2)Where an
adolescent worker is required to work on any day of rest, he shall, at his
option, be entitled to, twice his ordinary rate of wages in respect of the
work done on the day of rest or his ordinary rate of wages for such day and
avail himself of a substituted day of rest with his ordinary rate of wages on
one of the three days immediately before or after the day on which he so
worksExplanation. - For the purpose of this Act "wages" shall have the same
meaning as in clause (vi) of section 2 of the Payment of Wages Act, 1935
(Central Act IV of 1936).

### 18. Annual leave with wages.

\- Every adult worker in an establishment shall be allowed leave with wages
for one day for every twenty days of work performed by him during the calendar
year. Every adolescent worker shall be allowed leave with wages for one day
for every fifteen days of work performed by him during calendar year.

### 19. Special casual leave for family planning operation.

(1)Every worker who undergoes family planning operation shall be entitled to
special casual leave with wages for a period not exceeding-(a)six days in the
case of a male worker;(b)fourteen days in the case of a female worker with
effect from the day on which he or she had undergone such operation.(2)If any
worker who has undergone family planning operation is discharged by his or her
employer during the period specified in sub- section (1), the employer shall
pay such worker the wages in respect of the period of the special casual leave
to which the worker was entitled at the time of discharge.

## Chapter V  
Inspecting Staff

### 20. Inspecting staff.

(1)The Government may, by notification, appoint such persons possessing such
qualifications as may be prescribed to be Inspectors for the purposes of this
Act, and may assign to them such local limits as they may think fit.(2)The
Government may, by notification, appoint any person to be a Chief Inspector
who shall in addition to the powers conferred on a Chief Inspector under this
Act, exercise the powers of an Inspector throughout the State.(3)No person
shall be appointed under sub-section (1), or sub-section (2), or sub-section
(5), or having been so appointed, shall continue to hold office who is or
becomes directly or indirectly interested in a work or any process or business
carried on therein or in any plant or machinery connected therewith.(4)In any
area where there are more Inspectors than one, the Government may, by
notification, declare the powers which such Inspectors shall respectively
exercise and the Inspector to whom the prescribed notices are to be
sent.(5)Every Chief Inspector and Inspector shall be deemed to be a public
servant within the meaning of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 21. Powers of Inspectors.

(1)Subject to any rules made in this behalf by the Government, an Inspector
may, within the local limits for which he is appointed, enter an area which he
has reason to believe to be a work, and make examination of the premises,
plant and machinery, require the production of any prescribed registers,
certificates or other documents and take on the spot or otherwise, statements
of any person which he may consider necessary and exercise such other powers
as may be prescribed for carrying out the purposes of this Act.(2)The employer
and other person in authority of the site of the work shall offer all
reasonable facilities to the Inspector for entry inspection, examination or
enquiry under this Act and the rules made thereunder.(3)If it appears to the
Inspector that any work or part of the machinery or plant in such a condition
that it is dangerous to human life or safety, he may serve on the employer an
order in writing specifying the measures which in his opinion should be
adopted, and requiring them to be carried out before a specified date.(4)If it
appears to the Inspector that the use of any work or any part of the machinery
or plant involves imminent danger to human life or safety, he may serve on the
employer an order in writing prohibiting its use until it has been properly
repaired or shared.

## Chapter VI  
Safety

### 22. Safety Officer and Safety Inspectors.

\- The Government may make rules requiring that in any specified work wherein
five hundred or more workers are ordinarily employed, a Safety Officer shall
be employed by the employers and a Safety Inspector employed in works where
two hundred and fifty or more workers are ordinarily employed,

### 23. Power of Government to make rules.

\- The Government may make rules in regard to works of building construction
or works of engineering construction, either separately or for both together
with respect to -(a)safe means of access and safety of working place including
provision of suitable and sufficient scaffolds and stages when work cannot be
safely done from the ground or from part of a building or from a ladder and
such other means of support;(b)precautions to be taken in connection with the
demolition of the whole or any substantial part of the building or other
structure under the supervision of competent person and the avoidance of
danger from collapse of the building or any other structure while removing any
part of the framed building or other structure by shoring or otherwise;(c)safe
handling or use of explosives under the control of competent persons so that
there is no exposure to the risks of injury from explosion or from flying
material;(d)safety in the erection, installation, use and maintenance of
transporting equipment such as locomotives, trucks, wagons and other vehicles
and trailer and appointment of competent persons to drive such
equipment;(e)safety in the erection, installation, use and maintenance of
hoists, and lifting appliances and lifting gear including periodical testing
and examination and heat treatment where necessary, precautions to be taken
while raising or lowering loads, restrictions on carriage of persons and
appointment of competent persons on hoists or other lifting
appliances;(f)adequate and suitable lighting of every work place and approach
thereto, of every place where raising or lowering operations with the use of a
hoist, lifting appliance for lifting gear are in progress arid all openings
dangerous to the workers employed;(g)precautions to be taken to prevent
inhalation of dust, fumes, gases or vapours during any girding, cleaning,
spraying or manipulation of any material and steps to be taken to secure and
maintain adequate ventilation of every working place or confined
space;(h)measures to be taken during stacking or unstacking, stowing or
unstowing of materials or goods or handling in connection
therewith;(i)Safeguarding of machinery including fencing of every flywheel and
every moving part of a prime mover, every part of transmission machinery and
every dangerous part of other machinery unless it is in such a position or of
such construction as to be safe to every worker working on any of the
operations as it would be if it were securely fenced;(j)safe handling and use
of plant including tools and equipment operated by compressed
air;(k)precautions to be taken in case of fire;(l)precautions to be taken in
the works in compressed air;(m)the limits of weight to be limited or moved by
workers;(n)safe transport of workers to or from any work place by water and
provision of means for rescue from drowning;(o)steps to be taken to prevent
danger to workers from live electric wires or apparatus including electrical
machinery and tools and from overhead wires;(p)the keeping of safety nets,
safety sheets and safety belts where the special nature of the circumstances
of work render them necessary for the safety of the workers and also other
safety equipment for use of workers;(q)the arrangements for suitable first aid
to injured workers and for their removal to the nearest place of
treatment;(r)the maintenance of registers and other documents and for
submission of such returns as may be required;(s)the pasting of abstracts of
the law including rules at conspicuous places at or near the site of a
work;(t)the specification of the persons and authorities who shall be
responsible for compliance with rules made under this section;(u)the
circumstances in which and the conditions subject to which exemptions from any
of the rules made under this section maybe given, the authorities who may
grant such exemptions and the procedure to be followed;(v)any other matter
concerning safety of workers working on any of the operations being carried on
in a work.

## Chapter VII  
Special Provisions

### 24. Notice of accidents and dangerous occurrence.

\- Where in any work an accident occurs which causes death, or which causes
any bodily injury by reason of which the worker injured is prevented from
working for a period of forty-eight hours or more immediately following the
accident, or which is of such nature as may be prescribed, by the Government
in this behalf, notice of every such accident shall be sent by the employer to
the Inspector and to such other authorities and in such form and within such
time as may be prescribed by the Government.

### 25. Appointment of an Inquiry Officer.

(1)The Government may, if they consider it expedient so to do, appoint a
competent person to inquire into the causes of any accident occurring in a
work and may also appoint one or more persons possessing legal or special
knowledge to act as assessors in such enquiry.(2)The person appointed to hold
an inquiry under this section shall have all the powers of a civil court under
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) for the purposes of
enforcing the attendance of witnesses and compelling the production of
documents and material objects and may also so far as may be necessary for the
purposes of the inquiry, exercise any of the powers of an Inspector under this
Act, and every person required by the person making the inquiry to furnish any
information shall be deemed to be legally bound to do so within the meaning of
section 176 of the Indian penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).(3)the person
holding an inquiry under this section shall make a report to the Government
stating the cause of the accident and adding any observations which he or any
of the assessors may think fit to make.

### 26. Prohibition of employment of children.

\- No child shall be required or allowed to work in any work of building
construction or work of engineering construction.

### 27. Restriction on employment of women.

(1)No woman worker shall be required or allowed to work in a work of building
construction or engineering construction except between the hours of 6 a.m.
and 7 p.m.(2)No employer shall knowingly employ a woman worker in any such
work during the six weeks before her expected date of delivery and six weeks
after the day of delivery or miscarriage.

### 28. Registers and records.

\- Every employer shall maintain such registers and records giving such
particulars of workers employed by him, the nature of work performed by them,
the rates of wages paid to them and such other particulars and in such form as
may be prescribed by rules made by the State Government.(2)No employer shall
wilfully make or cause to be made any false or incorrect entry in any register
or record referred to in sub-section (1).

### 29. Notice of discharge or dismissal.

(1)No employer shall dispense with the services of a worker employed
continuously for a period of not less than six months, except for a reasonable
cause and without giving such employee at least one month's notice or wages in
lieu of such notice, provided however that such notice shall not be necessary
where the services of such a worker are dispensed with on a charge of
misconduct supported by satisfactory evidence recorded at an inquiry held for
the purpose.(2)(a)Any worker discharged, dismissed or retrenched, may appeal
to such authority and within such time and in such manner as may be prescribed
either on the ground that there was no reasonable cause for dispensing with
his services or on the ground that he had not been guilty of misconduct as
held by the employer or on the ground that the employer did not retrench him
in good faith.(b)The appellate authority, may, after giving notice in the
prescribed manner to the employer and the worker dismiss the appeal or direct
the reinstatement of the employee with or without wages for the period he was
kept out of employment or direct payment of compensation without reinstatement
or grant such other relief as it deems fit in the circumstances of the
case.(3)The decision of the appellate authority shall be final and binding on
both parties, and shall not be liable to be questioned in any Court of Law and
be given effect to within such time as may be specified in the order of the
appellate authority.

## Chapter VIII  
Penalties and Procedure

### 30. General penalty for offences.

\- Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, if in respect of any
work, any person contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or of any rules
made thereunder or of any order in writing given thereunder, he shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or
with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees or with both; and if the
contravention is continued after conviction, with a further fine which may
extend to seventy-five rupees for each days on which the contravention is so
continued;Provided that without prejudice to the liability to imprisonment
fora term which may extend to three months, in any contravention resulting in
a fatal accident or an accident causing serious bodily injury, the person
concerned shall be punishable with fine of not less than one thousand rupees
in the case of a fatal accident and five hundred rupees in the case of an
accident which causes serious bodily injury.Explanation. - "Serious bodily
injury" means any injury which involves, or in all probability will involve,
the permanent loss of the use of any limb or the permanent loss of, or injury
to sight or hearing or the fracture of any bone, but shall not include the
fracture of a bone or joint of any phalanges of the hand or foot.

### 31. Enhanced penalty after previous conviction.

\- If any person who has been convicted of any offence punishable under
section 30 is again guilty of an offence involving a contravention of the same
provision, he shall be punishable on a subsequent conviction with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which shall not be
less than two hundred rupees but which may extend to two thousand rupees, or
with both;Provided that for the purpose of this section, no cognizance shall
be taken of any conviction made more than two years before the commission of
the offence for which the person is subsequently being convicted;Provided
further that the court, if it is satisfied that there are exceptional
circumstances warranting such a course may, after recording its reasons in
writing, impose a smaller fine than is required by this section.

### 32. Penalty for obstructing Inspector.

\- Whoever wilfully obstructs an Inspector in the exercise of any power
conferred on him by or under this Act, or fails to produce on demand by an
Inspector any registers or other documents in his custody kept in pursuance of
this Act or of any rules made thereunder, or conceals or prevents any worker
in a work from appearing before, or being examined by an Inspector, shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or
with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees or with both.

### 33. Cognizance of offences.

(1)No court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act except on a
complaint by, or with the previous sanction in writing of, an Inspector.(2)No
court below that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or of a Judicial Magistrate of
the first class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.

## Chapter IX  
Miscellaneous

### 34. Exemption of employer from liability in certain cases.

\- Where the employer of a work is charged with an offence punishable under
this Act or the rules, he shall be entitled upon complaint duly made by him
and on giving to the prosecutor not less than three clear days' notice in
writing of his intention so to do, to have any other person whom he charges as
the actual offender brought before the court at the time appointed for hearing
the charges; and if, after the commission of the offence has been proved the
employer proves to the satisfaction of the Court-(a)that he has used due
diligence to enforce the execution of this act; and(b)that the said other
person committed the offence in question without his knowledge, consent or
connivance, that other person shall be convicted of the offence and shall be
liable to the like punishment as if he were the employer, and the employer
shall be discharged from any liability under this Act in respect of such
offence:Provided that in seeking to prove as aforesaid the employer may be
examined on oath and his evidence and that of any witness whom he calls in his
support shall be subject to cross-examination on behalf of the person he
charges as the actual offender and by the prosecutor:Provided further that if
the person charged as the actual offender by the employer cannot be brought
before the court at the time appointed for hearing the charge the court shall
adjourn the hearing from time to time for a period not exceeding three months
and if by the end of the said period the person charged as the actual offender
cannot still be brought before the court, the court shall proceed to hear the
charge against the employer and shall, if the offence be proved, convict the
employer.

### 35. Limitation of prosecutions.

\- No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act
unless the complaint thereof is made within three months of the date on which
the alleged commission of the offence came to the knowledge of an
Inspector:Provided that where the offence consists of disobeying a written
order made by an Inspector complaint there of may be made within six months of
the date on which the offence is alleged to have been committed.Explanation. -
For the purposes of this section-(a)in the case of continuing offence, the
period of limitation shall be computed with reference to every point of time
during which the offence continues;(b)where for the performance of any act
time is granted or extended on an application made by the concerned person,
the period of limitation shall be computed from the date on which the time so
granted or extended expired.

### 36. Protection of action taken under this Act.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Government or any officer or authority of the Government for anything which is
in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.

### 37. Effect of laws and agreements inconsistent with this Act.

(1)The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force
or in the terms of any award, agreement, or contract of service whether made
before or after the commencement of this Act:Provided that where under airy
such award, agreement, contract of service or otherwise a worker is entitled
to benefits in respect of any matter which are more favourable to him than
those to which he will be entitled under this Act, the workers shall continue
to be entitled to more favourable benefits in respect of that matter
notwithstanding that he receives benefits in respect of other matters under
this Act.(2)Nothing contained in this Act, shall be construed as precluding
any worker from entering into an agreement with any employer for granting him
rights or privileges in respect of any matter which are more favourable to him
than those to which he would be entitled under this Act.

### 38. Application of Act to Government works.

\- Unless otherwise provided, this Act shall apply to works belonging to the
Government or any other State Government or the Central Government.

### 39. Act not to apply to certain works of building construction intended
for residence if the Government declares to that effect.

\- Subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed, the
Government may, by notification, declare that nothing contained in this Act
shall apply to any work of building construction carried on by any person for
the purpose of his residence or for the residence of the members of his
family.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section "family" means the
person and his wife or husband and the children of the person who carries on
such building construction.

### 40. Application of certain Acts to building and construction workers.

(1)The provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923 (Central Act VIII of
1923), as in force for the time being, shall apply to, or in relation to,
building and construction workers as they apply to, or in relation to, workmen
within the meaning of that Act.(2)The provisions of the Payment of Wages Act,
1936 (Central Act IV of 1936), as in force for the time being, shall apply to,
or in relation to, building and construction workers as they apply to, or in
relation to employed persons within the meaning of that Act.(3)The provisions
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act XIV of 1947), as in force
for the time being, shall apply to, or in relation to, building and
construction workers, as they apply to, or in relation to, "workmen" within
the meaning of that Act and for the purposes of any proceeding under that Act
in relation to an Industrial dispute, a building and construction worker shall
be deemed to include a building and construction worker who has been
dismissed, discharged or retrenched in connection with, or as a consequence
of, that dispute or whose dismissal, discharge or retrenchment had led to that
dispute.(4)The provisions of Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 (Central Act 53 of
1961) as in force for the time being, shall apply to, or in relation to,
building and construction workers being women, as they apply to, or in
relation to women workers whether directly or through any agency, for wages in
any establishment within the meaning of that Act.(5)The provisions of the
Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 (Central Act 37 of 1970)
as in force for the time being, shall apply to, or in relation to, building
and construction workers, as they apply to, or in relation to 'workmen' within
the meaning of that Act.(6)The provisions of the Equal Remuneration Act, 1976
(Central Act 25 of 1976) as in force for the time being, shall apply to, or in
relation to building and construction workers, as they apply to worker within
the meaning of that Act.(7)Tire provisions of the Inter-state Migrant Workmen
(Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979 (Central Act 30
of 1979) shall apply to, or in relation to, building and construction workers,
as they apply to in relation to 'workmen' within the meaning of that
Act.(8)The Government may, by notification, apply to building and construction
workers, the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (Central Act 39 of 1972), the
Employees' Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 (Central Act
XIX of 1952) and the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948 (Central Act XXXIV
of 1948), with such modifications as may be specified in such notification.

### 41. Insurance of workers.

\- The Government, may, by notification, direct that every employer shall take
out an insurance policy in respect of all or any such classes of the workers
employed by him in his establishment for such amount and for such period, as
may be specified by Government in such notification so as to cover the risks
of accident, death or bodily injury or disablement or any other calamity which
may arise in the course of the employment of such workers in such
establishment.

### 42. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes
of this Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and, unless they are expressed to come into
force on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are
so published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day f
on which they are published.(3)Every rule made or notification issued under
this Act shall as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on
the table of both Houses of the Legislature, and if before the expiry of the
session in which it is so placed or the next session, both Houses agree in
making any modification in any such rule or notification or both Hoses agree
that the rule or notification should not be made or issued, the rule or
notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of
no effect as the case may be. so however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or notification.

## Schedule

[See section 2(j)](1)Construction and maintenance works in multi-storeyed
structures.(2)Electrical works involving high voltage of 430 volt and
above.(3)Works involved in lift walls and erection of lifts.(4)Erection of
trusses purlin and AC sheet goofing in structures over 6 metres height.(5)Well
sinking, well excavation works.(6)Divers in drainage works in maintenance of
deep sewers and drainage works.(7)Erection of towers such as in Microwave,
transmission towers, etc.(8)Works involved in the construction of overhead
reservoirs of height more than 6 metres from ground level.(9)Marine
works.(10)Construction works in hill slopes.(11)Dismantling of structures more
than 3 metres height.(12)Blasting works including quarrying.(13)Narrow
excavation of more than 2 metres depth for deep canals, cut off trenches,
etc., excavation in treacherous soils and excavation involving
blastering.(14)Breach closing works.(15)Tunnelling in multi-purpose project
works.(16)Construction activities at height more than 3 metres in a state of
suspension and also constructing face work (i.e., at edges of the blocks) in
irrigation structures.(17)Erecting heavy plant equipment.

