## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Special Security Group Act, 1993

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Special Security Group Act, 1993

## Act 17 of 1993

  * Published in Gazette 17 on 17 May 1993 
  * Assented to on 17 May 1993 
  * Commenced on 17 May 1993 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 May 1993.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Special Security Group Act, 1993[17th May, 1993]Act No. 17 of
1993An Act to provide for the constitution and regulation of a separate
security force in the State of Tamil Nadu for providing proximate security to
the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and the former Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu
and members of their immediate family and for matters connected
therewith.PREAMBLEBE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Tamil Nadu in the Forty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1. Short title and commencement.—

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Special Security Group Act,
1993.(2)It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by
notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.—

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)"active duty” in
relation to a member of the Group means any duty as such member during the
period when he is posted to physically protect the Chief Minister of Tamil
Nadu and the members of his immediate family or a former Chief Minister of
Tamil Nadu and the members of his immediate family, or any class of persons
referred to in clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 4, wherever he or they
may be;(b)"Director” means the Director of the Group appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 5;(c)"Government” means the State
Government;(d)"Group”means the Tamil Nadu Special Security Group constituted
under section 4;(e)"member of the Group” means a person who has been appointed
to the Group by the prescribed authority;(f)"members of immediate family”
means wife, husband, children and parents;(g)"proximate security” means
protection provided from close quarters, during journey by road, rail,
aircraft, watercraft or on foot or any other means of transport and shall
include the places of functions, engagements, residence or halt and shall
comprise ring round teams, isolation cordons, the sterile zone around, convoy
security and the rostrum and access control to the person or members of his
immediate family;(h)all words and expressions used and not defined in this Act
but defined in the Indian Penal Code shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in that Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 3. Members subject to this Act.—

Every member of the Group shall be subject to this Act , wherever he may be.

### 4. Constitution of the Group.—

(1)There shall be a separate security force in the State of Tamil Nadu called
the Tamil Nadu Special Security Group for providing proximate security
to—(a)the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and the members of his immediate
family;(b)any former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu or to the members of his
immediate family; and(c)any such class of persons and for such period as the
Government may, by Notification, specify:Provided that any former Chief
Minister or any member of the immediate family of the Chief Minister or of a
former Chief Minister may decline such proximate security.(2)Subject to the
provisions of this Act , the Group shall be constituted in such manner as may
be prescribed and the terms and conditions of service of the members of the
Group shall be such as may be prescribed.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained
in this section, any person or any member of any other Police force of the
State of Tamil Nadu may be appointed to the Group by the Government, by a
general or special order, and for such period as may be specified in such
order and the person so appointed shall, during the period of his appointment,
be deemed to be a member of the Group, and the provisions of this Act shall,
so far as may be, apply to such person or member.

### 5. Control, direction, etc.—

(1)The general superintendence, direction and control of the Group shall vest
in, and be exercised by, the Government and subject thereto and to the
provisions of this Act and the rules, the command and supervision of the Group
shall vest in an officer to be appointed by the Government as the Director of
the Group:Provided that the Government may, by general or special order,
delegate all or any of their powers under this sub-section, to such officer or
authority as may be specified in such order.(2)The Director shall, in the
discharge of his duties under this Act, be assisted by such number of Deputy
Directors, Assistant Directors and other officers as may be appointed by the
Government.(3)The scale and level of proximate security shall be such as may
be determined by the Director.

### 6. Liability for service in any part of State of Tamil Nadu and
elsewhere.—

Every member of the Group shall be liable to serve in any part of the State of
Tamil Nadu or in any other part of India as well as outside India.

### 7. Members of the Group always on active duty.—

Every member of the Group, not on leave or under suspension, shall, for all
purposes of this Act , be always on active duty and may, at any time, be
employed or deployed in any manner which is consistent with the duties and
responsibilities of the Group under this Act .

### 8. Resignation and withdrawal from the Post.—

No member of the Group shall be at liberty—(a)to resign his appointment during
the term of his engagement; or(b)to withdraw himself from all or any of the
duties of his appointment, except with the previous permission in writing of
the prescribed authority.

### 9. Tenure of service.—

Every member of the Group shall hold office during the pleasure of the
Governor.

### 10. Restrictions respecting right to form associations, freedom of speech,
etc.—

(1)No member of the Group shall, without the previous sanction, in writing, of
the Government or of the prescribed authority,—(a)be a member of, or be
associated in any way with, any trade union, labour union, political
association or with any class of trade unions, labour unions or political
associations; or(b)be a member of, or be associated in any way with, any
society, institution association or organisation that is not of a purely
social, recreational or religious nature; or(c)communicate with the press or
publish or cause to be published any book, letter or other document except
where such communication or publication is in the bona fide discharge of his
duties or is of a purely literary, artistic or scientific character or is of a
prescribed nature.Explanation.—If any question arises as to whether any
society, institution, association or organisation is of a purely social,
recreational or religious nature under clause (b) or whether any book, letter
or document is a communication or publication in the bona fide discharge of
his duties or is of a purely literary artistic or scientific character or is
of a prescribed nature under clause (c), the decision of the Government
thereon shall be final.(2)No member of the Group shall participate in, or
address, any meeting or take part in any demonstration organised by anybody of
persons for any political purposes or for such other purposes as may be
prescribed.

### 11. Termination of service.—

The prescribed authority may, by order in writing, terminate the appointment
of any member of the Group in the public interest and such termination shall
be deemed to be discharge simpliciter and shall not amount to dismissal or
removal.

### 12. Appeal.—

(1)Any member of the Group aggrieved by an order under section 11 may, within
thirty days from the date of such order, prefer an appeal to a Board to be
constituted by the Government.(2)The Board shall consist of such persons as
may be prescribed.(3)The decision of the Board shall be final and shall not be
called in question in any court or tribunal.(4)The Board shall have power to
regulate its own procedure.

### 13. Powers and duties conferrable on members of the Group.—

The Government may, by general or special order published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, direct that, subject to such conditions and limitations as
may be specified in that order, any member of the Group may exercise or
discharge such powers or duties as may be specified in the said order for
giving effect to the provisions of this Act .

### 14. Assistance to Group.—

It shall be the duty of every Department in the Government or every Department
under the control of the Government or every local or other authority to act ,
in aid of the Director or any member of the Group whenever called upon to do
so in furtherance of the duties and responsibilities assigned to such Director
or member.

### 15. Protection of action taken under this Act .—

No suit prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Group or
any member thereof on whom powers have been conferred or duties have been
imposed under this Act or any order issued or any rule made thereunder for
anything which is in good faith done or purported to be done or omitted to be
done in pursuance of this Act or any order issued or any rule made thereunder
or any order issued under any such rule.

### 16. Power to make rules.—

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes
of this Act .(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely:—(a)the manner in which the Group shall be constituted and the
terms and conditions of service of its members under sub-section (2) of
section 4;(b)the authorities to be prescribed under section 8, sub-section (1)
of section 10 and section 11;(c)the nature of the communication or publication
under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 10;(d)the purposes, other than
political purposes, for which a person subject to this Act shall not
participate in, or address, any meeting or take part in any demonstration
under sub-section (2) of section 10;(e)the persons who shall be members of the
Board under sub-section (2) of section 12;(f)any other matter which is
required to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)(a)All rules made under this Act ,
shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day shall come into force on the
day on which they are so published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act
shall, unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day, come
into force on the day on which they are published.(4)Every rule made or
notification issued under this Act or every order issued under section 13
shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued, be placed on the table
of the Legislative Assembly, and if before the expiry of the session in which
it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes any modification in
any such rule, notification or order or the Assembly decides that the rule,
notification or order should not be made or issued, the rule, notification or
order shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form, or be of no
effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule notification or order.

