## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna Act, 1958

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna Act, 1958

## Act 15 of 1958

  * Published on 9 July 1958 
  * Commenced on 9 July 1958 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 July 1958.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna Act, 1958Act No. 15 of 1958Statement of Objects
and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XV of 1958).
- The object of the Bill is to facilitate the donation of lands to the Bhoodan
Yagna movement initiated by Sri Acharya Viriobha Bhave and for that purpose to
simplify the legal formalities necessary for transfer of lands. The Bill
provides that any owner who is legally competent to donate the land may, on a
declaration made in the prescribed manner, donate his land for the Bhoodan
Yagna and that, on such declaration being confirmed by the appropriate
authority after holding an enquiry and hearing objections, the land shall vest
in the State Bhoodan Yagna Board. Provision has been made for any person,
whose interests are affected by the donation of lands, to institute a suit in
the Civil Court to set aside an order confirming a donation.The State Board
will be a body corporate with power to enter into contracts and to acquire,
hold, administer and transfer property. Power has been taken to constitute
Local Committees which will exercise such powers, duties and functions as may
be delegated to them by the State Board. The lands vested in the; Board may be
granted by it to landless poor persons who are able and willing to cultivate
them or to the Government or to a Local Authority for community
purposes.Provision has been made that the procedure applicable in respect of
lands donated after the commencement of the proposed legislation shall apply
in respect of lands donated prior to such commencement.Every donation or grant
of land under the Bill will be exempt from the payment of stamp duty of
encumbrance certificate and of registration fee or of fee payable for
attestation of power-of-attorney'.Published in Part IV-A, page 130 of the Fort
St. George Gazette, Extraordinary, dated the 4th November 1957. For the report
of the Joint Select Committee, see Fort St. George Gazette, Extraordinary,
dated the 12th February 1958, Part IV-A, page 5-20.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act XXVI
of 1964). - Experience gained by enforcement of the provisions of the Madras
Bhoodan Yagna Act, 1958 (Madras Act XV of 1958), has revealed that the Act
should be amended with a view to removing certain defects found and
administrative difficulties felt. The Government, therefore, propose to amend
the Act in respect of the following matters:-(1) The Madras State Bhoodan
Yagna Board should also have power to grant lands vested in it to co-operative
societies and to Sarvodaya Panchayats.(2) The definition of "Gramdan land"
should be modified to include lands granted to Sarvodaya Panchayats.(3) The
definition of "Gramdan village" should be modified to mean any revenue village
or villages or part or parts thereof in which not less than two-thirds of the
number of persons owning lands donate all their lands for Gramdan or the total
extent of lands so donated amounts to not less than one-half of the total
extent of the lands therein.(4) Besides, the Tahsildar and the Deputy
Tahsildar, certain other officers should be empowered as Inquiry Officers to
hear objections in respect of declarations in specified areas.(5) The
declarations made under sub-section (1) of section 16 should be filed with the
State Board and the State Board should publish them in the manner laid down in
sub-section (1) of section 17 and then forward the declarations to the Inquiry
Officer concerned.(6) Where there is no objection, the Inquiry Officer should
be enabled to either confirm the declaration or declare the declaration null
and void without observing the procedure laid down in sub-sections (3) and (4)
of section 17.(7) The Inquiry Officer on confirming a declaration should
communicate his order to the State Board which should there upon publish the
order in the Fort St. George Gazette.(8) An order declaring the declaration
null and void should also be communicated to the State Board.(9) Pending
completion of proceedings under section 17, the State Board should have the
discretion to arrange for the cultivation of lands covered by the declaration
made under sub-section (1) of section 16.(10) The State Board should also have
the power to grant under sub-section (1) of section 19 any land vested in it
to a co-operative society or Sarvodaya Panchayat.(11) Any land donated for the
Bhoodan Yagna and situated in a Gramdan village on being granted by the State
Board to the Sarvodaya Panchayat concerned should be dealt with as Gramdan
land.(12) Every declaration and every grant of land made under the Act should
also be exempted from registration.(13) Donations of lands under the Act which
have not been previously made in accordance with the law relating to
registration, etc., should be validated.2\. This opportunity has been availed
of to amend section 28 of the Act to provide for the publication in the Fort
St. George Gazette of all rules made under the Act and also for the placing on
the table of both Houses of the Legislature of all rules, orders and
notifications made or issued by the Government under the Act so as to conform
to the recommendation made by the Committee on Subordinate Legislation.3\. The
Bill is intended to give effect to the above proposals.Published in Part IV -
Section 3 of the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 17th March
1964.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna Act, 2000
(Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2002). - In view of the practical difficulties
experienced in implementing the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna
Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XV of 1958), it has been decided to amend the said
Act enabling.1\. The Government to enhance the annual income limit from three
hundred rupees to an amount as may be prescribed by the Government, which
shall not exceed twenty-five thousand for considering any person as landless
poor person, for the purpose of the said Act.2\. The donor or his legal heir
to exchanged the land already donated with.an alternate land of equivalent
value;3\. The State Board to grant any land vested in it to a houseless poor
person as house-side; and4\. The Government to grant any land vested in the
said Board to any person or institution for any public purpose after
collecting double the market value of such land.2\. The Bill seeks to give
effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 18th May,Received the assent of
the President on the 9th July 1958 and published in the Fort St. George
Gazette on the 16th July, 1958.An Act to facilitate the donation of lands for
the Bhoodan Yagna and the transfer and settlement of such lands in the [State
of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Whereas it is necessary and expedient
to facilitate the donation of lands for the Bhoodan Yagna initiated by Shri
Acharya Vinobha Bhave and the transfer and settlement of such lands for the
benefit of landless poor persons or for community purposes and to provide in
Gramdan villages for the vesting of lands in, and the management of those
lands by the Sarvodaya Panchayat in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.].Be it enacted in the Ninth Year of the republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Bhoodan
Yagna Act, 1958.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.].(3)It shall come into force on such date as the
Government may by notification, appoint, and different dates may be appointed
for different areas and for different provisions of this Act.This Act was
extended to the added territories by section 3 of and the First Schedule to,
the Tamil Nadu (Added Territories) Extension of Laws (No. 2) Act, 1961 (Tamil
Nadu Act 39 of 1961) repealing the corresponding law in force in those
territories.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Bhoodan Yagna"
means the movement initiated by Shri Acharya Vinobha Bhave for the acquisition
of lands through voluntary gifts for distribution to [landless poor persons,
co-operative societies or Sarvodaya Panchayats or for community purposes]
[Substituted for the words 'landless poor persons or for community purposes'
by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1964).];(b)"community purpose" means any purpose which is for the general good
of the community;(c)"Government" means the State Government;(d)[ "Gramdan
land" means land donated for Gramdan in a Gramdan village and includes any
land in such village donated for the Bhoodan. Yagna and granted under sub-
section (1) of section 19 to the Sarvodaya Panchayat constituted for that
village; [Substituted for the original clauses (d) and (e) by section 2(ii)
Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1964).](e)"Gramdan village" means any revenue village or villages or part or
parts thereof in which-(i)not less than two-thirds of the number of persons
residing and owning lands donated all their lands for Gramdan; or(ii)not less
than one-half of the total extent of the lands owned by persons residing in
such village or villages or part or parts is donated by persons residing and
owning lands therein donating all their lands for Gramdan, and which the
Government may, by notification, declare to be a Gramdan Village;](ee)[
"Inquiry Officer" means the Tahsildar or the Deputy Tahsildar in independent
charge, having jurisdiction in the taluk or sub-taluk where lands donated for
the Bhoodan Yagna are situate or such officer as the District Collector may,
by notification, appoint for such village or villages where lands donated for
the Bhoodan Yagna are situate, as may be specified in the notification.]
[Inserted by section 2(iii) of the Tamil Nadu bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act,
1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1964).];(f)"landless poor person" means a person
who either is not an owner of land or an owner of land which does not exceed
the limits prescribed in this behalf and whose annual income does not exceed
[such sum not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees as may be prescribed]
[Substituted for the words 'three hundred rupees' by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna
(Amendment) Act. 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2000).];(g)"owner" includes any
tenant having heritable and alienable interest in land;.(h)"Sarvodaya
Panchayat" means the Sarvodaya Panchayat constituted for a Gramdan Village;
and(i)"State Board" means the [Tamil Nadu State Bhoodan Yagna Board]
[Substituted for the expression 'Madras State Bhoodan Yagna Board' by
paragraph 3(1) of, and the Schedule to, the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1970, which was deemed to have come into force on the 14th January
1969.] established under section 3.

### 3. Establishment and incorporation of State Board.

(1)The duty of carrying out the provisions of this Act, shall, subject to the
restrictions, conditions and limitations therein contained, be vested in a
Board to be called the [Tamil Nadu State Bhoodan Yagna Board] [Substituted for
the expression 'Madras State Bhoodan Yagna Board' by paragraph 3(1) of, and
the Schedule to, the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970, which laws
deemed to have come into force on the 14th January 1969.].(2)The State Board
shall be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal with
power to enter into contracts and to acquire, hold, administer and transfer
property, movable or immovable, and shall, by the said name, sue and be sued.

### 4. Constitution of State Board.

(1)The State Board shall consist of a Chairman and ten or more but not
exceeding fourteen other members who shall be appointed by the Government [* *
*] [The expression 'in consultation zoith Shri Acharya Vinobha Bhave or a
person nominated by his in writing in this behalf' were omitted by the Tamil
Nadu Act 25 of 1992, zoith effect from 15-6-1992.].(2)The appointment of the
Chairman and the other members of the State Board shall be published in the
[Fort St. George Gazette] [Now Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.].

### 5. Term of office.

\- Every member of the State Board including the Chairman shall hold office
for a term of four years from the date of appointment, and shall be eligible
for reappointment.

### 6. Disqualifications for membership.

(1)A person shall be disqualified for appointment to the State Board if on the
date of appointment, such person,-(a)is less than twenty-one years of age;
or(b)is of unsound mind; or(c)has applied to be or has been, or is adjudicated
an insolvent; or(d)has been sentenced by a criminal Court for an offence
involving moral delinquency, such sentence not having been reversed; or(e)has,
on any previous occasion, been removed from the office of members of the State
Board or of a Local Committee or has been removed by order of a competent
Court from any position of trust either for mismanagement or corruption.(2)A
member of the State Board shall cease to hold his office if he-(a)is sentenced
by a criminal Court for an offence involving moral delinquency, such sentence
not having been reversed; or(b)becomes of unsound mind; or(c)has applied to
be, or has been, or is adjudicated an insolvent.

### 7. Resignation of Chairman or member.

\- The Chairman or any other member of the State Board may, at any time,
resign his office by tendering his resignation in writing to the Government.
No such resignation shall take effect unless it is accepted and the acceptance
is communicated to him.

### 8. Removal of Chairman or member.

(1)The Government may, after making such enquiry as may be prescribed, by
order, remove the chairman, or any other member of the State Board, if they
are satisfied that the Chairman or member-(a)has become disqualified for
appointment to the State Board for any of the reasons mentioned in section 6;
or(b)has become incapable of acting as Chairman or other member or has so
abused his position as Chairman or member as to render his continuance as such
detrimental to the public interest; or(c)has failed, without excuse sufficient
in the opinion of the State Board, to attend three consecutive meetings of the
State Board.(2)Where a person who has ceased to be a member by reason of his
failure to attend three consecutive meetings of the State Board applies to the
Government within one month from the date of the order of removal for
restoration to office, the Government may, on the recommendation of the State
Board, restore him to his office of member:Provided that a member shall not be
so restored more than twice during his term of office.(3)Every order of
removal under sub-section (1) or of restoration under subsection (2) shall be
published in [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.].

### 9. Filling up of casual vacancies.

(1)Any casual vacancy in the office of the Chairman or any other member of the
State Board shall be filled within two months by a fresh appointment, in the
manner prescribed.(2)The Chairman or member appointed to fill a vacancy under
sub-section (1) shall enter upon office forthwith, but shall hold office only
so long as the member in whose place he is appointed would have been entitled
to hold office if the vacancy had not occurred.(3)Every appointment under sub-
section (1) shall be published in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette.].

### 10. Dissolution of State Board.

(1)If, at any time, the Government are satisfied that-(a)the State Board has
failed without reasonable cause or excuse to discharge the duties or to
perform the functions imposed on or assigned to it by or under this Act;
or(b)circumstances have arisen in which the State Board is or may be rendered
unable to discharge the duties or to perform the functions imposed on or
assigned to it by or under this Act; or(c)it is otherwise expedient so to do;
they may, [* * *] [The expression 'in consultation with Shri Acharya Vinobha
Bhave' were omitted by the Tamil Nadu Bhoodim Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1992
(Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1992).] by notification, directed-(i)in cases falling
under clause (a), that the State Board be dissolved and reconstituted on such
date as the Government may fix in that behalf, and(ii)in cases falling under
clause (b) or (c), that the State Board be superseded for a specified
period.(2)Before publishing a notification under sub-section (1), the
Government shall communicate to the State Board the grounds on which they
propose to do so, fix a reasonable period for the State Board to show cause
against the proposal and consider its explanations or objections, if any.(3)On
the date fixed for the dissolution of the State Board under sub-section (1),
all its members as well as its Chairman shall be deemed to have vacated their
offices and fresh appointments shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of this Act and the Chairman and the members newly appointed shall enter upon
their offices, on the date fixed for the reconstitution of the State
Board.(4)Supersession shall take effect from noon on the date specified in the
notification or if no date is specified, on the date of publication of the
notification, arid thereupon the following consequences shall ensure:-(a)All
members of the State Board as well as its Chairman shall be deemed to have
vacated their offices.(b)All or any of the powers and function of the State
Board and of its Chairman shall, during the period of supersession, be
exercised and performed, as far as may be, and to such extent as the
Government may determine, by such persons or by such authority as the
Government may appoint in that behalf.(5)The Government may, by
notification-(a)from time to time, extend the period of supersession of the
State Board; and(b)make such other incidental or consequential provisions as
may appear to them to be necessary.(6)The Government shall reconstitute the
State Board before the expiry of the period specified in the notification
under sub-section (1) or of the extended period notified under sub-section
(5).(7)When the State Board is dissolved or superseded under this section, the
Government until the date of the reconstitution thereof and the reconstituted
State Board thereafter shall be entitled to all the assets and be subject to
all the liabilities of the State Board as on the date of the dissolution or
supersession and on the date of the reconstitution respectively.

### 11. Vesting of lands in the State Board.

\- All lands donated for purposes of the Bhoodan Yagna whether before or after
the commencement of this Act shall subject to the provisions of sections 16,17
and 20 vest in the State Board.

### 12. Secretary.

(1)The State Board may appoint one of its members to act as its Secretary and
such other officers and servants as it may deem necessary for the purposes of
this Act.(2)The State Board may delegate to the Secretary any of its powers,
duties or functions under this Act except such powers, duties or functions as
the Government may by general or special order specify.

### 13. Meetings of State Board.

\- The State Board shall meet, and shall, from time to time, make such
arrangements with reference to the place, day, hour, notice, management and
adjournment of its meetings, as it may think fit, subject to the following
provisions, namely:-(a)the Chairman may, whenever he thinks fit and shall,
when so required by the Government, call a meeting of the State Board;(b)the
Chairman shall attend every meeting of the State Board unless he is prevented
by sickness or other reasonable cause;(c)no business shall be transacted at
any meeting unless there be present a majority of the number of members then
in office;(d)every meeting shall be presided over by the Chairman and in his
absence by a member chosen by the meeting to preside for the occasion;(e)all
questions at a meeting shall be decided by a majority of the members present
and voting at the meeting and, in every case of equality of votes, the person
presiding shall have and exercise a second or casting vote;(f)if a poll be
demanded, the names of the members voting and the nature of their votes shall
be recorded by the person presiding; and(g)minutes of the proceedings at each
meeting (together with the names of the members present) shall be recorded in
a book to be provided for the purpose, and such minutes shall be read at the
next ensuing meeting and signed by the person presiding at such meeting. The
minutes book shall be open to inspection by any member during office hours.

### 14. Acts of State Board, etc., not to be invalidated by informality, etc.

\- No act of the State Board or of any person acting as Chairman thereof shall
be deemed to be invalid by reason only of a defect in the establishment of the
Board or of such act having been done during the period of any vacancy in the
office of Chairman or member of the State Board, or on the ground that the
Chairman or any member of the Board was not entitled to hold or to continue in
such office.

### 15. Local Committees.

(1)The State Board may, for any district or portion of a district, constitute
a Local Committee consisting of not more than five members who shall be
appointed by the State Board among the residents of the area concerned.The
appointment of such members shall be subject to the approval of the Government
and shall be for such period as may be prescribed.(2)The State Board shall
appoint one of the members of the Local Committee to be its Chairman who shall
also act as its Secretary.(3)(a)The State Board may authorise any Local
Committee constituted under sub-section (1) to exercise in the area within the
jurisdiction of such Local Committee all or any of the powers, duties or
functions vested in the State Board by this Act except such powers, duties or
functions as may be specified by the Government by general or special order,
and may in like manner withdraw such authority.(b)The exercise of any powers,
duties or functions delegated under clause (a) shall be subject to such
restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed and also to control and
revision by the Government or by such persons as may be empowered by them in
this behalf. The Government shall also have power to control and revise the
acts or proceedings of any person so empowered.(4)The provisions of sections 6
to 10,13 and 14 shall apply to a Local Committee subject to the modification
that the powers exercisable by, and the duties imposed on, the Government
under the said sections shall, in relation to a Local Committee, be exercised
by the State Board:Provided that the dissolution, reconstitution or
supersession of a Local Committee shall be subject to the approval of the
Government.

### 16. Donation of land.

(1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the
time being in force,-(a)any owner may, by declaration made in the prescribed
manner, donate his land for the Bhoodan Yagna:Provided that where any land is
owned jointly by two or more persons, no donation of land shall be valid
unless the declaration is signed" by all such joint owners:Provided further
that a declaration made by a minor shall not be valid;(b)any person to whom
the Government have assigned any land on the ground of his having been a
political sufferer may, by declaration made in the prescribed manner, donate
such land for the Bhoodan Yagna provided the following conditions are
satisfied, namely:-(i)in case the land was not under cultivation before
assignment, the assignee should have brought it under cultivation within three
years from the date of assignment;(ii)the assignee should have paid in full
all the public charges due to the Government in respect of the land and repaid
in full the loan or loans obtained from the Government, together with the
interest thereon, before making the donation for the Bhoodan Yagna.(2)Where
the owner donating his land for the Bhoodan Yagna under sub-section (1) is a
janmi or any other landlord in an area where the Malabar Tenancy Act, 1929
([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XIV of 1930), is in force, no donation of his
land for the Bhoodan Yagna shall be valid unless the tenant of such janmi or
landlord transfers all his right, title and interest in such land to the State
Board for the purposes of the Bhoodan Yagna by declaration made in the
prescribed manner.(3)[ Every declaration made under sub-section (1) shall be
filed with the State Board.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna
(Amendment) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1964).]

### 17. Hearing of objections.

\- [(1) The State Board shall, as soon as may be after the filing of every
declaration under sub-section (3) of section 16, publish the declaration in
the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Sub-section (1) was substituted by Tamil Nadu
Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1964).] and in such
other maimer as may be prescribed and forward the declaration to the Inquiry
Officer concerned.](2)Any person whose interests are affected by any such
declaration may, within two months of the publication of the declaration file
objections to the same before the [Inquiry Officer] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu
Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1964).].(3)The
[Inquiry Officer] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act,
1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1964).] shall register every such objection, fix a
date for its hearing and shall give notice of such date to the donor, the
objector, the State Board and the Local Committee concerned.(4)On the date of
hearing or any other date to which it may be postponed, the [Inquiry Officer]
[Substituted by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act
36 of 1964).] shall proceed to investigate and dispose of the objection and by
order within such lime as may be prescribed either confirm the declaration or
declare it null and void. [Where there is no objection the Inquiry Officer,
after making such inquiry as he deems fit, shall, as soon as may be, by order,
confirm the declaration or declare it null and void.] [This sentence was added
by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1961).](5)[ (a) Where the Inquiry Officer passes an order under sub-section
(4) confirming a declaration, he shall, as soon as may be, communicate the
order along with the record of his proceedings to the State Board.] [Sub-
sections (5), (6), (7) were substituted by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna
(Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1064).](b)As soon as may be after
the receipt of the order referred to in clause (a) the State Board
shall-(i)publish such order in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.]; and(ii)send a copy of such order duly authenticated by
any officer authorised by the State Board in this behalf to the registering
officer under the [Indian Registration Act, 1908] [Short title renamed as
Registration Act, 1908.] (Central Act XVI of 1908), within the local limits of
whose jurisdiction the land to which the order relates is situate and such
registering officer shall register such order:Provided that no fee shall be
payable for such registration and it shall not be necessary for any officer of
the State Board to appear in person or by agent at the Registration office in
any proceeding connected with such registration.(6)[ Upon such registration,
all the right, title and interest of the donor in such land shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force but subject to the provisions of section 23, stand transferred to, and
vest in, the State Board for the purposes of the Bhoodan Yagna.] [Substituted
by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1964).](7)[ Where the inquiry Officer passes an order under sub-section (4)
declaring the declaration null and void, he shall, as soon as may be,
communicate a copy of such order to the State Board. On the passing of such
order, the donation shall stand cancelled and the donor shall be deemed to
continue to have all his right, title and interest in such land as if he had
not made any declaration under sub-section (1) of section 16.] [Substituted by
Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1964).](8)The State Board may, at any stage of the proceedings, reject the
declaration of a donor on any of the following grounds, namely:-(i)that the
donor is incompetent to make the donation;(ii)that the title of the donor is
defective;(iii)that there are encumbrances on the land;(iv)that there are
arrears of land revenue or rent;(v)that the land donated is common pasture
land, cremation or burial ground tank, pathway or thrashing floor; or(vi)any
other prescribed grounds.(9)[ Pending the completion of the proceedings under
this section, the State Board may, subject to such terms and conditions as may
be agreed upon between the donor and the State Board, arrange for the
cultivation of the lands donated for the Bhoodan Yagna under sub-section (1)
of section 16 as it thinks fit.] [Sub-section (9) was added by Tamil Nadu
Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1964).]

### 17A. [ Permission to exchange the donated land. [Inserted by the Tamil
Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2000).]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Government may, if the
circumstances so warrant, permit the exchange of the land already donated to,
and vested in, the State Board, with an alternate land, by the donor or his
legal heirs, as the case may be, in such manner as may be prescribed, subject
to the following conditions, namely:-(a)the alternate land shall be of
equivalent value;(b)there shall be no encumbrance on the alternate land;(c)the
donor or his legal heirs shall be competent to transfer such alternate
land;(d)there shall not be any arrear of land revenue or tax or any amount due
to the Government or other authority;(e)the land already donated had not been
assigned to any person or authority under this Act.]

### 18. Partition of holding.

\- If any land donated for the Bhoodan Yagna forms part of a holding, the
State Board or the Local Committee, as the case may be, [may apply to the
Inquiry Officer for possession and the Inquiry Officer may] [Substituted by
the Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1964).], notwithstanding any provision in any other law to the contrary,
partition the holding demarcate the land and effect its sub-division.

### 19. Grant of land by State Board.

(1)The State Board may, in the manner prescribed, and as far as possible
taking into consideration the wishes of the donor, grant any land which has
vested in it to a landless poor person who is able and willing to cultivate
the land [or to a houseless poor person as house site] [Inserted by the Tamil
Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2000).] or to
the Government or a local authority for community purposes, [or to a co-
operative society or Sarvodaya Panchayat] [Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Bhoodan
Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1964).] and the grantee of
the land shall acquire therein such right and liabilities and subject to such
conditions, restrictions and limitations as may be prescribed, and the same
have effect, any other law to the contrary notwithstanding:Provided that any
political sufferer who has donated land under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of
section 16 shall not be eligible for the grant of any land under this
section.[Explanation. [Explanation was added by the Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna
(Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 2000).] \- For the purpose of this
sub-section, "houseless poor person" means a person who does not own any house
or house-site and whose annual income does not exceed such sum not exceeding
twenty-five thousand rupees, as may be prescribed.][(1-A) Where any land
vested in the State Board and situated in a Gramdan Village is granted to the
Sarvodaya Panchayat constituted for that Gramdan Village, such land shall be
deemed, for all purposes of this Act, to be a Gramdan land vested in the
Sarvodaya Panchayat and shall, thereupon, be dealt with accordingly; and in
respect of any land so vested in the Sarvodaya Panchayat, the State Board
shall not have any rights or be subject to any obligations under this Act.]
[Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu
Act 36 of 1964).](2)Tire State Board may take such steps for the management of
the lands vested in it as it thinks fit until they are disposed of under this
Act.

### 20. Donation of land made prior to commencement of Act.

(1)Tire Stale Board shall prepare a list of all lands donated for purposes of
the Bhoodan Yagna, prior to the commencement of this Act, showing
therein-(a)the area, description and other particulars of the land,(b)the name
and address of the donor,(c)the date of the donation,(d)the nature of the
interest of the donor in the land,(e)if the land has already been granted to
any person in pursuance of the Bhoodan Yagna, the name and address of the
person to whom the land has been granted (hereinafter called the
grantee).(f)the date of the grant referred to in clause (e), and(g)such other
particulars as may be prescribed.(2)Every list prepared under sub-section (1)
shall be published in the [Fort St. George Gazette.] [Now Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.](3)Upon such publication, the provisions of sub-sections
(2) to (8) of section 17 shall apply in respect of land described in the list
published under sub-section (2) as if such publication were a declaration in
respect of that land filed under sub-section (3) of section 16:Provided that
where an order is made by the [Inquiry Officer] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu
Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1964).] under
subsection (4) of section 17 confirming the donation, such donation shall be
deemed to have been accepted with effect from the date on which the donation
was made and for this purpose, this Act shall be deemed to have been in force
on such date.(4)Where, such land has been granted to any person it shall, with
effect from the date of grant, be deemed further to have been granted to the
grantee under and in accordance with the provisions of section 19.

### 21. Funds of State Board.

\- The State Board shall have its own fund and may accept grants, donations,
gifts or loans from the Central Government or the State Government or any
local authority or person for all or any of the purposes of the State Board.

### 22. Application of funds.

\- All property, moneys, funds and all other assets received by or vesting in
the State Board shall be held and applied by it subject to the provisions and
for the purposes of this Act.

### 23. Filing of suits.

\- Every order of the [Inquiry Officer] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan
Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of1964).] passed under sub-
section (4) of section 17 shall be final and not be subject to appeal or
revision:Provided that any person whose interests are affected as a result of
the donation of any land for purposes of the Bhoodan Yagna, whether before or
after the commencement of this Act, may, within three months from the date of
the order of the [Inquiry Officer] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna
(Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of1964).] under sub-section (4) of
section 17, [* * *] [The words 'as the case may be' were omitted by Tamil Nadu
Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1964).] institute a
suit in the Civil Court having jurisdiction to set aside the order of the
[Inquiry Officer] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act,
1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of1964).] and the decision of such Court shall be
binding on the State Board.

### 24. [ Exemption from registration and stamp duty. [Section 24 was
substituted by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act
36 of 1964).]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, every declaration and
every grant of land made or deemed to have been made under this Act shall be
and be deemed always to have been exempt from registration and payment of
stamp duty and encumbrance certificate fee.]

### 25. Vesting of Gramdan lands in Sarvodaya Panchayat.

(1)The provisions of sections 16, 17 and 20 shall as far as may be apply to
lands donated for Gramdan as they apply to lands donated for Bhoodan
Yagna.(2)In any Gramdan village or Gramdan lands shall vest in the Sarvodaya
Panchayat.(3)No act done by a Sarvodaya Panchayat shall be invalid on the
ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in or defect in the Constitution
of the Panchayat.

### 26. Management of Gramdan Land.

(1)The Sarvodya Panchayat shall have possession of and manage all the Gramdan
lands vested in it.(2)The Sarvodaya Panchayat shall have power-(a)to arrange
for the cultivation of all lands vested in it either by itself or by
distributing them among the residents of the Gramdan Village concerned whether
jointly or severally;(b)to distribute the produce of the lands among the
villagers in any manner it deems fit;(c)to set apart lands for growing trees,
raising fruits and vegetables or for any other purpose which is for the
general good of the community specified in this behalf by the State Board,
from time to time;(d)to make advances in kind or cash to the families of the
Gramdan Village to whom lands are distributed for cultivation and recover
those advances;(e)to carry out land improvements;(f)to buy and install any
machinery for improving cultivation;(g)to provide, maintain and augment
irrigation sources and facilities;(h)to undertake reclamation of waste
lands;(i)to carry out soil conservation measures; and(j)generally to undertake
and carry out all measures to increase agricultural production.(3)The
Sarvodaya Panchayat shall have power to incur expenditure for all or any of
the purposes mentioned in this section.

### 27. Power to make regulations.

(1)The State Board may, after consultation with the Government, make
regulations not inconsistent with this Act and the Rules made thereunder to
provide for all matters for which provision is expedient for the purpose of
giving effect to the provisions of this Act.(2)In Particular, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such regulations may
provide for-(a)the procedure and the disposal of the business of the State
Board and Local Committees;(b)the remuneration and conditions of service of
employees of the State Board, the Local Committees and the Sarvodaya
panchayat;(c)the manner of constitution of the Sarvodaya Panchayat, the terms
of office of the members including the Chairman of the Sarvodaya Panchayat,
the powers, functions and duties of the Sarvodaya Panchayat, the holding of
meetings of the Sarvodaya Panchayat and the conduct of business thereat;(d)the
payment of travelling, and other allowances to the Chairman and members of the
Sarvodaya Panchayat;(e)the procedure to be followed by the Sarvodaya Panchayat
in respect of financial matters generally, including the manner in which and
the restrictions and conditions subject to which, expenditure should be
incurred by it;(f)the form in which the accounts of the Sarvodaya Panchayat
shall be kept, the audit and publication of such accounts and the charges, if
any, to be made for such audit;(g)the preparation of an annual budget and the
reports and returns to be furnished by it to the State Board and the
Government;(h)the delegation of powers, and functions of the Sarvodaya
panchayat to the Chairman or any member thereof;(i)the conduct and defence of
legal proceedings and the manner of signing pleadings;(j)the form and manner
in which contracts may be executed by the State Board and the Sarvodaya
Panchayat;(k)generally the conduct of the business of the Sarvodaya Panchayat.

### 28. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may [* * *] [Words 'by notification' were omitted by Tamil
Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1964).] make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, such rules may provide
for-(a)all matters expressly required or allowed by this Act to be
prescribed;(b)the matters to be taken into account in granting lands to
landless poor persons, [co-operative societies or Sarvodaya Panchayats] [Added
by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1964).];(c)the form of declaration and the manner in which it shall be filed
and the documents to be filed along with the declaration;(d)the nature, scope
and manner of enquiry, hearing and disposal of objections and confirmation or
supersession of the declaration under section 17;(e)the service of notices
under this Act;(f)the payment of travelling and other allowances to the
Chairman and members of the State Board and Local Committees;(g)the procedure
to be followed by the State Board in respect of financial matters generally,
including the manner in which, and the restrictions and conditions subject to
which, expenditure should be incurred by it;(h)the form in which the accounts
of the State Board shall be kept, the audit and publication of such accounts
and the charges, if any, to be made for such audit;(i)the preparation of an
annual budget and the reports and returns to be furnished by it to the
Government.(3)[ All rules made under this Act shall be published in the [Fort
St. George Gazette] [Sub-sections (3) and (4) were inserted for original sub-
section (3) by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act
36 of 1964).], and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.](4)[ Every rule, order or notification made or issued by the
Government under this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made or
issued, be placed on the table [the Legislative Assembly] [Sub-sections (3)
and (4) were inserted for original sub-section (3) by Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna
(Amendment) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1964).], and if, before the expiry
of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative
Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the words 'both Houses agree' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any such
rule, order or notification [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for
the words 'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1987.] that the rule, order or notification should not be made or issued, the
rule, order or notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified
form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule, order or notification.]

