## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu District Police Act, 1859

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu District Police Act, 1859

## Act 24 of 1859

  * Published in Gazette 24 on 20 December 2016 
  * Assented to on 20 December 2016 
  * Commenced on 20 December 2016 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 December 2016.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu District Police Act, 1859Act No. XXIV of 1859An Act for the
better regulation of the Police within the State of Tamil Nadu.WHEREAS it is
expedient to make the Police force throughout the State of Tamil Nadu a more
efficient instrument for the prevention and detection of crime, and to re-
organise the Police force. It is enacted as follows

### 1. Interpretation.—

The following words and expressions in this Act shall have the meanings hereby
assigned to them, unless there be something in the subject or context
repugnant to such construction (that is to say):"Magistrate".— The word
"Magistrate" shall include all persons, within their respective jurisdictions,
exercising all or any of the powers of a Magistrate;"Superior Police".— The
expression "superior police" shall mean the Director-General of Police,
Inspectors-General of Police, Deputy Inspectors-General of Police, District
Superintendents of Police, Assistant Superintendents of Police, and Deputy
Superintendents of Police;"Subordinate Police".— The expression "subordinate
police" shall mean all police officers of and below the rank of an
Inspector;"Police".— The word "Police" shall include all persons appointed
under this Act;"General Police District".— The expression "General Police
District" shall embrace all districts to which the operation of this Act shall
be extended;"Property".— The word "property" shall include any movable
property; money or valuable security;"Person".— The word "person" shall
include company or corporation;"Month".— The word "month" shall mean calendar
month; The word"Cattle".— shall, besides horned cattle, include elephants,
camels, horses, asses, mules, sheep, goats and swine.

### 2. Repealed.—

### 3. Repealed.—

### 4. Superintendence vested in the State Government.—

The Superintendence of the Police throughout the General Police District shall
vest in, and be exercised by the State Government and, except as authorized by
them under the provisions of this Act , no person; officer or Court shall be
empowered to supersede or control any police functionary, any Regulation, Act
or usage to the contrary notwithstanding.

### 5. Director-General of Police, etc.—

The administration of the Police throughout the General Police District shall
be vested in an officer to be styled the Director-General of Police for the
State of Tamil Nadu, and in such superior Police Officers as to the State
Government shall deem fit.

### 6. Power of Police, etc.—

All powers not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act which upto the
passing of this Act belonged by law to the existing Police authorities shall
be vested in the Police authorities appointed under this Act :Provided always
that no Police functionary so appointed shall possess or exercise any judicial
or revenue authority.

### 7. Omitted.—

### 8. Constitution, pay, etc., of force.—

The entire Police establishment of the Tamil Nadu shall for the purposes of
this Act be deemed to be one Police force and shall be formally enrolled, and
shall consist of such number of officers and men and shall be otherwise
constituted in such manner, as shall be from time to time ordered by the State
Government. The pay and all other conditions of service of officers of the
Subordinate Police shall subject to the provisions of this Act, be such as may
be determined by the State Government by rules either prospectively or
retrospectively:Provided that the rules made under this section shall not have
retrospective effect from a date earlier than the 20th day of October, 1971.

### 9. Director-General to control forces and make rules.—

The Director-General may, from time to time, subject to the approval of the
State Government, frame such orders and regulations as he shall deem
expedient, relating to the general Government and distribution of the force,
the places of residence, the classification, rank and particular service of
the members thereof; their inspection, the description of arms, accoutrements
and other necessaries to be furnished to them; to collecting the communicating
intelligence and information; and all such other orders and regulations
relating to the said Police force as the said Director-General shall, from
time to time, deem expedient for preventing abuse or neglect, and for
rendering such force efficient in the discharge of all its duties.

### 10. Dismissal, suspension or reduction of officers of the subordinate
Police.—

Subject to the provisions of Article 311 of the Constitution and to such rules
as the State Government may from time to time make either prospectively or
retrospectively under this Act , the Director-General, the Inspectors-General,
Deputy Inspectors-General and District Superintendents of Police may at any
time dismiss, suspend or reduce to a lower post, or timescale, or to a lower
stage in time scale, any officer of the Subordinate Police whom they shall
think remiss or negligent in the discharge of his duty or otherwise unfit for
the same and may order the recovery from the pay of any such Police Officer of
the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to Government by his negligence
or breach of orders:Provided that the rules made under the section shall not
have retrospective effect from a date earlier than the 20thday of October,
1971.

### 11. Police Officers to receive certificates of office.—

Every person appointed as an Officer of the Subordinate Police shall receive
on his enrolment a certificate (A) under the seal of the Director-General, by
virtue of which he shall be vested with the powers, functions and privileges
of a Police Officer. Such certificate shall cease to have effect whenever the
person named in it is suspended or dismissed, or otherwise removed from
employment in the Police force, and shall thereupon be immediately surrendered
to his superior officer, or other person empowered to receive it.

### 12. Power to appoint any member of the Police force, appointed under the
Travancore-Cochin Police Act, 1951, in the area to which this Act extends.—

The State Government, the Director-General of Police or the Inspector-General
of Police or the Deputy Inspector-General of Police may appoint any member of
the Police Force appointed under the Travancore-Cochin Police Act, 1951
(Travancore-Cochin Act II of 1952), as applied to the Kanyakumari district to
be a Police Officer in the area to which this Act extends and thereupon such
officer shall exercise the powers and perform duties and functions and shall
be subject to all liabilities of a Police Officer under this Act.

### 13. Additional Police Officer employed at cost of individuals.—

It shall be lawful for the State Government, if they shall think fit, on the
application of any person showing the necessity thereof, to appoint any
additional number of Police Officers to keep the peace at any place within the
General Police District, at the charge of the person making the application,
but subject to the orders of the Director-General, or the Inspector-General or
Deputy Inspector-General or District Superintendent and for such time as they
shall think fit provided always that it shall be lawful for the person on
whose application such appointment shall have been made, on giving one month’s
notice in writing to the Director-General, or the Inspector-General or Deputy
Inspector-General or District Superintendent, to require that the officers so
appointed shall be discontinued; such person shall be relieved from the charge
of such additional force from the expiration of such notice.

### 14. Additional force in neighbourhood of railway and other works.—

Whenever any railway, canal or other public work shall be carried on, or be in
operation, in any part of the country, and it shall appear to the Director-
General that the appointment of an additional Police Force in such
neighbourhood is rendered necessary by the behaviour or reasonable
apprehension of the behaviour of the persons employed upon such work, it shall
be lawful of the Director-General, with the consent of the State Government to
direct the employment of such additional force, and to maintain the same so
long as such necessity shall continue, and to make orders from time to time
upon the treasurer or other officer having the control or custody of the funds
of any Company carrying on such works, for the payment of the extra force so
rendered necessary as aforesaid.

### 15. Recovery of sums payable for support of additional Police force.—

All sums of money payable under the two last preceding sections shall be
recoverable by suit in any competent Court or by distress and sale of the
goods of the defaulter under the warrant of a Magistrate.

### 16. Special Police Officers.—

When it shall appear that any unlawful assembly or riot or disturbance of the
peace has taken place or may be reasonably apprehended in any place and that
the ordinary officers appointed for preserving the peace are not sufficient
for its preservation, and for the protection of the inhabitants, and the
security of property in such place, it shall be lawful for any Police Officer
not below the rank of Inspector to apply to the nearest Magistrate to appoint
so many of the public or village servants, or residents of the neighbourhood,
as such Police Officer may require to act as Special Police Officers for such
time and in such manner as he shall deem necessary; and it shall be the duty
of such Magistrate at once to comply with such applications.

### 17. Powers of Special Police Officers.—

Every Special Police Officer so appointed shall have the same powers,
privileges and protection, and be liable to all such duties and penalties, and
be subordinate to the same authorities, as the ordinary officers of Police. He
shall receive a certificate in such form as the State Government may
determine, under the signature of the Magistrate who appointed him.

### 18. Punishment for refusal to serve.—

If any person, being appointed a Special Police Officer as aforesaid, shall
without sufficient excuse neglect or refuse to serve as such, or to obey such
lawful order, or direction as may be given to him for the performance of his
duties, he shall be liable upon conviction before a Magistrate to a fine not
exceeding fifty rupees for such neglect, refusal or disobedience.

### 19. Police Officers not to resign without leave or notice; not to take
other employment.—

No Police Officer shall be at liberty to resign his office, or withdraw
himself from the duties thereof, unless expressly allowed to do so in writing
by the District Superintendent; or unless he shall have given to his superior
officer two months notice in writing of his intention to do so. Nor shall any
such Police Officer engaged in any employment or office whatever, other than
his duties under this Act , unless expressly permitted to do so in writing
under the seal of the Director-General of Police.

### 20. Unlawful assumption of Police functions, personation of Police, etc.—

From and after the passing of this Act , every person not being or having
ceased to be, a duly enrolled Police Officer, who shall unlawfully assume any
function or power belonging to the Police, and who shall not forthwith deliver
up his certificate, and all the clothing, accoutrements and appointments, and
other necessaries which may have been supplied to him for the execution of his
duty, or who shall have in his possession any distinctive article of the dress
or accoutrement directed to be worn exclusively by the Police force, without
being able to account satisfactorily for his possession thereof, or who shall
put on the dress of any Police Officer, or and dress designed to represent it,
or to be taken for it, or who shall otherwise personate the character or act
the part of any Police Officer for any purpose whatever, shall, in addition to
any other punishment to which he may be liable for an offence committed under
the assumed character, be liable on conviction before a Magistrate to a
penalty not exceeding two hundred rupees, or to imprisonment, with or without
hard labour, for a period not exceeding six months or both.

### 21. Duties of Police Officers.—

Every Police Officer shall, for all purposes in this Act contained be
considered to be always on duty and shall have the powers of a Police Officer
in every part of the General Police District. It shall be his duty to use his
best endeavours and ability to prevent all crimes, offences and public
nuisances; to preserve the peace; to apprehend disorderly and suspicious
characters; to detect and bring offenders to justice; to collect and
communicate intelligence affecting the public peace; and promptly to obey and
execute all orders and warrants lawfully issued to him.

### 22. to 41. Repealed.—

Repealed

### 42. Powers of the Police, etc., on the occasion of a fire.—

On the occasion of a fire, any Police Officer above the rank of constable, or
any member of the Tamil Nadu Fire Services above the rank of fireman,
may—(a)remove or order the removal of any person who by their presence,
interfere with or impede the operations for extinguishing the fire or for
saving life or property;(b)close any street or passage in or near which any
fire is burning;(c)by himself to those act ing under his orders, break into or
through, or pull down, or use for the passage to hoses or other appliances,
any premises for the purpose of extinguishing the fire, doing as little damage
as possible;(d)cause the mains and pipes of any area to be shut off so as to
give greater pressure of water in the place where the fire has
occurred;(e)call on the persons in-charge of any fire-engine to render such
assistances as may be possible; and(f)generally, take such measures as may
appear necessary for the preservation of life and property.Any damage done on
the occasion of fires by members of the Tamil Nadu Fire Services or of any
fire-brigade or by Police Officers or their assistants in the due execution of
their duties shall be deemed to be damage by fire within the meaning of any
policy of insurance against fire. But nothing in this section shall exempt any
Police Officer or any member of the Tamil Nadu Fire Services or of any fire-
brigade from liability to damages on account of any acts done by without
reasonable cause.

### 42A. Deputation of Police Officers to be present in assembly, meeting or
procession in public places.—

(1)Any Police Officer not below the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police
may, in the interest of public order, depute by order in writing one or more
Police Officers or other persons to be present in any assembly, meeting or
procession, in any public place for the purpose of causing a report to be
taken of the proceedings.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1)shall apply to any
assembly or meeting of a purely religious character held in a recognised place
of worship, any assembly or meeting gathered together purely for the purpose
of taking part in sports, any procession on the occasion of any wedding,
funeral or similar domestic occurrence, or of any religious ceremony,or to any
public meeting held under any statutory or other express legal authority, or
any public meeting or class of public meetings exempted for that purpose by
the State Government by general or special order.Explanation—For the purposes
of this section—(a)the words "assembly", "meeting" and "procession" include
any assembly, meeting or procession which is open to the public or to any
class or portion of the public;(b)a place in which assembly or meeting is held
may be a public place notwithstanding that admission thereto may have been
restricted by ticket or otherwise.

### 43. Penalty for false alarm of fire.—

Whoever gives or causes to be given to any fire-brigade or to any member
thereof or to any member of the Tamil Nadu Fire Services, whether by means of
a street fire-alarm, statement, message or otherwise, any alarm of fire which
he knows to be false, shall be liable on conviction to fine which may extend
to fifty rupees.Whoever is convicted under this section, after having been
previously convicted either under this section or under Section 62-A of the
Madras City Police Act, 1888, shall be liable to simple imprisonment for a
period which may extend to six months and also be liable to fine.

### 44. Penalties for neglect of duty, etc.—

Every Police Officer who shall be guilty of any violation of duty or wilful
breach or neglect of any rule or regulation or lawful order may by competent
authority or who shall ceases to perform the duties of his office without
leave, or without having given two months’ notice as provided by this
enactment, or engage without authority in any employment other than his Police
duty, or who shall maliciously and without probable cause prefer any false,
vexatious or frivolous charge or information against any individual, or who
shall knowingly and willfully and with evil intent exceed his powers, or shall
be guilty of any willful and culpable neglect of duty, in not bringing any
person who shall be in his custody without a warrant before a Magistrate as
provided by law, or who shall offer any unwarrantable personal violence to any
person in his custody, shall be liable on conviction before a Magistrate to a
penalty not exceeding three months’ pay, or to imprisonment with or without
hard labour not exceeding three months, or both.

### 45. Penalty for receiving unauthorized fees, etc.—

Any Police Officer who shall on any pretext, or under any circumstances,
directly or indirectly collect or receive any fee, gratuity, diet-money,
allowance or recompense other than he may be duly authorised by the Director-
General of Police or other officer act ing under this order to collect or
receive shall, on conviction before a Magistrate be liable to a penalty not
exceeding six months’ pay, or to imprisonment, with or without hard labour,
not exceeding six months, or both.

### 46. Penalty for extortion, etc.—

Any Police Officer who shall directly or indirectly extort, extract, seek or
obtain any bribe or unauthorised reward or consideration, by any illegal
threat or pretence, or for doing or omitting or delaying to do any act which
it may be his duty to do or to cause to be done, or for withholding or
delaying any information which he is bound to afford or to communicate, or who
shall attempt to commit any of the offences above said or shall be guilty of
cowardice, shall be liable, upon conviction before a Magistrate, to a fine not
exceeding twelve months’ pay, or to imprisonment with or without hard labour
not exceeding twelve months, or both;Committal by Magistrate of serious cases—
Provided always that nothing in the three last preceding sections shall be
deemed to preclude the Magistrate from committing for trial any cases of this
nature too serious for his cognizance.

### 47. Penalty for offences against Police Officer.—

If any person shall assault or resist any Police Officer in the execution of
his duty, or shall aid or incite any other person so to do, or shall
maliciously and without probable cause prefer any false or frivolous charge
against any Police Officer, such person shall, on conviction of such offence
before any Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty rupees, or to
imprisonment, with or without hard labour, not exceeding three months or both.

### 48. Repealed.—

### 49. Repealed.—

### 50. Enquiry into charges against certain Police Officers.—

Any charge against a Police Officer above the rank of constable under this Act
shall be enquired into and determined only by an officer exercising the powers
of an Executive Magistrate.

### 51. Proviso.—

Liability to prosecution for higher penalties— Nothing contained in this Act
shall be construed to prevent any person from being prosecuted for any offence
made punishable on conviction by this Act, or to prevent any person from being
liable under any other law, Regulation or Act to any other or higher penalty
or punishment than is provided for such offence by this Act:Provided always
that no person shall be punished twice for the same offence.

### 52. Levy of fines.—

All fines and penalties imposed and all sums of money recoverable under the
authority of this Act , may, in case of non-payment thereof, be levied by
distress and sale of the movable property of the offender by warrant of the
Magistrate.

### 53. Limitation of action.—

All act ions and prosecutions against any person which may be lawfully brought
for anything done or intended to be done, under the provisions of this Act, or
under the provisions of any other law for the time being in force conferring
powers on the Police shall be commenced within three months after the act
complained of shall have been committed and not otherwise; and notice in
writing of such action and of the cause thereof shall be given to the
defendant; or to the Superintendent, or other superior officer of the district
in which the act was committed, one month at least before the commencement of
the action; and no plaintiff shall recover in any such act ion, if tender of
sufficient amends shall have been made before such action brought, or if a
sufficient sum of money shall have been paid into Court after such act ion,
brought by or on behalf of the defendant; and though a decree shall be given
for the plaintiff in any such action, such plaintiff shall not have cost
against the defendant unless the Judge, before whom the trial shall be,
certify his approbation of the act ion:Bar to action— Provided always that no
act ion shall in any case lie where such officers shall have been prosecuted
criminally for the same act.

### 54. Plea that act was done under warrant.—

When any act ion, prosecution or proceeding shall be brought against any
Police Officer for any act done by him in such capacity, it shall be lawful
for him to plead that such act was done by him under the authority of a
warrant issued by a Magistrate; and such plea shall be proved by the
production of the warrant directing the act and purporting to be signed by a
Magistrate. And the defendant shall thereupon be entitled to a decree in his
favour, notwithstanding any defect of jurisdiction in such Magistrate. And no
proof of the signature of such official shall be necessary, unless the Court
shall see reason to doubt it being genuine:Saving of remedy against issue of
warrant— Provided always that any remedy which the party may have against the
authority issuing such warrant shall remain entire.

### 54A. Power of State Government to extend certain provisions of Act to any
town.—

(1)The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette extend to
any town all or any of the provisions of the Madras City Police Act, 1888,
mentioned in the Schedule and may declare such extension to be subject to such
modifications as they think fit.(2)The State Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette cancel or modify any such notification as is referred
to in sub-section (1).

### 55. Operation of Act.—

This Act shall take effect in any and every such district as the State
Government shall appoint by notification published in the Official Gazette.

## [See Section 54-A]

Definitions of "imprisonment", "Gaming", "Instruments of gaming", common
gaming house" and "conviction" in Section 3 Sections 23, 24, 26 28 33, 34-A,
41, 41-A, 48, 50, 51-A, 63, 64,, 65 and 66, clauses (iii), (iv), (v), (vi),
(vii), (viii), (x), (xiii), (xiv), (xv), (xvi), (xvii) and (xviii) of Section
71 and Sections 73, 73-A, 74, 77, 78, 79 and 80.FORM A(See Section 11)A. B.
has been appointed a member of the Police force under the Act XXIV of 1859,
and is vested with the powers, functions and privileges of a Police Officer.

