## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tirunelveli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tirunelveli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994

## Act 28 of 1994

  * Published on 18 May 1994 
  * Commenced on 18 May 1994 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 May 1994.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tirunelveli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1994Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tirunelveli City Municipal Corporation
Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1994). - The question of constituting a
municipal corporation for Tirunelveli has been engaging the attention of the
Government for some time past. Apart from the numerous requests made on the
floor of the Legislative Assembly and representations received from the
public, the town has significantly developed industrially and therefore, civic
amenities of a high order are the legitimate expectation of the people of the
town. In all counts it has reached the status of a corporation and is ripe to
be upgraded as such. The Government, therefore, took a decision to upgrade
municipality into a municipal corporations. Accordingly, the limits of
Tirunelveli municipality was extended recently by the inclusion of certain
adjoining areas.2\. The Tirunelveli municipality is not being governed by the
provisions of the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act
V of 1920). For future administration, on and from the date of the
constitution of a municipal corporation for Tirunelveli, a new and separate
enactment has become necessary. Hence, it is proposed to undertake a special
legislation and adopting the provisions of the Coimbatore City Municipal
Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981) with such modifications as
are necessary.3\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects. The Notes on
Clauses appended to this Bill explain in detail the provisions of the
Bill.Published in Part IV-section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated 3rd May 1994[Dated 18.5.1994]An Act to provide for the
establishment of a Municipal Corporation for the City of Tirunelveli.Be it
enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-
fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tirunelveli City Municipal Corporation Act,
1994.(2)It extends to the City of Tirunelveli.(3)It shall come into force on
such date, as the Government may, by notification, appoint.The Tirunelveli
City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1994) came into
force on the 1st June 1994. vide G. O. Ms. No. 153, M.A. & W.S., dated 1st
June 1994. (Notification No. II (2)/ MW/ 2021/ (a-2).

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)[xxx] [Clause (a)
was omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1996.](b)"Corporation" means the Municipal
Corporation of Tirunelveli constituted under section 3;(c)"Council" means the
Municipal Council of Tirunelveli;(d)"date of the commencement of this Act"
means the date appointed under sub-section (3) of section 1;(e)"Government"
means the State Government;(f)"Municipality" means the Tirunelveli
Municipality;(g)"Scheduled Castes" and "Scheduled Tribes" shall have the
meanings, respectively, assigned to them in clauses (24) and (25) of Article
366 of the Constitution;(h)all words and expressions used in this Act, and not
defined but defined in the Coimbatore City' Municipal Corporation Act, 1981
(Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981) (hereinafter referred to as the 1981 Act), shall
have the meanings, respectively, assigned to them in the 1981 Act.

### 3. Establishment of Municipal Corporation for the City of Tirunelveli.

(1)With effect on and from the date of the commencement of this Ad, the local
area included in the Tirunelveli Municipality shall constitute the City of
Tirunelveli for purposes of this Act; and from such date of the commencement,
a municipal corporation shall be deemed to have been established for the said
City by the name of Tirunelveli Municipal Corporation:Provided that the
Government may, from time to time, after consultation with the corporation, by
notification, alter the limits of the City constituted under this sub-section
so as to include therein or to exclude therefrom the areas specified in the
notification:Provided further that the power to issue a notification under
this sub-section shall be subject to previous publication.(2)The corporation
shall, by the said name, be a body corporate, having perpetual succession and
a common seal with power to acquire, hold and dispose of property and to enter
into contracts and may by its corporate name, sue and be sued.(3)The
Tirunelveli Municipality, functioning immediately before the date of the
commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to have been abolished from such
commencement.

### 4. Municipal Authorities.

\- The municipal authorities charged with carrying out the provisions of this
Act shall be,-(1)[ a Mayor; [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Municipal Laws (6th
Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 38 of 2008).](1-a) a council;](2)a
standing committee;(3)a Commissioner; and(4)a wards committee.

### 5. Constitution of Council.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (2), the council shall consist of
such number of councillors elected in the manner laid down in this Act as may
be fixed by the Government by notification from time to time, so, however,
that the total number of councillors of the council shall not exceed seventy-
two at any time.(2)The following persons shall also be represented in the
council, namely: -(a)[xxx] [Clause (a) of sub-section (2) was omitted by Tamil
Nadu Act 3 of 1997.][x x x] [Proviso to clause (a) of sub-section (2) was
omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1996.](b)the members of the House of the
People representing constituencies which comprise wholly or partly the area of
the corporation and the members of the Council of States registered as
electors within the area of the corporation:(c)[ all the members of the Tamil
Nadu Legislative Assembly representing constituencies which comprise wholly or
partly the area of the corporation.] [Clause (c) of sub-section (2) was
substituted by Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1996.](d)[xxx] [Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act
17 of 1996.][(2-A) The persons referred to in sub-section (2) shall be
entitled to take part in the proceedings but shall not have the right to vote
in the meetings of the council.] [Sub-section (2-A) was inserted by Tamil Nadu
Act 17 of 1996.](3)Seats shall be reserved for the persons belonging to the
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in the council and the number of
seats so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the
total number of seats to be filled by direct election in the council as the
population of the Scheduled Castes in the City or of the Scheduled Tribes in
the City bears to the total population of the City:Provided that for the first
election to be held immediately after the date of the commencement of this
Act, the provisional population figures of the City as published in relation
to 1991 census shall be deemed to be the population of the City as ascertained
in that census.(4)Seats shall be reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, from among the seats reserved for the persons
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, which shall not be
less than one-third of the total number of seats reserved for the persons
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.(4-A) [x x x] [Sub-
sections (4-A) and (4-B) were inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 1995 and
omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1996.](4-B) [x x x] [Sub-sections (4-A) and
(4-B) were inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 1995 and omitted by Tamil Nadu Act
17 of 1996.](5)Seats shall be reserved for women in the council and the number
of seats reserved for women shall not be less than one-third (including the
number of seats reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the
Schedule Tribes) of the total number of seats in the council.(6)The
reservation of seats under sub-sections (3) and (4) shall cease to have effect
on the expiry of the period specified in Article 334 of the Constitution.

### 6. Duration of corporation.

(1)The corporation, unless sooner dissolved, shall continue for five years
from the date appointed for its first meeting and no longer and the said
period of five years shall operate as a dissolution of the corporation.(2)An
election to constitute the corporation shall be completed,-(a)before the
expiry of its duration specified in sub-section (1); or(b)before the
expiration of a period of six months from the date of its dissolution:Provided
that where the remainder of the period for which the dissolved corporation
would have continued, is less than six months, it shall not be necessary to
hold any election, under this sub-section for constituting the corporation for
such period.

### 7. Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 not to apply.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) and (3), the Tamil Nadu
District Municipalities Act, (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920) 1920 (hereafter in
this section referred to as the "District Municipalities Act") shall, with
effect on and from the date of the commencement of this Act, cease to apply to
the local area comprised within the City of Tirunelveli.(2)Such cesser shall
not affect,-(a)the previous operation of the District Municipalities Act, in
respect of the local area comprised within the City of Tirunelveli;(b)any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed
against the District Municipalities Act; or(c)any investigation, legal
proceedings or remedy in respect of such penalty, forfeiture or punishment,
and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if this Act
had not been passed.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1),
all appointments, notifications, notices, rules, bye-laws, regulations,
orders, directions, licences, permissions, schemes, forms and powers made or
issued or conferred under the District Municipalities Act, and in force on the
date of the commencement of this Act, shall, so far as they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continue to be in force in the
local area comprised within the City of Tirunelveli until they are replaced by
the appointments, notifications, notices, rules, bye-laws, regulations,
orders, directions, licences, permissions, schemes, forms and powers to be
made or issued or conferred under this Act.

### 8. Application of the provisions of the 1981 Act to the corporation.

(1)Save as otherwise expressly provided herein, all the provisions of the 1981
Act including the provisions relating to the levy and collection of any tax or
fee, are hereby extended to and shall apply mutatis mutandis to the
corporation and the 1981 Act shall, in relation to the corporation be read and
construed as if the provisions of this Act had formed part of the 1981
Act.(2)For the purpose of facilitating the application of the -provisions of
the 1981 Act to the corporation, the Government may, by notification, make
such adaptations and modifications of the 1981 Act and the rules and bye-laws
made thereunder whether by way of repealing, amending or suspending any
provision thereof, as may be necessary or expedient and thereupon, the 1981
Act and the rules made thereunder, shall apply to the corporation subject to
the adaptations and modifications so made.(3)Notwithstanding that no provision
or insufficient provision has been made under sub-section (2) for the
adaptation of the provisions of the 1981 Act, or the rules and bye-laws made
thereunder, any Court, tribunal or authority required or empowered to enforce
these provisions may, for the purpose of facilitating their application to the
corporation, construe these provisions in such manner, without affecting the
substance, as may be necessary or proper having regard to the matter before
the Court, tribunal or authority.(4)In the 1981 Act as extended and applied to
the City of Tirunelveli,-(a)any reference to the City of Coimbatore and
Coimbatore Municipality, shall by reason of this Act, be construed as a
reference to the City of Tirunelveli and Tirunelveli Municipality,
respectively; and(b)any reference to the Coimbatore Corporation, Corporation
of Coimbatore and Municipal Corporation of Coimbatore, shall by reason of this
Act, be construed as a reference to the Tirunelveli Corporation, Corporation
of Tirunelveli and Municipal Corporation of Tirunelveli, respectively.

### 9. Transitional provisions.

(1)All property, all rights of whatever kind, used, enjoyed or possessed by,
and all interests of whatever kind owned by, or vested in, or held in trust by
or for the council, with all rights of whatever kind used, enjoyed or
possessed by the said council, as well as all liabilities legally subsisting
against the said council, shall, on and from the date of the commencement of
this Act and subject to such directions as the Government may, by general or
special order, give in this behalf, vest with the corporation.(2)All arrears
of taxes or other payments by way of composition fora tax, or due for expenses
or compensation, or otherwise due to the said council on the date of such
commencement may be recovered as if they had accrued to the corporation and
may be recovered as if the said arrears or payments had become, due under the
provisions of this Act.(3)All taxes, fees and duties, which immediately before
the date of the commencement of this Act, were being levied by the said
council, shall be deemed to have been levied by the corporation under the
provisions of this Act and shall continue to be in force accordingly until
such taxes, fees and duties are revised, cancelled or superseded by anything
done or any action taken under this Act.(4)All proceedings taken by, or
against, the council or authority or any person under the District
Municipalities Act, may be continued by, or against, the corporation,
authority or person as if the said proceedings had be6n commenced under the
provisions of this Act.(5)Any action taken under the District Municipalities
Act, by any authority before the date of-such commencement shall be deemed to
have been taken by the authority' competent to take such action under this
Adas if this Act had then been in force.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained
in this Act, every officer or employee who, immediately before the date of
such commencement was in the service of the municipality shall, on and from
the date of the commencement of this Act, be deemed to be an officer or
employee of the corporation:Provided that,-(a)the terms and conditions
applicable to such officers and employees consequent on their absorption in
the service of the corporation shall not be less favourable than those
applicable to such employees immediately before the date of such commencement,
as regards pay and allowances, leave, pension, gratuity, provident fund and
age of superannuation; and(b)the service rendered by any such officer or other
employee under the municipality upto the date of such commencement shall be
deemed to be service under the corporation and he shall be entitled to count
that service for the purpose of increments, leave, pension, provident fund and
gratuity:Provided further that any officer or other employee serving in the
municipality shall be given an option to be exercised within such time and in
such manner as may be prescribed either to be absorbed in the service of the
corporation or to be retained in the service constituted under section 73-A of
the District Municipalities Act, or to be retrenched from the service of the
municipality on such retrenchment benefits as may be prescribed.(7)Any
division of the Tirunelveli Municipality into wards made under the District
Municipalities Act, and in force on the date of the commencement of this Act
shall be deemed to be a division of the corporation until altered.(8)The
electoral roll prepared for the Tirunelveli Municipality under the District
Municipalities Act, and in force on the date of the commencement of this Act,
shall be deemed to be the electoral roll for the corporation until a new
electoral roll is prepared and published and the part of the said electoral
roll relating to each ward of the municipality shall be deemed to be the list
of the electoral roll for the corresponding division of the corporation.

### 10. Appointment of Special Officer.

(1)There shall be appointed by the Government, by notification, a Special
Officer to exercise the powers, perform the duties and discharge the functions
of-(1)the council;(2)the standing committee;(3)the Commissioner; and(4)the
wards committee.(2)The Government shall cause elections to be held to the
corporation so that the newly elected councillors and the Mayor may come into
office on or before the 31st day of December 1996.(3)The Special Officer shall
exercise the powers, perform the duties and discharge the functions,-(a)of the
corporation, until the elected councillors come into office;(b)of the standing
committee, until a standing committee is appointed by the corporation;
and(c)of the Commissioner, until a Commissioner is appointed by the Government
and such officer may, if the Government so direct, receive remuneration for
his services from the municipal fund.(4)Until a new Special Officer is
appointed by the Government under subsection (1), the Special Officer of the
municipality functioning immediately before the date of the commencement of
this Act shall be deemed to be the Special Officer of the corporation and he
shall exercise the powers and perform the duties and discharge the functions
as those exercised, performed and discharged by the Special Officer appointed
under sub-section (1).(5)The Special Officer referred to in sub-section (1) or
in sub-section (4) shall hold office [upto the 31st day of December 1996 or
for shorter period as the Government may, by notification, specify in this
behalf.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1996.]

### 11. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.(3)Every rule made or notification or order issued
under this Act shall as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be
placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of
the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes
any modification in any such rule or notification or order, or the Assembly
decides that the rule or notification or order should not be made or issued,
the rule or notification or order shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or notification or order.

### 12. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by an order published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
as appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty
:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of two years from
the date of the commencement of this Act.

