## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites
and Remains Act, 1966

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and
Remains Act, 1966

## Act 25 of 1966

  * Published on 31 January 1967 
  * Commenced on 31 January 1967 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 January 1967.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and
Remains Act, 1966Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1966Statement of Objects and Reasons. -
Under the Constitution, the subject "Ancient and historical monuments,
archaeological sites and remains" falls under three different heads,
namely:-"Entry 67 - Union List. - Ancient and historical monuments and
records, and archaeological sites and remains, declared by or under law made
by Parliament to be of national importance;Entry 12 - State List. -
..........; ancient and historical monuments and records other than those
declared by or under law made by Parliament to be of national importance; and
Entry 40-Concurrent List. - Archaeological sites and remains other than those
declared by or under law made by Parliament to be of national importance."2\.
There are at present two enactments in force relating to ancient monuments,
the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 (Central Act VII of 1904), and
the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 (Central
Act 24 of 1958). After the passing of the Act of 1958, the provisions of the
Act of 1904 apply only to ancient and historical monuments and archaeological
sites and remains other than those declared by or under the former Act to be
of national importance. The position is that while the ancient and historical
monuments and archaeological sites and remains which have been declared to be
of national importance are preserved under the 1958 Act, ancient and
historical monuments and archaeological sites and remains other than those
which have been declared to be of national importance are preserved under the
1904 Act. It is more than sixty years since the 1904 Act was enacted and the
existing law relating to ancient monuments is far from satisfactory. It is,
therefore, proposed to enact a new law applicable to ancient and historical
monuments and archaeological sites and remains other than those declared to be
of national importance.3\. The Bill is broadly modelled on the Act of 1904.
It, however, contains a few new provisions which are intended to overcome
certain difficulties which have been experienced in the working of the Act of
1904. Some of the important new provisions are as follows:-(a) The Act of 1904
confers wide powers upon Collectors. In the interests of uniformity and
integrated policy, it is proposed to transfer some of these functions to the
Director of Archeology.(b) One of the main difficulties experienced in regard
to protected monuments, etc., owned by private persons is the refusal of such
owners to enter into an agreement with the Government for the maintenance of
the monuments. The Bill provides that where an owner of a protected monument
refuses to enter into an agreement with the Government for the maintenance of
the monument, the Government may make an order for the maintenance of the
monument which shall be binding on the owner (clause 8).(c) Power is being
taken to regulate excavation for archaeological purposes in any area which is
not a protected area. Previous approval of the State Government should be
obtained for undertaking such excavations (clause 23).(d) Provision is being
made for the compulsory purchase of antiquities and other objects of
historical or archaeological importance on payment of compensation [clauses 22
(3), 25 and 27].Received the assent of the President on the 31st January 1967,
and published in the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated 11th
February 1967.An Act to provide for the preservation of ancient and historical
monuments and archaeological sites and remains other than those of national
importance, for the regulation of archaeological excavations and for the
protection of sculptures, carvings and other like objects.Be it enacted by the
Legislature of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression
'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] in the
Seventeenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (2nd Amendment) Order, 1969.] Ancient and Historical
Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1966.(2)It extends to the
whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression 'State of
Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].(3)It shall
come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"ancient monument"
means any structure, erection or monument or any tumulus or place of interment
or any cave, rock-sculpture, inscription or monolith, which is of historical,
archaeological or artistic interest and which has been in existence for not
less than one hundred years and includes-(i)the remains of an ancient
monument,(ii)the site of an ancient monument,(iii)such portion of land
adjoining the site of an ancient monument as may be required for fencing or
covering in or otherwise preserving such monument,(iv)the gardens, if any,
appurtenant to an ancient monument, and(v)the means of access to, and
convenient inspection of, an ancient monument, but does not include any
ancient or historical monument declared by or under law made by Parliament to
be of national importance;(b)"antiquity" includes-(i)any coin, sculpture,
manuscript, epigraph, or other work of art or craftsmanship,(ii)any article,
object or thing detached from a building or cave,(iii)any article, object or
thing illustrative of science, art, crafts, literature, religion, customs,
morals or politics in bygone ages,(iv)any article, object or thing of
historical interest, and(v)any article, object or thing declared by the
Government, by notification, to be an antiquity for the purposes of this Act,
which has been in existence for not less than one hundred
years;(c)"archaeological officer" means any officer appointed by the
Government, by notification, to be an archaeological officer for the purposes
of this Act for such area as may be specified in the
notification;(d)"archaeological site and remains" means any area which
contains or is reasonably believed to contain ruins or relics of historical or
archaeological importance which have been in existence for not less than one
hundred years, and includes-(i)such portion of land adjoining the area as may
be required for fencing or covering in or otherwise preserving it, and(ii)the
means of access to, and convenient inspection of, the area, but does not
include any archaeological site or remains declared by or under law made by
Parliament to be of national importance;(e)"Director" means the Director of
Archeology and includes any officer authorised by the Government, by
notification, to exercise the powers conferred on, and discharge the duties
imposed upon, the Director under this Act;(f)"Government" means the State
Government;(g)"maintain" with its grammatical variations and cognate
expressions, includes the fencing, covering in, repairing, restoring and
cleaning of a protected monument, and the doing of any act which may be
necessary for the purpose of preserving a protected monument or of securing
convenient access thereto;(h)"owner" includes-(i)a joint owner invested with
powers of management on behalf of himself and other joint owners and the
successor-in-title of any such owner, and.(ii)any manager or trustee
exercising powers of management, and the successor-in-office of any such
manager or trustee;(i)"protected area" means any archaeological site and
remains which is declared to be a protected area under this Act;(j)"protected
monument" means any ancient monument which is declared to be a protected
monument under this Act.Protection of Ancient Monuments and Archaeological
Sites and Remains

### 3. Powers of Government to declare ancient monuments, etc. to be protected
monuments and areas.

(1)Where the Government are of opinion that any ancient monument or
archaeological site and remains requires protection under this Act they may,
by notification, give two months' notice of their intention to declare such
ancient monument or archaeological site and remains to be a protected monument
or a protected area, as the case may be, and a copy of every such notification
shall be affixed in a conspicuous place near the monument or the site and
remains, as the case may be.(2)Any person interested in any such ancient
monument or archaeological site, and remains may, within two months after the
issue of the notification, object to the declaration of the monument, or the
archaeological site and remains, as the case may be, to be a protected
monument or a protected area.(3)On the expiry of the said period of two
months, the Government may, after considering the objections, if any, received
by them, declare by notification, the ancient monument or the archaeological
site and remains, as the case may be, to be a protected monument or a
protected area.(4)A notification issued under sub-section (3) shall, unless
and until it is withdrawn, be conclusive evidence of the fact that the ancient
monument or the archaeological site and remains to which it relates, is a
protected monument or a protected area for the purposes of this Act.Protected
Monuments

### 4. Requisition of rights in a protected monument.

(1)The Director may, with the sanction of the Government, purchase, or take a
lease of, or accept a gift or bequest of, any protected monument.(2)Where a
protected monument is without an owner, the director may, by notification,
assume the guardianship of the monument.(3)The owner of any protected monument
may, by written instrument, constitute the Director, the guardian of the
monument, and the Director may, with the sanction of the Government, accept
such guardianship.(4)When the Director has accepted the guardianship of a
monument under sub-section (3), the owner shall, except as expressly provided
in this Act have the same estate, right, title and interest in and to the
monument, as if the Director had not been constituted a guardian thereof; and
the provisions of this Act relating to agreements executed under section 5
shall apply to the written instrument executed under sub-section
(3).(5)Nothing in this section shall affect the use of any protected monument
for customary religious observances.

### 5. Preservation of protected monument by agreement.

(1)The Director, when so directed by the Government, shall propose to the
owner of a protected monument to enter into an agreement with the Government
within a specified period, for the maintenance of the monument.(2)An agreement
under this section may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the maintenance of the monument;(b)the custody of the monument and
the duties of any person who may be employed to watch it;(c)the restriction of
the owner's right-(i)to use the monument for any purposes,(ii)to charge any
fee for entry into, or inspection, of the monument,(iii)to destroy, remove,
alter or deface the monument, or(iv)to build on or near the site of the
monument;(d)the facilities of access to be permitted to the public or any
section thereof or to archaeological officers or to persons deputed by the
owner or any archaeological officer or other officer or authority authorised
by the Government to inspect or maintain the monument;(e)the notice to be
given to the Government in case the land on which the monument is situated or
any adjoining land is offered for sale by the owner, and the right to be
reserved to the Government to purchase such land, or any specified portion of
such land, at its market value;(f)the payment of any expenses incurred by the
owner or by the Government in connection with the maintenance of the
monument;(g)the proprietary or other rights which are to vest in the
Government in respect of the monument when any expenses are incurred by the
Government in connection with the maintenance of the monument;(h)the
appointment of an authority to decide any dispute arising out of the
agreement; and(i)any matter connected with the maintenance of the monument
which is a proper subject of agreement between the owner and the
Government.(3)The Government or the owner may, at any time, after the
expiration of three years from the date of execution of an agreement under
this section, terminate it on giving six months' notice in writing to the
other party:Provided that where the agreement is terminated by the owner, he
shall pay to the Government the expenses, if any, incurred by them on the
maintenance of the monument during the five years immediately preceding the
termination of the agreement or, if the agreement has been in force for a
shorter period, during the period the agreement was in force.(4)An agreement
under this section shall be binding on any person claiming to be the owner of
the monument to which it relates, from, through or under a party by whom or on
whose behalf the agreement was executed.

### 6. Persons competent to exercise powers of owner under section 5, in
respect of a protected monument, when owner is under disability or when it is
a village property.

(1)If the owner of a protected monument is unable, by reason of minority or
other disability, to act for himself, the person legally competent to act on
his behalf may exercise the powers conferred upon an owner by section 5.(2)In
the case of a protected monument which is a village property, the headman or
other village officer, exercising powers of management over such property may
exercise the powers conferred upon an owner by section 5.(3)Nothing in this
section shall be deemed to empower any person not being of the same religion
as the person on whose behalf he is acting to make or execute an agreement
relating to a protected monument which or any part of which is periodically
used for the religious worship or observances of that religion.

### 7. Application of endowment to repair a protected monument.

(1)If any owner or other person competent to enter into an agreement under
section 5 for the maintenance of a protected monument refuses or fails to
enter into such agreement and if any, endowment has been created for the
purpose of keeping such monument in repair or for that purpose among others,
the Government may institute a suit in the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.] City Civil Court if the protected
monument is situated in the Presidency town or in the Court of the district
judge if the protected monument is situated elsewhere, or, if the estimated
cost of repairing the monument does not exceed one thousand rupees, may make
an application to the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City
of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] City
Civil Court, or the Court of the district judge, as the case may be, for the
proper application of such endowment or part thereof.(2)On the hearing of an
application under sub-section (1), the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).] City Civil Court or the Court of the district judge may, summon
and examine the owner and any person whose evidence appears to the Court
necessary and may pass an order for the proper application of the endowment or
any part thereof, and any such order may be executed as if it were a decree of
a Civil Court.

### 8. Failure or refusal to enter into an agreement.

(1)If any owner or other person competent to enter into an agreement under
section 5 for the maintenance of a protected monument refuses or fails to
enter into such an agreement, the Government may make an order providing for
all or any of the matters specified in sub-section (2) of section 5, and such
order shall be binding on the owner or such other person and on every person
claiming title to the monument from, through or under, the owner or such other
person.(2)Where an order made under sub-section (1) provides that the monument
shall be maintained by the owner or other person competent to enter into an
agreement, all reasonable expenses for the maintenance of the monument shall
be payable by the Government.(3)No order under sub-section (1) shall be made
unless the owner or other person has been given an opportunity of making a
representation against the proposed order.

### 9. Power to make order prohibiting contravention of agreement under
section 5.

(1)If the Director apprehends that the owner or occupier of a protected
monument intends to destroy, remove, injure, alter, deface, imperil, or misuse
the monument or to build on or near the site thereof in contravention of the
terms of an agreement executed under section 5, the Director may, after giving
the owner or occupier an opportunity of making a representation, make an order
prohibiting any such contravention of the agreement:Provided that no such
opportunity need be given in any case where the Director, for reasons to be
recorded, is satisfied that it is not expedient or practicable to do so.(2)Any
person aggrieved by an order made under this section may appeal to the
Government within such time and in such manner as may be prescribed, and the
decision of the Government shall be final.

### 10. Enforcement of agreements.

(1)If an owner or other person who is bound to maintain a monument by an
agreement executed under section 5 refuses or fails within such reasonable
time as the Director may fix, to do any act which in the opinion of the
Director is necessary for the maintenance of the monument, the Director may
authorise any person to do any such act, and the owner or other person shall
be liable to pay the expenses of doing any such act or such portion Of the
expenses as the owner may be liable to pay under the agreement.(2)If any
dispute arises regarding the amount of expenses payable by the owner or other
person under sub-section (1), it shall be referred to the Government whose
decision shall be final.

### 11. Purchase at certain sales and persons claiming through owner bound by
instrument executed by owner.

\- Every person who purchases, at a sale for arrears of land revenue or any
other public demand, any land on which is situated a monument in respect of
which any instrument has been executed by the owner for the time being under
section 4 or section 5, and every person claiming any title to a monument
from, through, or under, an owner who executed any such instrument, shall be
bound by such instrument.

### 12. Acquisition of protected monument.

\- If the Government are of opinion that a protected monument is in danger of
being destroyed, injured, misused or allowed to fall into decay, they may
acquire the protected monument under the provisions of the Land Acquisition
Act, 1894 (Central Act I of 1894), as if the maintenance of the protected
monument were a public purpose within the meaning of that Act.

### 13. Maintenance of certain protected monuments.

(1)The Government shall maintain every monument which has been acquired under
section 12 or in respect of which any of the rights mentioned in section 4
have been acquired.(2)When the Director has assumed the guardianship of a
monument under section 4, he shall, for the purpose of maintaining such
monument, have access to the monument at all reasonable times, by himself and
by his agents, subordinates and workmen, for the purpose of inspecting the
monument and for the purpose of bringing such materials and doing such acts as
he may consider necessary or desirable for the maintenance thereof.

### 14. Voluntary contributions.

\- The Director may receive voluntary contributions towards the cost of
maintaining a protected monument and may issue orders for the management and
application of the contributions so received by him:Provided that no
contribution received under this section shall be applied to any purpose other
than the purpose for which it was contributed.

### 15. Protection of place of worship from misuse.

\- A protected monument maintained by the Government under this Act, which is
a place of worship or shrine shall not be used for any purpose inconsistent
with its character.

### 16. Relinquishment of Government rights in a monument.

\- With the sanction of the Government, the Director may-(a)where rights have
been acquired by the Director in respect of any monument under this Act, by
virtue of any sale, lease, gift or will, relinquish, by notification, the
rights so acquired to the person who would for the time being be the owner of
the monument if such rights had not been acquired; or(b)relinquish any
guardianship of a monument which he has assumed under this Act.

### 17. Right of access to protected monuments.

\- Subject to any rules made under this Act, the public shall have a right of
access to any protected monument.Protected Areas

### 18. Restriction of employment of property rights in protected areas.

(1)No person, including the owner or occupier of a protected area, shall
construct any building within the protected area or carry on any mining,
quarrying, excavating, blasting, or any operation of a like nature in such
area or utilise such area or any part thereof in any other manner without the
permission of the Government:Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall
be deemed to prohibit the use of any such area or part thereof for purposes of
cultivation if such cultivation does not involve the digging of not more than
0.5 metre of soil from the surface.(2)The Government may, by order, direct
that any building constructed by any person within a protected area in
contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be removed within a
specified period and, if the person refuses or fails to comply with the order,
the Director may cause the building to be removed and the person shall be
liable to pay the cost of such removal

### 19. Power to acquire a protected area.

\- If the Government are of opinion that any protected area contains an
ancient monument or antiquities of regional interest and value, they may
acquire such area under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894
(Central Act I of 1894), as if the acquisition were for a public purpose
within the meaning of that Act.Archaeological Excavations

### 20. Excavations in protected areas.

\- Subject to the provisions of section 24 of Ancient Monuments and
Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 (Central Act 24 of 1958), an
archaeological officer or an officer authorised by him in this behalf or any
person holding a licence granted in this behalf under this Act (hereafter in
this Act referred to as the licensee) may, after giving notice in writing to
the Director and the owner, enter upon and make excavations in any protected
area.

### 21. Excavations in areas other than protected areas.

\- Subject to the provisions of section 24 of the Ancient Monuments and
Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 (Central Act 24 of 1958), where an
archaeological officer has reason to believe that any area not being a
protected area, contains ruins or relics of historical or archaeological
importance, he or an officer authorised by him in this behalf may, after
giving notice in writing to the Director and the owner, enter upon and make
excavations in the area.

### 22. Compulsory purchase of antiquities, etc., discovered during excavation
operations.

(1)Where, as a result of any excavations made in any area under section 20 or
section 21, any antiquities are discovered, the archaeological officer or the
licensee, as the case may be, shall,-(a)as soon as practicable, examine such
antiquities and submit a report to the Government in such manner and
containing such particulars as may be prescribed;(b)at the conclusion of the
excavation operations, give notice in writing to the owner of the land from
which such antiquities have been discovered, as to the nature of such
antiquities.(2)Until an order for the compulsory purchase of any such
antiquities is made under sub-section (3), the archaeological officer or the
licensee, as the case may be, shall keep them in such safe custody as he may
deem fit.(3)On receipt of a report under sub-section (1), the Government may
make an order for the compulsory purchase of any such antiquities at their
market value.(4)When an order for the compulsory purchase of any antiquities
is made under sub-section (3), such antiquities shall vest in the Government
with effect from the date of the order.

### 23. Excavation, etc. for archaeological purposes.

\- Subject to the provisions of section 20 and save as provided in sections 21
and 22, no archaeological officer or other authority shall undertake, or
authorise any person to undertake, any excavation or other like operation for
archaeological purposes in any area which is not a protected area except with
the previous approval of the Government and in accordance with such rules or
directions, if any, as the Government may make or give in this
behalf.Protection of Antiquities

### 24. Power of Government to control moving of antiquities.

(1)If the Government consider that any antiquities or class of antiquities
ought not to be moved from the place where they are without their sanction,
the Government may, by notification, direct that any such antiquity or any
class of such antiquities shall not be moved except with the written
permission of the Director.(2)Every application for permission under sub-
section (1) shall be in such form and contain such particulars as may be
prescribed.(3)Any person aggrieved by an order refusing permission under sub-
section (1) may appeal to the Government within such time and in such manner
as may be prescribed, and the decision of the Government shall be final.

### 25. Purchase of antiquities by Government.

(1)If the Government are of opinion that any antiquity mentioned in a
notification issued under sub-section (1) of section 24 is in danger of being
destroyed, removed, injured, misused or allowed to fall into decay or that, by
reason of its historical or archaeological importance, it is desirable to
preserve such antiquity in a public place, the Government may make an order
for the compulsory purchase of such antiquity at its market value and the
Director shall, thereupon, give notice to the owner of the antiquity to be
purchased.(2)Where a notice of compulsory purchase is given under sub-section
(1) in respect of any antiquity, such antiquity shall vest in the Government I
with effect from the date of the notice.(3)The power of compulsory purchase
conferred by this section shall not extend to any image or symbol actually
used for bonafide religiousPrinciples of Compensation

### 26. Compensation for loss or damage.

\- Any owner or occupier of land who has sustained any loss or damage or any
diminution of profits from the land by reason of any entry on, or excavations
in, such land or the exercise of any other power conferred by this Act shall
be paid compensation by the Government for such loss, damage or diminution of
profits.

### 27. Assessment of market value of compensation.

(1)The market value of any property which the Government is empowered to
purchase at such value under this Act, or the compensation to be paid by the
Government in respect of anything done under this Act, shall, where any
dispute arises in respect of such market value or compensation, be ascertained
in the manner provided in sections 3, 5, 8 to 34, 45 to 47, 51 and 52 of the
Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act I of 1894), so far as they can be made
applicable.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or in the
Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act I of 1894), in determining the market
value of any antiquity in respect of which an order for compulsory purchase is
made under sub-section (3) of section 22 or under sub-section (1) of section
25, any increase in the value of the antiquity by reason of its being of
historical or archaeological importance shall not be taken into
consideration.Miscellaneous

### 28. Delegation of powers by the Government.

(1)The Government may, by notification, authorise any officer or authority
subordinate to them to exercise any one or more of the powers vested in them
by or under this Act, except the power to make rules under any of the
provisions of this Act, and may in like manner withdraw such authority.(2)The
exercise of any powers delegated under sub-section (1) shall be subject to
such restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed or as may be specified
in the notification, and also to control and revision by the Government or by
such officer or authority subordinate to them as may be empowered by them in
this behalf. The Government shall also have power to control and revise the
acts or proceedings of any officer or authority so empowered.

### 29. Penalties.

(1)Whoever-(i)destroys, removes, injures, alters, defaces, imperils or misuses
a protected monument, or encroaches upon or builds on such monument or site
thereof, or(ii)being the owner or occupier of a protected monument,
contravenes an order made under sub-section (1) of section 8 or under sub-
section (1) of section 9, or(iii)removes from a protected monument any
sculpture, carving, image, bas-relief, inscription or other like object,
or(iv)does any act in contravention of sub-section (1) of section 18,shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or
with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees or with both.(2)Any person
who moves any antiquity in contravention of a notification issued under sub-
section (1) of section 24 shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
five thousand rupees; and the Court convicting a person of any such
contravention may, by order, direct such person, to restore the antiquity to
the place from which it was moved.

### 30. Jurisdiction of Criminal Court.

\- No court inferior to that of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the
First Class shall try any offence under this Act.

### 31. Certain offences to be cognizable.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898
(Central Act V of 1898)] [Now the Code of Criminal. Procedure, 1973 (Central
Act 2 of 1974).], an offence under clause (i) or clause (iii) of sub-section
(1) of section 29, shall be deemed to be a cognizable offence within the
meaning of that Code.

### 32. Special provision regarding fine.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in [Section 32] [See section 29 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974).] of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Central Act V of 1898), it shall be lawful for any
Magistrate of the First Class specially empowered by the Government in this
behalf and for any Presidency Magistrate to pass a sentence of fine exceeding
two thousand rupees on any person convicted of an offence which under this Act
is punishable with fine exceeding two thousand rupees.

### 33. Offences by companies.

(1)If the person committing an offence under this Act is a company, the
company as well as every person in charge of, and responsible to, the company
for the conduct of its business at the time of the commission of the offence
shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing contained in
this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment if he
proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he
exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For the
purposes of this section,-(a)"company" means any body corporate, and includes
a firm or other association of individuals; and(b)"director" in relation to a
firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 34. Recovery of amounts due to the Government.

\- Any amount due to the Government from any person under this Act may, on a
certificate issued by the Director or an archaeological officer authorised by
him in this behalf, be recovered in the same manner as an arrear of land
revenue.

### 35. Ancient monuments, etc., no longer requiring protection.

\- If the Government are of opinion that it is no longer necessary to protect
any ancient monument or archaeological site and remains under the provisions
of this Act, they may, by notification, declare that the ancient monument or
archaeological site and remains, as the case may be, has ceased to be a
protected monument or a protected area for the purposes of this Act.

### 36. Power to correct mistakes, etc.

\- Any clerical mistake patent error or error arising from mistakes accidental
slip or omission in the description of any ancient monument or archaeological
site and remains declared to be a protected monument or a protected area under
this Act may, at any time, be corrected by the Government by notification.

### 37. Protection of action taken under this Act.

\- No suit for compensation and no criminal proceeding shall lie against any
public servant in respect of any act which is in good faith done or intended
to be done in the exercise of any power conferred by this Act.

### 38. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-(a)the
prohibition or regulation by licensing or otherwise of mining, quarrying,
excavating, blasting or any operation of a like nature near a protected
monument or the construction of buildings on land adjoining such monument and
the removal of unauthorised buildings;(b)the grant of licences and permissions
to make excavations for archaeological purposes in protected areas, the
authorities by whom, and the restrictions and conditions subject to which,
such licences and permissions may be granted, the taking of securities from
licensees or holders of such permissions and the fees that may be charged for
such licences and permissions;(c)the right of access of the public to a
protected monument and the fee, if any, to be charged therefor;(d)the form and
contents of the report of an archaeological officer or a licensee under clause
(a) of sub-section (1) of section 22;(e)the form in which an application for
permission under section 18 or section 24 may be made and the particulars
which such application shall contain;(f)the form and manner of preferring
appeals under this Act and the time within which they may be preferred;(g)the
manner of service of any order or notice under this Act;(h)the manner in which
excavations and other like operations for archaeological purposes may be
carried on;(i)any other matter which is to be or may be prescribed.(3)Any rule
made under this section may provide that a breach thereof shall be
punishable,-(i)in the case of a rule made with reference to clause (a) of sub-
section (2), with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or
with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both;(ii)in the
case of a rule made with reference to clause (b) of sub-section (2), with fine
which may extend to five thousand rupees;(iii)in the case of a rule made with
reference to clause (c) of sub-section (2), with fine which may extend to five
hundred rupees.

### 39. Publication of rules, commencement of rules and notifications and
placing of rules and notifications before the Legislature.

(1)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the [Fort St. George
Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.] and, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on the
day on which they are so published.(2)All notifications issued under this Act
shall, unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day, come
into force on the day on which they are published.(3)Every rule made and
notification issued under this Act shall, as soon as possible, after it is
made or issued, be placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly]
[Substituted for the words 'both Houses of the Legislature' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptations of Laws Order, 1987.], and if, before the expiry of the session in
which it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for the words 'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptations
of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any such rule or
notification, or [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the words
'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptations of Laws Order, 1987.] that
the rule or notification should not be made or issued, the rule or
notification shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be
of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or notification.

### 40. Repeal and savings.

(1)Any law corresponding to this Act in force in the added territories
immediately before the commencement of this Act, including the Andhra Pradesh
Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act,
1960 (Andhra Pradesh Act VII of 1960) (hereafter in this section referred to
as the corresponding law), shall stand repealed on such commencement.(2)The
Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 (Central Act VII of 1904), shall
cease to have effect in relation to ancient monuments and archaeological sites
and remains declared under this Act to be protected monuments or protected
areas, except as respects things done or omitted to be done before the
commencement of this Act.(3)The repeal by sub-section (1) of the corresponding
law shall not affect-(i)the previous operation of the corresponding law or
anything duly done or suffered thereunder; or(ii)any right, privilege,
obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the corresponding
law; or(iii)any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any
offence committed against the corresponding law; or(iv)any investigation,
legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege,
obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid;and any
such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or
enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if
this Act had not been passed.(4)Notwithstanding the repeal by sub-section (1)
of the corresponding law, all ancient monuments or archaeological sites and
remains declared lo be protected monuments or protected areas under the
corresponding law shall be deemed to be ancient monuments or archaeological
sites and remains declared to be protected monuments or protected areas under
this Act.(5)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (3) and (4), anything
done or any action taken before the commencement of this Act under the
corresponding law shall be deemed to have been done or taken under this Act
and shall continue to have effect accordingly, unless and until superseded by
anything done or any action taken under this Act.(6)For the purpose of
facilitating the application of this Act in the added territories, any Court
or other authority may construe this Act with such alterations not affecting
the substance as may be necessary or proper to adapt it to the matter before
the Court or other authority.(7)Any reference to the corresponding law in any
law which continues to be in force in the added territories after the
commencement of this Act shall, in relation to those territories, be construed
as a reference to this Act.Explanation. - For the purpose of this section, the
expression "added territories" shall mean the territories specified in the
Second Schedule to the Andhra Pradesh and Madras (Alteration of Boundaries)
Act, 1959 (Central Act 56 of 1959).

