## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Advertisements Tax Act, 1983

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Advertisements Tax Act, 1983

## Act 22 of 1983

  * Published on 12 May 1983 
  * Commenced on 12 May 1983 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 May 1983.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Advertisements Tax Act, 1983Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1983Statement
of Objects and Reasons. - The question of levy of tax on all commercial
advertisement (other than those published in newspapers) in cinema theatres
has been engaging the attention of the Government. While presenting the Budget
for 1983-84 on the 5th March 1983, the Government have announced their
decision to introduce a levy of tax on advertisements by slides or films in
theatres within the limits of Municipal Corporations, Special Grade, Selection
Grade and First Grade Municipalities in the State. Clause 3(1) of the Bill
provides for imposing a tax on advertisements not exceeding 60 paise per slide
per show and not exceeding one rupee and fifty paise per film per show. Clause
3(2) contemplates the levy on different rates for different areas.2\. The Bill
seeks to achieve the above objects.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 30th March 1983.Received the
assent of the Governor on the 12th May 1983 and published in Part IV - Section
2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 16th May
1983.An Act to provide for the levy of a tax on advertisements exhibited by
cinematograph at places of entertainment in the State of Tamil Nadu.Be it
enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Thirty-fourth
Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Advertisements Tax Act, 1983.(2)It
shall come into force in such areas and on such date as the Government may, by
notification, appoint in this behalf; and different dates may be appointed for
different areas in the State.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"advertisement tax"
means the tax payable under section 3 of this Act;(b)"business" in relation to
a proprietor means so much of his business as a proprietor as is concerned
with exhibition of advertisement at his place of
entertainment;(c)"cinematograph" includes any apparatus for the representation
of moving picture or series of pictures;(d)"Entertainments Tax Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939);(e)"film"
means a cinematograph film;(f)"Government" means the State
Government;(g)"place of entertainment" means a place licensed under the Tamil
Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act IX of
1955);(h)"proprietor", in relation to a place of entertainment, means a
licensee of cinematograph exhibition under the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation)
Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act IX of 1955) and includes the Government, any local
authority or any person responsible for the management thereof;(i)words and
expressions used, but not defined in this Act shall have the meanings assigned
to them in the Entertainments Tax Act.

### 3. Tax on advertisement.

(1)On every advertisement exhibited for payment at any place of entertainment
by means of a cinematograph through slides or films, there shall be levied and
collected an advertisement tax at such rate not exceeding sixty paise per
slide per show and not exceeding one rupee and fifty paise per show as the
Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf.(2)The Government may
specify different rates of advertisement tax for different areas while issuing
the notifications under sub-section (1).(3)The advertisement tax shall be
charged on, and paid by, the(4)The tax shall be assessed and collected in such
manner as may be prescribed. For this purpose, the proprietor shall submit to
the assessing authority such returns containing such particulars as may be
prescribed and in such manner and within such period as may be
prescribed.(5)Subject to the other provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder, the authorities for the time being empowered to assess, re-assess,
collect and enforce payment of any tax under the Entertainments Tax Act shall
assess, reassess, collect and enforce the payment of advertisement tax,
including any interest or penalty, payable by a proprietor under this Act as
if the advertisement tax, interest or penalty, payable by such proprietor is a
tax, interest or penalty payable under the Entertainments Tax Act; and for the
purpose, they may exercise all or any of the powers they have under the
Entertainments Tax Act and the rules made thereunder including provisions
relating to returns, imposition of the tax liability of a person carrying on
business on the transferee of, or successor to, such business, transfer of
liability of any firm or Hindu undivided family to pay tax in the event of
dissolution of such firm or partition of such family, recovery of tax from
third parties, appeals, reviews, revisions, refunds, penalties, charging or
payment of interest and compounding of offences shall apply accordingly.(6)All
the provisions relating to offences and penalties (including provisions
relating to penalties in lieu of prosecutions for an offence or in addition to
the penalties or punishment for an offence) of the Entertainments Tax Act and
the rules made thereunder shall, with necessary modification, apply in
relation to the assessment, re-assessment, collection and the enforcement of
payment of advertisement tax required to be collected under this Act or in
relation to any process connected with such assessment, re-assessment,
collection or enforcement of payment as if the advertisement tax under this
Act were a tax under the Entertainments Tax Act.

### 4. Proprietor to keep books of accounts, etc.

\- A proprietor shall keep such books, records and accounts in relation to the
advertisement as may be prescribed.

### 5. Exemption from payment of advertisement tax.

(1)The Government may, by notification, issued whether prospectively or
retrospectively, make an exemption or reduction in rate in respect of any
advertisement tax payable under this Act-(i)on any advertisement or class of
advertisements; or(ii)by a person or class of persons.(2)Any exemption from
advertisement tax or reduction in the rate of advertisement tax, notified
under sub-section (1) may be subject to such terms and conditions as may be
specified in the notification.

### 6. Bar of proceedings.

(1)No suit shall lie in any Civil Court to set aside or modify an assessment
made or order passed under this Act.(2)No suit, prosecution or other legal
proceeding shall lie against the Government for nothing which is in good faith
done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rules made
thereunder.

### 7. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for securing the payment of the advertisement
tax and generally for carrying into effect the provisions of this Act(2)(a)All
rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette and, unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day,
shall come into force on the day on which they are so published.(b)All
notifications issued under this Act shall, unless the) are expressed to come
into force on a particular day, come into force on the day on which they are
published.(3)Every rule made or notification issued under this Act shall, as
soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on the table of [the
Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for 'both House of the Legislature' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.], and if, before the expiry of the
session in which it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative
Assembly agrees] [Substituted for 'both Houses agrees' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any such rule
or notification or [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for 'both
Houses agrees' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] that the
rule or notification should not be made or issued, the rule or notification
shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect,
as the case may be, so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule or notification.

