## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Building and other Construction Workers (Regulation of
Employment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2006

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Building and other Construction Workers (Regulation of
Employment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2006

## Rule THE-TAMIL-NADU-BUILDING-AND-OTHER-CONSTRUCTION-WORKERS-REGULATION-OF-
EMPLOYMENT-AND-CONDITIONS-OF-SERVICE-RULES-2006 of 2006

  * Published on 13 December 2006 
  * Commenced on 13 December 2006 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 December 2006.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Building and other Construction Workers (Regulation of
Employment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2006Published vide Notification
G.O. Ms. No. 124, Labour and Employment, dated 13th December, 2006, No. S.R.O.
A. 40/2006, Tamil Nadu Government Gazette dated 6.12.2006In exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 40 V and 62 of the Building and other
Construction "Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service)
Act, 1996 (Central Act 27 of 1996), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes
the following rules:-

## Part I – Chapter I

Preliminary

### 1. Short title, application and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Building and Other Construction
Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Rules,
2006.(2)They shall apply to the building or other construction work relating
to any establishment in relation to which appropriate Government is the
Government of Tamil Nadu under the Act.(3)They shall come into force on the
date of the publication in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Met" means the
Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and
Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 (Central Act 27 of 1996);(b)"access" or
"egress" means passageways, corridors, stairs, platforms, ladders and any
other means to be used by a building worker for normally entering or leaving
the work place or for escaping in case of danger;(c)"approved" means approved
in writing by the chief inspector of building and other construction works or
the Government, as the case may be;(d)"base plate" means a plate for
distributing the load from a standard in the case of metal scaffolds;(e)"bay"
in relation to scaffolds, means that portion of the scaffold between
horizontal and vertical supports whether standards or supports from which the
portion is suspended, which are adjacent longitudinally;(f)"brace" means a
member incorporated diagonally in a scaffold for stability;(g)"bulkhead" means
an airtight structure separating the working chamber from free air or from
another chamber under a lower pressure than the working pressure;(h)"caisson"
means an air and watertight chamber in which it is possible for men to work
under air pressure greater than atmospheric pressure at sea level to excavate
material below water level;(i)"cofferdam" means a structure constructed
entirely or in part below the level of the water table in the ground and
intended to provide a place for work that is free of water;(j)"competent
person" means a person so approved by the Chief Inspector of Inspector of
Building and Construction, possessing adequate qualification, experience and
skill as specified under rule 2-A of the Tamil Nadu Factories Rules, 1950 for
the purposes of testing, examination or annealing and certification of lifting
appliances, lifting gears, wire ropes or pressure plant or
equipment;(k)"compressed air" means air mechanically raised to a pressure
higher than atmospheric pressure at sea level;(l)"construction site" means any
site at which any of the processes or operations, related to building or other
construction work, are carried on;(m)"conveyor" means a mechanical device used
in building or other construction work for transport of building material,
articles, or packages or solid bulk from one point to another
point;(n)"danger" means danger of accident or of injury or to
health;(o)"decanting" means the rapid decompression of persons in a man-lock
to atmospheric pressure at sea level followed promptly by their re-compression
in a decant lock, where they are then decompressed according to the
appropriate decompression table in accordance with approved decompression
procedures;(p)"demolition work" means the work incidental to, or connected
with, the total or partial dismantling or racing of a building ora structure
other than a building and includes the removing or dismantling of machines or
other equipment;(q)"excavation" means the removal of earth, rock or other
material in connection with construction or demolition work;(r)"false works"
means the structural supports and b racing for form works or forms;(s)"flash
point" means the minimum liquid temperature at which a spark or flame causes
an instantaneous flash in the vapour space above the liquid;(t)"frame or
modular scaffold" means a scaffold manufactured in such a way that the
geometry of the scaffold is predetermined and the relative spacings of the
principal members are fixed;(u)"Government" means the State
Government;(v)"guard rail" means a horizontal rail secured to uprights and
erected along the exposed sides of scaffolds, floor openings, runways and
gangways to prevent persons from falling;(w)"hazard" means danger or potential
danger;(x)"hazardous substance" means any substance which due to its
explosiveness, inflammability, radio-activity, toxic or corrosive properties,
or other similar characteristics, may,-(i)cause injury; or(ii)affect adversely
the human system; or(iii)cause loss of life or damage to property on work-
environment, while handling, transporting or sorting and classified as such
under the national standards or in case such national standards do not exist
to the generally accepted international standards;(y)"high pressure air" means
air used to supply power to pneumatic tools and devices;(z)"independent tied
scaffold" means a scaffold, the working platform of which is supported from
the base by two or more rows of standards and which apart from the necessary
ties stands completely free of the building;(za)"ledger" means a member
spanning horizontally and tying scaffolding longitudinally and which acts as a
support for putlogs or transoms;(i)for the passage of building workers on
materials to or from a tunnel; or(i)relevant standards approved by Bureau of
Indian Standards;(i)split heads;(ii)folding;(iii)step-ladder;(iv)tripods;
or(v)movable contrivances similar to any of the foregoing;(zzq)"tubular
scaffold" means a scaffold constructed from tubes and couplers;(zzr)"tunnel"
means a subterranean passage made by excavating beneath the overburden into
which a building worker enters or is required to enter to
work;(zzs)"underground" means any space within the confines of a shaft,
tunnel, caisson or cofferdam;(zzt)"vehicle" means a vehicle propelled or
driven by mechanical or electrical power and includes a trailer, traction
engine, tractor, road-building machine and transport equipment;(zzu)"working
chamber" means the part of the construction site where work in a compressed
air environment is carried out but does not include a man-lock or medical
lock;(zzv)"working platform" means a platform which is used to support
building workers or materials and includes a working stage;(zzw)"working
pressure" means pressure, in working chamber, to which building worker is
exposed; and(zzx)"work place" means all places where building workers are
required to be present or to go for work and which are under the control of an
employer.(ii)National Building Code;(iii)manufacturer's instructions on safe
use of equipment and machinery; and(iv)code of practice on safety and health
in construction industry published by International Labour Organisation and
amended, from time to time;(zzi)"State" means the State of Tamil
Nadu;(zzj)"steel rib" includes all steel beams and other structural members
shaped to conform to the requirements of a particular tunnel cross section
used for the purpose of supporting and stabilising the excavated
areas;(zzk)"suspended scaffold" means a scaffold suspended by means of ropes
or chains and capable of being raised or lowered but does not include a
boatswain's chair or similar appliance;(zzl)"testing establishment" means an
establishment with testing and examination facilities, as approved by the
Government for carrying out testing, examination, annealing or similar other
test or certification of lifting appliances or lifting gear or wire rope as
required under these Rules;(zzm)"tie" means an assembly used to connect a
scaffold to a rigid anchorage;(zzn)"toe board" means a member fastened above a
working platform, access, landing, access way, wheelbarrow run, ramp or other
platform' to prevent building workers and materials falling
therefrom;(zzo)"transom" means a member placed horizontally and used to tie
transversely one ledger to another, or one standard to another in an
independent tie scaffold;(zzp)"trestle scaffold" includes a scaffold in which
the supports for the platform are any of the following which are self-
supporting, namely:-(ii)leading to an existing tunnel;(zzc)"shield" means a
movable frame which supports the working face of a tunnel and the ground
immediately behind it and includes equipment designed to excavate and support
the excavated areas in a tunnel;(zzd)"sole plate" means a member used to
distribute the load from the base plate or the standard of wooden scaffolds to
the supporting surface;(zze)"sound or good construction" means construction
conforming to the relevant National standards or in case such National
standards do not exist, to other generally accepted international engineering
standards or code of practices;(zzf)"sound or good material" means materials
of a quality confirming to the relevant National standards or in case such
National standards do not exist, to other generally accepted international
engineering standards or code of practices;(zzg)"standard" means a member used
as a vertical support or column in the construction of scaffolds which
transmits a load to the ground or to the solid construction;(zzh)"standard
safe operating practices" means the practice followed in building and other
construction activities for the safety and health of workers and safe
operation of machinery and equipment used in such activities and such
practices conforms to all or any of the following, namely:-(zb)"lifting
appliance" means a crane, hoist, derrick, winch, gin pole, sheer legs, jacks,
pulley block or other equipment used for lifting materials, objects or
building worker;(zc)"lifting gear" means ropes, chains, hooks, slings and
other accessories of a "lifting appliance";(zd)"lock attendant" means the
person in charge of a man-lock or medical lock and who is immediately
responsible for controlling the compression, re-compression or decompression
of persons in such locks;(ze)"low pressure air" means air supplied to
pressurise working chambers and man-locks and medical locks;(zf)"magazine"
means a place in which explosives are stored or kept, whether above or below
ground;(zg)"man-lock" means any lock, other than a medical lock, used for the
compression or decompression or persons entering or leaving a working
chamber;(zh)"material hoist" means a power or manually operated and suspended
platform or bucket operating in guide rails and used for raising or lowering
material exclusively and operated and controlled from a point outside the
conveyance;(zi)"materials lock" means a chamber through which materials and
equipments pass from one air pressure environment into another;(zj)"medical
lock" means a double compartment lock used for the therapeutic re-compression
and decompression of persons suffering from the ill-effects of
decompression;(zk)"national standards" means standards as approved by Bureau
of Indian Standards and in the absence of such standards of Bureau of Indian
Standards, the standards approved by the Government for a specific
purpose;(zl)"outrigger" means a structure projecting beyond the facade of a
building with the inner end being anchored and includes a cantilever or other
support;(zm)"plant or equipment" includes any plant, equipment, gear,
machinery, apparatus or appliance, or any part thereof;(zn)"pressure" means
air pressure in bars above atmospheric pressure;(zo)"pressure plant" means the
pressure vessel along with its piping ana other fittings operated at a
pressure greater than the atmospheric pressure;(zp)"putlog" means a horizontal
member on which the board, plank or decking of a working platform are
laid;(zq)"responsible person" means a person appointed by the employer to be
responsible for the performance of specific duty or duties and who has
sufficient knowledge and experience and the requisite authority for the proper
performance of such duty or duties;(zr)"reveal tie" means the assembly tube
and a fittings tube used for tightening between two opposite
surfaces;(zs)"right angle coupler" means a coupler other than a swivel or
putlog coupler used for connecting tubes at right angles;(zt)"rock bolt" means
a mechanical expansion bolt or a bolt used with cementations or resin
anchoring system which is set in drilled hole in the arch or wall of a tunnel
to improve rock competency;(zu)"roofing bracket" means a bracket used in
sloped, roof construction and having sharp points or other means for fastening
to prevent slipping;(zv)"safety screen" means an air and water tight diaphragm
placed, across the upper part of a compressed air tunnel between the face and
bulkhead, in order to prevent flooding the crown of the tunnel between the
safety screen and the bulkhead provide a safe means of refuge and exit from a
flooding or flooded tunnel;(zw)"safe working load", in relation to an article
of lifting gear or lifting appliance, means the load which is the maximum load
that may be imposed on such article or appliance with safety in the normal
working conditions as assessed and certified by competent
person;(zx)"scaffold" means any temporarily provided structure on or from
which building workers perform work in connection with building or other
construction work to which these Rules apply, and any temporarily provided
structure which enables building workers to obtain access to or which enables
materials to be taken to any place at which such work is performed, and
includes any working platform, gangway, run ladder or step-ladder (other than
a ladder or step-ladder which does not form part of such structure) together
with any guard-rail, toe board or other safeguards and all fixings, but does
not include lifting appliance or a lifting machine or a structure used merely
to support such an appliance or such a-machine or to support other plant or
equipment;(zy)"Schedule" means a Schedule appended to these
rules;(zz)"segment" includes cast iron or pre-cast concrete segmented
structure formed to the curvature of the tunnel cross section and used to
support the ground surrounding the tunnel;(zza)"service shaft" means a shaft
for the passage of building workers or materials to or from a tunnel under
construction;(zzb)"shaft" means an excavation having a longitudinal axis at an
angle greater than forty-five degree from the horizontal,-

### 3. Interpretation of words not defined.

\- Words and expressions not defined in these rules, but defined or used in
the Act shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the Act.

### 4. Savings.

\- The provisions of these rules shall be in addition to, and not in
substitution for, or in diminution of, the requirements imposed by the Act.

## Chapter II  
Responsibilities and Duties of Employers, Architects, Project Engineers and
Designers, Building Workers, Etc.

### 5. Duties and responsibilities of employers, employees and others.

(1)It shall be the duty of every employer who is undertaking any of the
operations or works related to or incidental to building or other construction
work to which these rules apply:-(a)to comply with such of the requirements of
these rules, as are related to him:Provided that the requirements of this
clause shall not affect any building worker if and so long as his presence in
any place of work is not in the course or performing any work on behalf of his
employer and he is not expressly or impliedly authorised 01 permitted by his
employer to do the work; and(b)to comply with such of the requirements of
these rules as are related to him in relation to any work, act or operation
performed or about to be performed by him.(2)It shall be the duty of every
employer who erects or alters any scaffold to comply with such of the
requirements of the provisions of these rules as relate to the erection or
alteration of scaffolds having regard to the purpose or purposes for which the
scaffold is designed at the time of erection or alteration and such employer
who erects, installs, works or uses any plant or equipment to which any of the
provisions of these rules apply, shall erect, install, work or use such plant
or equipment in a manner which complies with those provisions.(3)Where a
contractor who is undertaking any of the operations or works to which these
rules apply, appoints any artisan, tradesman or other person to perform any
work or services under a contract for services, it shall be the duty of the
contractor to comply with such of the requirements of these rules as affect
that artisan, tradesman or other person and for this purpose any reference in
these rules to an employee shall include a reference. to such artisan,
tradesman or other person and the contractor shall be deemed to be his
employer.(4)It shall be the duty of every employee to comply with the
requirements of such of these rules are related to the performance of or the
refraining from an act by him and to co-operate in carrying out these
rules,(5)It shall be the duty of every employer not to permit an employee to
do anything not in accordance with the generally accepted principles of
standard safe operating practices connected with building and other
construction work as specified by the Government.(6)No employee shall do
anything which is not in accordance with the generally accepted principles of
standard safe operating practices connected with building and other
construction work as specified by the Government.;(7)No person related with
any building and other construction work shall willfully do any act which may
cause injury to himself or to others.(8)It shall be the duty of even-employer
not to allow lifting appliance, lifting gear, lifting device, transport
equipment, vehicles or any other device or equipment to be used by the
building workers which does not comply with the provisions given in these
rules.(9)It shall be the duty of every employer to maintain the latrines,
urinals, washing facilities and canteen in a clean and hygienic condition. The
canteen shall be located in a place away from the latrines and urinals and
polluted atmosphere and at the same time be easily accessible to the building
workers.(10)It shall be the duty of every employer to abide by the dates fixed
and notified by him for payment of wages for a period in accordance with these
rules and no change in such dates and such period shall be effected without
notice to the building workers and the inspector. The employer shall ensure
timely payment of wages as specified under these rules and at the place and
time notified by him. Where the employer is a contractor, he shall ensure that
the wages of building workers are paid in the presence of a representative of
the employer of establishment or owner of premises from whom he has taken the
work on contract and obtain signatures of such representative in token of
having witnessed the payment of wages.(11)It shall be the duty of every
employer to ensure that the lifting appliance, lifting gear, earth moving
equipment, transport equipment or vehicles used in the building or other
construction work undertaken by him conforms to the requirements relating to
testing examination and inspection of such equipment as provided under these
rules. It shall be the duty of every person in the service of the government
or any local or other public authority to comply with the requirements
relating to him as given in these rules.(12)It shall be the duty of every
employer to insure all the building workers employed directly or through a
contractor in his establishment, against any accident or occupational disease
which may occur to any building worker during the course of work.

### 6. Responsibilities of architects, project engineers and designers.

(1)It shall be the duty of the architect, project engineer or designer
responsible for the design of any project or part thereof for any building or
other construction work, to ensure that, at the planning stage, due
consideration is given to the safety and health aspects of the building
workers who are employed in the erection, operation and execution of such
projects and structures, as the case may be.(2)Adequate care shall be taken by
the architect, project engineer and other professionals involved in the
project, not to include anything in the design which would involve the use of
dangerous structures or other processes or materials, hazardous to health or
safety of building workers during the course of erection, operation and
execution, as the case may be.(3)It shall also be the duty of the
professionals involved in designing the buildings, structures or other
construction projects, to take into account the safety aspects associated with
the maintenance and upkeep of the structures and buildings where maintenance
and upkeep may involve special hazards.

### 7. Responsibilities of the persons in the service of the Government and
the Board.

\- It shall be the duty of every person in the service of the Government or a
Board to comply with the directions given by the Government, from time to
time, to carrying into execution of the provisions of the Act and these rules.

### 8. Duties and responsibilities of workers.

(1)It shall be the duty of every building worker to comply with the
requirements of such of these rules as relate to him and act and co-operate in
carrying out the requirements of these rules and if he discovers any defects
in the lifting appliance, lifting gear, lifting device, concerning any
transport equipment or other equipment, to report such defects without
unreasonable delay to his employer or foreman or other person in
authority.(2)No building worker shall, unless duly authorised or except in
case of necessity remove or interfere with any fencing, gangway, gear, ladder,
hatch covering, life saving appliance, lighting or other things whatsoever
required by the Act and these rules to be provided. If any of aforesaid things
is removed, such thing shall be restored at the end of the period during which
its removal was necessary, by the persons engaged in that work.(3)Every
building worker shall use only means of access provided in accordance with
these rules and no person shall authorise or order another to use means of
access other than such means of access.(4)It shall be the duty of a building
worker to keep the latrines, urinals, washing points, canteen and other
facilities provided by the employer for securing his welfare in a clean and
hygienic condition.

### 9. Exemption.

\- The Government may by order in writing and subject to such conditions and
for such period, as may be specified therein, exempt from all or any of the
requirements of these rules to,-(a)any building or other construction work, if
the Government are satisfied that such building work is confined to such
workers, where it is not convenient to take measures as provided in these
rules;(b)any appliance, gear, equipment, vehicle or other device if the
"Government" are satisfied that the requirement of such appliance, gear
equipment, vehicle or other device is not necessary for use or equally
effective measures are taken in lieu thereof:Provided that the Government
shall not grant exemption under this rule unless it is satisfied that such
exemption would not adversely affect the safety, health and welfare of
building workers.

## Part II – State Advisory Committee, Registration of Establishments

## Chapter III  
State Advisory Committee

### 10. Constitution of State Advisory Committee.

\- The Tamil Nadu Building and Other Construction Workers Advisory Committee
(hereinafter referred to as the "State Advisory Committee" shall consist
of,-(a)a Chairperson to be appointed by the Government;(b)two members of Tamil
Nadu State Legislative Assembly - Members;(c)Secretary to Government, Labour
and Employment Department - Member;(d)Chief Inspector of Inspection of
Building and Construction-Member Ex-officio;(e)four persons out of whom at
least one shall be women to be nominated by the Government for representing
the building workers-Members;(f)four persons to be nominated by the Government
for representing the employers connected with the building and other
construction work-members;(g)two persons to be nominated by the Government
representing one from the national level association of architects or
engineers and one from an accident insurance institution-Members;(h)one person
to be nominated by the Central Government- Member.

### 11. Terms of office.

(1)The Chairperson of the State Advisory Committee shall ho1 a office as such
for a period of three years from the date on which his appointment is notified
in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.(2)Each member referred to in clause (b)
of rule 10 shall hold the office for three years or till he remains a member
of the Tamil Nadu State Legislative Assembly, as the case may be, whichever is
earlier.(3)The members referred to in clause (c), clause (d) and clause (e) of
rule 10 shall hold office as such during the period as the Government may
specify.(4)Each of the members referred to in clause (f), clause (g) and
clause (h) of rule 10 shall hold office as such for a period of three years
commencing from the date on which his appointment is notified in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette:Provided that where the appointment of the successor
of any such member has not been notified in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
on or before the expiry of the said period of three years, such member shall,
notwithstanding the expiry of the period of his office continue to hold such
office until the appointment of his successor is notified in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.(5)If a member is unable to attend a meeting of the
Committee, the Government may, after notice in writing to such member and the
Chairperson of the State Advisory Committee, nominate a substitute of such
member to attend the meeting and such a substitute member shall have all the
rights and privileges of such member in respect of that meeting.(6)The State
Advisory Committee shall be reconstituted after every three years.

### 12. Resignations.

(1)A member of the State Advisory Committee, not being an ex-officio member,
may resign his office by a letter in writing addressed to Government through
the Secretary to Government, Labour and Employment Department, with prior
information to the Chairperson of such Committee.(2)The seat of such a member
shall fall vacant from the date on which his resignation is accepted by the
Government, or on the expiry of thirty days from the date of receipt of the
letter of resignation by the Government whichever is earlier.

### 13. Cessation of membership.

\- If any member of the State Advisory Committee, not being an ex-officio
member, fails to attend three consecutive meetings of such Committee, without
obtaining the leave of the Chairperson of such Committee for such absence, he
shall cease to be a member of such Committee:Provided that the Government may,
if it is satisfied that such member was prevented by sufficient cause from
attending three consecutive meetings, direct that such cessation shall not
take place and on such direction being made, such member shall continue to be
a member of such , Committee.

### 14. Disqualification for membership.

(1)A person shall be disqualified for being a member of the State Advisory
Committee,-(i)if he is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent
court;(ii)if he is an undischarged insolvent; or(iii)if he has been convicted
of an offence which, in the opinion of the Government, involves moral
turpitude.(2)Where a question arises as to whether a disqualification has been
incurred under sub-rule (1), the Government shall decide such question.

### 15. Removal from membership.

\- The Government may remove from office any member of the State Advisory'
Committee if in its opinion such member has ceased to represent the interest
which he purports to represent on such Committee:Provided that no such member
shall be removed unless a reasonable opportunity is given to him of making a
representation against the proposed action under this rule.

### 16. Manner of filling vacancies.

\- When a vacancy occurs or is likely to occur in the membership of the State
Advisory Committee, the Chairperson of such Committee shall submit a report to
the Government and on receipt of such report, the Government shall take steps
to fill the vacancy by making an appointment from amongst the category of
persons to which the person vacating membership belonged and the person so
appointed shall hold office for the remainder of the term of office of the
member in whose place he is appointed.

### 17. Staff of State Advisory Committee.

(1)(i)The Government may appoint one of its officers not below the rank of
Deputy Secretary to Government as Secretary to the State Advisory Committee
and appoint such other staff being in the service of the Government, as it may
think necessary, to enable such Committee to carry out its functions.(ii)The
remuneration payable to such staff shall be such as may be decided by the
Government, from time to time.(2)The Secretary of the State Advisory
Committee,-(i)shall assist the Chairperson of such Committee in convening
meetings of the Committee;(ii)may attend the meetings of such Committee but
shall not be entitled to vote at such meetings;(iii)shall keep a record of the
minutes of the meetings of such Committee; and(iv)shall take necessary
measures to carry out the decisions taken at the meetings of such Committee.

### 18. Allowances of members.

(1)The travelling allowance of an official member of the State Advisor
Committee shall be governed by the rules applicable to him for journey
performed by him on official duties and shall be paid by the authority paying
his salary.(2)The non-official members of the State Advisory Committee shall
be paid travelling and daily allowance for attending the meeting of such
Committee at such rates as are admissible to a non-official member of first
class Committee as laid down by the Government, from time to time.

### 19. Disposal of business.

(1)Every matter which the State Advisory Committee is required to take into
consideration shall be considered at a meeting of that Committee, or if the
Chairperson of such Committee so directs, by sending tire necessary papers to
every member for opinion and the matter shall be disposed of in accordance
with the decision of the majority:Provided that where is no opinion of
majority on a matter and the members of such Committee are equally divided,
the Chairperson of such Committee shall have a second or a casting
vote.Explanation. - The expression "Chairperson of the State Advisory
Committee" for the purpose of this rule shall include the Chairperson of such
Committee nominated or chosen under sub-rule (2) of rule 20 top reside over a
meeting.(2)No act or proceedings of the State Advisory Committee shall be
invalid merely for reasons of any vacancy in or any defect in the constitution
of the Committee.

### 20. Meetings.

(1)The State Advisory Committee shall meet at such places and at such times as
may be decided by the Chairperson of such Committee and it shall meet at least
once in six months.(2)The Chairperson of such Committee shall preside over
every meeting of the. Committee in which he is present and in his absence he
may nominate a member of the Committee to preside over such a meeting in his
place and in the absence of such nomination by the Chairperson, the members of
such committee present in such meeting may choose from amongst themselves a
member to preside over such a meeting.

### 21. Notice of meetings and list of business.

(1)Ordinarily, two weeks notice shall be given to the members of the State
Advisory Committee of a proposed meeting:Provided that the Chairperson of such
Committee, if he is satisfied that it is expedient to do so, may give notice
of longer period for such meeting which shall not exceed one month.(2)No
business except which is included in the list of business for a meeting of
such Committee shall be considered at such meeting without the permission of
the Chairperson of the Committee.

### 22. Quorum.

\- No business shall be transacted at any meeting of the State Advisory
Committee unless at least six members of such Committee are present in that
meeting which shall include at least one member of the Tamil Nadu State
Legislative Assembly:Provided that if in any meeting of such Committee, less
than six members are present, the Chairperson of such Committee may adjourn
the meeting to another date informing members present and giving notice to the
other members that proposes to dispose of the business at the adjourned
meeting whether there is prescribed quorum or not, and it shall thereupon be
lawful for him to dispose of the business at the adjourned meeting
irrespective of the number of members attending.

## Chapter IV  
Registration of Establishments

### 23. Manner of making application for registration of establishments.

(1)The application referred to in sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Act
shall be made in triplicate in Form-I annexed to these rules to Registering
Officer of the area in which the building or other construction work is to be
carried on by the establishment.(2)Every application referred to in sub-rule
(1) shall be accompanied by a demand draft showing payment of the fees for the
registration of the establishment.(3)Every application referred to in sub-rule
(1) shall be either personally delivered to the registering officer or sent to
him by registered post.(4)On receipt of the application referred to in sub-
rule (1), the Registering Officer shall after noting thereon the date of
receipt by him of the application grant an acknowledgement to the applicant.

### 24. Grant of certificate of registration.

(1)The Registering Officer, after receiving application under sub-rule (1) of
rule 23, shall register the establishment and issue a certificate of
registration to the applicant within fifteen days of receipt of application if
such applicant has complied with all the requirements as laid down in these
rules and has made the application within such period as specified under
clause (a) and clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Act. The
certificate of registration to be granted by the Registering Office shall be
in Form - II under Schedule XIII to these rules.(2)The Registering Officer
shall maintain a register in Form-Ill under Schedule XIII to these rules
showing the particulars of establishments in relation to which certificates of
registration have been issued by him.(3)If, in relation to an establishment,
any change occurs in the ownership or management or other particulars
specified in the certificate of registration, the employer of the
establishment shall intimate the Registering Officer, within thirty days from
the date when such change takes place, the date and particulars of such
change, and the reasons thereof.

### 25. Payment of additional fees and amendment of register, etc.

(1)Where on receipt of the intimation under sub-rule (3) of rule 24, the
Registering Officer is satisfied that an amount higher than the amount, which
has been paid by the employer as fees for the registration of the
establishment is payable, he shall require such employer to pay additional
sums which together with the amount already paid by such employer, would be
equal to such higher amount of fees payable for the registration of the
establishment.(2)Where, on receipt of the intimation referred to in sub-rule
(3) of rule 24, the Registering Officer is satisfied that there has occurred a
change in the particulars of the establishment, as entered in the register in
Form-Ill under Schedule XIII to these rules, he shall amend the said register
and record therein the change which has occurred:Provided that the Registering
Officer shall not carry out any amendment in the register in Form-III under
Schedule XIII to these rules unless the appropriate fees have been deposited
by the employer.

### 26. Conditions of registration.

(1)Every certificate of registration issued under rule 24 shall be subject to
the following conditions, namely:-(a)the certificate of registration shall be
non-transferable;(b)the number of workmen employed as building workers in an
establishment shall not on any day, exceed the maximum number specified in the
certificate of registration; and(c)save as provided in these rules, the fees
paid for the grant of registration certificate shall be non-refundable.(2)The
employer shall intimate the change, if any, in the number of workmen or the
conditions of work to the Registering Officer within fifteen days.(3)The
employer shall, before thirty days of the commencement and completion of any
building or other construction work, submit a written notice to the Inspector,
having jurisdiction in the area where the proposed building or, other
construction work is to be executed, intimating the actual date of the
commencement or, as the case may be, completion of such building or other
construction work in Form-IV under Schedule XIII to these rules.(4)The
certificate of registration of an establishment shall be valid only for such
building and other construction work carried out by such establishment for
which intimation required under sub-rule (3) has been given.(5)A copy of the
certificate of registration shall be displayed at the conspicuous place at the
premises where the building and other construction work is being carried on.

### 27. Fees.

(1)The fees to be paid for the grant of a certificate of registration under
rule 24 shall be specified below, namely:-If the number of workers proposed to
be employed as building workers, for a building or other construction work on
one day-

|  | Rs.  
---|---|---  
(a) | is up to 100 | 500  
(b) | exceeds 100 but does not exceed 500 | 1,500  
(c) | exceed 500 | 3,000  
  
## Chapter V  
Appeals, Copies of Orders, Payment of Fees, etc.

### 28. Filing of appeal before the appellate officer.

(1)Every appeal under subsection (1) of section 9 of the Act shall be
preferred in the form of a memorandum signed by the aggrieved person or his
authorised advocate and presented to the appellate officer in person or sent
to him by registered post.(2)The memorandum shall be accompanied by certified
copy of the order appealed against and a demand draft for rupees one
hundred.(3)The memorandum shall set forth concisely and under distinct heads
the grounds of appeal.(4)Where the memorandum of appeal does not comply with
the provisions of sub-rule (2) and sub-rule (3), it may be returned to
appellant for the purpose of being amended within a time to be fixed by the
appellate officer which shall not exceed thirty days from the date on which
the order appealed against has been communicated to the appellant.(5)Where the
memorandum of appeal is in order, the appellate officer shall admit the
appeal, endorse thereon the date of hearing of such appeal, and shall register
the appeal in a book to be kept for the purpose called the register of
appeals.(6)(i)When the appeal has been admitted under sub-rule (5), the
appellate officer shall send the notice of the appeal to the registering
officer against whose order the appeal has been preferred and the registering
officer shall thereupon send the record of the case of the appellate
officer.(ii)On receipt of the record, the appellate officer shall send a
notice to the appellant to appear before him on such date and time as may be
specified in the notice for the hearing of the appeal.

### 29. Failure to appear on the date of hearing.

\- If on the date fixed for hearing, the appellant does not appear, the
appellate officer may dismiss the appeal for default of appearance of the
appellant.

### 30. Restoration of appeals.

\- Where an appeal has been dismissed under rule 29, the appellant may apply
to the appellate officer for the restoration of the appeal and if the
appellate officer is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient
cause from appearing, the appellate officer shall restore the appeal on its
original number:Provided that an application for restoration under this rule
shall not be entertained by the appellate officer after thirty days from the
date of such dismissal.

### 31. Hearing of appeal.

(1)If the appellant is present when the appeal is called on for the hearing,
the appellate officer shall proceed to hear the appellant or his authorised
advocate and pass an order on the appeal, either confirming, reversing or
varying the order appealed against.(2)The order of the appellate officer shall
state the points for determination, the decisions thereon and reasons for such
decisions.(3)The order shall be communicated to the appellant and copy thereof
shall be sent to the Registering Officer against whose order the appeal has
been preferred.

### 32. Copy of order of registration or of order in appeal.

\- Copy of the order of the Registering Officer or of the appellate officer
may be obtained by the person concerned or a person authorised by him on
payment of fees of rupees fifty for each order on making application to the
registering officer or the appellate officer, as the case may be, specifying
the date and other particulars of the order made by the officer concerned. A
copy of the certificate of registration on loss or mutilation of such
certificate may also be obtained in the like manner and on payment of like
fees.

### 33. Payment of fees.

(1)All amounts of money payable on account of registration, appeal, supply of
copies or duplicate copies of certificate of registration shall be paid
through a crossed demand draft in favour of the Registering Officer and
appellate officer, as the case may be, and made payable at the branch of the
Bank specified by the Government from time to time, at the headquarters of the
concerned Registering Officer or Appellate Officer.(2)The Registering Officer
of the Appellate Officer, as the case may be, on receipt of the demand draft
under sub-rule (1) shall arrange to deposit the amount in the appropriate
account of the Bank under the relevant Head of Account as specified by the
Government.

## Part III – Safety and Health

## Chapter VI  
General Provisions

### 34. Excessive noise, vibration, etc.

\- An employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that adequate measures are taken to protect building workers
against the harmful effects of excessive noise or vibration at such
construction site and the noise level in no case exceeds the limits laid down
in Schedule-VI to these rules.

### 35. Fire protection.

\- An employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)such construction site is provided with,-(i)fire
extinguishing equipment sufficient to extinguish any probable fire at such
construction site;(ii)an adequate water supply at ample pressure as per
national standards;(iii)number of trained persons required to operate the fire
extinguishing equipment provided under sub-clause (i);(b)fire extinguishing
equipment provided under sub-clause (i) of clause (a) is properly maintained
and inspected at regular intervals of not less than once in a year by the
responsible person and a record of such inspections is maintained;(c)in case
of every launch or boat or other craft used for transport of building workers
and the cabin of every lifting appliance including mobile crane adequate
number of portable fire-extinguishing equipment of suitable type shall be
provided at each of such launch or boat or craft or lifting appliance.

### 36. Emergency action plans.

\- An employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that in case more than five hundred building workers are
employed at such construction site, emergency action plan to handle the
emergencies like,-(a)fire and explosion,(b)collapse of lifting appliances and
transport equipment,(c)collapse of building, sheds or structures, etc.,(d)gas
leakage or spillage of dangerous goods or chemicals,(e)drowning of building
workers, sinking of vessels, and(f)land slides getting building workers
buried, floods, storms and other natural calamities, is prepared and submitted
for the approval of the Chief Inspector of Building and other Construction
Works.

### 37. Fencing of motors, etc.

\- An employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)all motors, cogwheels, chains and friction gearing,
flywheels, shafting, dangerous and moving parts of machinery (whether or not
driven by mechanical power) and steam pipes are securely fenced or
lagged;(b)the fencing of dangerous parts of machinery is not removed while
such machinery is in motion or in use;(c)no part of any machinery which is in
motion and which is not securely fenced is examined, lubricated, adjusted or
repaired except by a person skilled for such examination, lubrication,
adjustment or repairs;(d)machine parts are cleaned when such machine is
stopped;(e)when a machine is stopped for servicing or repairs, adequate
measures are taken to ensure that such machine does not restart inadvertently.

### 38. Lifting and carrying of excessive weight.

\- An employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building and other
construction work that,-(a)no building worker lifts by hand or carries
overhead or over his back or shoulders any material, articles, tool or
appliances exceeding in weight the maximum limits set out in the following
table:-

Person | Maximum weight Load  
---|---  
Adult-man | 50 kg.  
Adult-woman | 30 kg.  
Adolescent-male | 30 kg.  
Adolescent-female | 20 kg.  
  
unless aided by any other building worker or a mechanical device.(b)no
building worker aided by other building workers, lift by hand or carry
overhead or over their back or shoulders, any material, article, tool or
appliance exceeding in weight the sum total of maximum limits set out for each
building worker separately under clause (a), unless aided by a mechanical
device.

### 39. Health and safety policy.

(1)(a)Every establishment employing fifty or more building workers shall
prepare a written statement of policy in respect of safety and health of
building workers and submit the same for the approval of the Chief Inspector
of Inspection of Building and Construction.(b)The policy referred to in clause
(a) shall contain the following, namely:-(i)the intentions and commitments of
the establishment regarding health, safety, environmental protection of
building workers;(ii)organisational arrangements made to carry out the policy
referred to in clause (a) specifying the responsibility at different levels of
hierarchy;(iii)responsibilities of the principal employer, contractor, sub-
contractor, transporter or other agencies involved in the building or other
construction work;(iv)techniques and methods for assessment of risk to safety,
health and environmental and remedial measures therefor;(v)arrangements for
training of building workers, trainers, supervisors or other persons engaged
in the construction work;(vi)other arrangements for making the policy referred
to in clause (a) effective;(c)the intention and commitment referred to in sub-
clause (i) of clause (b) shall be taken into account in making decisions
relating to plant, machinery, equipment, materials and placement of building
workers.(2)A copy of the policy referred to in clause (a) of sub-rule (1),
signed by an authorised signatory shall be sent to the Government and the
Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and Construction.(3)The
establishment shall revise the policy referred to in clause (a) of sub-rule
(1) as often as necessary under the following circumstances,
namely:--(i)Whenever any expansion or modification having implication on
safety and health of the building workers is made in such building or other
construction work; or(ii)Whenever any new building or other construction work,
substances, articles or techniques are introduced having implication on health
and safety of building workers.(4)A copy of the policy referred in sub-clause
(a) of sub-rule (1) shall be displayed at the conspicuous places in Tamil at a
construction site.

### 40. Dangerous and harmful environment.

\- An employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)When an internal combustion engine exhaust into a
confined space or excavation or tunnel or any other work place where neither
natural ventilation nor artificial ventilation system is adequate to keep the
carbon monoxide content of the atmosphere below fifty parts per million, or 55
mgm/m3 adequate and suitable measures are taken at such work place in order to
avoid exposure of building workers to health hazards;(b)No building worker is
allowed to enter any confined space or tank or trench or excavation wherein
there is given off any dust, fumes or other impurities of such nature and to
such as extent is likely to be injurious or offensive to the building worker
or in which explosives, poisonous, noxious, gaseous material or other harmful
articles have been carried or stored or in which dry ice has been used as a
refrigerant, or which has been fumigated or in which there is a possibility of
oxygen deficiency, unless all practical steps have been taken to remove such
dust, fumes, or other impurities and dangers which may be present and to
prevent any further ingress thereof, and such work place or tank or trench or
excavation is certified by the responsible person to be safe and fit for the
entry of such building work.

### 41. Overhead protection.

(1)The employer shall ensure at the building or other construction work that
overhead protection is erected along the periphery of every building under
construction which shall be of fifteen metres or more in height when
completed.(2)Overhead protection referred to in sub-rule (1) shall not be less
than two metres wide and shall be erected at a height not more than five
metres above the base of the building and the outer edge of such overhead
protection shall be one hundred fifty millimetres higher than the inner edge
thereof or shall be erected at an angle of not more than twenty degrees to its
horizontal sloping into the building.(3)The employer shall ensure at the
building and other construction work that any area exposed to risk or falling
material articles or objects is roped off or cordoned off or otherwise
suitably guarded from inadvertent entry of persons other than building worker
at work in such area.

### 42. Slipping, tripping, cutting, drowning and falling hazards.

(1)All passage ways, platforms and other places of construction works at the
building or other construction work shall be kept by the employer free from
accumulations of dust, debris or similar materials and from other obstructions
that may cause tripping.(2)Any sharp projections or protruding nails or
similar projections which may cause any cutting hazard to a building worker at
the building or other construction work shall be removed or otherwise made
safe by taking suitable measures by the employer.(3)No employer shall allow
any building worker at building or other construction work to use the
passageway or a scaffold, platform or any other elevated working surface which
is in a slippery and dangerous condition and shall ensure that water, grease
oil or other similar substances which may cause the surface slippery be
removed or sanded, saw dusted or covered with suitable material to make it
safe from slipping hazard at a building or other construction work.(4)Wherever
building workers at a building or other construction work are exposed to the
hazard of falling into water, they shall be provided by the employer with
adequate equipment for saving themselves from drowning and rescuing from such
hazard and if the Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and Construction
considers necessary. Well-equipped boat or launch manned with trained
personnel shall be provided by the employer at the site of such work.(5)Every
open side or opening into or through which a building worker, vehicle or
lifting appliance or other equipment may fall at a building or other
construction work shall be covered or guarded suitably by the employer to
prevent such fall except where free access is necessary by reasons of the
nature of the work.(6)Wherever building workers at a building or other
construction work are exposed to the hazards of falling from height while
employed on such work, they shall be provided by the employer with adequate
equipment or means for saving them from such hazards. Such equipment or means
shall be in accordance with the national standards.(7)Whenever there is a
possibility of falling of any material equipment or building worker at a
construction site relating to a building or other construction work, adequate
and suitable safety net shall be provided by employer in accordance with the
national standards.

### 43. Dust, gases, fumes, etc.

\- An employer shall prevent concentration of dust, gases or fumes by
providing suitable means to control their concentration within the permissible
limit so that they may not cause injury or pose health hazard to a building
worker at a building or other construction work.

### 44. Corrosive substances.

\- The employer shall ensure that corrosive substances, including alkalis and
acids, shall be stored and used by a person dealing with such substances at a
building or other construction work in such a manner that it does not endanger
the building worker and suitable protective equipment shall be provided by the
employer to a building worker during handling or use of such substances at a
building or other construction work and in case of spillage of such substances
on the building worker, immediate remedial measures shall be taken by the
employer.

### 45. Eye protection.

\- Suitable personal protective equipment for the protection of eyes shall be
provided by an employer and used by the building worker engaged in operations
like welding, cutting, chipping, grinding or similar operations which may
cause hazard to his eyes at a building or other construction work.

### 46. Head protection and other protective apparel.

(1)Every building worker required to pass through or work within the areas at
building or other construction work where there is hazard of his being struck
by falling objects or materials shall be provided by the employer with safety
helmets of type and tested in accordance with the national standards.(2)Every
building worker required to work in water or in wet concrete or in other
similar work at a building or other construction work shall be provided with
suitable water-proof boots by the employer.(3)Every building worker required
to work in rain or in similar wet condition at building or other construction
work, shall be provided with water-proof coat with hat by the
employer.(4)Every building worker required to use or handle alkalies, acid or
other similar corrosive substances at a building or other construction work
shall be provided with appropriate protective equipment by an employer, in
accordance with the national standards.(5)Every building worker engaged in
handling sharp object or materials at a building or other construction work
which may cause hand injury, shall be provided with suitable hand-gloves by
the employer, in accordance with the national standards.

### 47. Electrical hazards.

(1)Before commencement of any building or other construction work, the
employer shall take adequate measures to prevent any worker from coming into
physical contact with any electrical equipment or apparatus, machines or live
electrical circuit which may cause electrical hazard during the course of his
employment at a building or other construction work.(2)The employer shall
display and maintain suitable warning signs at conspicuous places at a
building or other construction work in Tamil.(3)In work places at a building
or other construction work where the exact location of underground electric
power line is not known, the building workers using jack hammers, crow bars or
other hand-tools which may come in contact with a live electrical line, shall
be provided by the employer with insulated protective gloves and footwear of
the type in accordance with the national standards.(4)The employer shall
ensure that, as far as practicable, no wiring, which may come in contact with
water or which may be mechanically damaged, is left on ground or floor at a
building or other construction work.(5)The employer shall ensure that all
electrical appliances and current carrying equipment used at a building or
other construction work are made of sound material and are properly and
adequately earthed.(6)The employer shall ensure that all temporary electrical
installations at a building or other construction work are provided with
earth-leakage circuit breakers.(7)The employer shall ensure that all
electrical installations at a building or other construction work comply with
the requirements of any law for the time being in force.

### 48. Vehicular traffic.

(1)Whenever any building or other construction work is being carried on, or is
located in close proximity to a road or any other place where any vehicular
traffic may cause danger to building workers, the employer shall ensure that
such building or other construction work is barricaded and suitable warning
signs and lights displayed or erected to prevent such danger and, if
necessary, he may make a request in writing to the concerned authorities to
control such traffic.(2)The employer shall ensure that all vehicles used at
construction site of a building or other construction work comply with the
requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988) and the
rules made thereunder.(3)The employer shall ensure that a driver of a vehicle
of any class or description operating at a construction site of a building or
other construction work holds a valid driving licence under the Motor Vehicles
Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988).

### 49. Stability of structures.

\- The employer shall ensure that no wall, chimney or other structure or part
of a structure is left unguarded in such condition that it may fall, collapse
or weaken due to wind pressure (or) vibration due to any other reason at a
site of a building or other construction work.

### 50. Illumination of passage-ways, etc.

\- The employer shall ensure that illumination sufficient for maintaining safe
working conditions at a site of a building or other construction work is
provided where building workers are required to work or pass and for
passageways, stairways and landing, such illumination is not less than that
provided in the relevant national standards.

### 51. Stacking of materials.

\- The employer shall ensure, at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)all building materials are stored or stacked in
safe and orderly manner to avoid obstruction of any passageway or place of
work;(b)material piles (or) stored or stacked in such a manner as to ensure
stability;(c)material or equipment is not stored upon any floor or platform in
such quantity as to exceed its safe carrying capacity; and(d)material or
equipment is not stored or placed so close to any edge of a floor or platform
as to endanger the safety of persons below or working in the vicinity.

### 52. Disposal of debris.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)debris are handled and disposed of by a method
which does not cause danger to the safety of a person;(b)debris are not
allowed to accumulate so as to constitute a hazard;(c)debris are kept
sufficiently moist to bring down the dust within the permissible
limit;(d)debris are not thrown inside or outside from any height of such
building or other construction work; and(e)on completion of work left over
building material, article or other substance or debris are disposed of as
soon as possible to avoid any hazard to any traffic or person.

### 53. Numbering and marking of floors.

\- The employer shall ensure that each floor or level of a building or other
construction work is appropriately numbered or marked at the landing of such
floor or level.

### 54. Use of safety helmets and shoes.

(1)The Inspector may, having regard to the nature of hazards involved in the
work carried out, order the employer in writing to supply to the building
workers exposed to particular hazard at a building or other construction work,
any personal protective equipment, namely, safety helmets and shoes as may be
found necessary.(2)The employer shall ensure that all persons who are
performing such work, wear safety shoes and helmets conforming to the national
standards.

## Chapter VII  
Lifting Appliances and Gear

### 55. Construction and maintenance of lifting appliances.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)all lifting appliances, including their parts and
working gear, whether fixed or movable and any plant or gear used in anchoring
or fixing of such appliances are,-(i)of sound construction, sound material,
and of adequate strength to serve the purpose for which these are to be used
and all such appliances shall be free from patent defects; and(ii)maintained
in good repair and working condition;(b)(i)every drum or pulley around which
the rope of any lifting appliance is carried, is of adequate diameter and
sound construction in relation to such rope;(ii)any rope which terminates at
the winding drum of a lifting appliance is securely attached to such drum and
at least three dead turns of such rope remain on such drum in every operating
position of such lifting appliance; and(iii)the flange of a drum projects
twice the rope diameter beyond the last layer of such rope and if such
projection is not available, other measures like anti-slackness guards shall
be provided to prevent such rope from coming off such drum;(c)every lifting
appliance is provided with adequate and efficient brakes which,-(i)are capable
of preventing fall of a suspended load (including any test load) and of
effectively controlling such load while it is being lowered;(ii)act without
shock;(iii)have shoes that can be easily removed for running; and(iv)are
provided with simple and easily accessible means of adjustments:Provided that
nothing contained in this clause shall apply to steam winch which can be
operated as safely as with brakes as provided in accordance with this
clause;(d)controls of every lifting appliance,-(i)are so situated that the
driver of such appliance at his stand or seat has ample room for operating and
has an unrestricted view of building or other construction work, as far as
practicable and that he remains clear of the load ropes, and that no load
passes over him;(ii)are positioned with due regard to ergonometric
considerations for proper operation of such appliance;(iii)are so located that
the driver of such appliance remains above the height of the heel block during
the whole operation of such appliance;(iv)have upon them or adjacent to them
clear markings to indicate their purpose and mode of operations;(v)are
provided, where necessary, with a suitable locking device to prevent
accidental movement or displacement;(vi)move, as far as practicable, in the
direction of the resultant load movement; and(vii)wherever automatic brakes
are provided, automatically come to the neutral position in case of power
failure.

### 56. Test and periodical examination of lifting appliances.

\- The employer shall ensure at construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)all lifting appliances including all parts and
gears thereof, whether fixed or movable, are tested and examined by a
competent person before being taken into use for the first time or after it
has undergone any alterations or repairs liable to affect its strength or
stability or after erection on a construction site and also once at least in
every five years, in the manner specified in Schedule-I to these rules;(b)all
lifting appliances are thorough examined by a competent person once at least
in every twelve months and where the competent person making such examination
forms the opinion that the lifting appliance cannot continue to function
safely, he shall forthwith give notice in writing of his opinion to the owner
of the lifting appliance.Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, thorough
examination means a visual examination, supplemented, if necessary, by other
means such as hammer test, carried out as carefully as the conditions permit,
in order to arrive at a reliable conclusion as to the safety of the parts
examined; and, if necessary, for such examination, parts of the lifting
appliance and gear shall be dismantled.

### 57. Automatic safe load indicators.

(a)The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(i)every crane, if so constructed that the safe
working load may be varied by raising or lowering of the jib or otherwise, is
attached with an automatic indicator of safe working loads which gives a
warning to the operator wherever the load exceeds the safe working load;
and(ii)cut-out is provided which automatically arrests the movements of the
lifting parts of every crane if the load exceeds the safe working load,
wherever possible;(b)the provisions of sub-clause (i) of clause (a) apply,
except where it is not possible to install an automatic safe load indicator,
in which case provision of a table showing the safe working loads at the
corresponding inclinations or radii of the jib on the crane shall be
considered sufficient.

### 58. Installation.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)fixed lifting appliances are installed,-(i)by
competent persons;(ii)in a manner that such appliances can not be displaced by
the load, vibration or influences;(iii)in a manner that the operator of such
appliances is not exposed to danger from loads, ropes or drums; and(iv)in a
manner that the operator can either see over the zone of operation or
communicate with all loading and unloading points by signal, or other
communication system;(b)adequate clearance is provided between parts or loads
of lifting appliances, and-(i)the fixed objects such as walls and posts;
or(ii)electrical conductors;(c)the lifting appliances, when exposed to wind
loading are given sufficient additional strength, stability and rigidity to
withstand such loading safely; and(d)no structural alterations or repairs are
made on any part of the lifting appliances that affect the safety of such
appliances without obtaining the opinion of the competent person to this
effect.

### 59. Winches.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)(i)winches are not used if control levers operate
with excessive friction or play;(ii)double gear winches are not used unless a
positive means of locking the gear shifted is provided;(iii)there is no load
other than the fall and the hook assembly on the winch while changing gears on
a two gear winch;(iv)adequate protection is provided to winch operator against
abnormal weather;(v)temporary seats or shelters for which operators which may
pose hazard to the winch operator or any other building workers are not
allowed to be used; and(vi)control levers are secured in the neutral position
and whenever possible, the power is shut off whenever winches are left
unattended;(b)in use of every steam winch,-(i)measures are taken to prevent
escaping steam from obscuring any part of the construction site or other work
place or from otherwise hindering or injuring any building
worker;(ii)extension control levers which tend to fall of their own weight are
counter balanced; and(iii)winch operators are not permitted to use the winch
control extension levers except for short handles on wheel type controls and
that such levers are of adequate strength, secure and fastened with metal
connections at the fulcrum and at the permanent control ever;(c)in use of
every electric winch, a building or other construction worker is not permitted
to transfer, alter or adjust electric control circuits in case of any defect
in such winch;(d)electric winches are not used for building work where,-(i)the
electro-magnetic brake is unable to hold the load; or(ii)one or more control
points, either hoisting or lowering are not operating properly.

### 60. Buckets.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that tip-up buckets are equipped with a device that
effectively prevents accidental tripping.

### 61. Operation of lifting appliances.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)every lifting appliance and loose gear is clearly
marked for its safe working load and identification by stamping or other
suitable means;(b)(i)every derrick (other than derrick crane) is clearly
marked for its safe working load when such derrick is used either in single
purchase with a lower block or in union purchases in all possible block
positions;(ii)the lowest angle to the horizontal, to which the derrick may be
used, is legibly marked;(c)every lifting appliance having more than one
working load is fitted with effective means to enable the operator to
determine safe working load at each point under all conditions of use;
and(d)means to ascertain the safe working load for lifting gears under such
conditions in which such gears may be used are provided to enable a worker
using such gears and such means shall consist of,-(i)marking,the safe working
load in plain figures or letters upon the sling or upon a tablet or ring of
durable material attached securely thereto in case of chain slings;
and(ii)either means specified in sub-clause (i) or notices so exhibited as can
be easily read by any concerned building worker stating the safe working load
for the various sizes of the wire rope slings used in case of wire rope
slings.

### 62. Loading of lifting appliances and lifting gears.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)no lifting appliance, lifting gear or wire-rope is
used in an unsafe way and in such a manner as to involve risk to life of
building workers, and that they are not loaded beyond their safe working load
except for testing purposes under the direction of a competent person in the
manner as specified in Schedule-I to these rules;(b)no lifting appliance,
lifting gear or any other material handling appliance is used, if,-(i)the
Inspector having jurisdiction is not satisfied with reference to certificate
of test or examination or to an authenticated record maintained as provided
under these rules;(ii)in the view of such Inspector, the lifting appliance,
lifting gear or any other material handling appliance is not safe for use in
building or other construction work; and(iii)no pulley block is used in
building or other construction work unless the safe working load and its
identification are clearly marked on such block.

### 63. Operator's cab or cabin.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)the operator of every lifting machine in outdoor
service is provided with a cab or cabin which:-(i)is made of fire resistant
material;(ii)has a suitable seat, a foot rest and protection from
vibration;(iii)affords the operator an adequate view of the area of
operation;(iv)affords the necessary access to working parts in cab;(v)affords
the operator adequate protection against the weather;(vi)is adequately
ventilated; and(vii)is provided with suitable fire extinguisher.

### 64. Operation of lifting appliances.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)every crane driver or lifting operator possess
adequate skill and training in the operation of the particular lifting
appliance;(b)no person under eighteen years of age is in control of any
lifting appliance, scaffold winch, or to give signals to the
operator;(c)precaution is taken by the trained operator to prevent lifting
appliance from being set in motion;(d)the operation of lifting appliance is
governed by signals, in conformity with the relevant national standards;(e)the
lifting appliance operator attention is not distracted while he is
working;(f)no crane, hoist, winch or other lifting appliance or any part of
such crane, hoist winch or other lifting appliance is, except for testing
purposes, loaded beyond the safe working load;(g)during the hoisting
operations effective precaution is taken to prevent any person from standing
or passing under the load in such operations;(h)operator does not leave
lifting appliance unattended while power is on or load is suspended to such
appliance;(i)no person rides on a suspended load or on any lifting
appliance;(j)every part of a load in course of being hoisted or lowered is
adequately suspended and supported to prevent danger;(k)every receptacle used
for hoisting bricks, tiles, slates or other material is suitably enclosed as
to prevent the fall of any such materials;(l)the hoisting platform is enclosed
when loose materials or loaded wheelbarrows are placed directly on such
platform or lowering such material or wheelbarrows;(m)no material is raised,
lowered or slowed with any lifting appliance in such a way as to cause sudden
jerks to such appliance;(n)in hoisting a barrow any wheel of such barrow is
not used as a means of support unless adequate steps are taken to prevent the
axle of such wheel from slipping out of its bearings;(o)long objects like
planks or gliders are provided with a tag line to prevent any possibility of
danger while raising or lowering such objects;(p)during the process of landing
of material, a building worker is not permitted to lean out into empty space
for finding out of the loading and unloading of such material;(q)the hoisting
of loads at places where there is regular flow of traffic is carried out in an
enclosed space, or in case such hoisting is impracticable in enclosed space,
measures are taken to hold up or divert the traffic during the time of such
hoisting;(r)adequate steps are taken to prevent a load in the course of being
hoisted or lowered from coming into contact with any object to avoid any
displacement of such load; and(s)appliances are provided and used for building
heavy loads when raising or lowering heavy loads to avoid crushing of hands of
building workers during such raising or lowering of loads.

### 65. Hoists.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)hoist towers are designed according to relevant
national standards;(b)hoist shafts are provided with rigid panels or other
adequate fencing,-(i)at the ground level on all sides of such shafts;
and(ii)at all other levels on all sides of the access to such shafts;(c)the
walls of hoist shafts, except at approaches, extend at least two metres above
the floor or platform of access to such shafts;(d)approaches to a hoist are
provided with gates which are,-(i)gridded to maintain visibility;(ii)at least
of two metres height; and(iii)equipped with a device which requires such gate
to be closed before the platform of such hoist can leave the landing and
prevents the gate from being opened unless such platform is at the
landing;(e)approaches to a hoist are adequately lit;(f)the guides of his
platforms offer sufficient resistance to bending and to buckling in the case
of jamming, by providing a safety catch;(g)overhead beams and their supports
are capable of holding the total maximum live and dead loads that such beams
and supports will be required to carry with a safety factor of at least
five;(h)a clear space is provided,-(i)above the highest stopping place of a
cage or platform to allow sufficient unobstructed travel of such cage or
platform in case of over-winding; and(ii)below the lowest stopping place of
such cage or platform;(i)adequate covering is provided above the top of hoist
shafts to prevent materials from falling into such shafts;(j)outdoor hoist
towers are erected on adequately firm foundations and are securely braced,
guyed and anchored;(k)a ladder way extends from the bottom to the top of every
outdoor hoist tower in case no other ladder way exists within easy reach and
such ladder way comply with the relevant national standards;(l)the rated
capacity of a hoisting engine is at least one and a half times the maximum
load that such engine will be required to move;(m)all gearing on a hoisting
engine is securely enclosed;(n)steam piping of a hoisting engine is adequately
protected against accidental contact of such piping with a building
worker;(o)electrical equipment of a hoisting engine is effectively
earthed;(p)a hoist is provided with suitable devices to stop a hoisting engine
as soon as the platform of such hoist reaches its highest stopping place; (q)
a hoisting engine is protected by a suitable cover against weather and falling
objects;(r)a hoisting engine set up in a public thoroughfare is completely
enclosed;(s)all exhaust steam pipes discharge steam in such a manner that the
steam so discharged does not scald any person or obstruct the operator's
view;(t)the motion of a hoist is not reversed without first bringing it to
rest to avoid any harm from such reverse motion;(u)a hoist, not designed for
the conveyance of persons, is not set in motion from the platform of such
hoist;(v)pawls and ratchet wheels of a hoist, requiring disengagement of such
pawls from such ratchet wheels, before the platform of such hoist is lowered,
are not used;(w)a platform of a hoist is capable of supporting such maximum
load that such platform may carry, with a safety factor of at least three;(x)a
platform of a hoist is equipped with suitable safety gear which can hold such
platform with its maximum load in case its hoisting rope breaks;(y)on platform
of a hoist, the wheelbarrows or truck are efficiently blocked in a safe
position;(z)a cage of a hoist or a platform, where the building workers are
required to enter into such cage or to go on such platform at landing level,
is provided with a locking arrangement to prevent such cage or platform from
moving during the time a worker enters or leaves such cage or platform;(za)the
sides of a platform of a hoist, which are not used for loading or unloading,
are provided with toe-board and enclosures of a wire mesh or any other
suitable means to prevent the fall of any part of a load from such
platform;(i)a conspicuous place of the platforms of a hoist and that such
notice states the maximum carrying capacity of such hoist in kilograms;(ii)a
conspicuous place on the hoisting engine and that such notice states maximum
lifting capacity of such hoist in kilograms;(iii)a conspicuous place on a
hoist authorised and certified for the conveyance of the person, on the
platform or cage and such notice states the maximum number of persons to be
carried on such hoist at one time; and(iv)a conspicuous place on a hoist
carrying goods and other materials and such notice states that such hoist is
not meant for carriage of persons.(zb)a platform of a hoist, which has any
probability of falling and part of load from it is provided with an adequate
covering with such fall;(zc)the counter-weights of a hoist consisting of an
assemblage of several parts are so constructed that such parts are rigidly
connected together;(zd)the counter-weights of a hoist run between
guides;(ze)at every level of work the building workers are provided with
adequate platforms for performing such work; and(zf)a legible notice in Tamil
is displayed at,-

### 66. Fencing of and means of access to lifting appliances.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)safe means of access is provided to every part of a
lifting appliance;(b)the operator's platform on every crane or tip driven by
mechanical power is securely fenced and is provided with safe means of access
and where access to such platform is by a ladder,-(i)the side of such ladder
extends to a reasonable height beyond such platfonns or some other suitable
handhold is provided in lieu thereof to prevent any falling of persons from
such platforms;(ii)the handling place on such platform is maintained free from
obstruction and slipping; and(iii)in case the height of such ladder exceeds
six metres, the f resting platforms are provided on such ladder at every six
metres of its height and where the distance between last platform so provided
and the top end of such ladder is more than two metres then on such top end.

### 67. Rigging of derricks.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other of
construction work that every derrick has current and relevant rigging plans s
and any other information necessary for the safe rigging of such derricks and
its gear.

### 68. Securing of derrick foot.

\- The employer shall ensure of a construction site of a building or other
construction work that appropriate measures are taken to prevent the foot of a
derrick being lifted out of its socket or support.

### 69. Construction and maintenance of lifting gear.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)every lifting gear is,-(i)of good design and
construction, sound material and adequate strength to perform the work for
which it is used;(ii)free from patent defects; and(iii)properly maintained in
good repair and working order;(b)components of the loose gear, at the time of
its use, are renewed if one of its dimensions at any point has decreased by
ten per cent or more by user;(c)a chain is withdrawn from use when it is
stretched and increased in length which exceeds five per cent of its length or
when a link of such chain is deformed or is otherwise damaged or raised scarfs
of defective welds is appeared on it;(d)rings, hooks, swivels and end links
attached to a chain are of the same material as that of such chain; and(e)the
voltage of electric supply to any magnetic lifting device does not fluctuate
by more than plus ten per cent or minus ten per cent.

### 70. Test and periodical examination of lifting gears.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)a lifting gear is initially tested for the
manufacturer by a competent person, in a manner specified in Schedule-1 to
these rules before taking into use or after undergoing any substantive
alterations which renders its any part liable to affect its safety and such
gear altered shall subsequently be re-tested for the use of its owner at least
once in every five years;(b)a lifting gear in use is thoroughly examined once
at least in every twelve months by a competent person;(c)a chain in use is
thoroughly examined once at least every month by a responsible person, for its
use; and(d)certificates of initial and periodical tests and examination of
loose gears under these rules are obtained in Form VII under Schedule XIII to
these rules.

### 71. Ropes.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)no rope is used for building or other construction
work unless- :(i)it is of good quality and free from patent defects; and(ii)in
the case of wire rope, it has been tested and examined by a competent person
in the manner specified in Schedule-I to these rules;(b)every wire rope of
fitting appliance or lifting gear used for building or other construction work
is inspected by a responsible person for such use once at least in every three
months: Provided that after any such wire is broken in such rope, it shall,
thereafter, be inspected once at least in every month by the responsible
person;(c)no wire rope is used for building or other construction work if in ;
any length of eight diameters of such wires, the total number of visible
broken wires exceed ten per cent of the total number of wires in such rope, or
such rope shows sign of excessive wear, corrosion or other defects which in
the opinion of the person who inspects it of Inspector, having jurisdiction,
is unfit for use;(d)eye splices and loops of ropes for the attachment of
hooks, rings and other such parts to wire ropes are made with suitable
thimble;(e)a thimble or loop splice made in any wire rope sling conforms to
the following standards, namely:-(i)wire rope sling shall have at least three
tucks with full strand of rope and two tucks with one-half of the wires cut
out of each of such strand in all cases, such strands shall be tucked 1
against the lay of the rope;(ii)protruding ends of such strands in any splice
of wire rope slings shall be covered or treated so as to leave no sharp
points;(iii)a fibre rope or a rope sling shall have at least four tucks tail
of such tuck being whipped in a suitable manner; and(iv)a synthetic fibre rope
or rope sling shall have at least four tucks with full strand followed by
further tuck with one-half } filaments cut out of each of such strand and
final tuck with one-half of the remaining filaments cut-out from such strands.
Any portion of the splices containing such tucks, with reduced number of
filaments, shall be securely covered with suitable tape or other
materials:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-clause shall apply where
any other form of splice, which may be shown to be as efficient as the splice
with above standards, is used.

### 72. Heat treatment of lifting gears.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)all chains other than bridle chains attached to
derricks and all rings, hooks, shackles and swivels used in hoisting or
lowering of such derricks are effectively annealed under supervision of a
competent person and at the following intervals, namely:-(i)such chains,
rings, hooks, shackles and swivels which are not more than twelve and a half
millimetre of length are so annealed at least once in every six months;
and(ii)all other such chains, rings, hooks, shackles and swivels are so
annealed at least once in every twelve months:Provided that such annealing as
referred to in sub-clause (i) and sub-clause (ii) shall not be required if the
Inspector, having jurisdiction after, obtaining the approval of the Chief
Inspector of Inspection of Building and Construction directs that such chains,
rings, hooks, shackles and swivels undergo some other treatment and in such
cases the treatment directed by such Inspector shall be followed:Provided
further that in case of such chains, rings, hooks, shackles and swivels used
solely on such derricks and other hoisting appliance which are worked by hand,
the provisions of sub-clause (i) and sub-clause (ii), as the case may be,
shall apply as if for the periods of six months and twelve months, the periods
of twelve months and two years have respectively been substituted
therein:Provided also that in case where the Inspector, having jurisdiction,
is of the opinion that owing to the size, design, material or frequency of use
of any such chains, rings, hooks, shackles and swivels, the requirement of
this clause for annealing is not necessary for the protection of building
worker, he may, after obtaining the approval of the Chief Inspector of
Inspection of Building and Construction, certify in writing to such employer
that subject to the conditions specified in such certification, such chains,
rings, hooks, shackles and swivels are exempted from such annealing and
thereafter the provision of this clause shall apply subject to such
exemption:Provided also that this clause shall not apply to,-(i)pitched
chains, working on sprocket or sprocketed wheels;(ii)rings, hooks and swivels
permanently attached to pitched chains, pulley blocks or weighing machines;
and(iii)hooks and swivels having ball bearings or other easel hardened
parts;(b)a chain or a loose gear made of high tensile steel or alloy steel is
plainly marked with a mark indicating that it is so made;(c)no chain or loose
gear made of high tensile steel or alloy steel is subjected to any form of
heat treatment except where such treatment is necessary for the purpose of
repair of such chain or loose gear and that such repair is made under the
direction of the competent person;(d)that the wrought iron gear, the past
history of which is not traceable, is suspected of being heat treated at
incorrect temperature, is normalised before using it on any building or other
construction work.

### 73. Certificate to be issued after actual testing and examination, etc.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that a competent person issues a certificate for the purpose
of rule 56, rule 62, rule 71 and ride 72 only after actual testing or,as the
case may be, examination of the apparatus specified in the said rules. I

### 74. Register of periodical test, examination and certificates thereof.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a budding or other
construction work that,-(a)a register in Form XXVI under Schedule XIII to
these rules is maintained and particulars of such test and examination of
lifting appliances, lifting gears and heat treatment as required under rule
56, rule 62 and rule 72, are entered in such register;(b)certificate in
respect of the following is obtained from competent person in the forms as
mentioned below, namely:-,(i)in case of initial and periodical test and
examination under rule 56 and rule 71, for,-(a)winches, derricks and their
accessory gears in Form V under Schedule XIII to these rules;(b)cranes or
hoists and their accessory gears in Form VI under Schedule XIII to these
rules;(ii)in case of test examination and re-examination of loose gears under
clause (d) of rule 70 in Form VII under Schedule XIII to this rules;(iii)in
case of test and examination of wire ropes under rule 62 in Form VIII under
Schedule XIII to these rules;(iv)in case of heat treatment and examination of
loose gears under rule 72 in Form IX under Schedule XIII to these rules;(v)in
case of annual thorough examination of the loose gears under clause (b) of
rule 70, except where required particulars of such exemption have been
enclosed in the register referred to in clause (a) in Form XXVI under Schedule
XIII to these rules, and such certificates are attached to the register
referred to in clause (a);(c)the register referred to in clause (a) and the
certificates referred to in clause (b) attached to such register are,-(i)kept
at such construction site in case such register, and certificate relate to
lifting appliances, loose gear and wire ropes;(ii)produced on demand before an
Inspector having jurisdiction; and(iii)retained for at least five years after
the date of the last entry made in such register; and(d)no lifting appliance
or lifting gear in respect of which an entry is required to be made in
register referred to in clause (a) and certificate of test and examination are
required to be attached in such register in the manner as specified in clause
(a) or clause (b), as the case may be, is used for building or other
construction work unless the required entries have been made in such register
and certificates.

### 75. Vacuum and magnetic lifting gear.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)no vacuum lifting gear, magnetic lifting gear or
any other lifting gear where the load on it is held by adhesive power, is used
while workers are performing operations beneath such gear;(b)a magnetic
lifting gear used in connection with building or other construction work is
provided with an alternative supply of power, such as batteries, which may
come into operation immediately in the event of failure of the main power
supply; and(c)no building worker shall work within the swinging zone of the
lifting gear or load or building or other construction materials suspended to
such lifting gear.

### 76. Knotting of chains and wire ropes.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that no chain or wire rope with a knot in it is used in
building or other construction work.

### 77. Carrying of persons by means of lifting appliances, etc.

(1)The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that no building worker is raised, lowered or carried by a
power driven lifting appliance except,-(a)on the driver's platform in the cage
of a crane; or(b)on a hoist; or(c)on an approved suspended scaffold:Provided
that a building worker may be raised, lowered or carried by a power driven
lifting appliance,-(i)in circumstances where the use of a hoist or of a
suspended scaffold is not reasonably practicable and the requirements of sub-
rule (2) are complied with; or(ii)on an aerial cable-way or aerial rope-way in
case where the requirements of sub-rule (2) are complied with.(2)The
requirements referred to in proviso to sub-rule (1) are as below,
namely:-(i)that the appliance referred to in such proviso can be operated from
one position only;(ii)that any which used in connection with the appliance
referred to in such proviso comply with the requirements of rule 59;(iii)that
no person shall be carried by the appliance referred to in such proviso
except,-(a)in a chair or cage; or(b)in a skip or other receptacle at least
three feet deep which is suitable for safe carriage of a person and any such
chair, cage, skip or other receptacle is made of good construction, sound
materials and has adequate strength and is properly maintained with suitable
means to prevent any occupant therein from falling out of it and is free from
any material or tools which may interfere with the handhold or foothold of
such occupant or otherwise endanger him; and(iv)that suitable measures shall
be taken to prevent the chair, cage, skip or other receptacle from spinning or
tipping in a manner dangerous to any occupant therein.

### 78. Hoists carrying persons.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)no building worker is carried by a hoist unless it
is provided with a cage which,-(i)is so constructed as to prevent, when its
gates are shut, any building worker carried by such hoist from falling out of
it or from being trapped between any part of such cage and any fixed structure
or other moving part of such hoist or from being struck by articles or
materials falling down the hoist way on which such hoist is moving; and(ii)is
fitted on each of its side from which, access is provided to a landing place
with a gate which has efficient inter-locking or other devices to secure so
that such gate cannot be opened except when such cage is at a landing place
and that such cage cannot be moved away from any such place until such gate is
closed;(b)every gate in the hoist-way enclosure of such hoist used for
carrying persons is fitted with efficient inter-locking or other devices to
secure so that gate cannot be opened except when the cage of such gate is at
the landing place and that such cage cannot be moved away from the landing
place until such gate is closed; and(c)in every hoist used for carrying
building workers, there are provided suitable and efficient automatic devices
to ensure that the cage of such hoist comes to rest at a point above the
lowest point to which such cage may travel.

### 79. Attachment of loads.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of building or other
construction work that,-(a)when a sling is used to hoist long materials, a
lifting beam is used to space the sling legs for proper balance and when a
load is suspended at two or more points with slings, the eyes of lifting legs
of such slings are shackled together and such shake or eyes of the shackled
slings are placed on the hook or the eyes of such lifting legs are shackled
directly to the hoisting block, ball or balance beam, as the case may
be;(b)every container or receptacle used for raising or lowering stone,
bricks, tiles, slates or other similar objects is so enclosed with the hoist
as to prevent fall of such objects;(c)a loaded wheel barrow placed directly on
a platform of a hoist for raising or lowering of such wheel barrows is so
secured that such wheel barrows cannot move and such platform is enclosed to
prevent the fall of the contents kept in such wheel barrow; and(d)landings of
a hoist are so designed and arranged that building workers on such hoist are
not required to lean out into empty space for loading and unloading any
material from such hoist.

### 80. Tower Cranes.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)no person other than the operator trained and
capable to work at heights are employed to operate tower cranes;(b)the ground
on which a tower crane stands has adequate bearing capacity;(c)bases for tower
cranes and trucks for rail-mounted tower cranes are firm and leveled and such
cranes are erected at a reasonably safe distance from excavation and are
operated within gradient limits as specified by the manufacturer of such
cranes;(d)tower cranes are sited where there is a clear space available for
erection, operation and dismantling of such cranes;(e)tower cranes are sited
in such a way that the leads on such cranes are not handled over any occupied
premises, public thoroughfares, railways or near power cables, other than
construction works for which such cranes are used;(f)where two or more tower
cranes are sited and operated, every care is taken to ensure positive and
proper communication between operators of such cranes to avoid any danger or
dangerous occurrences;(g)tower cranes are used for loading magnet of
demolition ball service, piling operation or other similar operation which
could impose excessive load stresses on the crane structure of such cranes;
end(h)the instruction of the manufacturer of tower crane and standard safe
practices regarding such crane are followed while operating or using such
crane.

### 81. Qualification of operator lifting winches and of signaller, etc.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that no person is employed to drive or operate a lifting
appliance whether driven by mechanical power or otherwise or to give signals
to drive or operate of such lifting appliance or to work as an operator of
rigger derricks unless he,-(i)is above eighteen years of age;(ii)is
sufficiently competent and reliable;(iii)possesses the knowledge of the
inherent risks involved in the operation of lifting appliance; and(iv)is
medically examined periodically as specified in Schedule-VII to these rules.

## Chapter VIII  
Runways and Ramps

### 82. Use of runways and ramps by building worker.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)runway or ramp provided for use by building workers
is not less than four hundred and thirty millimetres in width and is
constructed of not less than twenty-five millimetres thick planking or any
other material of adequate strength to withstand the required load supported
substantially in relation to the span and braced of such runway or ramp and
design and construction of such runway or ramp is in accordance with the
relevant national standards; and(b)every runway or ramp provided for use of
building workers located more than three metres above the floor or ground is
on open sides provided with a guard rail of adequate strength and height of
not less than one thousand millimetres.

### 83. Use by vehicles.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)all runways and ramps are of sound construction,
strength and are securely braced and supported;(b)every runway or ramp for the
use of transport equipment like trailers, trucks or heavier vehicles has a
width of not less than 3.7 metres and is provided with timber curbs of any
other material of adequate strength with not less than two hundred millimetres
by two hundred millimetres in width placed parallel to, and secured to, the
sides of such runway or ramp and such runways or ramps and designed in
accordance with the relevant national standards.

### 84. Slope of ramps.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that every ramp has a slope not exceeding one in eight and
the total rise of a continuous ramp used by building workers carrying material
or using wheel-barrows does not exceed 3.7 metres unless broken/by horizontal
landing of at least 1.2 metres in length or as provided in accordance with the
relevant/national standards.

### 85. Use by wheel barrows, etc.

\- The employer shall ensure at construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)every runway or ramp used for wheel-barrows, hand
carts or hand trucks is not less than one metre in width and is constructed of
not less than fifty millimetres thick planking and is supported and braced
suitably for such use;(b)every runway or ramp located more than three metres
above the floor or ground is provided on the open sides with suitable guard
rails of adequate strength.

## Chapter IX  
Work on or Adjacent to Water

### 86. Transport by water.

(1)The employer shall ensure at a construction site of building or other
construction work that,-(a)when any building worker has to proceed to or from
any working place by water for purposes of carrying on a building or other
construction work, proper measures are taken to provide for his safe
transportation and vessels used for such purpose are used in charge of a
responsible person, and are properly equipped for safe navigation and are
maintained in good condition; and(b)maximum number of persons which can be
safely carried in a vessel as certified under the relevant law in force is
marked plainly and conspicuously on such vessel and such number is not
exceeded during use of such vessel for carrying persons.(2)The vessel referred
to in clause (a) of sub-rule (1) shall conform to the following
namely:-(i)that adequate protection is provided to the building workers in
such vessel from inclement weather;(ii)that such vessel is manned by adequate
and experienced crew, as per the relevant law for the time being in
force;(iii)that in case the bulwarks of such vessel are lower that 60
centimetres from the level of the deck of such vessel, the open edge of such
bulwarks are fitted with suitable fencing to a height of at least 1 metre
above such deck and the post and stanchions and similar parts used in such
fencing are not spaced more than two metres apart;(iv)that the number of life
buoys on deck of such vessel is at least equal to the number of crew members
of such vessel and is not less than two;(v)that all life buoys on deck of such
vessel are kept in good state of maintenance and are so placed that if such
vessel sinks then they remain to float and one of such buoys is within the
immediate reach of the Steer-man of such vessel and another is situated after
part of such vessel; and(vi)that the position of the Steer-man of vessel is
such that he has a reasonably free view of all sides.

### 87. Prevention from drowning.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of building or other
construction work that where, on or adjacent to the work place of any
construction site to which these rules apply, there is water into which a
building worker employed for work on such site is, in the course of his
employment, may fall and has the risk of drowning, suitable rescue equipment
is provided and kept in an efficient state for ready use and measures are
taken to arrange for the prompt rescue of such building worker from the danger
of drowning and where there is a special risk of such fall from the edge of
adjacent land or from a structure adjacent to or above the water or from
floating stage on such water, secure fencing is provided near the edge of such
land, structure of floating stage, as the case may be, to unerected for the
time and to the extent necessary for the access of building workers to such
work or the movement of material for such work.

## Chapter X  
Transport and Earth Moving Equipment

### 88. Earth moving equipment and vehicles.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of building or other
construction work that,-(a)all vehicles and earth moving equipment are made of
good material, proper design and sound construction and are sufficiently
strong for the purpose for which such equipment are used and are maintained in
good state of repair and are properly used in accordance with standard safe
operating practices:Provided that the truck or trailer employed for
transporting fright containers are of the size sufficient to carry the
containers, without overhanging and are provided with twist locks conforming
to national standards, at all the four comers of each of such truck or
trailers and such truck or trailers are certified for such use by an authority
under the relevant law for the time being in force and is inspected by a
responsible person, at least once in a month and record of such inspection is
maintained;(b)all transport or earth moving equipment and vehicles are
inspected at least once a week by a responsible person and in case any defect
is noticed in such equipment or vehicle, it is immediately taken out of
use;(c)power trucks and tractors are equipped with effect brakes, head lights
and tail and are maintained in good repair and working order;(d)side
stanchions on power trucks and trailers for carrying heavy and long objects
are,-(i)of sound construction and free from defects;(ii)provided with tie
chains attached to top across the loads for preventing such stanchions from
spreading out; and(iii)kept in position while loading and unloading;(e)safe
gangways are provided for to and from movement at of building workers engaged
in loading and unloading of lorries, trucks, trailers and wagons;(f)trucks and
other equipment are not loaded beyond their safe carrying capacity which shall
be clearly marked on such trucks and other equipment;(g)handles of hand trucks
are so designed as to protect the hands of the building workers working on
such trucks, or such handles are provided with knuckle guards;(h)no
unauthorised person rides the transport equipment employed in such work;(i)a
driver of a transport equipment manoeuvres such equipment under the direction
of a signaller;(j)adequate precaution such as isolating the electric supply or
erecting overhead barriers of a safe height is taken when earth moving
equipment or vehicles are required to operate in dangerous proximity to any
live electric conductor;(k)vehicles and earth moving equipment are not left on
a slope with the engine of such vehicles or equipment running; and(l)all earth
moving equipment, vehicles or other transport equipment are operated only by
such persons who are adequately trained and possess such skill as are required
for safe operation of such equipment, vehicle or other transport equipment.

### 89. Power shovels and excavators.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of building or other
construction work that,-(a)a shovel or an excavator whether operated by steam
or electric or by internal combustion, used for such work is constructed,
installed, operated, tested and examined as required under any law for the
time being in force and the relevant national standard(b)excavator equipped
for use as a mobile crane is,-(i)examined and tested in accordance with the
requirements for such mobile crane under these rules; and(ii)fitted with an
automatic safe working load indicator; and(c)buckets or grabs of powder
shovels are propped to restrict the movement of such buckets or grabs while
being repaired or w1 the teeth of such buckets or grabs are being changed.

### 90. Bulldozers.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or o
construction work that,-(a)an operator of a bulldozer before leaving such
bulldozer,-(i)applies the brakes;(ii)lowers the blade and sipper; and(iii)puts
the shift lever into neutral;(b)a bulldozer is left on level ground at the
close of the work for which such bulldozer is used;(c)tire blade of a
bulldozer is kept low when such bulldozer is moving uphill; and(d)the
bulldozer blades are not used as brakes except in an emergency.

### 91. Scrapers.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)a tractor and scraper is joined by safety line at
the time of its operation;(b)the scraper bowls are propped while blades of
such scraper are being replaced; and(c)a scraper moving downhill is left in
gear.

### 92. Mobile asphalt layers and finishers.

\- The employer shall ensure on a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)a mixture elevator is within a wooden or sheet
metal enclosure with a window for observation, lubrication and
maintenance;(b)bitumen scoops have adequate covers;(c)when asphalt plants are
working on a public road, adequate traffic control is established on such road
and the building workers working with such plant are provided with reflecting
jackets;(d)a sufficient number of fire extinguishers are kept in readiness on
such work place where fire hazards may exist;(e)the materials are loaded on
tire elevator after the drying drain has warmed up of such elevator;(f)no open
light is used for ascertaining the level of asphalt; and(g)inspection opening
is not opened till there is a pressure in the boiler which may cause injury to
a building worker.

### 93. Pavers.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that pavers are equipped with guards suitable to prevent
building workers from walking under the skip of such pavers.

### 94. Road Rollers.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)before a road roller is used on the ground, such
ground is examined for its bearing capacity and general safety, especially at
the edges of slopes such as embankments on such grounds; and(b)a roller is not
moved downhill with the engine out of gear.

### 95. General safety.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)every vehicle or earth moving equipment is equipped
with,-(i)silencers;(ii)taillights;(iii)power and hand brakes;(iv)reversing
alarm; and(v)search light for forward and backward movement, which are
required for safe operation of such vehicle or earth moving equipment;(b)the
cab of vehicle or earth moving equipment kept at least one metre from the
adjacent face of a ground being excavated; and(c)when a crane or shovel are
travelling, the boom of such crane or shovel is in the direction of such
travel and the bucket or scoop attached to such crane or shovel is raised and
without load except when such travelling is down hill.

## Chapter XI  
Concrete Work

### 96. General provisions regarding use of concrete.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)all construction with the use of concrete or
reinforced concrete are based on plans as,-(i)include specifications of steel
and concrete and other material to be used in such construction;(ii)give
technical details regarding methods for safe placing and handling of such
materials as specified in sub-clause (i);(iii)indicate the type, quality and
arrangement of each part of a structure of such construction; and(iv)explain
the sequence of steps to be taken for completion of such construction;(b)form
work and shores used for concrete work are structurally safe and are properly
braced or tied together so as to maintain position and shape of such form work
or shores; and(c)form work structure used for concrete work has sufficient
cat-walks and other secure access for inspection of such structure if such
structure is in two or more tiers.

### 97. Preparation and pouring of concrete and erection of concrete
structures.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)a building worker handling cement or
concrete,-(i)wears close-fitting clothing, gloves, helmet or hard hat, safety
goggles, proper foot wear and respirator or mask protect him from danger in
such handling;(ii)keeps as much his body covered as is required to protect him
from danger in such handling; and(iii)takes all necessary precaution to keep
cement and concrete away from his skin in such handling;(b)lime pits are
fenced or enclosed;(c)lime pits are filled and emptied by such devices which
do not require workers to go into the pit;(d)moving parts of the elevators,
hoists, screens, bunkers, chutes, grouting equipment used for concrete work
and of other equipment used for storing, transport and other handling
ingredients of concrete are securely fenced to avoid contact of building
workers with such moving parts; and(e)screw conveyors used for cement, lime
and other dusty materials are completely enclosed.

### 98. Buckets.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)concrete buckets used with cranes or aerial cable
ways are free from projections from which accumulations of concrete could
fall; and(b)movements of concrete buckets are governed by signals necessary to
avoid any danger by such movements.

### 99. Pipes and Pumps.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)a scaffolding carrying a pipe for pumped concrete
is strong enough to support such pipe at time when such pipe is tilled with
concrete or water or any other liquid and to bear all the building workers who
may be on such scaffold at such time, safely;(b)every pipe for carrying pumped
concrete is,-(i)securely anchored at its end point and at each curve on
it;(ii)provided near the top of such pipe with an air release valve;
and(iii)securely attached to a pump nozzle by a bolted collar or other
adequate means;(c)the operation of concrete pumps are governed by standard
signals relevant in accordance with the relevant national standards;
and(d)building workers employed around a concrete pump wear safety goggles.

### 100. Mixing and pouring of concrete.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)the concrete mixture does not contain any material
which may unduly affect the setting of such concrete, weaken such concrete or
corrode steel used with such concrete;(b)when dry ingredients of concrete are
being mixed in confined spaces such as silos,-(i)the dust shall be exhausted
at the time of such mixing; and(ii)in case the dust cannot be exhausted, as
specified in sub-clause (i), the building workers shall wear respirators at
the time of such mixing;(c)when concrete is being tipped from buckets,
building workers are kept out of the range of any kickbacks of such buckets;
and(d)loads are not dumped or placed on settling concrete.

### 101. Concrete panels and slabs.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)all parts of concrete panel or concrete slab are
hoisted uniformly;(b)concrete panels are adequately braced in their final
positions and such bracing shall remain in such position until such panels are
adequately supported by other parts of the construction for which such panels
are used; and(c)temporary bracing of concrete panels are securely fastened to
prevent any part of such panels from falling when such panels are being moved.

### 102. Stressed and tensioned elements.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or
construction work that,-(a)building workers do not stand directly over jacking
equip while stressing of concrete girders and beams is being done;(b)a pre-
stressed concrete unit is not handled except at points on such unit and by the
devices specified for such work the manufacturer of such devices;(c)during
transport, pre-stressed concrete girders or concrete beams are kept upright by
bracing or other effective means;(d)anchor fittings for pre-tensioned strands
of pre-stressed concrete girders or concrete beams are kept in a safe
condition in accordance with the instructions of manufacturer of such anchor
fittings;(e)building workers do not stand behind jacks or in line with
tensioning elements and jacking equipment during tensioning operations of pre-
stressed concrete girders or concrete beams; and(f)building workers do not cut
wires of pre-stressed concrete girders or concrete beams under tension before
such concrete used for such girders or beams is sufficiently hardened.

### 103. Vibrators.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)a building worker, who is in good physical
condition, operates vibrators used in concreting work;(b)all practical
measures are taken to reduce the amount of vibration transmitted to the
operators working in concreting work;(c)when electric vibrators are used in
concreting work,-(i)such vibrators shall be earthed;(ii)the leads of such
vibrators shall be heavily insulated; and(iii)the current shall be switched
off when such vibrators are not in use.

### 104. Inspection and supervision.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)a person responsible for a concreting work
supervises the erection of the formwork, shores, graces and other supports
used for such concreting work;(b)a person responsible for a concreting work
makes thorough inspection of every form work after erection of such form work
in such concreting work to ensure that such form work is safe;(c)a person
responsible for a concreting work regularly inspects the form work, shores,
braces, reshores and other supports during the placing of concrete;(d)any
unsafe condition which is discovered during the inspections mentioned under
clause (b) and (c) is remedied immediately; and(e)a person responsible for a
concreting work keeps all records of inspections referred to in clause (a) and
clause (b) at the workers place relating to such inspection and produced them
for inspection upon the demand of an Inspector having jurisdiction.

### 105. Beams, floors and roofs.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)horizontal and diagonal bracings are provided in
both longitudinal and transverse directions as may be necessary to provide
structural stability to formwork used in concreting work and shores used in
such concreting work are properly seated top and bottom and are secured in
their places;(b)where shores used in concreting work rest upon the ground base
plates are provided for keeping such shores firm and in level;(c)where the
floor to ceiling height of a concreting work exceeds nine metres or where the
formwork deck used in such concreting work is supported by shores constructed
in two or more tiers, or where the dead, live and impact loads on the formwork
used in such concreting work exceed seven hundred kilogram per square meter,
the structure of such formwork is designed by a professional engineer in the
relevant field and the specifications and drawings of such formwork are kept
at such construction site and produced on demand before the Inspector having
jurisdiction; and(d)where the structure of the formwork used in concreting
work is designed by a professional engineer, such engineer shall be response
for the supervision of construction and stability of such structure.

### 106. Stripping.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)stripping of formwork used in concreting work
commenced until the concrete on such formwork is fully set, examined and
certified to this effect by the responsible person and record of such
examination and certification is maintained;(b)stripped forms in concreting
work are removed or stock-piled promptly after stripping from all areas in
which building workers are required to work or pass; and(c)protruding nails,
wire ties and other form work accessories not required for subsequent
concreting work are pulled, cut or otherwise made safe.

### 107. Reshoring.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)reshoring used in concreting work is provided to a
slab or beam for its safe support after its stripping or where such slab or
beam is subjected to superimposed loads due to construction above such slab or
beam; and(b)the provisions applicable to shoring in a concreting work under
this Chapter shall also be applicable to reshoring in such work.

## Chapter XII  
Demolition

### 108. Preparation.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that all glass or similar material or article in exterior
openings are removed before commencing any demolition work and all water,
steam, electric, gas and other similar supply lines are put-off and suitably
capped and the concerned department of the Government or local authority is
informed and permission obtained wherever required before commencing such
demolition work and wherever it is necessary to maintain water gas or electric
line or power during such demolition, such line shall be so located or
protected with substantial coverings so as to protect it from damage and to
afford safety to the building workers and the general public.

### 109. Protection of adjacent structures.

\- The employee responsible for a demolition work at a construction site of a
building or other construction work shall, during demolition process of such
demolition work, examine the walls of all structures adjacent to the structure
to be demolished to determine the thickness, method of support to such
adjacent structures and in case, such employer has reason to believe that any
of such adjacent structure is unsafe or may become unsafe during such
demolition process, he shall not perform demolition activity affecting such
unsafe adjacent structure unless and until remedial measures like sheet
piling, shoring, bracing or similar other means so as to ensure safety and
stability to such unsafe adjacent structure from collapsing are taken.

### 110. Demolition of walls, partitions, etc.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)any demolition of walls or partitions is proceeded
in a systematic manner as per the standard safe operating practices and all
work above each tier or any floor beams is completed before the safety of the
supports of such beam is impaired;(b)masonry is neither loosened nor permitted
to fall in such masses or volume or weight as to endanger the structural
stability of any floor or structural support;(c)no wall chimney or other
structure or part of a structure is left unguarded in such a condition that it
may fall, collapse or weaken due to wind pressure or vibration;(d)in the case
of demolition of exterior walls by hand, safe footing is provided for the
building workers employed for such demolition, in the form of sound flooring
or scaffolds; and(e)walls or partitions which are to be demolished by hand are
not left standing more than one store of high above the uppermost floor on
which persons are working.

### 111. Method of operation.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that debris, bricks and other materials or articles are
removed,-(i)by means of chutes;(ii)by means of buckets or hoists;(iii)through
openings in the floors; or(iv)by any other safe means.

### 112. Access to floor.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that safe access to and egress from every building is
provided at all times in the course of demolition of such building by means of
entrances, hallways, stairways or ladder runs which are so protected as to
safeguard the building workers using such means from falling material or
articles.

### 113. Demolition of structural steel.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)all steel structures are demolished column by
column and tier by tier and every structural member which is being demolished
is not under any stress and such structural member is suitably flashed to
prevent it from any uncontrolled swinging or dropping or falling;(b)large
structural members are not thrown or dropped from the building but are
carefully lowered by adopting suitable safe method; and(c)where a lifting
appliance like a derrick is used for demolition, the floor on which such
lifting appliance rests is completely planked over or supported and such floor
is of adequate strength to sustain bearing load for such lifting appliance and
its operation.

### 114. Storage of material or article.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)all materials or articles are not stored or kept on
platform floor or stairways of a building being demolished:Provided that this
clause shall not apply to the floor of a building when such floor is of such
strength as to support safely the load to be superimposed by storing such
materials or articles;(b)an access to any stairway or passageway is not
affected or blocked by storing any material or article; and(c)suitable
barricades are provided so as to prevent materials or articles from sliding or
rebounding into any space used by the building workers.

### 115. Floor openings.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that every opening used for the removal of debris from every
floor which is not closed to access, except the top or working floor is
provided with an enclosure from such floor to its ceiling, or such opening is
so barricaded that no building worker has access to within a horizontal
distance of six metres from such opening through which debris is being
dropped.

### 116. Inspection.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that a person responsible for demolition work makes
continuous inspections during demolition process of such demolition work so as
to detect any hazard resulting from weakened or deteriorated floors or walls
or loosened materials or articles during such demolition process and that no
building worker is permitted to work where such hazard exist unless remedial
measures like shoring or bracing are taken to prevent such hazards.

### 117. Warning signs, barricades, etc.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)barricades and warning signs are erected along
every side throughout the length and breadth of a building or other
construction work to be demolished to prevent unauthorised persons from
entering into the site of such building or other construction work during
demolition operations;(b)during the demolition of an exterior masonry wall or
a roof from a point more than twelve metres above the adjoining ground level
of such wall or roof, if person below such wall or roof are exposed to falling
objects, suitable and safe catch platforms shall be provided and maintained at
a level more than six metres below the working level except where an exterior
built-up scaffold is provided for safe and adequate protection of such
persons; and(c)suitable and standard warning signs in accordance with national
standards are displayed or erected at conspicuous places or position at the
work place.

### 118. Mechanical method of demolition.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that the following requirements are fulfilled in case the
mechanical method of demolition like use of swinging weight, clamshell bucket,
powder shovel, bulldozer or other similar mechanical methods are used for the
purpose of demolition, namely:-(a)that the building or structure or remaining
portion thereof shall be not more than twenty-four metres in height;(b)that
were as winging weight is used for demolition,a zone of such demolition having
a radius of at least one and a half times the height of the structure or
portion thereof being so demolished shall be maintained around the points of
impact of such swinging weight.(c)where a clamshell bucket is being used for
demolition, a zone of demolition shall be maintained within eight metres of
the line of travel of such bucket;(d)that were other mechanical methods are
being used to affect total or partial collapse of a building or other
construction work, there shall be maintained in the area into which the
affected portion of such building or other construction work may fall, a zone
of demolition at least one and a half times the height of such affected
portion thereof; and(e)no person other than building workers or other persons
essential to the operation of demolition work shall be permitted to enter a
zone of demolition referred to in clause (a) which shall be provided with
substantial barricades.

## Chapter XIII  
Excavation and Tunneling Works

### 119. Notification of intention to carry out excavation and tunneling work.

(1)Every employer carrying out any excavation or tunneling work at a
construction site of a building or other construction work shall, within
thirty days, prior to the commencement of such excavation or tunneling work,
inform in writing the detailed layout, plans, method of construction and
schedule of such excavation or tunneling work to the Chief Inspector of
Inspection of Building and Construction.(2)In case compressed air is used in
such excavation or tunneling work or any work incidental to or required for
such excavation or tunneling work, the technical details and drawings of all
man-locks and medical-locks together with names and address of all
construction medical officers having qualification as laid down in Schedule-XI
to these rules and so appointed by such employer for the purpose of such
excavation or tunneling work shall be sent to Chief Inspector of Inspection of
Building and Construction.

### 120. Project engineer.

(1)Every employer undertaking any excavation or tunneling work shall appoint a
project engineer for safe operation of such projects of such excavation or
tunneling Work for which such engineer is appointed.(2)Such project engineer
shall exercise overall control of the operations and the activities at such
project and be responsible for carrying out the activities safely.

### 121. Responsible person.

(1)Every employer undertaking excavation or tunneling work at a construction
site of a building or other construction work shall appoint a responsible
person for safe operation for such excavation or tunneling work.(2)Duties and
responsibilities of the responsible person referred to in sub-rule (1) shall
include,-(a)to carry out smoothly such excavation or tunneling work;(b)to
inspect and rectify any hazardous situation relating to such excavation or
tunneling work; and(c)to take remedial measures to avoid any unsafe practice
or condition relating to such excavation or tunneling work.(3)The name and
address of the responsible person referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be
forwarded to the Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and Construction.

### 122. Warning signs and notices.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)suitable warning signs or notices, required for the
safety of building workers, carrying out the work of an excavation or
tunneling shall be displayed or erected at conspicuous places in Tamil at such
excavation or tunneling work;(b)such warning signs and notices with regard to
compressed air working shall include,-(i)the danger involved in such
compressed air work;(ii)fire and explosion hazards; and(iii)the emergency
procedures for rescue from such dangers or hazards.

### 123. Register of employment, etc.

(1)Every employer shall ensure that at a construction site of a building or
other construction work where an excavation or tunneling work is being carried
on, a register of employment or building workers carrying out such excavation
or tunneling work is maintained and produced on demand to the Inspector having
jurisdiction.(2)Periods of work of such excavation or tunneling work in which
such building workers are employed, shall be maintained in a register on day-
to-day basis and such register shall be produced on demand to the Inspector
having jurisdiction.

### 124. Illumination.

(1)The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that all work places where excavation or tunneling work are
carried out shall be adequately illuminated in accordance with the relevant
national standards.(2)Every employer carrying out excavation or tunneling
works at a construction site of a building or other construction work shall
provide for emergency generators on such construction site to ensure adequate
illumination at all work places where such excavation or tunneling work is
being carried out, in case of power failure.

### 125. Stability of structure.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)where there is any doubt as to the stability of any
structure adjoining the work place or other areas to be excavated or where
tunneling work is to be carried out, the project engineer referred to in rule
120 arranges for measures like underpinning, sheet piling, shoring, bracing or
other similar means to support such structure and to prevent injury to any
building worker working adjacent to such structure or damage to property or
equipment adjacent to such structure;(b)where any building worker engaged in
excavation is exposed to hazard of falling or sliding material or article from
any bank or side of such excavation which is more than one and a half metre
above this footing, such worker is protected by adequate piling and bracing
against such bank or side;(c)the excavation and its vicinity are checked by a
responsible person referred to in rule 121 after every rain, storm or other
occurrences carrying hazards and in case a hazard is noticed at such checking,
adequate protection against slides and cave in to prevent such hazard is
provided;(d)temporary sheet piling installed for the construction of a
retaining wall after excavation is not removed except on the advice of the
responsible person referred to in rule 121 after an inspection carried out by
such responsible person;(e)where banks of an excavation are undercut, adequate
shoring is provided to support the material or article over hanging such
bank;(f)excavated material is not stored at least zero point six five metres
from the edge of an open excavation or trench or banks of such excavation or
trench are stripped of loose rocks and other materials which may slide, roll
or fall upon a building worker working below such bank;(g)adequate and
suitable warning signs are put-up at conspicuous places at the excavation work
to avoid any person falling into the excavation of trenches; and(h)the
responsible person referred to in rule 121, ensures at the excavation work
that no building worker is permitted to work where such building worker may be
struck or endangered by the excavation machinery or material or article used
in such excavation.

### 126. Piling, shoring and bracing.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)plank used for sheet piling in excavation or
tunneling work is of sound material with adequate strength;(b)shores and
braces used in excavation or tunneling work are of adequate dimensions and are
so placed as to the effective for their intended purposes;(c)earth supported
shores or braces used in excavation or tunneling work bear against a footing
of sufficient area and stability to prevent the shifting of such shores or
braces.

### 127. Safe access.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that ladders, stair cases or ramps are provided, as the case
may be, for safe access to, and egress from, excavation where the depth of
such excavation exceeds one point five metres and such ladders, stair cases or
ramps comply with the relevant national standards.

### 128. Trenches.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that a trench or excavation is protected against falling of
a person by suitable measures if the depth of such trench or excavation
exceeds one and a half metre and such protection is an improved protection in
accordance with the design and drawing of a professional engineer, where such
depth exceeds four metres.

### 129. Depth of trenches.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)where the depth of a trench requires two lengths of
sheet piling, one above the other, the lower piling is set inside the bottom
strings or walls of the upper piling and such sheet piling is driven down and
braced as the excavation continues; and(b)all metal sheet piles used in
excavation or a trench are welded end to end and secured by other similar
means.

### 130. Positioning and use of machinery.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that any machinery used in excavation and tunneling work is
positioned and operated in such a way that such machinery does not endanger
the operator of such machinery or any other person in the vicinity.

### 131. Breathing apparatus.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)suitable breathing apparatus is provided to a
building worker while working in compressed air environment for Iris use at
excavation or tunneling work; and(b)such breathing apparatus is maintained in
good working condition at all times.

### 132. Safety measures for tunneling operation.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)where there is a danger of falling or sliding of
material from the roof face or wall of a tunnel, adequate measures such as
shoring, supporting by means of rock bolts, segments or steel set are taken
for the safety of building workers;(b)the excavated areas are made safe by use
of suitably designed and installed steel sets, rock bolts or similar other
safe means;(c)the responsible person referred to in rule 121 examines and
inspects the work places in a tunnel before the commencement of work in such
tunnel, and at regular intervals thereafter to ensure safety of the building
workers in such tunnel; and(d)the portal areas of the tunnel with loose soil,
or rock, likely to cause injuries to a person are adequately protected with
supports.

### 133. Pneumatic tools.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that supply line to pneumatic tools used within a tunnel are
fitted with water-trap or safety chain or safety wire, as the case may be.

### 134. Shafts.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)surroundings of a shaft used in excavation or
tunnel work are protected from being washed away by construction of sufficient
height;(b)where a building worker is required to enter a shaft at an
excavation or tunneling work, safe means of access is provided for such
entry;(c)every shaft at excavation or tunneling work is provided with a steel
casing, concrete piping, timber shoring or other materials of adequate
strength for the safety of building workers working in such shaft;(d)such
casing and bracing are provided to a shaft at an excavation or tunneling work
up to the depth of such shaft at an excavation or tunneling work according to
the appropriate design for such casing and bracing; and(e)a reinforced
concrete raft and beam is provided around the opening of a shaft at an
excavation or tunneling work if the ground surrounding such opening is
unstable or unsafe.

### 135. Lift for shaft.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that lift is provided for transport of building workers and
materials or articles at an excavation or tunneling work required to descend
more than fifty metres in shaft.

### 136. Means of communication.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)reliable and effective means of communication such
as telephone or walkie-talkie are provided and are maintained in working order
for arranging better and effective communication at an excavation or tunneling
work at the following locations, namely:-(i)working chamber at the face of an
excavation;(ii)intervals of hundred metres along the tunnel;(iii)working
chamber side of a man-lock near the door of such man-lock;(iv)interior of each
chamber of a man-lock:(v)location conspicuous to a lock attendant's
station;(vi)a compressor plant;(vii)a first-aid station; and(viii)outside the
portal or the top of a §haft.

### 137. Signals .

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that the standard audio or video signals are used in
excavation or tunneling work and are conspicuously located or displayed near
entrance to the work place and in such other locations as may be necessary to
bring such signals to notice of all building workers employed in such
excavation or tunneling work.

### 138. Clearances.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)the minimum lateral clearance of half a metre is
maintained between any part of vehicle and any fixture or equipment used in an
excavation or tunneling work after allowing the throw or swing of such fixture
or equipment; and(b)the overhead clearance for a locomotive drive at
excavation or tunneling work is not less than one point one zero metres above
the seat of such driver and not less than 2 metres above the platform where
such driver stands or of any other dimension in accordance with the relevant
national standard.

### 139. Shelters.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that the adequate number of shelters for the safeguard of
the building workers are provided where in the course of working, they are
liable to be struck by a moving vehicle or other material handling equipment
in a tunnel

### 140. Use of internal combustion engine.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that no internal combustion engine is used underground in
excavation or tunneling work unless such engine is so constructed that,-(a)the
air entering the engines gets cleared before entry; and(b)no fumes or sparks
are emitted by the engine.

### 141. Inflammable oils.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that inflammable oils with the flash point below the working
temperature that is likely to be encountered in a tunnel are not used in
excavation or tunneling work.

### 142. Coupling and hoses.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that only high pressure hydraulic hoses and couplings are
used on hydraulic plants underground and such hoses and couplings are
adequately protected against any possible damage in excavation or tunneling
work.

### 143. Hose installation.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that all hydraulic lines and plants working at a temperature
exceeding seventy degree centigrade (70° C) are protected by adequate
insulation or otherwise against accidental human conduct in excavation or
tunneling work.

### 144. Fire resistant hoses.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that no fire hydraulic hoses other than fire resistant
hydraulic hoses are used when hydraulically activated machinery and equipment
is employed in tunnels.

### 145. Flame proof equipment.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that only flame proof equipment appropriate type as per
relevant national standards is used where there is a danger of flammable or
explosive atmosphere being prevalent inside the tunnel.

### 146. Storing of oil and fuel underground.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)all oils, greases or fuels stored underground in
excavation or tunneling work are kept in tightly sealed containers and in fire
resistant areas at safe distances away from explosive and other flammable
chemicals; and(b)appropriate flame proof installation is used in such storage
areas as specified in clause (a).

### 147. Use of gases underground.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)petrol or liquified petroleum gas or any other
flammable substances are not used, stored inside the tunnel except with the
prior approval of the project engineer under rule 120;(b)after the use of the
petroleum or liquified petroleum gas, or highly inflammable substances
referred to in clause (a), all remaining petroleum or liquified petroleum gas
or highly inflammable substances are removed immediately from such tunnel;
and(c)no oxy-acetylene gas is used in a compressed air environment in
excavation or tunneling work.

### 148. Water for fire fighting.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)adequate number of water outlets are provided on
excavation or tunneling work and are readily made accessible throughout the
tunnel for fire fighting purposes and such water outlets are maintained for
effective fire fighting;(b)all air locks are equipped with fire fighting
facilities a t excavation or tunneling work;(c)an audible fire alarm is
provided to warn the building workers whenever a fire breaks out on an
excavation or tunneling work;(d)adequate number and types of fire
extinguishers, in accordance with relevant national standards, are provided
and made readily available to fight any out break of fire at an excavation of
tunneling work;(e)fire extinguishers with vapourising liquids and high
pressure carbon-dioxide are not used in tunnels or other confined spaces;
and(f)the instructions regarding steps to be followed to fight out break of
fire, at an excavation or tunneling work written in Tamil are displayed at
conspicuous and vulnerable places of such excavation or tunneling work.

### 149. Flooding.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)water tight bulkhead doors are installed at the
entrance of a tunnel to prevent flooding during a tunneling work where more
than one tunnel is driven from a shaft;(b)all necessary measures are taken to
ensure that no building worker is trapped in any isolated section of a tunnel
when any bulkhead door of such tunnel is closed; and(c)where there is
likelihood of flooding or water rushing into a tunnel during a tunneling work,
arrangements are made for immediate starting of water pumps to take out water
of such flooding or water rushing and for giving alert signals to the building
workers and other persons to keep them away from danger.

### 150. Steel curtains.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that air tight steel curtains are provided in areas liable
to flooding at tunneling work and in case of descending tunnel, such curtains
are provided in the top half of such tunnels to ensure the retention of
pockets of air for rescue purpose.

### 151. Rest shelters.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)where building workers employed in a compressed air
environment in a tunneling work are required to remain at the work site for
one hour or more after de-compression from pressure exceeding one bar,
adequate and suitable facilities are provided for such building workers to
rest;(b)every man-lock, medical-lock and any other facility inside these locks
at an excavation or tunneling work is maintained in a clean state and in good
repairs;(c)a first-aid room is provided and is readily available at a
construction site of a tunneling work; and(d)each man-lock attendant station
is provided with a first-aid box at a construction site of a tunneling work.

### 152. Permissible limit of exposure of chemicals.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)the working environment in a tunnel or a shaft in
which building workers are employed does not contain any of the hazardous
substances in concentrations beyond the permissible limits as laid down in the
Schedule-XII of these rules; and(b)the responsible person referred to in rule
121 conducts necessary test before the commencement of a tunneling work for
the day and at suitable intervals as fixed by the Chief Inspector of
Inspection of Building and Construction to ensure that the permissible limits
of exposure are not exceeded and a record of such test is maintained and is
made available for inspection to the Inspector having jurisdiction, on demand.

### 153. Ventilation.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of building or other
construction work that all working areas in free air tunnel are provided with
ventilation system as approved by the Chief Inspector of Inspection of
Building and Construction and the fresh air supplied in such tunnel is not
less than six cubic metre per minute for each building worker employed
underground in such tunnel, and the free air-flow movement inside such tunnel
is not less than nine metres per minute.

### 154. Air supply intake point.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that the air intake points for all air compressors are
located at places where such intake air does not get contaminated with dust
fumes, vapour and exhaust gases or other contaminants.

### 155. Emergency generators.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)every compressed air system in a tunnel is provided
with emergency power supply system for maintaining continued supply of
compressed air in such compressed air system and is capable of operating air
compressor and ancillary systems of such compressed air system; and(b)the
emergency power supply system is maintained and is readily available at all
times at an excavation or tunneling work.

### 156. Air mains.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that every air main supplying air to the working chamber,
man-lock or medical-lock used at an excavation or tunneling work is protected
against accidental damage and where it is not practicable to provide such
protection, a stand-by air main is provided.

### 157. Bulk head and air-locks.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)a bulk head or air tight diaphragms retaining
compressed air, when used within a tunnel or a shaft, is constructed to
withstand the maximum pressure at one point two five times the maximum working
pressure of such bulk head or diaphragm and such bulk head or diaphragm is
tested before its each use by a responsible person referred to in rule 121 to
ensure that such bulk head or diaphragm is in proper working order;(b)such
responsible person keeps the record of each test referred to in clause (a) and
such record is produced for inspection to the inspector having jurisdiction on
demand;(c)the bulk head or diaphragm referred to in clause (a) are made of
sound materials of adequate strength and are able to withstand the maximum
pressure on which they are subjected to at any time of their use; and(d)a
bulk-head anchorage and air lock is tested at its work place at an excavation
or tunneling work immediately after their installation at such place.

### 158. Diaphragms.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that all diaphragms which are in the form of horizontal,
decks across a shaft used at excavation or tunneling work are securely
anchored.

### 159. Portable electrical hand tools.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that all portable electrical hand tools and inspection lamps
used underground or in a confined space of an excavation or tunneling work are
operated at a voltage not exceeding twenty-four volts.

### 160. Circuit breaker.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)adequate numbers of differential ground-fault
circuit breakers are installed for every electrical distribution system and
it's sub-systems used at an excavation or tunneling work and the sensitivity
of each of circuit breaker is adjusted in accordance with the requirement set
out in accordance with the relevant national standards; and(b)no semi-enclosed
fuse unit is used in underground place at an excavation or tunneling work.

### 161. Transformer.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that no transformer is used in any section of a tunnel under
compressed air unless such transformer is of the dry type and conforms to the
relevant national standards.

### 162. Live wires.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that there is no exposed live wire in working areas at an
excavation or tunneling work which are accessible to building workers other
than those authorised to work on such live lines.

### 163. Welding sets.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that all welding sets used in a tunnel are of adequate
capacity and of suitable type approved by Chief Inspector of Inspection of
Building and Construction.

### 164. Quality and quantity of air.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)every working chamber at an excavation or tunneling
work where compressed air is used the supply of such air is maintained not
less than zero point three cubic metres per minute per person working
therein;(b)a reserve supply of compressed air is made available at all times
for man-locks and medical-locks used at a tunneling work; and(c)the air
supplied in a compressed air environment at a tunneling work is as far as
practicable free from odour and other contaminants, namely, lust, fumes and
other toxic substances.

### 165. Working temperature.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that the temperature in any working chamber at an excavation
or tunneling work where building workers are employed does not exceed twenty-
nine degree centigrade and that the arrangement is maintained for keeping
records in which the temperature measured by dry bulb and wet bulb inside such
working chamber once in every hour and to produce such records for inspection
on demand to the inspector having jurisdiction.

### 166. Man-locks and working in compressed air environment.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)man-locks used at a tunneling work are of adequate
strength, made of sound material and designed to withstand any air pressure,
internal or external, to which it may be subjected to in the normal use or in
an emergency;(b)(i)doors of man-locks at an excavation or tunneling work are
made of steel;(ii)man-locks used at a tunneling work are air-tight and devices
are provided for sealing the doors when such locks are under pressure;(iii)the
anchorage of a man-lock used at tunneling work has adequate strength to
withstand the pressure exerted by air on the man-lock;(iv)there is adequate
room available for the building worker for working in the man-lock used at
tunneling work; and(v)where work is carried out in any compressed air tunnel,
a man-lock in accordance with the relevant national standards is used for such
tunnel;(c)(i)where a man-lock is used at tunneling work, safety instructions
in Tamil are displayed at conspicuous places at such tunneling work;(ii)except
in an emergency, compression and de-compression operations are carried out in
a man-lock used at tunneling work;(iii)in an emergency any material-lock may
be used at tunneling work for compression and de-compression of building
worker and a record is kept in writing and produced for inspection an demand
to the Inspector having jurisdiction;(iv)material-lock is used with the
permission of Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and Construction for
compression and de-compression of building workers, where it is impracticable
to install both the man-lock and the material-lock at a tunneling work;(v)de-
compression of all building workers to atmospheric condition at tunneling work
is carried out in accordance with a de-compression procedure approved by the
Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and Construction;(vi)the man-lock at
tunneling work is not used for any purpose other than compression or de-
compression of building workers;(vii)no de-canting of building workers at
tunneling work is carried out without prior approval of Chief Inspector of
Inspection of Building and Construction except in an emergency;(viii)in case a
building worker collapses or is taken ill during his de-compression in a man-
lock used at tunneling work, the lock attendant of such man-lock raises the
pressure in such man-lock until such pressure is equal to the maximum pressure
which that building worker was exposed to in the working chamber prior to such
de-compression and such lock attendant immediately reports for matter relating
to such collapse to the medical-lock attendant and medical officer on duty at
such tunneling work;(ix)a building worker who had previously received training
with a trained building worker to work in a compressed air environment at
tunneling work is employed to work independently in such a compressed air
environment;(x)a building worker who had undergone three de-compressions from
a pressure exceeding one bar in a period of eight hours at tunneling work is
not allowed to enter a compressed air environment except for the purpose of
carrying out rescue work;(xi)a building worker employed in a compressed air
environment for a period of eight hours in a day at tunneling work is not
employed again in such environment unless he has spent not less than twelve
consecutive hours of rest at atmospheric pressure;(xii)no building worker is
engaged in a compressed air environment at a pressure which exceeds three bars
at tunneling work unless prior permission in writing has been obtained from
the Chief Inspector of Inspection and Building and Construction for such
engagement;(xiii)no building worker is employed in a compressed air
environment for more than fourteen consecutive days in a month at tunneling
work;(xiv)a register of employment of all building workers employed in
compressed air environment at tunneling work, is maintained;(xv)an
identification badge is supplied to a building worker employed in compressed
air environment at tunneling work;(xvi)the badge of a building worker referred
to in sub-clause (xv) contains particulars of his name, location of the
medical-lock allotted to him for work, the telephone number of the
Construction Medical Officer concerned for his treatment and the instructions
in case of his illness of unknown and doubtful causes;(xvii)record of all
identification badges supplied to building workers under sub-clause (xvi) is
kept in a register;(xviii)every building worker whose name appears in the
register referred to in sub-clause (xvii) wears the badges supplied to him
under sub-clause (xv) at all times during his duty hours at tunneling work;
and(xix)suitable warning signs are displayed in the compressed air environment
at tunneling work, for the prohibition of following, namely:-(a)use of
alcoholic drinks;(b)use and carrying of lighters, matches or other sources of
ignition;(c)smoking; and(d)an entry to person who has consumed alcoholic
drinks.

### 167. Safety instructions.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that all building workers employed in compressed air
environment at tunneling work follow the instructions issued for their safety
in the course of such employment.

### 168. Medical-lock.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)a suitably constructed medical-lock is maintained
at tunneling work where building workers are employed in a working chamber at
a pressure exceeding one bar; and(b)where more than one hundred building
workers are employed in a compressed air working environment exceeding one bar
at tunneling work, one medical-lock is provided for every one hundred building
workers or part thereof and such medical-lock is situated as near as possible
to the main-lock used at such tunneling work.

## Chapter XIV  
Construction, Repair and Maintenance of Steep Roof

### 169. Work on steep roof.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that all practicable measures are provided to protect the
building workers against sliding when carrying out work on steep roofs.

### 170. Construction and installation of roofing brackets.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)roofing brackets are constructed to fit the pitch
of steep roof and such brackets are used to provide level working platform;
and(b)a roofing bracket referred to in clause (a) is secured in its place by
nailing pointed metal projections arrayed to the underside of such bracket and
securely driven into a steep roof on which it is used or secured by a rope
passed over the ridge pole and tie of such roof.

### 171. Crawling boards.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)crawling boards used for work, on steep roofs are
of adequate strength, made of sound material and of the type approved for the
purpose of their use as per relevant national standards;(b)crawling boards
referred to in clause (a) are kept in good repairs and inspected by a
responsible person before taken into use;(c)crawling board referred to in
clause (a) is secured to a steep roof on which it is used by ridge hooks or
other effective means; and(d)a firmly fastened life line of adequate strength
is strung beside each crawling board referred to in clause (a) throughout its
length while using such crawling boards.

## Chapter XV  
Ladders and Step-Ladders

### 172. Construction and safe use.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that-(a)every ladder or step-ladder used in building or
other construction work is of good construction, made of sound material and of
adequate strength for the purpose for which such ladder or step-ladder is
used;(b)when a ladder is used as a means of communication, such ladder is
lashed to a fixed structure so that while working on such ladder it does not
slip;(c)a ladder or a step-ladder does not stand on loose bricks or other
loose packing and has a level and firm footing;(d)where it is required, in
case of use of fixed ladders, sufficient foot-holds and hand-holds are
provided for use by the building worker;(e)every ladder is,-(i)secured so as
to prevent undue swaying;(ii)equally and properly supported on each of its
upright;(iii)so used as not to cause undue sagging; and(iv)placed as nearly as
possible at a inclination of four in one;(f)the use of all ladders and step-
ladders conform to the relevant national standards for their use.

### 173. Rungs.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that no ladder is used which has a missing or defective rung
or a rung which depends for its support solely on nails, spikes or other
similar fixing.

### 174. Materials for ladders.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that all wooden ladders used in building work,-(a)are
constructed upright of adequate strength and are made of straight grained wood
free from defects and having the grain of such wood running length-
wise;(b)have rungs made of straight grained wood free from defects and
mortised or securely notched into the upright; and(c)have reinforcing material
ties, if the tenors of such ladders are not secured by wedges.

## Chapter XVI  
Catch Platform and Hoardings Chutes, Safety Belts and Nets

### 175. Catch platform.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)catch platform is not used for storage of material
or as a working platform;(b)catch platform is at least 2 metres wide and is
inclined so that the position of outer edge of such platform is fifteen
hundred millimetres higher than the inner edge;and(c)the open end of catch
platform is properly fenced to the height not less than 1 metre.

### 176. Hoardings.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that hoardings are constructed when the Chief Inspector of
Inspection of Building and Construction consider it necessary for protection
of building workers and directs such employer to construct such hoardings.

### 177. Chutes, its construction and use.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)wooden and metal chutes which are at an angle of
more than 45 degrees to the horizontal and used for the removal of materials
are closed on all sides except at their openings used for receiving or
discharging of materials or articles;(b)all opening of chutes except their top
opening are closed when not in use;(c)every chute,-(i)is constructed of sound
material, adequate strength and is suitable for the purpose it is intended for
use; and(ii)exceeding twelve metres in height is constructed in accordance
with the design and drawings of a professional engineer for such construction
and approval of the Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and
Construction;(d)a suitable warning notice is displayed at conspicuous location
written in Tamil at the discharge end of every chute; and(e)every chute is
cleared when debris has accumulated to a height which can pose danger to
building worker but such clearance is done in no case less frequently than
once a day.

### 178. Safety belt and its use.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)safety belt, life lines and devices for the
attachment of such life line conform to the relevant national
standards;(b)every building worker is supplied with safety belt and safety
life lines for his protection and such building worker uses such belts and
life lines during the performance of his work;(c)all building workers using
safety belts and safety life lines have the knowledge of safe use and
maintenance of such belts and life lines and are supplied with necessary
instructions; and(d)the responsible person for supervising the use of safety
belts and safety life lines referred to in clause (b) inspects and ensures
that such safety belts and life lines are fit for use before taking into use
at every time.

### 179. Safety net and its use.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)every safety net is of adequate strength made of
sound material and is suitable for use and conforms to the relevant national
standards; and(b)the responsible person for maintenance of the safety nets and
their use ensures safe fixing of such safety nets and provides such safety
nets with suitable and to sufficient anchorage so that the purpose for which
such safety net is intended for use is served.

### 180. Storage of safety belts and nets, etc.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that proper arrangement is made for the safe storage of
safety belts, safety life lines and safety nets when they are not in use and
are protected against mechanical damage, damages from chemicals and damages
from biological agents.

## Chapter XVII  
Structural Frame and form Work

### 181. General provision.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)the trained building worker under the direct
supervision of a person, responsible for structural frame and form work are
employed for erection of such structural frame or form work, dismantling of
building and structure and performance of an engineering work, form work,
false work and shoring work; and(b)adequate measures are taken to guard
against hazards arising from any temporary state of weakness or unsuitability
of a structure.

### 182. Form work, false work and shoring.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)form work and false work are so designed,
constructed and maintained that such form work and false work support the load
that may be imposed on them; and(b)such form work is so erected that working
platform, means of access, bracing means of handling and stabilising could
easily be fixed with such form work.

### 183. Erection or dismantling of steel and pre-fabricated structure.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)the safety of building workers employed for the
erection or dismantling of steel structures and pre-fabricated structures is
ensured from danger by using appropriate means, such as the following,
namely:-(i)ladder, gangways or fixed platforms;(ii)platforms, buckets,
boatswain's chair or other appropriate means suspended from lifting
appliances;(iii)safety harness, life lines, catch net or catch platform;
and(iv)power-operated mobile working platform;(b)the work of erection or
dismantling of buildings or structures or form work or false work or shoring
or any other civil engineering work is carried out by trained building workers
under the supervision of a person responsible for such work;(c)steel or
prefabricated structures are so designed and made that such structures can be
safely transported or erected; and weight of each unit of such structures is
clearly marked on such unit;(d)the design of each such part maintains
stability of each part of the structures referred to in clause (a), clause (b)
and clause (c) when erected, and to prevent danger, the design shall
explicitly take into account,-(i)the relevant conditions and methods of
attachment in the operations of stripping, transport, storing and temporary
support during erection of such parts; and(ii)safeguards, such as provision of
railings, with working platforms, and for mounting such railings and platforms
easily on the structural steel or prefabricated parts;(e)the hooks and other
devices built in or provided on the structural steel or pre-fabricated parts
that are required for lifting and transporting such parts are so shaped,
dimensioned and positioned to withstand the stresses to which such hooks or
other devices are subjected;(f)pre-fabricated parts made of concrete are not
stripped or erected before such concrete has set and hardened sufficiently to
the extent provided for in the plans, and such parts are examined by the
responsible person, for any sign of damage before their use;(g)store-places
are so constructed that,-(i)there is no risk of structural steel or pre-
fabricated parts falling or overturning;(ii)storage conditions generally
ensure stability and avoid damage having regard to the method of storage and
atmospheric conditions; and(iii)racks are set on firm ground and designed so
that units cannot move accidentally in such store places;(h)structural steel
or pre-fabricated parts are not subjected to stresses prejudicial to their
stability while they are stored or transported or raised or set down;(i)tongs,
clamps and other appliances for lifting structural steel and pre-fabricated
parts are,-(i)in such shape and dimensioned as to ensure a secure grip without
damaging such parts; and(ii)marked with the maximum permissible load in the
most unfavourable lifting conditions;(j)structural steel or pre-fabricated
parts are lifted by such methods and appliances that prevent them from
spinning accidentally;(k)structural steel or pre-fabricated parts are provided
with railings and working platforms before raising such parts to prevent any
danger of falling of building workers, materials or articles at the time of
any work with such parts;(l)all reasonably practical measures are taken to
avoid injury to building workers, building structure or equipment while
structural steel or pre-fabricated parts are handled or stored or transported
or raised or lowered;(m)structures are not worked on during violent storms or
high winds or any other such hazardous situation;(n)the risk of falling, to
which building workers, moving on high of sloping girders may be exposed is
limited by all means of adequate collective protection or by the use of a
safety harness which is well secured to a sufficiently strong
support;(o)structural steel parts which are to be erected at a great height
are, as far as practicable, assembled on the ground;(p)when structural steel
or pre-fabricated parts are being erected, a sufficiently extended area
underneath the work place shall be barricaded or guarded;(q)steel trusses
which are being erected are adequately shored, braced or guyed until they are
permanently secured in position; and(r)structural members are not forced into
place by the hoisting machine while any building worker is in such a position
that he is likely to be injured by such operation.

### 184. Form work.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)all form works are properly designed keeping in
view the safety of building workers, building or structures; and(b)a
responsible person for structural frame and form work,-(i)inspects and
examines the material, timber, structural steel and scaffolding for its
strength and suitability before being taken into use;(ii)lays down procedures
to cover all stages of such structural frame and form work;(iii)supervises
such structural frame and form work; and(iv)takes all necessary steps or
measures to correct any situation with a view to prevent accident or dangerous
occurrence during performance of such structural frame and form work.

### 185. De-shoring.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)when shoring removed, sufficient props are left in
place of such shoring to prevent any possible hazard; and(b)de-shoring is
adequately braced or tied together with support to prevent any hazard.

## Chapter XVIII  
Stacking and Unstacking

### 186. Stacking and unstacking of materials and articles.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)where stacking, unstacking, stowing or unstowing of
construction materials or article, or handling in connection therewith cannot
be safely carried out unaided, reasonable measures to guard against accident
or dangerous occurrences, are taken by shoring or otherwise to prevent any
danger likely to be caused by such handling;(b)stacking of materials or
articles is made on firm foundation not liable to settle and deviate such
material or article and does not overload the floor on which such stacking is
made;(c)the material or articles are not stacked against partition or walls of
a warehouse or store-place unless it is known that such partition or the wall
is of sufficient strength to withstand the pressure of such materials or
articles;(d)the materials and articles are not stacked to such a height and in
such a manner as would render the pile of such stack unstable and cause
hazards to the building workers or the public in general;(e)where the building
workers are working on stack exceeding one point five metres in height, safe
means of access to the stack is provided;(f)all stacking or unstacking
operations are performed under the supervision of a responsible person for
such stacking or unstacking;(g)the stacking of construction materials or
articles is not made near the site of excavation, shaft, pit or any other such
opening; and(h)stacks which may lean heavily or becoming unstable or collapse
are barricaded.

### 187. Stacking of cement and other material bags.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)a stack pile is not more than 10 bags in height
unless such stack pile is stacked in a suitable enclosure or otherwise
adequately supported;(b)while removing bags from the stack pile, the stability
of such stack pile is ensured;(c)bags containing cement or lime are stored in
dry places;(d)the materials like bricks, tiles or blocks are stored on a firm
ground;(e)reinforcing steel is stored according to its shape, size and
length;(f)stack of reinforcing steel is kept as low as possible;(g)no pipe is
stored on rack or in stack where such pipe is likely to fall by rolling;(h)the
angle of repose is maintained where loose materials are stacked; and(i)when
dust laden material is to be stored or handled, measures are taken to suppress
the dust produced by such storing or handling and suitable personal protective
equipment are supplied to and used by the building workers working for such
storing and handling.

## Chapter XIX  
Scaffold

### 188. Scaffold construction.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)every scaffold and every component thereof is of
adequate construction, made of sound material and free from defects and is
safe for the purposes for which it is intended for use;(b)in case, bamboo is
used for scaffolding, such bamboo is of suitable quality, good condition, free
from protruding knots and stripped off to avoid any injury to building workers
during handling such bamboo; and(c)all metal scaffolds used in building or
other construction work conform to the relevant national standards.

### 189. Supervision by a responsible person.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that, no scaffold is erected, added, altered or dismantled
except under the supervision of a responsible person for such erection,
addition, alteration or dismantling.

### 190. Maintenance.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)the scaffold used in building or other construction
work is maintained in good repairs and the measures are taken against its
accidental displacement or any other hazard;(b)no scaffold or part thereof is
partly dismantled and allowed to remain in such a condition unless,-(i)the
stability or safety of the remaining portion of such scaffold has been ensured
by a responsible person for the safety of such scaffolds; and(ii)In case the
remaining part of such scaffold cannot be used by the building workers,
necessary warning notice written in Tamil, that such scaffold is unfit for
use, is displayed at the place where such scaffold is erected.

### 191. Standards, ledger, putlogs.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)standards of a scaffold are,-(i)plumb, where
practicable;(ii)fixed sufficiently close together to secure the stability of
such scaffold having regard to all the possible working situations and
conditions for the intended use of such scaffold; and(iii)spaced as close as
practicable, to ensure safety and stability of such scaffold;(b)adequate
measures are taken to prevent displacement of a standard of a scaffold either
by providing sole plate or a base plate, as necessary;(c)ledgers or metal
scaffold are placed at vertical intervals with due regard to safety and
stability of such scaffold; and(d)bamboo ledgers are kept as nearly as
possible and are placed and fastened to the standards of a scaffold with due
regard to the stability of such scaffold.

### 192. Working platform.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)working platform is provided around the face or
edge of a building adjoining at every uppermost permanent floor of such
building under construction and at any level where construction work of such
building is carried out;(b)a platform is designed to suit the number of
building workers to be employed on each bay of a scaffold work on such
platform and the materials or articles and tools to be carried with them in
such bay; and(c)the safe working load and the number of building workers to be
employed in each bay of a scaffold are displayed for the information of all
the building workers employed at such construction site.

### 193. Board, Plank and Decking.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)board, plank and decking used in construction of a
working platform is of uniform size and strength and is capable of supporting
the load and the number of building workers in accordance with the relevant
national standards keeping in view the safety of such building
workers;(b)material decking, which forms part of a working platform is
provided with non-skid surface;(c)no board or plank, which forms the working
platform is projected beyond its end support unless it is effectively
prevented from tripping or lifting;(d)board, plank or decking is fastened and
secured;(e)at anyone time, not more than two working platforms per bay, are
used to support building workers or materials or articles at such
bay;(f)adequate measures are taken to prevent injury which may be caused by
falling material and objects by using safety nets or other suitable
means;(g)concrete, other debris or materials are not allowed to accumulate at
any platform on a scaffold; and(h)where a work is to be done at the end of a
wall, working platform at such work place is faced or wherever practicable, at
least zero point sixty metres beyond the end of such walls.

### 194. Repair of damaged scaffold.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)no building worker is permitted to work on a
scaffold which has been damaged or weakened unless adequate safety measures
have been taken to ensure the safety of such building workers; and(b)necessary
warning signs are displayed at such places where repairs of scaffold are
undertaken.

### 195. Opening.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)there is no opening in any working platform except
for allowing access to such working platform;(b)wherever opening on a platform
is unavoidable, necessary measures for protection against falling of objects
or building workers from such platform are taken by providing suitable safety
nets, belts or any other similar means; and(c)access from one working platform
to another platform on a scaffold, if required, is provided with suitable and
safe ladder for the use of building workers, working on such platform.

### 196. Guardrails.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that every side of a working platform from which a person is
liable to fall is provided with suitable and safety guardrails and toe-board
of adequate strength to prevent fall of any building worker, material or tools
from such platform.

### 197. Scaffold used by building workers of different employers.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)where a scaffold or a part of a scaffold is used,
which has previously been used by another employer for his building workers,
such scaffold or part thereof is used only after its inspection and
examination by a responsible person for its use that such scaffold or part is
safe and fit for such use; and(b)if any rectification, alteration or
modification is a scaffold or part thereof is needed to suit its use, such
rectification, alteration or modification is made in consultation with the
responsible person referred to in clause (a), before using such scaffold or
part.

### 198. Protection against electric power line.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that all necessary and practical measures for protection are
taken to prevent any building worker, working on a scaffold, from coming into
contact with the electric wires or dangerous equipment.

### 199. Screening net and wire nets.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that where a scaffold is erected in any area where the
construction activities may pose hazards to pedestrians or vehicular traffic
nearby from the falling of objects, wire nets or screening nets are used to
envelope such scaffold.

### 200. Tower scaffold.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)the height of every tower scaffold used in building
or other construction work is not more than eight times, the lesser of a base
dimension of such scaffold;(b)a tower scaffold is lashed to a building or a
fixed structure before being used by the building workers;(c)any tower
scaffold which can be moved or castered is,-(i)constructed with due regard to
the stability and, if necessary, adequately weighted at the base;(ii)used only
on plain and even surface; and(iii)has casters provided with positive locking
devices to hold such scaffold in position;(d)no building worker remains on
board, scaffold, tools, material when it is being shifted from one position to
another position.

### 201. Gear for suspension of scaffold.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of building or other
construction work that,-(a)chains, ropes or lifting gears used for suspension
of a scaffold are of adequate strength, made of sound material and suitable
for the purpose of their use and are maintained in good repairs; and(b)chains,
wires, ropes or metal tubes used for the suspension of a scaffold
are,-(i)properly and securely fastened to every anchorage point and to the
ledgers of other main supporting members used for the support of such
scaffold; and(ii)so positioned as to ensure stability of the scaffold.

### 202. Trestle scaffold and cantilever scaffold.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)no trestle scaffold is constructed with more than
three tiers or if its working platform is more than 4.5 metres above the
ground or floor or other surface upon which such scaffold is erected, such
trestle scaffold is designed by professional Engineer and has the approval of
Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and Construction before being taken
into use;(b)no trestle scaffold is erected on a suspended scaffold;(c)no
cantilever or jib scaffold is used unless it is adequately supported, fixed
and anchored on opposite side of its support has outriggers of adequate length
and where necessary sufficiently supported and braced to ensure safety and
stability of such scaffold; and(d)no working platform resting on bearers let
into a wall at one end and without other support is used unless such bearers
are of adequate strength, braced through the wall and securely fastened on the
other side.

### 203. Scaffold supported by building.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)no part of a building is used as support or part of
a scaffold unless such part of the building is made of sufficient strength and
made of sound material to accord safe support;(b)overhanging caves, gutters
are not used for supporting scaffold; and(c)suspended scaffold is made of in
accordance with the relevant national standards before being used by the
building workers.

### 204. Use of winches and climbers for suspended scaffold.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)no suspended scaffold is raised or lowered by
winches or climbers unless such scaffold is made of sound material, adequate
strength and has been tested and certified safe for use of winches or climbers
for such rising or lowering by a competent person before being taken into
use;(b)all suspended scaffolds, counter-balanced by counter-weights are of
types approved by the Chief Inspector of Building and Other Construction Works
before being taken into use for building or other construction work;(c)the
working platform of a suspended scaffold is securely fastened to the building
or structure as to be safe and to prevent such platform from swing; and(d)the
safe working load which a suspended scaffold can carry, is displayed where
such scaffold is being used.

### 205. Safety devices for suspended scaffold.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that every suspended scaffold, raised or lowered by the
winches or climbers, is provided at each of its suspension point with a safety
rope with automatic safety device mounted on each of such rope so that such
safety rope with such automatic safety device supports the platform of such
scaffold in the event of failure of the primary suspension wire ropes,
winches, climbers or any part of the mechanism used for raising or lowering
such suspended scaffold:Provided that this rule shall not apply,-(a)where the
platform of such scaffold is supported at two independent suspension wire
ropes at or near each end of such platform so that in the event of failure of
one of such suspension wire rope, the other wire rope is capable of sustaining
the weight of such platform and its load and prevent it from tilting;
or(b)where a system is incorporated which operates automatically to support
the platform of such scaffold and its load in the event of failure of the
primary suspension wire rope of such scaffold.

## Chapter XX  
Cofferdams and Caissons

### 206. General provisions.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)even cofferdam and caisson is,-(i)of good
construction, sound material and of adequate strength;(ii)provided with
adequate means for building workers to reach safely the top of such cofferdams
or caissons, as the case may be, in the event of an inrush of water;
and(iii)provided with safe means of access to every place where building
workers are employed in such cofferdams and caissons, as the case may
be;(b)the work relating to construction, positioning, modification or
dismantling of cofferdams or caissons is carried out under the supervision of
a responsible person;(c)all cofferdams and caissons are inspected by
responsible person at intervals as specified by the Chief Inspector of
Building and Other Construction Works;(d)a building worker is allowed to work
in a cofferdam or caisson after such cofferdam or caisson is inspected and
found safe by a responsible person within such proceeding period as approved
by the Chief Inspector of Building and Other Construction Works and a record
of such inspection is maintained in a register;(e)the work in compressed air
in a cofferdam or caisson is,-(i)carried out in accordance with the procedure
laid down in the relevant national standards;(ii)carried out by such building
workers who have completed 18 years of age and are medically examined as
required under rule 223; and(iii)carried out under the supervision of a
responsible person;(f)if the work in cofferdam or caisson is carried out in
shifts, a record of the time spent by each building worker in such shift for
carrying out the work is maintained in a register with particulars of time
taken for the compression of such building worker, if required;(g)at every
work site or project in a cofferdam or caisson, where building workers are
employed to work in compressed air environment, a construction medical officer
assisted by a nurse or trained first-aid attendant, is available at all times
at such site or project during such work; and(h)there is one stand-by reserve
compressor to meet the emergency at each working place or project in a
cofferdam or caisson.

### 207. Pressure plant and equipment.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)the pressure plant and equipment,-(i)are examined
and tested by the competent person before being put into use for such
work;(ii)is of proper design and construction, sound material and adequate
strength to perform the work for which it is used;(iii)is properly maintained
in good repairs and working condition;(b)the pressure plant and equipment
referred to in clause (a) is fitted with,-(i)a suitable safety valve or other
effective device to provide maximum safe, discharge pressure from being
exceeded at any time;(ii)a suitable pressure gauge with a dial range not less
than 1.5 times and not exceeding twice the maximum working pressure, easily
visible and designed to show at all times, the internal pressure in kilogram
per square centimetre and marked with the maximum safe working pressure at
such plant and equipment; and(iii)a suitable stop valve or valves by which the
pressure plant or the system of the pressure plant may be isolated from the
source of supply of pressure or otherwise:(c)every pressure plant or equipment
shall be thoroughly examined by the competent person,-(i)externally, once in
every period of 6 months;(ii)internally, once in every period of 12 months;
and(iii)by hydraulic test once in a period of 4 years.

## Chapter XXI  
Safety Organisation

### 208. Safety Committees.

(1)Every establishment wherein 500 (five hundred) or more building workers are
ordinarily employed, there shall be a safety committee constituted by the
employer which shall be represented by equal number of representatives of
employer and the building workers employed in such establishment. In no case
the number of representatives of the employer shall exceed the representatives
of the building workers. Tire committee shall be represented by
representatives of the recognised union, wherever such union exists.(2)The
main functions of the safety committee shall be,-(a)to identify probable cases
of accident and safe practice in building or other construction work and to
suggest remedial measures;(b)to stimulate interest of employees and building
workers in safety by organising safety weeks, safety competitions, talks and
film shows on safety, preparing posters or taking similar other measures as
and when required or as necessary;(c)to go round the construction site with a
view to check unsafe practices and defect unsafe conditions and to recommend
remedial measures for their rectification including first aid, medical and
welfare facilities;(d)to look into the health hazards associated with handling
different types of explosives, chemicals and other construction materials and
to suggest remedial measures including use of proper personal protective
equipment;(e)to suggest measures for improving welfare amenities in the
construction site and other miscellaneous aspects of safety, health and
welfare in building or other construction work; and(f)to bring to the notice
of the employer the hazards associated with the use, handling and maintenance
of the equipment used during the course of the building and other construction
work.(3)The safety committee shall meet at regular intervals at least once in
a month and it shall be chaired by the senior person having overall control
over the affairs of the construction site.(4)The agenda and minutes of the
meeting shall be circulated to all concerned and it shall be in Tamil and
shall be produced to the Inspector on demand for inspection.(5)The decisions
and recommendations of the safety committee shall be complied with by the
employer within reasonable time limits.

### 209. Safety Officer.

(1)In every establishment wherein 500 or more building workers are ordinarily
employed, the employer shall appoint safety officer as per the scale laid down
in Schedule VIII to these rules. Such safety officers may be assisted by
suitable and adequate staff.(2)Duties, qualifications and the conditions of
service of safety officers appointed under sub-rule (1) shall be as provided
in Schedule VIII to these rules.(3)Wherever the number of workers employed by
single employer is less than five hundred, such employers may form a group and
appoint a common safety officer for such group of employers, with prior
permission of Chief Inspector of Building and Other Construction Works.

### 210. Reporting of accidents.

(1)Notice of any accident on the construction site, which either,-(a)causes
loss of life; or(b)disable a building worker from working for a period of
forty-eight hours or more immediately following the accident, shall forthwith
be sent by telegram, telephone, fax or similar other means including special
messenger within four hours, in case of fatal accidents and seventy-two hours,
in case of other accidents, involving building worker, to the,-(i)Board with
which the building worker involved in accident was registered as a
beneficiary;(ii)Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and Construction;
and(iii)Next in kin or other relative of building worker involved in
accident.(2)Notice of any accident at a construction site of a building or
other construction work, which,-(a)causes loss of life; or(b)disable such
building worker from work for more than ten days following the accident, shall
also be sent to -(i)the officer in-charge of the nearest police station;
and(ii)the District Magistrate or if the District Magistrate by order so
desires, to the Revenue Divisional Officer, having jurisdiction over the area,
as may be directed by the District Magistrate.(3)In the case of an accident
falling under clause (b) of sub-rule (1) or clause (b) of sub-rule (2), the
injured building worker shall be given first-aid and immediately thereafter be
transferred to a hospital or other place for medical treatment.(4)Where any
accident causing disablement, subsequently results in death of a building
worker, notice in writing of such death shall be communicated to the
authorities as mentioned in sub-rule (1) and sub-rule (2) within seventy-two
hours of such death.(5)The following classes of dangerous occurrences shall be
reported to the Inspector having jurisdiction, whether or not any death or
disablement is caused to a building worker, in the manner prescribed in sub-
rule (1), namely:-(a)collapse or failure of lifting appliances or hoist or
conveyors or other similar equipment for handling building or construction
material, or breakage or failure of rope, chain or loose gears overturning
cranes used in building or the reconstruction work falling of objects from
height;(b)collapse or subsidence of soil, any wall, floor, gallery roof or any
other part of any structure, platform, staging scaffolding or any means of
access including form work;(c)contact work, excavation, collapse of
transmissions;(d)explosion of receiver or Vessel used for storage at a
pressure greater than atmospheric pressure, of any gas or gases or any liquid
or solid, used as building material;(e)fire and explosion causing damage to
any place on construction site where building workers are employed;(f)spillage
or leakage of hazardous substances and damage to their container;(g)collapse,
capsize, toppling or collision of transport equipment; and(h)leakage or
release of harmful toxic gases at the construction site.(6)the case of failure
of a lifting appliance, loose gear, hoist or building and other construction
work, machinery and transport equipment at a construction site of a building
or other construction work, such appliances, gear, hoist, machinery or
equipment and the site of such occurrence shall, as far as practicable, be
kept undisturbed until inspected by the inspector having jurisdiction.(7)Every
notice given under sub-rule (1), sub-rule (2) or sub-rule (4) shall be
followed by a written report to the Inspector, authority under section 39 of
the Act, the Board and the Chief Inspector of Building and Other Construction
Workers in Form XIV under Schedule XIII under proper acknowledgement.

### 211. Procedure for enquiry into causes of accident or dangerous
occurrence.

(1)The enquiry under sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) of section 39 of the
Act, as the case may be, shall be conducted by the authority referred to in
sub-clause (i) of clause (b) of sub-rule (1) of rule 210, in the following
manner, namely:-(a)the enquiry shall be commenced as early as it may be and in
any case, within fifteen days of the receipt of notice of accident or
dangerous occurrence under rule 210;(b)the enquiry may be conducted by the
authority referred to in sub-clause (i) of clause (b) of sub-rule (1) of rule
210 himself or by an enquiry officer appointed by such authority;(c)the
authority or enquiry officer, as the case may be, shall serve or cause to be
served, notices in writing, informing the date, time and place of such enquiry
to all persons entitled to appear in such enquiry and whose names and
addresses are known to such authority or enquiry officer;
and(d)notwithstanding the provision of clause (b), for the purpose of
notifying other persons who may in any way be concerned or be interested in
such enquiry, the authority or enquiry officer, as the case may be, may
publish notice of such enquiry in one or more local newspapers, informing the
date, time and place of such enquiry.(2)The person entitled to appear at the
enquiry may include,-(a)an Inspector or any officer of the Government or an
undertaking or public body, concerned with the enforcement or compliance of
safety provisions of the Act and these rules in the concerned
establishment;(b)a trade union or workers association or an employers
association;(c)the worker involved in the accident or his legal heir or
authorised representative;(d)the owner of the premises in which the accident
took place; and(e)any other person, at the discretion of the authority or the
enquiry officer, as the case may be, who may be interested in or be concerned
with the cause of an accident or may have knowledge about such cause or is
likely to give material evidence or produce a relevant document in connection
with such accident or dangerous occurrence.(3)In case the entitled person
referred to in sub-rule (2) is a body corporate, a company, or any other
organisation, association, group of persons, such group maybe represented
through an authorised representative including a counsel or a
solicitor.(4)Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (5), the enquiry shall be
held in public.(5)In cases where,-(a)the Government are of the opinion that
the matter of the enquiry or any part of it are of such nature that it would
be against the interests of national security to hold the enquiry in public
and directs the said authority or the enquiry officer, as the case may be, to
hold the enquiry in camera; or(b)on an application made by any party to the
enquiry, the authority or the enquiry officer, as the case may be, referred to
in sub-rule (1), if it or he is of the opinion that the holding of public
enquiry will lead to disclosure of information relating to a trade secret,
decides to hold the enquiry of such part of it is in camera, such enquiry
shall not be held in public.(6)Information disclosed by any person during the
course of hearing or evidence in the cases covered under sub-rule (5) shall
not be disclosed to any person except for the purpose of the enquiry.(7)The
person entitled to appear under sub-rule (2), called for evidence or
representing in an enquiry shall be entitled to make an opening statement,
give evidence, request the enquiry officer to call for specified document or
evidence, cross examine other person or to the extent and at the stage
permitted by the authority or enquiry officer holding the enquiry.(8)Any
evidence in an enquiry may be admitted at the discretion of the authority or
enquiry officer during the enquiry, who may, also direct that documents to be
tendered in evidence may be inspected by any person [entitled or permitted to
appear at such enquiry and that facilities be afforded to such person to take
or obtain copies thereof.(9)The authority or.the enquiry officer holding an
enquiry may authorise any person, being an officer of the Government, to
assist such authority or enquiry officer where necessary, for the purpose of
conducting the enquiry, and the officer so authorised may enter the premises
of the concerned establishment during working hours, inspect the records,
relevant to such enquiry, investigate and take such evidence as may be
required to conduct such enquiry.(10)The findings of the enquiry along with
all evidence, in original, including statements of witnesses shall be
forwarded to the authority specified under section 39 of the Act within five
days of the completion of the enquiry, in case, where such enquiry was not
conducted by such authority itself.(11)A copy of the findings along with a
brief statement of facts relating to an enquiry conducted under this rule
shall be forwarded to the Chief Inspector of Building and Other Construction
Works and the Government by the authority referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule
210.

## Chapter XXII  
Explosives

### 212. Handling of explosives.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)all explosives are handled, used or stored in
accordance with the instructions and the material data sheet supplied by the
manufacturer of such explosives;(b)the use of explosives is carried out in
safe manner to avoid injury to any person and under the direct supervision of
a responsible person; and(c)before using any explosive, necessary warning and
danger signals are created, at conspicuous places of such use to warn the
building workers and the general public of the danger involved in such use.

### 213. Precautions.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)notwithstanding the provisions of rule 212, the
following precautions are observed at the places of transporting, handling,
storage and use of such explosives, namely:-(i)prohibition of smoking, naked
lights and other sources of ignition in the vicinity where explosives are
handled, stored and used;(ii)to keep safe distance and to use non-sparking
tools while opening packages containing explosives; and(iii)to stop the use of
explosives and handling thereof while the weather conditions are not suitable
for such use or handling;(b)in addition to the provisions of this Chapter, all
measures and precautions required to be observed for use, handling, storing or
transportation of explosives under the rules framed under the Explosives Act,
1884 (Central Act 4 of 1884) are observed.

## Chapter XXIII  
Piling

### 214. General provision.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)all pile driving equipments are of good design and
sound construction taking into account the ergonomic principles and are
properly maintained;(b)a pile driver is firmly supported on a heavy timber
sill, concrete bed or other secured foundation;(c)in case a pile driver is
required to be erected in dangerous proximity to an electrical conductor, all
necessary precautions are taken to ensure safety;(d)the hoses of steam and air
hammer are securely lashed to such hammer so as to prevent them from whipping
in case connection or break;(e)adequate precaution is taken to prevent the
pile driver from over-turning;(f)all necessary precautions are taken to
prevent hammer from 1 missing the pile; and(g)a responsible person for
inspecting pile driving equipment, inspects such equipment before taking it
into use and takes all appropriate measures as required for the safety of
building workers before commencing piling work by such equipment.

### 215. Stability of adjacent structure.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that where there is any question of stability of a structure
for its adjoining areas to be piled, such structure is supported, where
necessary, by underpinning, sheet piling, shoring, bracing or by other means
to ensure safety and stability of such structure and to prevent injury to any
person.

### 216. Protection of operator.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that an operator of every pile driving equipment is
protected from falling objects, steam, cinders or water by substantially
covering or otherwise or by other means.

### 217. Instructions to, and supervision of, building workers working on a
pile driving equipment.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that every building worker working on a pile driving
equipment is given instructions regarding safe work procedure to be followed
in piling operation and is supervised by a responsible person throughout such
work.

### 218. Entry of unauthorised person.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that all piling areas where pile driving equipment is in use
are effectively cordoned off to prevent entry of unauthorised persons.

### 219. Inspection and maintenance of pile-driving equipment.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)pile-driving equipment is not taken into use until
it has been inspected by a responsible person and found to be safe for such
use;(b)pile-driving equipment in use is inspected by a responsible person for
such inspection at suitable intervals to ensure safety to the building worker
working on such equipment; and(c)all pile lines and pulley blocks are
inspected by a responsible person before the beginning of each shift of
pilling operations.

### 220. Operation of pile-driving equipment.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)only experienced and trained building worker
operates pile-driving so as to avoid any probable danger from such
operations;(b)pile-driving operations are governed by generally prevalent and
accepted signals so as to prevent any probable danger from such
operations;(c)every building worker employed in pile-driving operation or in
the vicinity of such pile-driving operation wears ear protection and safety
helmet or hard hat and safety shoes;(d)piles are prepared at a distance, at
least equal to twice the length of the longest pile, from the place of pile-
driving operations; and(e)when a pile driver is not in use, the hammer of such
pile driver is blocked at the bottom of the heads of such pile driver.

### 221. Working platform on piling frames.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that where a structural tower supports the lead of a pile
driver, suitable working platforms of adequate strength are provided on levels
of such lead at which it is necessary for the building workers to work and
such platforms are provided with a safety railing and toe boards on each side
of such platforms, except on the hammer of such pile driver or lead sides of
such platform and where such platforms cannot be provided with such railing
and toe boards, a safety bolt is provided to each such building worker.

### 222. Pile testing.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)the testing of pile is conducted under the
supervision of a responsible person for such testing;(b)All practicable
measures like displaying of warning notices, barricading the area and other
similar measures are taken to protect the area where the pile testing is
carried out; and(c)Entry to a pile testing area is prohibited to general pub
lie to ensure safety.

## Chapter XXIV  
Medical Facilities

### 223. Medical examination of building workers, etc.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)(i)a building worker who is employed for a work
involving such risk or hazards, inherent in such work as the Chief Inspector
of Building and other Construction Works considers appropriate for the
periodical medical examination of such worker, is medically examined at such
intervals as the Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and Construction
may direct, from time to time;(ii)every operator of crane, which or other
lifting appliance, transport equipment or vehicle, is medically examined
before employing such operator and again periodically, at such intervals as
the Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and Construction may direct,
from time to time;(iii)the medical examination referred to in sub-clause (i)
and sub-clause (ii) is in accordance with Schedule VII to these rules and is
conducted by such medical officers or at such hospitals as are approved by the
Government for this purpose, from time to time; and(iv)in case of a building
worker who is exposed to special occupational health hazard owing to job or
work assigned to such worker, the periodical medical examination referred to
in sub-clause (i) or sub-clause (ii) includes such special investigation as
may be deemed necessary by the construction medical officer examining such
building worker for the diagnosis of occupational disease.(b)no building
worker is charged for the medical examination referred to in sub-clause (i) or
sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) and the cost of such examination is borne by the
employer, employing such building worker;(c)certificate of medical examination
referred to in sub-clause (i) or sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) is issued in
Form XI under Schedule XIII to these rules;(d)the record of the medical
examination referred to in sub-clause (i) or sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of
every building worker employed by him is maintained in a register in Form XII
under Schedule XIII to these rules and such register shall be made available
to the Inspector having jurisdiction, on demand; and(e)in case a construction
medical officer examining a building worker under sub-clause (i) or sub-clause
(ii) of clause (a) is of the opinion that such building worker so examined is
required to be taken away from the building or other construction work at
which he is employed for health protection, such medical officer shall inform
the employer of such building worker accordingly and such employer shall
inform such opinion to the board, where such worker is registered as a
beneficiary.

### 224. Duties of construction medical officers.

(1)The medical examination referred to in sub-clause (i) or sub-clause (ii) of
clause (a) of rule 223 shall be carried out by a construction medical
officer.(2)The duties and responsibilities of such construction medical
officer shall be as given below, namely:-(a)medical examination of building
workers;(b)first-aid care including emergency medical
treatment;(c)notification of occupational diseases to the concerned
authorities in accordance with those rules;(d)immunisation services;(e)medical
record upkeep and maintenance;(f)health education including advisory services
on family planning, personal hygiene, environmental sanitation and safety;
and(g)referral services.

### 225. Occupational health centres.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work involving hazardous processes specified under Schedule IX to
these rules that,-(a)an occupational health centre, mobile or static, is
provided and maintained in good order at such site;(b)services and facilities
as per the scale laid down in Schedule X to these rules are provided at the
occupational health centre referred to in clause (a); and(c)a construction
medical officer appointed at an occupational health centre possesses the
qualification as laid down in Schedule XI.

### 226. Ambulance room.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of building or other
construction work that,-(a)in case of five hundred or less workers are
employed at such 1 constructions sites, there is an ambulance room at such
construction site or an arrangement with a nearby hospital for providing an
ambulance room and such an ambulance room is in the charge of a qualified
nurse and the service of such an ambulance room is available to building
worker employed at such construction site at every time when he is at work. In
case of more than five hundred building workers are employed at such
construction site, there is an ambulance room with effective communication
system and such ambulance room is in the charge of a qualified nurse and the
service of such ambulance room is available to a building worker employed at
such construction site at every time when he is at work, and such ambulance
room is in overall charge of a construction medical officer;(b)an ambulance
room referred to in clause (a) is equipped with the articles specified in
Schedule-IV to these rules; and(c)record of all cases of accidents and
sickness treated at the ambulance room referred to in clause (a) is
maintained, and produced to the Inspector having jurisdiction on demand.

### 227. Ambulance Van.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that an ambulance van is provided at such construction site
or an arrangement is more with a nearby hospital for providing such ambulance
van for transportation of serious cases of accident or sickness of the
building workers to the hospital promptly and such ambulance van is maintained
in good repair and is equipped with standard facilities specified in Schedule
V to these rules.

### 228. Stretchers.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that sufficient number of stretchers is provided at such
construction site so as to be readily available in an emergency.

### 229. Occupational health services for the building workers.

(1)The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work, where more than five hundred building workers are employed,
that,-(a)a special medical service or an occupational health service is
available at such construction site at all times and such service
shall,-(i)provide first-aid and emergency treatment;(ii)conduct special
medical examination for occupational hazards to such building workers before
their employment and thereafter at such intervals as may be specified by the
Chief Inspector of Building and Construction Works, from lime to
time;(iii)conduct training of first-aid personnel of such medical
service;(iv)render advice to such employer on conditions of work and
improvement required to avoid hazards to the health of such building
worker;(v)promote health education, including family welfare among such
building workers;(vi)co-operate with Inspector having jurisdiction in the
detection, measurement and evaluation of chemical, physical or biological
factors suspected of being harmful to such building workers; and(vii)undertake
immunisation for all such building workers against tetanus, typhoid, cholera
and other infectious diseases;(b)the special medical service referred to in
clause (a) collaborates with the labour department or any other concerned
department or service of the Government in matters of treatment, job
placement, accident prevention and welfare of such building workers;(c)the
special medical service referred to in clause (a) is headed by a construction
medical officer and is provided with adequate staff, laboratory and other
equipment;(d)the premises of the special medical service referred to in clause
(a) are conveniently accessible, comprise at least a waiting room, a
consulting room, a treatment room, a laboratory and suitable accommodation for
nurses and other staff of such service; and(e)the special medical service
referred to in clause (a) maintains records pertaining to its activities
referred in sub-clause (i) to (vii) of clause (a) and sends to the Chief
Inspector of building and other Construction Works once in every three months,
information in writing on,-(i)the state of health of such building workers;
and(ii)the nature and the causes of occupational injuries or disease suffered
by anyone of such building workers, treatment provided to such worker and
measures taken to prevent recurrence of such injury or disease.

### 230. Notice of poisoning or occupational diseases.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)when a building worker contracts any disease
specified in Schedule II annexed to these rules, a notice in Form XIII under
Schedule XIII to these rules is sent without delay to the Inspector, having
jurisdiction, and to the Board with which such building worker is registered
as a beneficiary; and(b)if a medical practitioner or construction medical
officer attends on a building worker suffering from any disease referred to in
clause (a), such medical practitioner or construction medical officer sends
information regarding the name and full particulars of such building worker
and the disease suffered by him to the Chief Inspector of Inspection of
Building and Construction without delay.

### 231. First-aid boxes.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)sufficient number of first-aid boxes or cupboards
are provided and maintained for providing first-aid to the building
workers;(b)every first-aid box or cupboard is distinctly marked "First Aid"
and is equipped with the articles specified in Schedule III to these rules;
and(c)nothing except appliances or requisites for first-aid is kept in a
first-aid box or cupboard and such box or cupboard is so kept as to protect it
against contamination by dust or other foreign matter and against penetration
of moisture and such box or cupboard is kept in the charge of a person trained
in first-aid and is always readily available during the working hours.

### 232. Emergency care services (or) emergency treatment.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)essential life saving aides and appliances required
to handle,-(i)head injuries and spinal injuries;(ii)(bleeding;)(iii)fractures
and dislocation of bones and joints;(iv)crush injuries;(v)shock including
electric shock;(vi)dehydration due to any cause;(vii)snake-bite, insect-bite,
scorpion and bee stings;(viii)bums including chemical bums(ix)bends or divers
paralysis;(x)other surgical, gynecological, obstetric or pediatric
emergencies;(xi)drowning; and(xii)sun stroke and frost bite to building
workers are provided and properly maintained under the supervision of a
construction medical officer.(b)the essential life saving aids for any
emergent situation referred to in sub-clause (i) to (xii) of clause (a) are
provided to an injured or a sick building worker during his transportation
from such building site to a hospital and till such building worker is
attended by a doctor in such hospital; and(c)any other equipment or facilities
required for emergency care or treatment to the building workers arising from
special local conditions and construction processes at such building site, as
specified by the State Government, from time to time, are provided.

## Chapter XXV  
Information to Bureau of Indian Standards

### 233. Furnishing of Information to Bureau of Indian Standards.

\- The employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)every architect and other professional like
structural engineer or project engineer involved in the execution of a
building or other construction project furnishes to the Bureau of Indian
Standards, the details regarding the performance of, and deviations or short-
comings, if any, of the building materials, articles or processes used in such
building and other construction project for which the Indian Standards are
already available; and(b)the architect and other professional referred to in
clause (a) informs to the Bureau of Indian Standards, the details of building
materials, articles or processes used in the building and other construction
activities for which the Indian Standards do not exist with the Bureau of
Indian Standards and the performance of such materials, articles or processes
along with the suggestions for their improvement to enable the Bureau of
Indian Standards to consider and form necessary standards.Part-IV Hours of
Work, Welfare, Payment of Wages, Registers and Records, etc.

## Chapter XXVI  
Hours of Work, Intervals, Rest and Weekly Off, etc.

### 234. Hours of work, intervals of rest and spread over etc.

(1)No building worker employed in building or other construction of work shall
be required or allowed to work for more than 9 hours a day or 48 hours a
week.(2)No building worker employed in building or other construction work
shall be required or allowed to work continuously for more than 5 hours unless
he has an interval of rest of not less than half-an-hour.(3)The working day of
a building worker employed in building or other construction work shall be so
arranged that inclusive of all the intervals of rest, if any, shall not spread
over more than 12 hours on any day.(4)When a building worker works in any
building or other construction work for more than 9 hours on any day or for
more than 48 hours in any week, he shall, in respect of overtime work, be
entitled to wages at double the ordinary rate of wages.

### 235. Weekly rest, payment for work done on the day of rest at overtime
rate, etc.

(1)Subject to the provisions of these rules, each building worker employed in
building or other construction work shall be allowed a day of rest every week
(hereinafter referred to as the rest day) which shall ordinarily be sun-day,
but the employer may fix any other day of the week as the rest day:Provided
that the building worker shall be informed of the day fixed as the rest day
and of any subsequent change in such rest day before the change is effected,
by displaying of a notice to that effect in the place of employment at the
place specified by the Inspector having jurisdiction in this behalf.(2)No
building worker employed in building or other construction work shall be
required or allowed to work on a rest day unless he already had or will have a
substituted rest day or a whole day on one of the five days immediately before
or after such rest day:Provided that no substitution shall be made which
result in a building worker working for more than 10 days consecutively
without a rest day for a whole day.(3)Where a building worker employed in
building or other construct ion work has worked on a rest day and has been
given a substituted rest day on anyone of the five days before or the after
the rest day, as provided in sub-rule (1) and sub-rule (2), such rest day
shall, for the purpose of calculating the weekly hour of work, be included in
the week in which such substituted rest day occurs.(4)A building worker
employed in building or other construction work shall be granted wages for a
rest day, calculated at the rate applicable to the day preceding such rest day
and in case he has worked on a rest day and has been given a substituted rest
day, he shall be paid wages for such rest day on which he worked, at the
overtime rate and wages for such substituted rest day at the rate applicable
to the day preceding such substituted rest day.Explanation. - For the purpose
of this rule, 'preceding day' means the last day preceding a rest day or a
substituted rest day, as the case may be, on which a building worker has
worked and where such substituted rest day falls on a day immediately after
such a rest day, such 'preceding day' means the last day preceding such rest
day on which such building worker has worked.Explanation. - For the purpose of
sub-rule 'week' shall mean a period of 7 days beginning at midnight on a
Saturday night.

### 236. Night shifts.

\- Where a building worker employed in building or other construction work,
works on a shift which extended beyond midnight,-(a)a rest day for the purpose
of rule 235 shall mean a period of 24 hour consecutive hours beginning from
the time when such shift ends;(b)the hours after midnight during which such
building worker has worked shall be counted towards the previous day;
and(c)the following day shall be deemed to be the period of 24 hours beginning
from the time when such shift ends.

### 237. Application of provisions of this Chapter to certain classes of
building workers.

(1)The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the classes of building
workers specified under clause (a) to (d) of sub-section (2) of section 28 of
the Act, subject to the following, namely:-(a)no building worker employed in
building or other construction work shall be required or allowed a work
continuously for more than 15 hours a day inclusive of intervals of rest or 60
hours in a week:Provided that intervals of rest not less than half an hour are
given after every five hours of continuous work as laid down in sub-rule (2)
of rule 234.(b)no building worker employed in building or other construction
shall be required or allowed to work for more titan 14 consecutive days unless
a rest of 24 hours is given to such worker.(2)Where the working hours in
respect of a building worker employed in building or other construction work
have exceeded the hours of work as laid down in sub-rule (1) of rule 234 or
where such worker has been deprived of a rest day due to application of sub-
rule (1) of this rule, such worker shall be paid at double the rate of normal
wages in respect of the work done in excess of such daily or weekly hours and
for work done on such rest day.

## Chapter XXVII  
Notices, Registers, Records and Collection of Statistics

### 238. Notice of wage periods, etc.

(1)Every employer shall cause to display at a conspicuous place of the work
place of an establishment under his control, notice showing the rates of wages
of the building workers working in such establishment, hours of work of such
worker, their wage periods, date of payment of such wages, names and addresses
of the Inspectors having jurisdiction to such establishment and date of
payment of unpaid wages to such workers, in Tamil.(2)A copy of the notice
referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be sent to the Inspector having jurisdiction
and whenever any change occurs relating to facts contained in such notice,
such change shall be communicated by the employer to such Inspector.

### 239. Notice of commencement and completion.

(1)Every employer shall, at least thirty days before the commencement of any
building or other construction work under his control, send or cause to be
sent to the Inspector having jurisdiction, a written notice intimating the
actual date of the commencement, the probable date of completion and other
such particulars as referred to in sub-section (1) of section 46 of the Act,
relating to such building or other construction work, in Form IV under
Schedule XIII to these rules.(2)Where any change occurs in any of the
particulars furnished under sub-rule (1), the employer shall intimate such
change to the Inspector having jurisdiction within two days of such
change.(3)Nothing contained in sub-rule (1) shall apply in case of such class
of building or other construction work as the Government may, by notification,
specify to be emergent work.

### 240. Register of persons employed as building workers.

\- Every employer shall maintain in respect of each registered establishments
where he employs building workers, a register in Form XV under Schedule XIII
to these rules.

### 241. Muster roll, wages register, deduction register, over-time register
and issue of wage books and service certificates.

(1)Every employer shall, in respect of each work on which he employs building
workers, maintain,-(a)muster roll and a register of wages in Form XVI and Form
XVII, respectively, under Schedule XIII to these rules:Provided that a
combined register of wage-cum-muster roll in Form XVIII under Schedule XIII to
these rules shall be maintained by the employer where the wage period for such
building worker is a fortnight of less;(b)a register of deductions for damage
or loss, register of fines and register of advances in Form XIX, Form XX and
Form XXI, respectively, under Schedule XIII to these rules; and(c)a register
of overtime in Form XXII under Schedule XIII to these rules for recording
therein the number of hours of, and the wages paid for, overtime work, if
any.(2)Every employer shall, in respect of each work on which he engages
building workers,-(a)issue, where the wage period is one week or more, wage
book to each of such building worker in Form XXIII under Schedule XIII to
these rules to such building workers in which entries shall be made at least a
day prior to the disbursement of wages to them.(b)issue, a service certificate
to each of such building worker in Form XXIV under Schedule XIII to these
rules, to such building workers, on termination of his service on account of
completion of such work or for any other reason; and(c)obtain signature or
thumb-impression of each such building worker against the entries relating to
him, on the register of wages and such entries shall be authenticated by the
employer or his authorised representative.(3)In respect of establishment to
which the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (Central Act 4 of 1936) or Minimum Wages
Act, 1948 (Central Act 11 of 1948) or the Contract Labour (Regulation and
Abolition) Act, 1970 (Central Act 37 of 1970) applies, the following registers
and records required to be maintained by an employer under any of such Acts or
the rules made thereunder, shall be deemed to be the registers and records
maintained by the employer under these rules, namely:-(a)muster
roll;(b)register of wages;(c)register of deductions;(d)register of
overtime;(e)register of fines; and(f)register of advances.(4)Notwithstanding
anything contained in these rules, where a combined or alternative form, in
lieu of any of the forms specified under these rules, is sought to be used by
an employer to avoid , duplication of work for compliance with the provisions
of any other Act or the rules framed thereunder, or for administrative
convenience, such combined or alternative form may be used with the prior
approval of the Government.(5)Every employer shall display at a conspicuous
place of the work site, where he employs building workers, an abstract of the
Act and these rules in Tamil.(6)Every employer shall ensure that, the
registers and other records required to be maintained under the Act or these
rules, are maintained complete and-up-to-date, and unless otherwise provided
for are kept at an office or the nearest convenient building within the
precincts of the concerned work place.(7)The registers and other records
relating to an establishment and are required to be maintained under the Act
or these rules, shall be maintained legibly in Tamil.(8)Every register or
other records referred to in sub-rule (7) shall be preserved by-the employer,
with whom such register or other record belongs, in original for a period of
three calendar years from the date of last entry therein.(9)Every register,
record or notice maintained under the Act, or these rules shall be produced or
caused to be produced by the employer concerned on demand before the Inspector
or any other authority under the Act or any other person authorised by the
Government for such purpose.(10)In case, where during a wage period, no
deduction has been made from the wage of a building worker or no fine has been
imposed on such building worker or no overtime work has been performed by such
building worker or no payment has been made for overtime work to such building
worker, a "nil" entry shall be made against such wage period at the
appropriate place in the relevant register maintained in Form XIX, XX, XXI or
XXII, as the case may be.

### 242. Returns.

\- Every employer of a registered establishment shall send annually a return
relating to such establishment in duplicate in Form XXV under Schedule XIII to
these rules to the registering officer having jurisdiction, so as to reach him
not late than the 31st January following the end of each calendar year with a
copy to the Inspector having jurisdiction.

## Chapter XXVIII  
Welfare of Building Workers

### 243. Latrine and urinal accommodations.

\- Latrines or urinals, as the case may be, required to be provided under
section 33 of the Act shall be of the types as specified below,
namely:-(a)Every latrine shall be under cover and so partitioned off as to
secure privacy and shall have a proper door and fastenings;(b)(i)Where both
male and female building workers are employed, there shall be displayed
outside each block of latrines or urinals a notice containing therein "For Men
Only" or "For Women Only", as the case may be, written in Tamil; and(ii)such
notice shall also bear the figure of a man or of a woman as the case may
be;(c)every latrine or urinal shall be conveniently situated and accessible to
building workers at all times;(d)every latrine or urinal shall be adequately
lighted and shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all
limes;(e)every latrine or urinal other than those connected with a flush
sewage system shall comply with the requirements oi lire public health
authorities;(f)water shall be provided by means of a tap or otherwise so as to
be conveniently accessible in or near every latrine or urinal; and(g)the
walls, ceilings and partitions of every latrine or urinal shall be white
washed or colour washed once in every period of four months.

### 244. Canteens.

(1)In every place wherein not less than two hundred and fifty building workers
are ordinarily employed, the employer of such building workers shall provide
an adequate canteen in the manner as specified in this rule of the use of such
building workers.(2)The canteen, referred to in sub-rule (1) shall consist of
a dining hall with furniture sufficient to accommodate building workers using
such canteen, a kitchen, store-room, pantry and washing places separately for
building workers and for utensils.(3)(i)The canteen referred to in sub-rule
(1) shall be sufficiently lighted at all times when any person has access to
it; and(ii)The floor of such canteen shall be made of smooth and impervious
material and inside walls of such canteen shall be lime-washed or colour-
washed at least once in every six months:Provided that such inside walls of
the kitchen of such canteen shall be lime-washed once in every three
months.(4)(i)The precincts of the canteen referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition;(ii)Waste water from such canteen
shall be carried away in suitable covered drains and shall not be allowed to
accumulate in the surroundings of such canteen; and(iii)Suitable arrangements
shall be made for the collection and disposal of garbage from such
canteen.(5)Building of the canteen referred to in sub-rule (1) shall he
situated at the distance not less than 15.2 metres from any latrine or urinal
or any source of dust, smoke or obnoxious fumes.

### 245. Food stuff to be served in the canteen.

\- The food stuffs and other items to be served in the canteen referred to in
sub-rule (1) of rule 244 shall be in conformity with the normal dietary habits
of the building workers.

### 246. Serving of tea and snacks at the work places.

\- At a building or other construction work where a work place situated at a
distance of more than 0.2 km from the canteens, provided under sub-rule (1) of
rule 244, arrangements shall be made by the employer employing building
workers at such place, for serving tea and light refreshment to such building
workers at such place.

### 247. Charges of food stuff.

(1)The charges for food stuffs, beverages and other items served in the
canteen provided under sub-rule (1) of rule 244, shall be based on 'no profit
no loss' and the price list of such items shall be conspicuously displayed in
such canteen(2)In arriving at the prices of the items referred to in sub-rule
(1), the following shall not be taken into consideration as expenses,
namely:-(a)the rent for the land and building for such canteen;(b)the
depreciation and maintenance charges for the building and equipment provided
in such canteen;(c)the cost of purchase, repairs and replacement of equipment
including furniture, crockery, cutlery, utensils and uniforms provided to the
employees of such canteen;(d)the water charges and other charges incurred for
lighting and ventilation of such canteen; and(e)interest on the amount spent
for providing and maintaining furniture and other equipment for such canteen.

## Chapter XXIX  
Wages

### 248. Payment of wages.

\- An employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that,-(a)the wages of every building worker employed at such
construction site where less than one thousand such building workers are
employed, are paid before the expiry of the seventh day and in other cases
before the expiry of tenth day after the last day of the period, in respect of
which such wages are payable.(b)in case the employment of such building worker
terminated by or on behalf of such employer, the wages earned by such building
worker, are paid before the expiry of the second working day from the day on
which employment of such building worker is terminated; and(c)all payments of
wages are made on a working day at such construction site and during the
working time and on a date notified in advance and in case the work is
completed the final payment of wages is made within 48 hours of such
completion of work.

### 249. Display of notices of wage regarding the date of payment of wages.

\- An employer shall ensure at a construction site of a building or other
construction work that a notice showing the period for which wages are to be
paid, place and time of disbursement of such wages, is displayed at a
conspicuous place of such construction site in Tamil.

## Part V – Miscellaneous Provisions

## Chapter XXX  
Powers of Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and Construction

### 250. Powers to engage experts, agencies.

(1)The Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and Construction may engage
experts or agencies, as deemed necessary, from the fields of civil
engineering, structural engineering, architecture and other disciplines of
occupational safety, health and environment as and when required, for the
purpose of conducting an inspection, investigation or enquiry into the cause
of an accident or a dangerous occurrence or otherwise.(2)The experts referred
to in sub-rule (1) shall,-(a)possess a degree in the relevant field from a
recognised University; and(b)possess not less than 10 years experience of
working in the relevant field out of which at least five years in the field of
occupational safety, health and environment.(3)Agencies referred to in sub-
rule (1) shall be of national standing in the relevant field and registered
under the relevant law.(4)The Government may, from time to time, prepare a
panel of experts and agencies, referred to in sub-rule (1).(5)An engineer or
expert or agency employed under sub-rule (1) shall be paid travelling
allowances and daily allowance as are allowed to him by his organization where
he is employed or such travelling allowance and daily allowance as is
admissible to officer of the rank of a Deputy Secretary to the
Government.(6)In addition to travelling allowance and daily allowance referred
in sub-rule (5) to an engineer or architect or agency, they shall also be paid
honorarium at the rates as may be specified by the Government, by
notification, in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, from time to time.

### 251. Powers of Inspectors.

(1)An Inspector may, at a construction site of a building or other
construction work within local limits for which he is appointed,-(i)examine
such construction site or place or premises used or to be used for such
building or other construction work;(ii)take on the spot or otherwise such
evidence of any person which he may deem necessary for the purpose of any
examination or enquiry connected with such building or other construction work
directly or indirectly:Provided that such person shall not be compelled to any
question or give any evidence tending to incriminate him.(iii)take
photographs, video clips, sample weight or measure or record or make such
sketches as he may consider necessary for the purpose of an examination or
enquiry under these rules; and(iv)hold an enquiry into the cause of an
accident or dangerous occurrence which he has reasons to believe was the
result of any operation connected with or incidental to such building or other
construction work or of non-compliance with any of the provisions of the Act
or these rules.(2)An Inspector may, within the local limits for which he is
appointed issue show cause notice or warning to employers regarding the
safety, health or welfare of building workers provided under the Act or the
rules.(3)An Inspector may, within the local limits for which he is appointed,
file in a Court having jurisdiction, a complaint or other proceeding relating
to an offence under the Act.(4)An Inspector may, within the local limits for
which he is appointed, direct any contractor or any employer for getting the
building workers medically examined in accordance with the provisions of these
rules.(5)An Inspector may, within the local limits for which he is appointed,
requires a person having power of supervision and control of a construction
site of a building or other construction work or the employer, project in-
charge or site in-charge of such construction site, as the case may be, to
provide such means or assistance as may be required by such Inspector for
entry, inspection, examination or enquiry for the exercise of his powers under
sub-section (1) of section 43 of the Act or this rule in relation to such
construction site or project.

### 252. Prohibition order.

(1)If it appears to the Inspector that any site or place at which any building
or other construction work is being carried on, is in such condition that it
is dangerous to life, safety or health of building workers or the general
public, he may in writing, serve on the employer of building workers of on the
owner of the establishment or on the person in-charge of such site or place,
an order prohibiting any building or other construction work at such site or
place until measures have been taken to remove the cause of the danger to his
satisfaction.(2)An Inspector serving an order under sub-rule (1) shall endorse
a copy to the Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and
Construction(3)Such prohibition order shall be complied with by the employer
forthwith.(4)Any person aggrieved by an order under sub-rule (1) may, within
15 days from the date on which the order is communicated to him, prefer an
appeal to the Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and Construction or
where such order is by the Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and
Construction to the Secretary to the Government, Labour and Employment
Department and the Chief Inspector of Building and other Construction Work or
the Secretary to the Government, Labour and Employment Department, as the case
may be, shall, after giving the appellant an opportunity of being heard,
dispose of the appeal as expeditiously as possible:Provided that the Chief
Inspector of Inspection of Building and Construction or the Secretary to the
Government, Labour and Employment Department, as the case may be, may
entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said period of 15 days if he is
satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the
appeal in time:Provided further that the prohibition, shall be complied with,
pending the decision of the Chief Inspector of Inspection of Building and
Construction or the Secretary to Government, Labour and Employment Department.

## I

[See rules 56(a) and 71 (a)]Manner of test and examination before taking
lifting appliance, lifting gear and wire rope into use for the first timeTest
Loads(1)Lifting appliances. - Every lifting appliance with its accessory gear
shall be subjected to a test load which shall exceed the safe working load
(SWL) as specified in the following Table:-

Safe working load | Test load  
---|---  
Up to 20 tonnes | 25 per cent in excess of safe working load.  
20 to 50 tonnes | 5 tonnes in excess of safe working load.  
Over 50 tonnes | 0 per cent in excess of safe working load.  
  
(2)Lifting Gear. - (a) Every ring, hook, chain, shackle, swivel, eye-bolt,
plate clamp, triangular plate or pulley block (except single sheave block)
shall be subjected to a test load which shall not be less than the load as
specified in the following Table:-

Safe working load (in tonnes) | Test load (in tonnes)  
---|---  
Up to 25 | 2 X safe working load  
Above 25 | (1.22 x safe working load) + 20  
  
(b)In the case of a single sheave block, the safe working load shall be the
maximum load which can safely be lifted by the block when suspended by its
head fitting and the load is attached to a rope which passes around the sheave
of the block and a test load not less than four times the proposed safe
working load shall be applied to the head of the block.(c)In the case of multi
sheave block, the test load shall not be less than the load as specified in
the following Table:-

Safe working load (in tonnes) | Test load (in tonnes)  
---|---  
Up to 25 | 2 x Safe working load  
25 to 160 | (0.9933 x Safe working load) + 27  
above 160 | 1.1 x Safe.working load.  
  
(d)In the case of hand-operated pulley blocks used with pitched chains and
rings, hooks, shackles or swivel, permanently attached thereto, a test load
not less than 50 per cent in excess of the safe working load shall be
applied.(e)In the case of a pulley block fitted with a bucket, the bucket
shall be tested and the load applied to tire bucket when testing that block
will be accepted as lest load of the bucket.(f)In the case of sling having two
legs, the safe working load shall be calculated when the angle between the
legs is 90 degree. In case of multi-legged slings, the safe working load shall
be calculated as per national standards.(g)Every lifting beam, lifting frame,
container spreader bucket, tub, or other similar devices shall be subjected to
a test load which shall not be less than the load as specified in the
following Table:-

Proposed safe working load | Test load  
---|---  
(in tonnes) | (in tonnes)  
Up to 10 | 2 x Safe working load  
10 to 160 | (1.04 x Safe working load) + 9.6  
Above 160 | 1.1 x Safe working load  
  
(h)Wire ropes. - In the case of wire ropes, a sample shall be tested to
destruction. The test procedure shall be in accordance with recognised
national standards. The safe working load of the rope is to be determined by
dividing' the load at which the sample broke by a co-efficient of utilisation,
determined as specified in the following Table:-

| Item |  Co-efficient ofUtilisation  
---|---|---  
| (1) | (2)  
(a) |  Wire rope forming part of sling safe workingload of the sling safe working load up to and equal to 10tonnes. | 5  
|  Safe working load above 10 tonnes up to andequal to 160 tonnes. | 10  
| Safe working load above 160 | (8.85 x Safe working load + 1910) 3  
(b) |  Wire rope as integral part of a liftingappliance safe working load of the lifting appliance: Safetyworking load up to and equal to 160 tonnes. | 10  
| Safe working load above 160 | (8.85 X Safe working load + 1910) 3  
  
(i)Before any test is carried out, a visual inspection of the lifting
appliance, or lifting gear involved shall be conducted and any visible
defective gear shall be replaced or renewed.(j)After being tested, all the
lifting gears shall be examined to see whether any parts have been injured or
permanently deformed by the testProcedure For Testing(3)Derricks. - (a) A
Derrick shall be tested with its boom at the minimum angle to the horizontal
for which the derrick is designed (generally 15 degrees) or at such greater
angle as may be agreed. The angle at which the test has been carried out shall
be mentioned in the test certificate. The test load shall be applied by
hoisting movable weights. During the test, the boom shall be swung with the
test load, as far as practicable, in both directions.(b)A derrick boom,
designed to be raised with power, with the load suspended, shall, in addition
to the test at (a), be raised (with the load suspended) to its maximum working
angle to the horizontal and the two outermost positions.(c)While test loading
of a heavy lift derrick, the competent person responsible for tests using
movable weights shall ascertain from the owner of the vessel or floating
platform that the stability of the vessel or platform is adequate for the
test.(4)The derricks tested under clause (3) shall not be used in union
purchase rigs unless. - (a) the derricks rigged in union purchase are tested
with the test load appropriate to the safe working load in union purchase (at
the designed headroom and with the derrick booms their approved working
positions);(b)the safe working load of that derrick in union purchase rig has
also been specified by a competent person in a report in Form V;(c)any
limitations or conditions specified in the said report are complied with;
and(d)the two hoist ropes are coupled together by a suitable swivel
assembly.Explanation. - The safe working loads of derricks (for each method of
rig including union purchase) shall be shown or the certificate of test and
marked on the derrick booms.(5)Lifting appliances. - (a) The test loads shall
be lifted and swung, as far as possible, in both directions. If the jib or
boom of the crane has a variable radius, it shall be tested with test loads at
the maximum and minimum radii. In case of hydraulic cranes when owing to the
limitation of pressure, it is impossible to lift a test load in accordance
with table under item (1), it will be sufficient to lift the greatest possible
load which shall be more than safe working load.(b)The test shall be performed
at maximum, minimum and intermediate radius points as well as such points in
the arc of rotation, as the competent person may decide. The test shall
consist of hoisting, lowering, breaking and swinging and swinging through all
positions and operations normally performed. An additional test shall be made
by operating the machinery at maximum working speed with the safe working load
suspended.(6)Use of spring or hydraulic balances, etc. for test loading. - All
tests shall normally be carried on with the help of dead weights. In case of
periodical test, replacements or renewals, test load may be applied by means
of suitable springs or hydraulic balances. In such case, test load shall be
applied with the boom, as far out as practicable, in both directions. The test
shall not be taken as satisfactory unless the balance has been certified for
accuracy by the competent authority within 20 per cent and the pointer of the
machine has remained constant at the test load for a period of at least five
minutes.(7)Testing machines and dead weights. - (a) A suitable testing machine
shall be used for testing of chains, wire ropes and other lifting
gears;(b)Testing machines and balances to be used in test loading, testing and
checking shall not be used unless they have been certified for accuracy at
least once in the preceding twelve months by the competent authority;
and(c)Movable weights used for the test loading of the lifting appliances
having a safe working load not exceeding twenty tonnes shall be checked for
accuracy by means of suitable weighing machine of certified
accuracy.(8)Through examination after testing or test loading. - After being
test loaded, every lifting appliance and associated gear shall be thoroughly
examined to see that no part has been damaged or permanently deformed during
the test. For this purpose, the lifting appliance or gear shall be dismantled
to the extent considered necessary by the competent person.

## II

Notifiable occupational diseases in building and other construction work[See
rule 230(a)]

### 1\. Occupational dermatitis.

### 2\. Occupational Cancer.

### 3\. Asbestos.

### 4\. Silicosis.

### 5\. Lead poisoning including poisoning by any preparation or compound of
lead or their sequelae.

### 6\. Benzene poisoning including poisoning by any of its homologues their
nitro or amino derivatives or its sequelae.

### 7\. Occupational asthama.

### 8\. Pesticide poisoning.

### 9\. Carbon-monoxide poisoning.

### 10\. Toxic Jaundice.

### 11\. Toxic anaemia.

### 12\. Compressed air illness (Caissons disease).

### 13\. Noise induced hearing loss.

### 14\. Isocvanates poisoning.

### 15\. Toxic nephritis.

## III

Contents of a First-Aid Box[See rule 23 1(b)](i)A sufficient number of eye
wash bottled filled with distilled water suitable liquid clearly indicated by
a distinctive sign which shall be visible at all times.(ii)4 per cent
xylocaime eye drops, and boric acid eye drops and soda- bi-carbonate eye
drops.(iii)Twenty-four small sterilized dressings.(iv)Twelve medium size
sterilised dressings.(v)Twelve large size sterilised dressings.(vi)Twelve
large size sterilised bum dressings.(vii)Twelve (fifteen) and packets of
sterilised cotton wool.(viii)One (Two hundred millilitre) bottle of certimide
solution (1 per cent) or suitable antiseptic solution.(ix)One (Two hundred
millilitre) bottle of mercurochrome (2 per cent) solution in water.(x)One (One
hundred twenty millilitre) bottle of sal-volatile having the doses and mode of
administration indicated on the label.(xi)One pair of scissors.(xii)One roll
of adhesive plaster (six centimetre x one metre),(xiii)Two rolls of adhesive
plaster (two centimetres x one metre),(xiv)Twelve pieces of sterilised eye
pads in separate sealed packets.(xv)A bottle containing hundred tablets (each
of three hundred twenty-five milligram) of aspirin or any other
analgesic.(xvi)Twelve roller bandages ten centimetres wide.(xvii)Twelve roller
bandages five centimetres wide.(xviii)One tourniquet.(xix)A supply of suitable
splints.(xx)Three packets of safety pins.(xxi)Kidney tray.(xxii)A snake bite
lancet.(xxiii)One (thirty millilitre) bottle containing Potassium Permanganate
crystals.(xxiv)One copy of first-aid leaflet issued by the Directorate
General.(xxv)Six triangular bandages,(xxvi)Two pairs of suitable sterilised
latex hand gloves.

## IV

Articles for Ambulance Room[See rule 226(c)](i)A glazed sink with hot and cold
water always available.(ii)A table with a smooth top at least 180 centimetres
x 105 centimetres.(iii)Means for sterilising instruments.(iv)A couch.(v)Two
stretchers.(vi)Two buckets or containers with close fitting lids.(vii)Two
rubber hot water bags.(viii)A kettle and spirit stove or other suitable means
of boiling water.(ix)Twelve plain wooden splints 900 centimetres x 100
centimetres x 6 centimetres.(x)Twelve plain wooden splints 350 centimetres x
75 centimetres x 6 centimetres.(xi)Six plain wooden splints 250 centimetres x
50 centimetres x 12 centimetres.(xii)Six woollen blankets.(xiii)Three pairs
artery forceps.(xiv)One bottle of spiritus annemiae aremations (120
millilitre)(xv)Smelling salt (60 grams).(xvi)Two medium size sponges.(xvii)Six
hand towels.(xviii)Four Kidney trays(xix)Four cakes of toilet, preferably
antiseptic soap.(xx)Two glass tumblers and two wine glasses.(xxi)Two clinical
thermometres.(xxii)Two tea spoons.(xxiii)Two graduated (120 millilitre)
measuring glasses.(xxiv)Two minimum measuring glasses(xxv)One wash bottle
(1000 cubic centimetres) for washing eyes.(xxvi)One bottle (one litre)
carbolic lotion 1 in 20.(xxvii)Three chairs.(xxviii)One screen.(xxix)One
electric hand torch.(xxx)Four first-aid boxes or cup-boards stocked to the
standards prescribed in the Schedule III.(xxxi)An adequate supply of tetanus
toxide.(xxxii)Injections-morphia, pethidine, atrophine, adrenaline, coramine,
novacaine (6 each).(xxxiii)Cramine liquid (60 millilitre).(xxxiv)Tablets -
antihistaminic antispasmodic (25 each).(xxxv)Syringes with needles-2 cubic
centimetres, 5 cubic centimetres, 10 cubic centimetres and 500 cubic
centimetres.(xxxvi)Three surgical scissors.(xxxvii)Two needle holders, big and
small.(xxxviii)Suturing needles and materials.(xxxix)Three dissecting
forceps.(xxxx)Three dressing forceps.(xxxxi)Three scalpels.(xxxxii)One
stethoscope and a B.P. apparatus.(xxxxiii)Rubber bandage - pressure
bandage.(xxxxiv)Oxygen cylinder with necessary attachments.(xxxxv)Atropine eye
ointments.(xxxxvi)I.V Fluids and sets 10 numbers.(xxxxvii)Suitable, foot
operated covered refuse containers.(xxxxviii)Adequate number of sterilised,
paired latex hand gloves.

## V

Contents of Ambulance Van or Carriage(See rule 227)The Ambulance Van shall
have equipment prescribed as under:-(a)General. - A portable stretcher with
folding and adjusting devices with the head of the stretcher capable of being
tilted upward. Fixed suction unit with equipment. Fixed oxygen supply with
equipment. Pillow with case, sheets, blankets, towels, emergency bag, bed pan,
urinal glass.(b)Safety Equipment. - Flaros with life of three thousand
minutes, floor lights, flash lights, fire extinguishers (dry powder type)
insulated guntlets.(c)Emergency Care Equipment. - (i) Resuscitation : Portable
suction unit. Portable oxygen unit, bagvalve mask, hand operated artificial
ventilation unit, airways, mouthgag tracheostomy adapters, short spine board,
IV Fluids with administration unit. B.P. manometer, cuff
stethoscope.(ii)Immobolisation. - Long and short padded boards, wire ladder
splints, triangular bandagelong and short spine boards.(iii)Dressing. - Gauze
pads 100 millimetre x 100 millimetre universal dressing 250 x 1000 millimetres
roll of aluminium foils-soft roller bandages 150 millimetre x 5 millimetre
yards adhesive tape in 75 millimetre roll of safety pins, bandage sheets, bum
sheets.(iv)Poisoning. - Syrup of Ipecac, activated charcoal prepacketed does,
snake bite kit, drinking water.(v)Emergency Medicine. - As per requirement
(under the advice of construction Medical Officer).

## VI

Permissible Exposure in Cases of Continuous Noise(See rule 34)

Total time of exposure (continuous/ or number ofshort-term exposures) per day (in hours) | Sound pressure level  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
8 | 90  
6 | 92  
4 | 95  
3 | 97  
2 | 100  
1-½ | 102  
1 | 105  
¾ | 107  
½ | 110  
¼ | 115  
  
Explanations. - (1) No exposure in excess of 115dBA is to be permitted, (2)
For any period of exposure falling in between any figure and the next higher
or lower figure as indicated in column (1), the permissible sound pressure
level is to be determined by extrapolation on a proportionate basis.

## VII

Periodicity of Medical Examination of Building Workers[See rule 81 (iv) and
223(a)(iii)]

### 1\. The employer shall arrange a medical examination of all the building
workers employed as drivers, operators of lifting appliances and transport
equipment before employing, after illness of injury, if it appears that the
illness or injury might have affected his fitness and thereafter, once in
every two years up to the age of forty and once in a year, thereafter.

### 2\. Complete and confidential records of medical examination shall be
maintained by the employer or the physician authorised by the employer.

### 3\. The medical examination shall include,-

(a)full medical and occupational history;(b)clinical examination with
particular reference to,-(c)Any other tests which the examining doctor
considers necessary,(i)General Physique.(ii)Vision. - Total visual performance
and standard orthorator like Tit-musvision Tester should be estimated and
suitability for placement ascertained in accordance with the prescribed job
standards.(iii)Hearing. - Persons with normal hearing must be able to hear a
forced whisper at twenty-four feet. Person using hearing aids must be able to
hear a warning shout under noisy working conditions.(iv)Breathing. - Peak flow
rate using standard peak flow meter and the average peak flow rate determined
out of these readings of the test performed. The results recorded at pro-
placement medical examination could, be used as standard for the same
individual at the same attitude for reference during subsequent
examination.(v)Upper limbs. - Adequate arm function and grip (both
arms),(vi)Lower Limbs. - Adequate leg and foot function.(vii)Spine. -
Adequately flexible for the job concerned.(viii)General. - Mental alertness
and stability with good eye, hand and foot co-ordination.

## VIII

Number of Safety Officers, Qualification, Duties, etc.[See rule 209(1) and
209(2)]Appointment of Safety OfficersNumber of Safety Officers. - Within six
months of coming in lo operation of these rules, every establishment employing
more than five hundred building workers and every other employer of building
worker shall appoint safety officers, as laid down in the scale given
below:-(1)Up to 1,000 building workers - one Safety Officer.(2)Up to 2,000
building workers - two Safety Officers.(3)Up to 5,000 building workers - three
Safety Officers.(4)Up to 10,000 building workers - four Safety Officers.For
every additional 5,000 building workers or part thereof-one Safety Officer.Any
appointment, when made shall be notified to the Inspector having jurisdiction
in the area, giving full details of the qualifications, terms and conditions
of service of such safety officer.Qualification. - (a) A person shall not be
eligible for appointment as a safety officer unless he,-(i)possesses a
recognised degree in any branch of engineering or technology or architecture
and had a practical experience of working in a building or other construction
work in a supervisory capacity for a period of not less than two years or
possesses a recognised diploma in any branch of engineering or technology and
has had practical experience of building or other construction work in a
supervisory capacity for a period of not less than five years;(ii)possesses a
recognised degree or diploma in industrial safety with at least one paper in
construction safety (as an elective subject); and(iii)has adequate knowledge
of Tamil.(b)Notwithstanding the provision contained in clause (a), any person
who,-(i)possesses a recognised degree or diploma in engineering or technology
or architecture and has had experience of not less than five years in the
field dealing with the administration of Factories Act, 1948 (Central Act
LXIII of 1948) or the Dock Workers (Safety, Health and Welfare) Act, 1986
(Central Act 54 of 1986) or the Building and Other Construction Workers
(Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 (Central Act 27
of 1996); or(ii)possesses a recognised degree or diploma in engineering or
technology and has had experience of not less than five years or has undergone
training in education, consultancy or research in the field of accident
prevention in industry, port or in any institution or an establishment dealing
with building or other construction work, shall also be eligible for
appointment as a Safety Officer:Provided that, in case of person who has been
working as Safety Officer in industry or port institution or an establishment
dealing with building or other construction work for a period of not less than
three years on the date of commencement of these rules, the Chief Inspector of
Building and other Construe don Work may, subject to such conditions that he
may specify relax all or any of the above said qualification.Conditions of
service. - (a) Where the number of Safety Officers appointed exceeds one, one
of them shall be designated as Chief Safety Officer and shall have the status
higher than the others. The Chief Safety Officer shall be in over all charge
of the safety functions as envisaged in sub-clause (iv) and also other Safety
Officers working under his control.(b)The Chief Safety Officer or the Safety
Officer, where only one Safety Officer is appointed, shall be given the status
of a Senior Executive and he shall work directly under the control of his
Chief Executive. All other Safety Officers shall be given appropriate status
to enable them to dispatch their functions effectively.(c)The scale of pay and
allowances to be granted to the Safety Officers including the Chief Safety
Officer and the other conditions of their service shall be the same as those
of the officers of corresponding status of the establishment in which they are
employed.Duties of Safety Officer. - (a) The duties of a Safety Officer shall
be to advise and assist the employer in the fulfillment of his obligations,
statutory or otherwise concerning preventive of personal injuries and
maintaining a safe working environment. The duties shall include the following
namely:-(i)to advise the building workers in planning and organising measures
necessary for effective control of personal injuries;(ii)to advise on safety
aspects in a building or other construction work and to carry out detailed
safety studies of selected activities;(iii)to check and evaluate the
effectiveness of action taken or proposed to be taken to prevent personal
injuries;(iv)to advise purchasing and ensuring quality of personal protective
equipment confirming to national standards;(v)to carry out safety inspections
of building or other construction work in order to observe the physical
conditions of work and the work practices and procedures followed by building
workers and to render advice on measures to be adopted for removing unsafe
physical conditions and preventing unsafe actions by building workers;(vi)to
investigate all fatal and other selected accidents;(vii)to investigate all
cases of occupational diseases contracted and reportable dangerous
occurrences;(viii)to advise on the maintenance of such records as are
necessary with regard to accidents, dangerous occurrences and occupational
diseases;(ix)to promote the working of safety committees and to act as an
advisor to such committees;(x)to organise, in association with concerned
departments, campaigns, competitions, contests and other activities which will
develop and maintain the interest of building workers in establishing and
maintaining safe conditions of work and procedures;(xi)to design and conduct,
either independently or in collaboration with other agencies suitable training
and educational programmes for prevention of accidents to building
workers;(xii)to frame safe rules and safe working practices in consultation
with senior officials of the establishment; and(xiii)supervise and guide
safety precautions to be taken in building and other construction work of the
establishment.Facilities to be provided to Safety Officers. - The employer
shall provide each Safety Officer with such facilities, equipment and
information that are necessary to enable him to despatch his duties
effectively.Prohibition of performance of other duties. - No Safety Officer
shall be required or permitted to do any work which is unconnected to,
inconsistent; with or detrimental to the performance of the duties prescribed
in this Schedule.Exemptions. - The Chief Inspector of Building and other
Construction Work may, in writing, exempt any employer or group of employers
from any or all of the provisions of these rules subject to compliance with
such alternative arrangements as may be approved and notified by him in the
order of such exemption.

## IX

[See rule 225]Hazardous Process(1)Roof work.(2)Steel erection.(3)Work under
and over water.(4)Demolition.(5)Work in confined spaces.

## X

Services and Facilities to be Provided in Occupational Health Centres[See rule
225(b)](1)One full time construction medical officer for building or other
construction work, employing workers up to one thousand and one additional
construction medical officer for every additional one thousand workers or part
thereof.(2)The staff, including one nurse, one dresser-cum-compounder, one
sweeper-cum-ward boy with each construction medical officer for full work
hours.(3)The occupational health centre with a floor area of minimum fifteen
square metres constituting two rooms with smooth walls and intern service,
adequately illuminated and ventilated.(4)Adequate equipment for day-to-day
treatment.(5)Necessary equipment to manage any medical emergency.

## XI

Qualification of Construction Medical Officer[See rules 119(2) and
225(c)](1)MBBS degree from a medical institute recognised by the Medical
Council of India; and(2)Diploma in industrial health or equivalent post
graduate certificate of training in industrial health or health.(3)A medical
officer having working experience in organisation/ establishments involved in
policy, execution and advice and safety and health of workers employed in
mines, ports and docks, factories and building and other construction work,
for a period of not less than three years may, subject to the satisfaction of
the Chief Inspector of Building and other Construction Work not to be required
to possessing the training referred to in item (2) above.(4)The syllabi of the
courses leading to the above certificates and the organisation conducting such
courses shall be approved by the Government who may also, from time to time,
prepare a panel of such organisations.(5)Complete particulars including name,
qualification and experience of the construction medical officer will be
intimated to the Inspector having jurisdiction.

## XII

Permissible Levels of Certain Chemical Substances in the Work Environment[See
rule 152(a)]

| Permissible limit of exposure  
---|---  
S.No. | Substance |  Time-weighted average concentration (TWA) (8hours) | Short-term exposure limit (STEL) (15 minutes)*  
|  | ppm | Mg/m3** | ppm | Mg/m3**  
01 | Acetaldehyde | 100 | 180 | 150 | 270  
02 | Acetic acid | 10 | 25 | 15 | 37  
03 | Acetone | 750 | 1780 | 1000 | 2375  
04 | Aerolein | 0.1 | 0.25 | 0.3 | 0.8  
05 | Acrylonitrile-Skin | (S.C.) | 2 | 4.5 | -  
06 | Aldrin-Skin | - | 0.25 | - | -  
07 | Ailyl chloride | 1 | 3 | 2 | 6  
08 | Ammonia | 25 | 18 | 35 | 27  
09 | Aniline-Skin | 2 | 10 | . | .  
10 | Anisidine (O-, p-isomers) - Skin | 0.1 | 0.5 | - | -  
11 | Arsenic & soluble compounds (as As) | - | 2 | - | -  
12 | Benzene (S.C.) | 10 | 30 | - | .  
13 | Beryllium Compound (As be) (S.C.) | - | 0.002 | - | -  
14 | Boron trifluoride-C | 1 | 3 | - | -  
15 | Bromine | 0.1 | 0.7 | 0.3 | 2  
16 | Butane | 800 | 1900 | - | -  
17 | 2-Butanone (Methyl ethyl Ketone-MBK) | 200 | 590 | 300 | 885  
18 | n-Butyl acetate | 150 | 710 | 200 | 950  
19 | n-Butyl alcohol-Skin-0 | 50 | 150 | - | -  
20 | Sec/ten, Butyl acetate | 200 | 950 | - | -  
21 | Butyl, mercaptan | 0.5 | 1.5 | - | -  
22 | Cadmium dust and salts (as Cd) | - | 0.05 | - | -  
23 | Calcium oxide | - | 2 | - | -  
24 | Carbary (sevin) | - | 5 | - | -  
25 | Carbofuran (Furadan) | - | 0.1 | - | -  
26 | Carbon disulphide-Skin | 10 | 30 | - | -  
27 | Carbon monoxide | 50 | 55 | 400 | 440  
28 | Carbon tetrachloride-Skin (S.C.) | 5 | 30 | - | -  
29 | Chlordane-Skin | - | 0.5 | - | -  
30 | Chlorine | 1 | 3 | 3 | 9  
31 | Chlorobenzene (Monochlororbenzene) | 75 | 350 | - | -  
32 | Chloroform (S.C.) | 10 | 50 | - | -  
33 | Bis (Chloromethyl) ether (H.C.) | 0.001 | 0.005 | - | -  
34 | Chromic acid chromates (as Cr.) (Water soluble) | \--- | 0.05 | \--- | \---  
35 | Chromous salts (an Cr.) |  | 0.5 | - | -  
36 | Copper-Fume | - | 0.2 | - | -  
37 | Cotton dust-raw | - | 0.2* | - | -  
38 | Cresol, all isomers-Skin | 5 | 22 | - | -  
39 | Cyanides (as CN)-Skin | - | 1 | - | -  
40 | Cyanogen | 10 | 20 | - | -  
41 | Dichlorodiphenyl trichloroe thane | - | 1 | - | -  
42 | Demeton-Skin | 0.01 | 0.01 | - | -  
43 | Diazinion-Skin | - | 0.01 | - | -  
44 | Dibutyl Phthalate | - | 5 | - | -  
45 | Dicholorvos (DDVP)-Skin | 0.01 | 1 | - | -  
46 | Dieldrin-Skin | - | 0.25 | - | -  
47 | Dintrobenzene (all isomers)-Skin | 0.15 | 1 | - | -  
48 | Dinitroteoluene-Skin | - | 1.5 | - | -  
49 | Dipheny (Diphenyl) | 0.2 | 1.5 | - | -  
50 | Endosulfan (Thiodan)-Skin | - | 0.1 | - | -  
51 | Endrin-Skin | - | 0.1 | - | -  
52 | Ethyl acetate | 400 | 1400 | - | -  
53 | Ethyl alcohol | 1000 | 1900 | - | -  
54 | Ethylamine | 10 | 18 | - | -  
55 | Fluordies (as F) | - | 2.5 | - | -  
56 | Flucrine | 1 | 2 | 2 | 4  
57 | Formaldehyde (S.C.) | 1.0 | 1.5 | 2 | 3  
58 | Formic acid | 5 | 9 | - | -  
59 | Gasoline | 300 | 900 | 500 | 1500  
60 | Hydrazine-Skin (S.C.) | 0.1 | 0.1 | - | -  
61 | Hydrogen Chloride-C | 5 | 7 | - |   
62 | Hydrogen Cyanide-Skin-C | 10 | 10 | - | -  
63 | Hydrogen fluorine (as F)-C | 3 | 2.5 | - | -  
64 | Hydrogen peroxide | 1 | 1.5 | - | -  
65 | Hydrogen sulphide | 10 | 14 | 15 | 21  
66 | Iodine-C | 0.1 | 1 | - | -  
67 | Iron Oxide Fume (Feo) (as Fe) | - | 5 | - | -  
68 | Isoamyl acetate | 100 | 525 | - | -  
69 | Isoamyl alcohol | 100 | 360 | 125 | 450  
70 | Isobuty alcohol | 50 | 150 | - | -  
71 | Lead, inorg, dusts and fumes (as Pb) | - | 0.15 | - | -  
72 | Lindane-Skin | - | 0.5 | - | -  
73 | Malathion-Skin | - | 10 | - | -  
74 | Manganese dust and compounds (as Mn)-C | \--- | 5 | \--- | \---  
75 | Manganese fume (as Mn) | - | 1 | - | -  
76 | Mercury (as Hg)-Skin --- (i) Alkyl compounds | - | 0.01 | - | 0.30  
| (ii) All forms except alkyl vapour | - | 0.05 | - | -  
| (iii) Atyl and inorganic compound | - | 0.1 | - | -  
77 | Methyl alcohol (Methanol)-Skin | 200 | 0.260 | 250 | 310  
78 | Methyl cellosolve (2-Methoxy-ethanol)-Skin | 5 | 16 | - | -  
79 | Methyl isobutylketone | 50 | 305 | 75 | 300  
80 | Methyl isocyanate-Skin | 0.02 | 0.05 | - | -  
81 | Napthalene | 10 | 50 | 15 | 75  
82 | Nickel carbonyl (as NI) | 0.05 | 0.35 | - | -  
83 | Nitric acid | 2 | 5 | 4 | 10  
84 | Nitric Oxide | 25 | 30 | - | -  
85 | Nitrobenzene-Skin | 1 | 5 | - | -  
86 | Nitrogen dioxide | 3 | 6 | 5 | 10  
87 | Oil mist, mineral | - | 5 | - | 10  
88 | Ozone | 0.1 | 0.2 | 0.3 | 0.6  
89 | Parathion-Skin | - | 0.1 | - | -  
90 | Phenol-Skin | 5 | 19 | - | -  
91 | Phorate (Thimet)-Skin | - | 0.05 | - | 0.2  
92 | Phosgene (Carbonyl Chloride) | 0.1 | 0.4 | - | -  
93 | Phosphine | 0.3 | 0.4 | - | -  
94 | Phosphoric acid | - | 1 | - | 3  
95 | Phosphorus (Yellow) | - | 0.1 | - | -  
96 | Phosphorus Pentachloride | 0.1 | 1 | - | -  
97 | Phosphorus Pentrichloride | 0.2 | 1.5 | 0.5 | 3  
98 | Pieries acid-Skin | - | 0.1 | - | 0.3  
99 | Pyridine | 5 | 15 | - | -  
100 | Silane (Silicon tetra hydride) | 5 | 7 | - | -  
101 | Sodium hydroxide-C | - | 2 | - | -  
102 | Styrene, monomer (Phenylethylene) | 50 | 215 | 100 | 425  
103 | Sulphur dioxide | 2 | 5 | 5 | 10  
104 | Sulphur hexafluroride | 1000 | 6000 | - | -  
105 | Sulphuric acid | - | 1 | - | -  
106 | Tetraethyllead (as Pb)-Skin | - | 0.1 | - | -  
107 | Tolune | 100 | 375 | 150 | 560  
108 | O-Toluidine-Skin (S.C.) | 2 9 | - | - |   
109 | Tributyl phosphate | 0.2 | 2.5 | - | -  
110 | Trichloroe thylene | 50 | 270 | 200 | 1080  
111 | Uranium, natural (as U) | - | 0.2 | - | 0.6  
112 | Vinyl chloride (H.C.) | 5 | 10 | - | -  
113 | Welding fumes | - | 5 | - | -  
114 | Xylene (o-m-, p-isomers) | 100 | 435 | 150 | 655  
115 | Zinc Oxide- |  |  |  | 10  
| (i) Fume | - | 5.0 | - |   
| (ii) Dust (Total Dust) | 10.0 | - | - | -  
116 | Zirconium compounds (as Zr.) | - | 5 | - | 10  
  
Ppm: Parts of vapour or gas per million parts of contaminated air by volume at
250C and 760 mm of Hg.mg/m3 : Milligram of substance per cubic metre of air.:
Not more than 4 times a day with at least 60 minute interval between
successive exposures.*Mg /M3 : Molecular weight/24.45 x ppm"c": denotes
Ceiling Limit."Skin" : Denotes potential contribution to the overall exposure
by the cutaneous route including mucous membranes and eye."S.C." : Denotes
Suspected Human Careinogen."H.C." : Denotes Confirmed Human
Careinogen.Substance: Permissible time-weighted average Concentration (TWA) (8
e: Mrs.) Silica, Sl.02(a)Crystalline(i)Quartz(1)In terms of dust count 10600/%
Quartz + 10 mppem(2)In terms of respirable dust 10/% Quartz + 3 mg/m3(3)In
terms of total dust 30/% respirable Quartz + 2 mg/m3(ii)Cristobalite/Half the
limits given against quartz,(iii)Tridymite Half the limits given against
quartz,(iv)Silica, fused/Same limits as for quartz.(v)TripoliSame limits as in
formula in item (2) given against quartz(b)Amorphous Silicates 10mg/m3, Total
dust.Asbestos (H.C.)/* 2 fibres/ ml, greater than Sum in length and less than
3 um in breadth with length to breadth ratio equal to or greater than
3:1Portland Cement/10 mg/m3, Total dust containing less than 1 % quartz.Coal
Oust/2 mg/m3, respirable dust fraction containing less than 5% quartz.Mppcm:
Million particles per cubic metre of air, based on impinger samples counted by
light-field techniques.: As determined by the membrane filter method at
400-450 x magnification (4 mm objective) phase contrast illumination.

## XIII

Form I[See rule 23(1)]Application for Registration of Establishments Employing
Building (or) other Construction Workers

### 1\. Name and location of the establishment where building and other
construction work is to be carried on.

### 2\. Postal address of the establishment.

### 3\. Full name and permanent address of the establishment, if any.

### 4\. Full name and address of the Manager or person responsible for the
supervision and control of the Establishment.

### 5\. Nature of building or other construction work carried is to be carried
on in the establishment.

### 6\. Maximum number of building workers lobe employed on any day. A

### 7\. Estimated date of commencement of the building or other construction
work.

### 8\. Estimated date of completion of the building or other construction
work.

### 9\. Particulars of demand draft if enclosed (name of the Bank, amount,
demand draft No. and date).

Declaration by the employer.(i)I hereby declare that the particulars given
above are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.(ii)I undertake to abide
by the provisions of the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation
of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 (Central Act of 1996) and
the rules made thereunder.Signature of the Principal Employer.Seal and
StampOffice of the Registering Officer appointed under the Building and Other
Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act,
1996 (Central Act of 1996) and the rules made thereunder.Date of receipt of
application:Form II[See rule 24(1)]Date :A Certificate of Registration is
hereby granted under sub-section (3) of section 7 of the Building and Other
Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act,
1996 and the rules made thereunder to M/s...............having the following
particulars subject to conditions laid down in the Annexure:-

### 1\. Postal address/location where building or other construction work is
to be carried on by the employer.

### 2\. Name and address of employer including location of the building and
other construction work

### 3\. Name and permanent address of the establishment.

### 4\. Nature of work in which building workers are employed or are to be
employed.

### 5\. Maximum number of building workers to be employed on any day by the
employer.

### 6\. Probable date of commencement and completion of work.

### 7\. Other particulars relevant to the employment of building workers.

Signature of Registering Officer with Seal.AnnexureThe registration granted
herein above is subject to the following conditions, namely:-(a)the
certificate of registration shall be non-transferable;(b)the number of workmen
employed or building workers in the establishment shall not, on any day,
exceed the maximum number specified in the certificate of registration;(c)save
or provided in these rules, the fees paid for the grant of registration
certificate shall be non-refundable;(d)the rates of wages payable to building
workers by the employer shall not be less than the rates prescribed under the
Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (Central Act XI of 1948) for such employment where
applicable, and where the rates have been fixed by agreement, settlement or
award not less than the rates so fixed; and(e)the employer shall comply with
the provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder.Form IIIRegister of
Establishments[See rule 24(2)]

Serial Number | Registration Number |  Name and address/ location of the establishmentregistered, where a building or other construction work is to becarried on | Name of the employer and his address  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  |  |   
  
Nature of building or other construction work | Name and permanent address of establishment | Probable date of commencement of work  
---|---|---  
(5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |   
  
Maximum number of building workers to be employedon any day |  Probable duration of building or otherconstruction work and probable date of completion | Remarks  
---|---|---  
(8) | (9) | (10)  
|  |   
  
Form IV[See rules 26(3) and 239(1)]Notice of Commencement/ Completion of
buiLding or other Construction Work(1)(i)Name and address (Permanent) of the
establishment,(ii)Name of the employer and address..........(2)Name and
situation of place where the building and other construction is proposed to be
carried on.(3)Number and date of certificate of registration(4)Name and
address of the person in-charge of the construction work.(5)Address to which
the communications relating to building or other construction work may be
sent.(6)Nature of work involved and the facilities including plan or machinery
provided.(7)The arrangement storage of explosive, if any, to be stored in
building or other construction work.(8)In case the notice is for commencement
of work, the approximate duration of work.I/ We hereby intimate that the
building or other construction work. (Name of work) having registration No
dated is likely to commence/ is likely to be completed with effect
from.(date)/on (date).Signature of the Employer.ToThe
Inspector............Form V[See rule 74 (b), Schedule I]Certificate of Initial
and Periodical Test and Examination of Winches, Derricks and their Accessory
GearTest Certificate No. .......(a)In case of construction site, name of the
construction site where lifting appliances are fitted/installed/located.

Situation and description of lifting appliancesand gear with distinguishing numbers or marks (if any) which havebeen tested, thoroughly examined |  Angles to the horizontal of derrick boom at whichtest load applied | Test load applied  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
| (Degrees) | (Tonnes)  
|  |   
  
Safe working load at the angle shown in column(2) |  Name and address of association, company or firmor testing establishment making the test and examination |  Name and position of the public service,competent person of public service, association, company or firmor testing establishment  
---|---|---  
(4) | (5) | (6)  
(Tonnes) |  |   
|  |   
  
I certify that on the day of the lifting appliance shown in column (1)
together with its necessary gear was tested in the manner set forth overleaf
in my presence; that a careful examination of the said lifting appliances
after the test showed that it had withstood the test load without injury or
permanent deformation; and that the safe working load of the said lifting
appliance and accessory gear is as shown in column (4).Date :Signature of the
Competent Person.Seal.Registration/ Authority number of the Competent
Person.Form VI[See rules 56 and 74(b)]Certificate of Initial and Periodical
Test and Examination of Cranes or Hoists and their Accessory GearTest
Certificate No. ........(a)Name of the construction site where cranes or
hoists are fitted/ installed/ located.

Situation end description |  For jib craned radius at the test load wasapplied | Test load applied |  Safe working load for jib cranes at radius shownin column (2)  
---|---|---|---  
(1) |  (2)Metres |  (3)(Tonnes) |  (4)(Tonnes)  
|  |  |   
  
Name and address of public service, associationor firm or testing establishment making the test and examination |  Name and position of competent person of publicservice, association, company or firm or testing establishment  
---|---  
(5) | (6)  
|  
  
I certify that on the day of the above lifting appliance together with its
accessory gear was tested in the manner set forth overleaf that a careful
examination of the said lifting appliances and gear after the test showed that
it had withstood the test load without injury or permanent deformation; and
the safe working load of the said lifting appliance and gear is as shown in
column (4).Date :Signature of the Competent PersonSealRegistration/ Authority
number of the Competent Person.Form VII[See rules 70 and 74(b)]Certificate of
Initial and Periodical Test and Examination of Loose GearsTest Certificate No.
..........(a)Name of the construction site where loose gears fitted/
installed/ located :

Distinguishing number of mark | Description dimension and material of gear device | Number tested | Date of test | Test load applied | Safe working load (SWL) (Tonnes)  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Name and address of manufacturer or suppliers |  Initial test and examination certificate No. anddate (only in case of periodical test and examination) |  Name and address of public service association,company or firm or testing establishment making the test andexamination |  Name and position of competent person of publicservice, association, company or firm or testing establishment  
---|---|---|---  
(7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
|  |  |   
  
I certify that on the day of 20 the above gear was tested and examined in the
manner set forth overleaf; that the examination showed the said gear/device
withstood the test load without injury or deformation and that the safe
working load of the said gear/ device is as shown in column (6).Date
:Signature of the Competent Person.Registration/ Authority number of the
Seal.Competent Person.Form VIII[See rule 74(b)]Certificate of Test and
Examination of Wire-Ropes before being taken into useTest Certificate
No.(1)Name and address of maker or supplier(2)(a)Circumference/ diameter of
rope(b)Number of strand(c)Number of wire per strand(d)lay(e)Core(3)Quality of
wire (e.g., best plough steel)(4)(a)Date of test of sample of rope(b)Load at
which sample broke (tonnes)(c)Safe working load of rope (tonnes)(d)Intended
use(5)Name and address of public service, association, company or firm or
testing establishment making the test and examination.(6)Name and position of
competent person in public service, association, company or firm or testing
establishment making the test and examination.I certify that the above
particulars are correct and the test and examination were carried out by me
and no defect effecting its safe working load (SWL) were found.Signature of
the Competent PersonSealDate :Registration/ Authority Number of the Competent
PersonForm IX[See rule 74(b)]Certificate of Annealing of Loose GearsTest
Certificate No.(a)Name of the construction site where loose gears are fitted/
installed/ located:

Distinguishing number of mark | Description of gear | Number of the certificate of test and examination | Number annealed | Date of annealing  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  |   
  
Defects found in careful inspection afterannealing |  Name and address of public service, association,company or firm or testing establishment, carrying out theannealing and inspection |  Name and position of the competent person ofpublic service, association, company or firm or testingestablishment  
---|---|---  
(6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |   
  
I certify that on the date shown in column (5) the gear described in columns
(1) to (4) was effectually annealed under my supervision that after being so
annealed, every article was carefully inspected and that no defects affecting
its safe working conditions were found other than those indicated in column
(6).Signature of the Competent PersonSealDate :Registration/ Authority Number
of the Competent PersonForm X(See rule 73)Certificate of Annual thorough
Examination of Loose Gears Exempted from Annealing(a)Name of the construction
site where loose gears are fitted/installed/ located.

Distinguishing number of mark | Description of gear |  Number of the certificate of initial periodicaltest and examination | Remarks |  Name and address of public service, association,company or firm or testing establishment making the test andexamination |  Name and position of competent person of andpublic service, association, company or firm or testingestablishment  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
I certify that on the...........day of.........the above gear, described in
column (2) was thoroughly examined and that no defects affecting its safe
working condition were found other than those indicated in column
(4).Signature of the Competent PersonSealDate :Registration/ Authority Number
of the Competent Person.Form XI[See rule 223(c)]Certificate of Medical
Examination

### 1\. Certificate Serial No......

Date........Date........

### 2\. Name.................

Identification marks (1)......(2)..............

### 3\. Father's name..............

### 4\. Sex..............

### 5\. Residence................Son/ Daughter or........

### 6\. Date of birth, if available........and/ or certificate age

### 7\. Physical Fitness...........

I hereby certify that have personally examined (name) son/ daughter/ wife
of..........residing at............who is desirous of being employed
.........in building and construction work and that his/her age as nearly as
can be ascertained from my examination is .....................years and that
he/she is fit for employment in................as an adult/ adolescent.

### 8\. Reason for-

(1)Refusal of certificate............(2)Certificate being
revoked..............Signature/Left hand thumb impression of building
worker.Signature with SealMedical Inspector/C.M.O.Explanations. - 1. Exact
details of cause of physical disability should be clearly stated.

### 2\. Functional/ productive abilities should also be stated if disability
is stated/ productive.

Form XII[See rule 223 (d)]Health Register(In respect of persons employed in
building and other construction work involving hazardous processes)Name of the
Construction Medical Officer/ Medical Inspector.(a)Mr.
.................................... From ....................................
To ....................................(b)Mr.
.................................... From ....................................
To ....................................(c)Mr.
.................................... From ....................................
To ....................................

SI. No. | Works No. | Name of building worker | Sex | Age (last birth day) | Date of employment of present work | Date of leaving or transfer to other work  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Reason for leaving, transfer or discharge | Nature of job or occupation | Raw material or by product handled |  Date of medical examination by certifying surgeonMedical Inspector/ CMO | Results of medical examination |  If suspended from work, state period ofsuspension with detailed reasons  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(8) | (9) | (10) | (11) | (12) | (13)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Certified fit to resume duty on with signature ofMedical Inspector/ CMO |  If certificate of unfitness or suspension issuedto worker  
---|---  
(14) | (15)  
|  
  
Signature with date of Medical Inspector/ CMO.Explanations. - (i) Column (8) -
Detailed summary or reason for transfer or discharge should be
stated.(ii)Column (12) should be expressed as fit/unfit/suspended.Form
XIII[See rule 230(a)]Notice of Poisoning or Notifiable Occupational Diseases

### 1\. Name and address of the employer.

### 2\. Name of the building worker and his work number, if any.

### 3\. Address of the building worker.

### 4\. Sex and age.

### 5\. Occupation.

### 6\. State exactly what the patient was doing at the time of contracting
the disease.

### 7\. Nature of poisoning or disease from which the building worker is
suffering from.

Date :Signature of the employer/ Chief Medical Officer.Explanation. - When a
building worker contracts any disease specified in Schedule-XII, a notice in
this form shall be sent forthwith to the Chief Inspector of Building and other
Construction Work.Form XIV[See rule 210(7)]Report of Accidents and Dangerous
Occurrences

### 1\. Name of the project/work.

### 2\. Location of project/work.

### 3\. Stage of construction work.

### 4\. Particulars of employer.

(a)Main contractor firm/Company -NameAddressPhone NumbersNature of
business(b)Sub-contractor's particulars-NameAddressPhone NumbersNature of
business

### 5\. Particulars of injured person-

(a)Name (First)/ (Middle)/ (Signature)(b)Home address(c)Occupation(d)Status of
the worker Casual Permanent(e)Sex : Male/ Female(f)Age(g)Experience(h)Marital
status : Married/ Unmarried/ Divorced

### 6\. Particulars of accident-

(a)Exact place where accident occurred(b)Date(c)Time(d)What the injured person
was doing at the time of accident?(e)Weather condition(f)How long employed by
you for this particular job?(g)Particulars of equipment/machine/tool involved
and condition of the same after the accident occurred.(h)Brief description of
the accident.

### 7\. Nature of injuries -

(a)Fatal(b)Non-fatal(c)If non-fatal, state precisely the nature of injuries
(Describe in detail the nature of injury, for instance, fracture of right arm,
sprain, etc.)(d)First Aid : Given : Not given :(e)If not given, the
reasons(f)Name and designation of the person by whom first aid was given.(g)If
admitted to hospital.Name of the hospital.Address of the hospital.Phone
Number.Name of the Doctor.

### 8\. Mode of transport used

Ambulance Truck/ Tempo/ Taxi/ Private Car

### 9\. How much time was taken to shift the injured person? If very late,
state the reasons.

(b)How the reporting was made?Telephone Telegram/ Special Messenger/
Letter(c)Who visited the accident site first and what action was proposed by
him?(d)What are the action taken for the investigation of the accident by the
employer?(Describe about photographs/video film/measurements taken, etc.)

### 10\. Particulars of the persons given witness

(a)Name Address Occupation

### 1\.

### 2\.

### 3\.

### 4\.

(b)Whether Temporary/ Permanent

### 11\. Particulars in case of fatal-

Date | Time  
---|---  
  
Whether registered with Building and If yes, give Registration number, other
Construction Workers Welfare Board

### 12\. Dangerous occurrences as covered under the Regulation No. (Give
details)

(a)Collapse or failure of lifting appliances, hoist, conveyors,
etc.(b)Collapse or subsidence of soil, any wall, floor, gallery,
etc.(c)collapse of transmission towers, pipeline, bridges, etc.(d)Explosion of
receiver, vessel, etc.(e)Fire and explosion(f)Spillage or leakage of hazardous
substances.(g)Collapse, capsizing, toppling or collision of transport
equipment.(h)Leakage or release of harmful toxic gases at the construction
site(i)Failure of lifting appliance, loose gear, hoist or building and other
construction work machinery, transport equipment, etc.

### 13\. Certificate from the Employer or authorised signatory -

I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief, the above particulars
are correct in every respect.

Place : | Signature :  
---|---  
Date : | Designation :  
  
Copy communicated/ forwarded for information and follow-up action:-

### 1\.

### 2\.

### 3\.

Explanation. - If more than one person is involved, then, for each person
information is to be filled-up in separate forms.Form XV[See rule 240]Register
of Building and Other Construction Workers Employed by the Employer.

Name and address of establishment | Name and permanent address of establishment  
---|---  
  
Whether building and other construction work is to be carried onNature and
location of work ..................

SI. No. | Name and surname of workman | Age and Sex | Father's/ Husband's name | Nature of employment/ designation |  Permanent home address (Village and TalukDistrict)  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
1. |  |  |  |  |   
2. |  |  |  |  |   
3. |  |  |  |  |   
4. |  |  |  |  |   
  
Local address | Date of commencement of employment | Signature or thumb impression of workman | Date of termination of employment | Reasons for termination  
---|---|---|---|---  
(7) | (8) | (9) | (10) | (11)  
1. |  |  |  |   
2. |  |  |  |   
3. |  |  |  |   
4. |  |  |  |   
  
If the building worker is/ was beneficiary, thedate of registration as a beneficiary, the registration numberand the name of Welfare Board | Remarks  
---|---  
(12) | (13)  
1. |   
2. |   
3. |   
  
Form XVI[See rule 241(1) (a)]Muster Roll

| Name and permanent address of the establishment |  Name and address of the establishment wherebuilding or other construction work is carried on/ is to becarried on |   
---|---|---|---  
Nature of building or other construction work | Name and address of the employer  
| For the month of ..........................  
  
SI. No. | Name of the building worker | Father's/ Husband's name | Designation/ nature of work | Sex | Date of birth | Period of work | Dates | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9)  
1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form XVII[See rule 241(1)(a)]Register of WagesName and address of the
establishment ....................Where building or other construction work is
carried on ....................Nature of building or other construction work
....................Name and permanent address of establishment
....................Name and address of the employer ....................

Wage Period : | Monthly  
---|---  
  
SI. No. | Name of workmen | Serial No. in the register of workman | Designation/ nature of work done | No. of days worked | Units of work done | Daily rate of Wage/ Piece Rate  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Amount of wages earned |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Basic wages | Dearness allowance | Overtime |  Other cash payments (Nature of Payment to beindicated) | Total | Deductions, if any, (indicate nature) | Net amount paid | Signature/ thumb impression of workman | Initial of employer or his representative  
(8) | (9) | (10) | (11) | (12) | (13) | (14) | (15) | (16)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form XVIII[See rule 241(1)(a)]Form of Register of Wages-cum-Muster Roll

Name and address of the establishment wherebuilding or other construction work is carried on | Name and permanent address of establishment  
---|---  
  
Nature of building or other construction work

SI. No. | SI. No. in Register employees of Building Workers | Name of | Designation/ nature of work | Daily attendance/ units worked | Total attendance/ units of/ work done | Daily rate of wages/ piece rate  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Amount of wages earned |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Basic wages | Dearness allowance | Overtime |  Other cash payments (Nature of Payment to beindicated) | Total | Deductions, if any, (indicate nature) | Net amount paid | Signature/ thumb impression of workman | Initial of employer or his representative  
(8) | (9) | (10) | (11) | (12) | (13) | (14) | (15) | (16)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form XIX[See rule 241 (1)(b)]Register of Deductions for Damage or Loss

Name and address of establishment where buildingor other construction work is carried on/ is to be carried on | Nature of building or other construction work | Name and permanent address of building workers | Name and permanent address of the employer  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
  
SI. No. | Name of work | Father's/ Husband's name | Designation/ nature of employment | Particulars of damage or loss | Date of damage or loss |  Whether building worker showed cause againstdeduction  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Name of person in whose presence buildingworker's explanation was heard | Amount of deduction imposed | Number of installments | Date of recovery  
---|---|---|---  
First installment | Last installment  
(8) | (9) | (10) | (11) | (12)  
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
  
Form XX[See rule 241 (1)(b)]Register of Fines

Name and address of establishment where buildingor other construction work is carried on/ is to be carried on | Nature of building or other construction work | Name and permanent address of building workers | Name and permanent address of the employer  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
  
SI. No. | Name of building worker | Father's/ Husband's name | Designation/ nature of employment | Act/ omission for which fine imposed | Date of offence | Whether building worker showed cause against fine  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Name of person in whose presence buildingworker's explanation was heard | Wage periods and wages payable | Amount of fine imposed | Date on which fine realised | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---  
(8) | (9) | (10) | (11) | (12)  
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
  
Form XXI[See rule 241 (l)(b)]Register of Advances

Name and address of establishment where buildingor or other construction work is carried on/ is to be carried on | Name and permanent address of building workers | Name and permanent address of the employer  
---|---|---  
|  |   
|  |   
  
SI. No. | Name | Father's/ Husband's name | Nature of employment/ designation | Wage period and wages payable | Date and amount of advance given | Purposes for which advance given  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Number of installments by which advance to berepaid | Date and amount of each installment repaid | Date on which last installment was repaid | Remarks  
---|---|---|---  
(8) | (9) | (10) | (11)  
|  |  |   
  
Form XXII[See rule 241(1))]Register of Overtime

Name and address of establishment where buildingor or other construction work is carried on/ is to be carried on | Name and permanent address of building workers | Name and permanent address of the employer  
---|---|---  
|  |   
|  |   
  
SI. No. | Name of the building worker | Father's/ Husband's name | Sex | Designation/ Nature of employment | Date on which overtime worked |  Total overtime worked or production in case ofpiece rates  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Normal rate of wages | Overtime rate of wages | Overtime earnings | Date of which overtime wages paid | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---  
(8) | (9) | (10) | (11) | (12)  
|  |  |  |   
  
Form XXIII[See rule 241 (2) (a)]Wage Book

Name and address of establishment where buildingor or other construction work is carried on/ is to be carried on | Name and permanent address of building workers | Name and permanent address of the employer  
---|---|---  
|  |   
|  |   
  
For the Week/ FortnightMonth ending...........

### 1\. Number of days worked

### 2\. Number of units worked in case of piece-rate & workers

### 3\. Rate of daily/monthly wages/piece-rate

### 4\. Amount of overtime wages

### 5\. Gross wages payable

### 6\. Deductions, if any, on account of the following:-

(a)fines(b)damage or loss(c)loans and advances(d)subscription towards
provident fund(e)subscription towards the Building Workers Welfare Fund(f)any
other deductions e.g. subscriptions to Co-operative society on account of
loans from Co-operative society/housing loan, or Contribution to any relief
fund as per provision of clause (P) of sub- section (2) of section 7 of the
Payment of Wages Act or for payment of any premium of Life Insurance
Corporation

### 7\. Net amount of wages paid.........

Initials of the Employer or his RepresentativeForm XXIV[See rule 241 (2)
(b)]Service Certificate

Name and permanent address of the employer |  Name and address of establishment where buildingor other construction work is carried on/ is to be carried on  
---|---  
|  
  
Nature and location of work .........................Name and address of the
workman .........................Age, Date of Birth
.........................Identification marks
.........................Father's/ Husband's name .........................

SI. No. | Total period for which employed | Nature of work done |  Rate of wages (with Particulars of unit in caseof piece work) |  If the building worker was a beneficiary, hisregistration number, date and the name of the Board  
---|---|---|---|---  
| From | To |  |  |   
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Reasons/ grounds on which the employmentterminated | Remarks  
---|---  
(7) | (8)  
  
Form XXV[See rule 242]Annual Return of Employer to be Sent to the Registering
Officer for the Year Ending 31st December ............

### 1\. Full name and full address of the establishment of the building and
other construction work (Place, Post Office, District).

### 2\. Name and permanent address of the establishment.

### 3\. Name and address of the employer.

### 4\. Nature of building and other construction work carried on.

### 5\. Full name of the Manager or person responsible for supervision and
control of the establishment.

### 6\. Number of building workers ordinarily employed.

### 7\. Total number of days during the year on which building workers were
employed.

### 8\. Total number of man-days worked by building workers during the year.

### 9\. Maximum number of building workers employed on any day during the
year.

### 10\. The number of accident that took place during the year as under.

(a)The total number of accidents.(b)The number of accidents resulting in
disablement of building workers for less than 48 hours, the number of building
workers involved, and the number of man-days lost.(c)The number of accidents
resulting in disablement of building workers beyond 48 hours but not resulting
in any permanent partial or permanent total disablement, the number of
building workers involved, and the number of man-days lost, on account of such
accidents.(d)The number of accidents resulting in permanent partial or total
disablement, the number of building workers involved and the number of man-
days lost on account of such accidents.(e)The number of accidents resulting in
death of building workers and the number of resultant deaths.The Chief
Inspector or Inspectors appointed by the Government under the Act shall direct
the owners of establishments registered under this Act, to send the copies of
Annual Returns submitted by the employers of registered establishments in
respect of the Government to the Chief Inspector of Building and other
Construction Work of Inspections by virtue of provision of section 60 of the
Act. The Chief Inspector or Inspectors appointed under the Act by the
Government shall direct the owners of such establishments as are registered
under this Act by registering officers appointed by the Government to send
copies of the Annual Returns to the Director General by virtue of provisions
of section 60 of the Act.

### 11\. Change, if any, in the management of the establishment, its location,
or any other particulars furnished to the Registering Officer in the
application for registration indicating also the dates

Place ............. | Employer  
---|---  
  
Form XXVI[See rule 74(b)]Register of Periodical Test/ Examination of Lifting
Appliance and Gears, etc.

## Part I – Initial and periodical load test of lifting appliances and their
annual thorough examination.

"Thorough Examination" means a visual examination, supplemented, if necessary,
by other means, such as a hammer test, carried out as carefully as the
conditions permit, in order to arrive at a reliable conclusion as to the
safety of the parts examined, and if necessary, for such examination, parts of
the lifting appliances and gear shall be dismantled.(A)Initial and periodical
load tests of lifting appliance.

Situation and description of lifting appliancestested with distinguishing number of marks, if any |  Number of certificate of test and examination ofcompetent person |  I certify that on the date on which have appendedby signature the lifting appliance shown in column (1) was testedand no defects affecting its safe working condition were foundother than those shown in column (5) | Remarks (to be signed and dated)  
---|---|---|---  
|  | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal |   
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
1. |  |  |  |   
2. |  |  |  |   
  
Annual thorough examinationI certify that on the date to which have appended
my signature, the lifting appliance shown in column (1) was thoroughly
examined and no defects affecting its safe working conditions were found other
than those shown in column (12).

Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Remarks (To be signed and dated)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10) | (11) | (12)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Explanation. - If all the lifting appliances are thoroughly examined on the
same date, it will be sufficient to enter in column (1) "All lifting
appliances". If not, the parts which have been thoroughly examined on the
dates must be clearly indicated.

## Part II – Initial and periodical load test of loose gears and annual
thorough examination

List of loose gear :The following classes of loose gears, namely:-

### 1\. Chains made of malleable cast iron;

### 2\. Plate link chains;

### 3\. Chains, rings, hooks, shackles and swivels made of steel;

### 4\. Pitched chains;

### 5\. Rings, hooks, shackles and swivels permanently attached to pitched
chains, spreaders, trays, slings, baskets, etc., and any other similar gear;
pulley blocks, container;

### 6\. Hooks and swivels having screw-threaded parts or ball bearings or
other case-heardened parts; and

### 7\. Bordeaux connections.

Initial test and periodical load test of loose gears

Distinguishing Number of marks | Description of loose gear tested and examined |  Number of certificates of test and examination ofcompetent person |  I certify that on the date to which I haveappended my signature the loose gears shown in column (1) and (2)were tested and no defects affecting the safe working conditionwere found other than those shown in column (6)  
---|---|---|---  
Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
1. |  |  |  |   
2. |  |  |  |   
3. |  |  |  |   
4. |  |  |  |   
5. |  |  |  |   
  
Annual thorough examination of loose gears

Remarks (to be signed and dated) |  I certify that on the date to which I haveappended my signature the loose gears shown in column (1) and (2)were thoroughly examined by me and no defects affecting theirsafe working condition were found other than those shown incolumn (10) | Remarks (to be signed and dated)  
---|---|---  
Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal  
(6) | (7) | (9) | (10)  
1. |  |  |   
2. |  |  |   
3. |  |  |   
4. |  |  |   
5. |  |  |   
  
## Part III – Annealing of chains, rings, hooks, shackles and swivels

(Other than those exempted.)(See Part II)

12.5 mm and smaller chains, rings, hooks,shackels and swivels in general use, other chains, rings, hooks,shackles and swivels in seneral use. |  |  If used with lifting appliance driven by power,must be annealed once at least in every six months if used solelywith lifting appliance worked by hand must be annealed once atleast in every twelve months. |   
---|---|---|---  
|  |  If used with lifting appliance driven by power,must be annealed once at least in twelve months. If used solelywith lifting appliance worked by hand, must be annealed once atleast in every two years. |   
  
Explanation. - It is recommended though not required by rules that annealing
should be carried out in a suitably constructed furnace heated to temperature
between 1100 degree and 1300 degree Fahrenheit or 600 degree and 700 degree
Centigrade, for a period between 30 and 60 minutes.

Distinguishing Number or mark | Description of gear annealed | Number of the certificate of test and examination |  I certify that on the date to which I haveappended my signature, the gear described in columns 1 2 waseffectually annealed and under my supervision; that after beingso annealed every article was carefully inspected and that nodefects affecting its safe working condition were found otherthan those shown in column 7 | Remarks (To be signed and dated)  
---|---|---|---|---  
Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal | Date and signature with seal  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  | 

