## Union of India - Act

## The Technology Development Board Act, 1995

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Technology Development Board Act, 1995

## Act 44 of 1995

  * Published on 16 December 1995 
  * Commenced on 16 December 1995 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 December 1995.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Technology Development Board Act, 1995ACT NO. 44 OF 1995

### 1200.

[16th December, 1995]An Act to provide for the constitution of a Board for
payment of equity capital or any other financial assistance to industrial
concerns and other agencies attempting development and commercial application
of indigenous technology or adapting imported technology to wider domestic
applications and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.BE it
enacted by Parliament in the Forty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement. -

(1)This Act may be called the Technology Development Board Act, 1955.(2)It
shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions. -

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-(a)"Board" means the
Technology Development Board constituted under subsection (1) of section 3;
2(b)"Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the Board;(c)"Fund" means the Fund
for Technology Development and Application constituted under sub-section (1)
of section 9;(d)"member" means a member of the Board and' includes the
Chairperson;(e)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(f)"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Board appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 4;(g)words and expressions used herein and not defined
but defined in the Research and Development Cess Art, 1986, (32 of 1986.)
shall, have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.

## Chapter II  
Technology Development Board

### 3. Constitution and incorporation of the Board. -

(1)The Central Government shall by notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute, for the purposes of this Act, a Board to be called the Technology
Development Board.(2)The Board shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid
having perpetual succession and a common seal with power. subject to the
provisions of this Act, to contract and shall, by the said name, sue and be
sued.(3)The Board shall consist of the following members, namely:--(a)the
Secretary to the Government of India incharge of, the Ministry or Department
of the Central Government dealing with Science and Technology ex officio
Chairperson;(b)the Secretary to the Government of India incharge of the
Ministry or Department the Central Government dealing with Scientific and
Industrial Research ex officio;(c)the Secretary to the Government of India
incharge of the Ministry or Department of the of the Central Government
dealing with Finance (Expenditure) ex-officio;(d)the Secretary to the
Government of India incharge of the Ministry or Department of the Central
Government dealing with Defence Research and Development. ex-officio;(e)the
Secretary to the Government of India incharge of the Ministry or Department of
the Central Government dealing with industrial Development ex-officio;(f)the
Secretary to the Government of India incharge of the Ministry or Department of
the Central Government dealing with Rural Development ex officio; 3 (g) such
number of persons, not exceeding four as may be prescribed, to be appointed by
the Central Government from amongst persons having experience in technology
development and application, banking and finance, industry, agriculture and
rural development; and(h)Secretary of the Board ex offcio;(4)The term of
office and other conditions of service of members specified in clause (g) of
sub-section (3) shad be such as may be prescribed.(5)The Chairperson shall, in
addition to pressing over, the meetings of the Board, exercise and discharge
such powers and duties of the Board as may be delegated to him by the Board
and such other powers and duties as may be prescribed.(6)No act or proceeding
of the Board shall be invalidated merely by reason of-(a)any vacancy in, or
any defect in the constitution of, the Board;(b)any defect in the appointment
of a person acting as a member of the Board;(c)any irregularity in the
procedure of the Board not affecting the merits of the case.

### 4. Secretary and other officers and employees of the Board. -

(1)The Board may appoint the Secretary and such other officers and employees
as it considers necessary for the efficient discharge of its functions under
this Act.(2)The terms and conditions of service of the Secretary and other
officers and employees of the Board shall be such as may be determined by
regulations.

### 5. Committees of the Board. -

(1)Subject to the rules made in this behalf, the Board may appoint, such
committees as may be necessary for the efficient discharge of its duties and
performance of its functions under this Act.(2)The Board shall have the power
to co-opt as members of any committee appointed under sub-section (1), such
number of persons who are hot members of the Board as it may think fit, and
the person so co-opted shall have the right to attend the meetings of the
committee, and take part in the proceedings of the committee, but shall not
have the right to vote.

### 6. Functions of the Board. -

The Board may-(a)provide equity capital, subject to such conditions as may be
determind by regulations, or any other financial assistance to industrial
concerns and other agencies attempting commercial application of indigenous
technology or, adapting imported technology of wider domestic
applications;(b)provide financial assistance to such research and development
institutions engaged in developing indigenous technology or adaptation of
imported technology for commercial application, as may be recognised by the
Central Government;(c)perform such other functions as may be entrusted to it
by the Central Government. 4

## Chapter III  
Application For Grant Of Financial Assistance

### 7. Application for grant of financial assistance etc. -

(1)An application for grant of financial assistance for the purposes mentioned
under section 6 shall be made to the Board in such form as may be
prescribed.(2)The Board may, after examining the application and after making
such enquiries as it deems necessary by order, in writing, either grant the
financial assistance or refuse to grant the same:Provided that no refusal of
grant shall be made unless an opportunity is given to the applicant of being
heard.

## Chapter IV  
Finance, Accounts And Audit

### 8. Grants and loans by the Central Government. -

The Central Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law,
in this behalf, make to the Board grants and loans of such sums of money as
that Government may consider necessary.

### 9. Fund for Technology Development and Application. -

(1)There shall be constituted a Fund to be called the Fund for Technology
Development and Application and there shall be credited to the Fund-(a)any
grants and loans made to the Board by the Central Government under section
8;(b)all sums received by the Board from any other source;(c)recoveries made
of the amounts granted from the Fund; and(d)any income from investment of the
amount of the Fund.(2)The Fund shall be applied for meeting-(a)expenses on the
object and for the purposes authorised by this Act;(b)salaries, allowances and
other expenses of officers and other employees of the Board; and(c)expenses of
the Board in the discharge of its functions under this Act.

### 10. Transfer of money receipts and liabilities. -

On and from the commencement of this Act,-(a)the moneys standing at the credit
of the Venture Capital Fund formed under section 5 of the Research and
Development Cess Act, 1986 (32 of 1986.) which is part of the Development
Assistance Fund established by the Development Bank under section 14 of the
Industrial Development Bank of India Act, 1964 (18 of 1964.) shall stand
transferred to and vest in the Board;(b)all sums of money due to the
Development Bank immediately before such commencement shall be deemed to be
due to the Board;(c)all debts, obligations and liabilities incurred, all
contracts or agreements entered into and all matters and things engaged to be
done by, with or for the Development Bank immediately before such commencement
for or in connection with the 'purpose of the Venture Capital Fund 5 shall be
deemed to have been incurred, entered into or engaged to be done by, with or
for the Board; and(d)all suits and other, legal proceedings instituted or
which could have been instituted by or against the Development Bank
immediately before such commencement may be continued or instituted by or
against the Board.

### 11. Budget. -

The Board shall prepare, in such form and at such time in each financial year,
as may be prescribed, its budget for the next financial year, showing the
estimated. receipts and expenditure of We board and forward the same to the
Central Government.

### 12. Annual Report. -

The Board shall prepare, in such form and at such time in each financial year,
as may be prescribed, its annual report, giving a full account of its
activities during the previous financial year, and submit a copy thereof to
the Central Government.

### 13. Accounts and audit. -

(1)The Board shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records and
prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form as may, be prescribed by
the Central Government in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India.(2)The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India or any, other
person appointed by him in connection with the auditing of the accounts of the
Board under this Act shall have the same rights and privileges and the
authority in connection with such audit as the Comptroller and Auditor-General
of India has in connection with the auditing of the Government accounts and,
in particular, shall have the right to demand the production of books,
accounts, connected vouchers and other documents and papers and to inspect any
of the offices of the Board under this Act.(3)The accounts of the Board shall
be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India annually and any
expenditure incurred in connection with such audit shall be payable by the
Board to the Comptroller and 'Auditor-General of India.(4)The Board shall
furnish to the Central Government before such date as may be prescribed its
audited copy of accounts together with auditor's report.

### 14. Annual report and auditors report to be laid before Parliament. -

The Central Government shall cause the annual report and auditor's report to
be laid, as soon as may be after they are received, before each House of
Parliament.

## Chapter V  
Miscellaneous

### 15. Returns to be furnished to the Board. -

(1)An industrial concern or an institution receiving financial assistance from
the Board shall furnish returns to the Board in such form and at such time as
may be determined by regulations. 6 (2) The Board may authorize an officer to
visit any industrial concern or institution referred to in sub-section (1) at
any time to verify the accuracy of any return made under this section.

### 16. Power of the Central Government to issue direction. -

(1)Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this Act, the Board shall,
in the discharge of its functions and duties under this Act, be bound by such
directions on questions of policy as the Central Government may give in
writing to it from time to time:Provided that the Board shall, as far as
practicable, be given an opportunity to express its views before any direction
is given under this sub-section.(2)The decision of the Central Government
whether a question is one of policy or not shall be final.

### 17. Power of Central Government to supersede the Board. -

(1)If at any time the Central Government is of opinion-(a)that on account of
grave emergency, the Board is unable to discharge the functions and the duties
imposed on it by or under the provisions of this Act; or(b)that the Board has
persistently made default in complying with any direction issued by he Central
Government under this Act or in the discharge of the functions and duties
imposed on it by or under the provisions of this Act and as a result of such
default the financial position of the Board or the administration of the Board
has deteriorated; or(c)that circumstances exist which render it necessary in
the public interest so to do, the Central Government may, be notification in
the Official Gazette, supersede the Board for such period, not exceeding six
months, as may be specified in the notification.(2)Upon the publication of a
notification under sub-section (1) superseding the Board,--(a)all the members
shall, as from the date of supersession, vacate their offices as such;(b)all
the powers, functions and duties which may, by or under the provisions of this
Act, be exercised or discharged by or on behalf of the Board shall, until the
Board is reconstituted under sub-section (3), be exercised and discharged by
such person or persons as the Central Government may direct; and(c)all
property owned or controlled by the Board shall, until the Board is
reconstituted under sub-section (3), vest in the Central Government.(3)On the
expiration of the period of supersession specified in the notification issued
under sub-section (1), the Central Government may reconstitute the Board by a
fresh appointment and in such case any person or persons who vacated their
offices under clause (a) of sub-section (2), shall not be deemed to be
disqualified for appointment:Provided that the Central Government may, at any
time, before the expiration of the period of supersession, take action under
this sub-section. 7 (4) The Central Government shall cause a notification
issued under sub-section (1) and a full report of any action, taken under this
section and the circumstances leading to such action to be laid before each
House of Parliament at the earliest.

### 18. Delegation. -

The Board may, by general or special order in writing, delegate to the
Chairperson or any other member or to any officer of the Board. subject to
such conditions and limitations, if any, as may be specified in the order,
such of its powers and functions under this Act (except) the power under
section 22) as it may deem necessary.

### 19. Members, officers and employees of the Board to be public servants. -

All members, off-ices and another employees of the Board shall be deemed, when
acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act,
to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal
Code.(45 of 1860.)

### 20. Protection of action taken in good faith. -

No prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Government, or
the Board or any committee appointed by it or any member of the Board or such
committee, or any officer or employee of the Government or the Board or any
other person authorised by the Government or the Board, for anything which is
in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act or the rules or
regulations made thereunder.

### 21. Power of Central Government to make Rules. -

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.(2)Without prejudice to the
Generality of the forgoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the
following matters, namely:-(a)the number of members of the Board under clause
(g) of sub-section (3) of section 3;(b)the term of office and other conditions
of service of the members of the Board, under sub-section (4) of section
3;(c)the powers and duties of the Chairperson under sub-section (5) of section
3;(d)the constitution of committees under sub-section (1) of section 5;(e)the
form, of application under sub-section (1) of section 7;(f)the form in which,
and the time at which the Board shall prepare its budget under section 11 and
its annual report under section 12;(g)the form of annual statement of accounts
under sub-section (1) of section 13 and the date before which the audited copy
of the, accounts may be furnished to the Central Government under sub-section
(4) of that section;(h)any other matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed
or in respect of which provision is to be, or may be, made by rules. 8

### 22. Power of Board to make regulations. -

(1)The Board may, with the previous approval of the Central Government, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make regulations consistent with this
Act and the rules generally to carry out the provisions of this Act.(2)In
particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the terms and conditions of service of the Secretary and other
officers and employees of the Board under sub-section (2) of section 4;(b)the
conditions subject to which equity capital may be provided :by the Board under
clause (a) of section 6;(c)the from, in which and the time at which the
returns may be furnished to the Board under sub-section (1) of section 15.

### 23. Rules and regutions to be laid before Parliament.

\- Every rule and every regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as soon
as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in
session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or
regulation or both Houses agree that the rule or regulation should not be
made, the rule or regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or regulation.

